2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 1 CSR Report 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 2 Contents UN Global Compact – principles for responsible business conduct Human Rights Environment Principle 1-2: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7-9: Businesses should support a precautionary Strengthening our positive impact 3 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; approach to environmental challenges; undertake and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; The DFDS business model 4 abuses. and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our approach to CSR 5 Labour Principle 3-6: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-Corruption Keeping people safe 6 association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Safety and security ashore forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition Safety at sea of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in The 10 principles are derived from the Universal respect of employment and occupation. Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Being a fair employer 10 Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment Reducing our environmental impact 13 and Development, and the UN Convention against Corruption. Creating value for our customers 17 Freight customers Passengers Responsible procurement 20 Supporting local communities and initiatives 22 About this report This report constitutes DFDS’ Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. It covers the DFDS Group’s CSR approach and activities for the financial year 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. The report is an integral part of the management review of DFDS’ Annual Report 2017, and with this document we fulfil the requirements of Section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. www.dfds.com 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 3 Strengthening our positive impact For more than 150 years, DFDS has been a part of crew member. We have conducted a full investigation Denmark’s industrial and maritime history. Today, we into the accident and will do everything in our power to are a leading company combining short-sea shipping and avoid such accidents in the future. We must always ensure logistics in northern Europe. a safe environment for all employees and customers, ashore and at sea. We recognise that our history and position in society and the industry carry responsibilities. We take responsibility In 2017, a serious incident occurred when 12 migrants were for our activities and seek to contribute to sustainability stuck on board our ship Kaunas Seaways on the Black Sea by focussing on areas where our influence and impact for three months. Until a diplomatic solution was found by matter most. In my view, these are part of every company’s the countries involved, we cared for the migrants in cabins Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) towards the wider under guard on board the ship. For DFDS, it is untenable society. and unacceptable to keep people on board for such a long time, and I would like to express my sincere thanks to Year in review everyone who helped resolve the situation. I would also We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and we like to thank the crew and the management in Lithuania for continue to support the compact as part of our CSR their professional handling of this very difficult situation. approach. During 2017, we firmly embedded the principles in our Code of Business Conduct, which provides guidance We Move for All to Grow to our employees on behaviour and actions. Looking ahead, I want to take the best of who we are today and match this with the ambition we have for the DFDS performed well and our growth continued in 2017 future. In 2017, we articulated our purpose to answer the with a 4% increase in revenue and more than 6% increase question ‘Why DFDS?’ for customers, investors, future in profit before tax. At the same time, we saw an increase in colleagues, and for ourselves: We Move for All to Grow. the total consumption of bunker oil of 4% due to increased shipping activities and sailings. However, the average As part of our continued efforts to move forward, we will consumption of oil and emissions continued to drop per seek inspiration from our customers, industry leaders and capacity unit per mile. Reductions in fuel consumption the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals to set the continue to be of importance from environmental, course for the future. We aim to strengthen our positive compliance and financial perspectives. impact on society, and I look forward to launching a strategy in 2018 for our continued contributions to A strong safety culture and continuous improvement are sustainability in support of our purpose. part of THE DFDS WAY, and our goal is to ensure zero harm to our employees. Tragically, a work related accident on Niels Smedegaard board Botnia Seaways in Tunisia caused the death of a President and CEO of DFDS The DFDS business model DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 4 Our business Company structure DFDS moves freight and passengers on ferry routes Our business is organised in two divisions: Shipping and Logistics, and in two corporate functions. DFDS is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. in Europe. We also provide logistics solutions for a broad range of manufacturers Shipping Logistics People & Ships Finance North Sea Nordic HR IT and Digital DFDS operates one of the largest networks of ferry routes in Northern Europe providing both freight and Baltic Sea Passenger passenger services. The routes are ideally located to service the freight volumes of forwarders and France & Ireland Continent Crewing Maintenance Financial Procurement manufacturers of heavy industrial goods. All routes Channel Mediterranean operate on fixed, reliable schedules adapted to customer requirements. To further enhance the efficiency of customer services, own port terminals are operated in Revenue split Our network strength strategic locations, including warehousing services. DFDS offers reliable shipping services and For Passengers, the route network offers both Transport & flexible transport solutions in Europe. overnight and short crossings. Passenger cars are Logistics We are present in 20 countries and transported on all routes. The on board facilities are headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark. adapted to each route’s particular mix of passengers Narvik and their requirements for enjoying maritime travel. 35% Bodø Fauske Mo i Rana Mosjøen Flexible, cost efficient and on-time door-door transport solutions are provided to manufacturers 20% Passengers of a wide variety of consumer and industrial goods. Ålesund Trondheim The main activity is fulland part-loads, both Florø FI Lerwick ambient and temperature-controlled. Bergen Haugesund NO Oslo Kotka St. Petersburg Drammen Kapellskär Hanko Stavanger Moss Eskilstuna Larvik In close partnership with retailers and Tallinn Aberdeen Brevik Frederikstad Fort William Kristiansand Halden Stockholm Paldiski EE manufacturers, logistics solutions are developed and Greenock Rosyth Lilla Edet RU Gothenburg Bellshill Larkhall Ventspils Ballina provided, including warehousing services and just-inBelfast Newcastle SE LV 45% IE DK Riga Mullagh Liepaja time concepts. UK Esbjerg Dublin Liverpool Manchester Copenhagen Karlshamn Immingham Malmo Klaipeda Moscow Cork Waterford Warrington Taulov Fredericia LT Killingholme Vilnius Grimsby Almaty u All solutions are supported by a European network Kiel RU Chesterfield Cuxhaven Kaliningrad Freight shipping Peterborough Felixstowe NL Lübeck Hamburg Minsk of road, rail and container carriers and, not least, Avonmouth Gravesend Newlyn Newhaven Dover Botlek Amsterdam (IJmuiden) Rotterdam (Vlaardingen) BY Zeebrugge Duisburg PL DFDS’ network of ferry routes. Paignton Calais Dunkirk Brugge Antwerp Mortsel Cologne Poznan Ghent Boulogne Dieppe Sur Mer BE DE Bettembourg Prague UA CZ Paris DFDS in numbers FR CH AT SK Lyon HU Ilyichevsk BILLION 14.3 5,300,000 38,000,000 Gyula Tibod Busto Melzo RO DKK Bilbao Fagnano (VA) Verona Maia Novara Piacenza Revenue Passengers Lane metres Le Boulou Marseille IT Ports of call & sales agencies PT ES Barcelona Madrid Tarragona Logistics offices % Operational offices 19.0 7,235 8,000 148,000 Pomezia Valencia Bari Nola Rail services ROIC Employees Freight customers Warehousing m2 Tunis 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 5 Our approach However, there are areas where laws and policies do not provide sufficient guidance. In these cases, our Code of Business Conduct helps employees respond to ethical DFDS’ key policy documents on CSR to CSR • Code of Business Conduct issues in a responsible way. • Diversity & Inclusion Policy • Environmental Policy The code of conduct, which is publicly available, cover areas such as respecting others, diversity and discrimination, • Health, Safety & Environmental Policy harassment, health and safety, gifts and entertainment in (Ship Management) The UN Global Compact provides the the workplace, as well as competition and pricing, bribery • HR policies and Employee Handbook • Supplier Code of Conduct frame for our work on CSR, and our and facilitation payments and company donations in the market place. Environmental protection, and a requirement approach is characterised by a culture to report any breaches of the code, are also covered. of continuous improvement and As part of the process, we assess material sustainability transparency. In 2017, nine cases were reported through our whistleissues related to our business with a view to identifying blowing set-up, and by the end of the year, only one of negative and positive impacts in our value chain, our these had not been concluded. The cases covered level of influence and links to the UN’s 17 Sustainable Caring for the safety and security of employees and employee relations, substance abuse, health and safety Development Goals to determine our future focus and customers, as well as for the environment and local and discrimination. strengthen our positive impact on society. We will launch communities, has always been of importance, and an the strategy in 2018. implicit part of our culture and history. DFDS’ CSR approach Governance and future strategy was formalised when we joined the UN Global Compact in The DFDS CSR Committee which reports to our Executive Since 2014, DFDS has occupied a seat on the Danish 2015, and we are implementing the 10 principles (see p. 2) Management team, governs our work on CSR and is Government’s advisory committee for CSR (VFSA), where across our business to ensure responsible business conduct responsible for our annual CSR report. At the end of 2017, we we share our experiences and help progress the CSR and to meet stakeholder expectations. initiated the development of a new sustainability strategy. agenda among Danish businesses. Through our CSR approach, we address risks and opportunities related to our business model. As a result, Stakeholder expectations our focus is on keeping people and goods safe, providing Key stakeholders Expectations related to CSR good working conditions, limiting the environmental impact • Customers • Transparent, consistent and accurate reporting of our activities, procuring responsibly and supporting local • Employees and unions • Responsible operations and conduct communities and initiatives where we operate. This • Financial stakeholders including our main • Continuously improve customer experiences also includes protecting DFDS against bribery and shareholder, the Lauritzen Foundation • Safety and security record corruption, and respecting human rights. It is part of our • Industry organisations • Proactive risk management and loss prevention culture and THE DFDS WAY to seek continuous • Local communities • Continuously improve environmental management – improvement and transparency in our reporting and • Media and NGOs air emissions, paints, scrapping of ships, waste etc. ongoing engagement with stakeholders. • Public authorities • Continuously improve health and safety practices • Suppliers • Provide employment opportunities and fair employment Updated Code of Conduct conditions DFDS’ conduct comprises the behaviour and actions of our • Support diversity and career development employees and management. In 2017, we updated our Code • Manage relations and impact in local communities of Business Conduct to ensure better alignment with the • Be accessible and accountable UN Global Compact. A number of Group policies sets the • Meet – or exceed – regulatory compliance framework for how we should behave and manage risks. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 6 Keeping people safe We strive to sustain a strong safety At sea: • In accordance with the International Safety Management culture and our goal is to keep people, • As part of our Global Ship Management System we have (ISM) code, the International Ship and Port Facility a specific Health, Safety & Environment Policy. This was Security code (ISPS) and the Maritime Labour Convention cargo and ships safe at all times – updated in 2017 to state clearly that we identify and (MLC) we report all maritime safety measures and ashore and at sea. establish safeguards against all risk to personnel, security factors for all ships on an ongoing basis, ships and the environment. including any incidents on board. • In accordance with international, EU and national • Our CEO, the Vice-Presidents of the People & Ships Commitment and practice legislation, all DFDS ships are surveyed and certified. division and marine standards experts meet regularly Whatever our cargo, we strive for for a strong safety They are also subject to internal audits and inspections to review the ships’ safety performance. Central to this culture to keep our passengers, employees and customers’ on safety, working conditions and security in process is a review of all safety and operational data goods safe. Our safety culture is embedded in THE DFDS accordance with statutory instruments and company collected from ships in readiness for inspection by WAY and outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. procedures. maritime authorities. Legislation also applies differently between land and sea, and we manage our safety work through an organisational focus on safety ashore and at sea. Ashore: Safety first • Local management teams are responsible for safety management and maintaining flexibility and It is within our code of conduct to: • Promote and enhance a true ‘no blame’ culture. proportionality of response based on risk. Thus, more • Strive towards continuously improving our overall • Develop, maintain and adopt procedures to safety controls and formalised inspection regimes are health, safety and environmental performance; with implement best practice, conforming to or in place for higher-risk activities such as port terminals, the goal of ensuring zero harm to our most important exceeding all applicable regulatory requirements. than lower-risk activities such as our offices. asset: our employees. • Nurture, implement and exchange best practice through • National and international safety legislation applicable • Act with prudence, responsibility and our management systems. across DFDS has a common basis in EU legislation and effectiveness in order to set and monitor • Ensure compliance with current applicable we operate according to a Group-wide internal safety targets for improvement. legislation and our standards and procedures through management standard. We also have a management • Enhance and promote a strong health, safety and regular internal audits. system for measuring and managing truck drivers’ environment culture while continuously improving performance. competencies and awareness among our employees. • In Immingham, UK, our iCare behavioural safety initiative has been certified according to the BSI OHSAS 18001 standard since 2016. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 7 Safety and Safety training As part of the development of DFDS’ safety culture, we aim to increase individuals’ personal awareness of safety. Causal analysis – all injury accidents, 2017 security ashore For this purpose, we have an e-learning safety system with a range of modules available in English, French and Dutch. The online training provides flexibility in the training and 10% this has greatly improved the number of employees registered on the system and who are actively using it. 32% Initiatives and results In 2017, we had 3,605 staff and crew registered, including 21% captains and officers. This is twice as many as last year’s Accident frequency and injury severity take-up. As a growing organisation, we measure our land-based safety performance by means of an Accident Frequency The training modules cover areas such as slips, trips Rate (AFR), rather than by the number of accidents (Lostand falls, risk assessment, fire, manual handling, food 10% Time Injury Accidents – LTAs) only. This is a comparable safety, ISPS security and dangerous goods, as well as measure of our annual performance and it reflects the passenger rights and data protection. Each module takes actual risk to individual employees. Our AFR improvement approximately 30 minutes to complete. A module counts 28% target is 5.14. Although we significantly improved our as complete when you achieve an 80% pass mark. performance with fewer LTAs and an AFR of 5.53 compared to 2016, we did not reach the improvement target in 2017. Road safety Accounting for our safety performance With regard to road safety, we offer training for truck Loading of vessels Injury severity, expressed by the average lost working drivers using e-learning modules as these are more flexible. Manual handling days per LTA amounted to 12 days in 2017; in 2016, it During 2017, we also invested in new, safer equipment, Other was 25 days. The high number of days in 2016 arose from including lane departure warnings and advance emergency Slip/trip/fall a long-term absence from injury. We are back to a more braking systems to help keep our drivers safe. Struck/stuck by object steady LTA level and we will continue to raise awareness on safety issues through training to improve our performance and meet our AFR target. Expectations for 2018 Safety performance ashore • Use causal analysis to inform the need for new safety Causal analysis initiatives. We carry out a causal analysis annually. In 2017, we Lost-Time Injury Accident (LTA) and Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) • Continue to use e-learning tools, including surveys, to registered 185 injuries covering LTAs and minor accidents. 2017 2016 2015 contribute to raising awareness and promoting safety Compared to 2016, the total number has increased due to LTA 46 61 40 throughout the organisation. an increase in minor accidents from 95 to 139. We use the • Assess opportunities for BSI OHSAS 18001 certification AFR 5.53 8.38 5.07 causal analysis to inform managers of trends and feed in other locations. available data into their safety action plans to ensure proactive safety management. Injury severity (lost days) LTA YTD, 2017 Actual lost days Actual average lost days Average lost days per Accounting for our safety performance YTD, 2017 per LTA, YTD 2017 LTA comparison 2016 The safety performance covers data from our operational Logistics 15 97 6 19 sites. The reporting system is designed for reporting injury details and the generation of causal analysis, while not Seaways 31 447 14 27 overburdening small, low-risk units. Group 46 544 12 25 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 8 Safety at sea Initiatives and results Training and drills save lives Training and drills on board our ships are important tools for achieving continuous improvements in our health and safety standards. Past incidents have clearly demonstrated that training standards and frequent drills are instrumental in the crew’s ability to protect people, goods and the ship against the consequences of incidents such as fire on board, collisions and other major incidents. In line with our strategy, DFDS participates in drills in cooperation with various rescue and emergency authorities. Such special safety and security drills include advanced training in crisis handling, cooperation and communication between DFDS and the authorities and between various emergency teams. In 2017, a number of safety and security crisis drills were carried out in Dover, UK, and Calais, France. Furthermore, our ships on the Copenhagen, Denmark – Oslo, Norway route, as well as our passenger ships in the Baltic and the North Sea, served as settings for the authorities’ security crisis-management drills. We regard these drills as extremely valuable. The drills help us improve the safety and security of our passengers and crews and ensure that our emergency processes are continually tested and verified. Injury frequency and severity We provide an overview of the number of work-related injuries through a Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate. The development in 2017 showed a positive trend with a reduced LTIF on board our ships, going down from 7.16 in 2016 to 6.40 in 2017. However, we want to improve the LTIF and avoid large regional variations. The level is particularly affected by our vessels flying the French flag, which had an average LTIF of 15.99 in 2017. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 9 This is a decrease compared to 2016, where the LTIF was 21.15, but it must be further improved. The migrant situation The number of migrants from the African continent and the In 2017, a serious incident occurred when 12 migrants Injury severity has not increased in 2017, and injuries Middle East is increasing. Operating across Europe brings from Algeria and Morocco were found on board Kaunas reported were, with one exception, of minor severity. Most DFDS into contact with migrants and this affects our Seaways, which sails between Istanbul, Turkey, and injuries were bruises, sore knees, back pain from lifting operations. In 2017, the migrant situation resulted in more Odessa, Ukraine, on the Black Sea. The migrants were and other minor injuries. stringent border controls and demand for stricter controls planning to board a ship in Turkey bound for Europe, but on passengers travelling to the UK. by mistake they hid in a trailer destined for Odessa and Near miss reports no country was willing to take them. DFDS cared for the Near misses are hazardous occurrences that, under Sometimes we have migrants trying to board our ships as migrants for three months until a diplomatic solution was different circumstances, could lead to an incident if stowaways in order to enter the UK. On the English Chanfound by the countries involved and the migrants were corrective actions are not taken. We encourage reporting nel, there have been daily attempts to board the ferries by flown to their home countries. It was necessary to keep on near miss incidents to develop best practice in hiding in trailers. The situation improved when the French the migrants in cabins under guard on board for their avoiding and reacting efficiently to near misses. In 2017, authorities closed a refugee and migrant camp outside own safety, as well as with regard to passengers and we changed the scope towards encouraging quality rather Calais at the end of 2016. However, the challenge remains crewmembers. than quantity in the reporting of near misses; 66.7 near and affects drivers, terminal staff and our crews. The misses were reported on average per ship. This is a slight pressure has been growing on all our other routes to the For DFDS, it is untenable and unacceptable to keep people decrease compared to 2016, mainly caused by the change UK; from France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark. on board for such a long time. DFDS is grateful to everyone of scope. We consider this to be a satisfactory level, which who helped resolve the situation, and in particular the crew is well above our target of 48 near miss reports per ship DFDS’ policy is to cooperate closely with the border and management in Lithuania who handled this difficult annually. authorities and local authorities to minimise the problem. situation professionally. We also inform the public about the issue and the safety Fatality risks associated with travelling as a stowaway hidden in a We use the experiences we gain from such incidents to In 2017, a crewmember tragically lost his life due to a trailer and on board a ship at sea. improve security measures and surveillance and have work-related accident on board Botnia Seaways, which invested in security measures in terminals to prevent serves the route between Marseille, France and Rades, migrants from boarding our ships illegally. Tunisia. The incident occurred in Tunisia on the weather deck when stevedores were offloading containers using a shore crane. The container was not lifted vertically and shifted when it was released from the twist locks. Consequently, it hit a nearby trailer and a crewmember than 24 hours. The reported data on LTIF and near miss was trapped between two trailers. He was immediately reports excludes the subsidiary AB DFDS SEAWAYS Safety performance at sea taken to hospital, but sadly his life could not be saved. (Lithuania) Shipping incidents reported We have conducted a full investigation into the accident Expectations for 2018 2017 2016 2015 and will do everything in our power to avoid such accidents • Reduce LTIF on board French-flagged ships and in the future. We must always ensure a safe environment maintain progress towards zero lost-time accidents Lost-Time Injury Frequency 6.40 7.16 8.2 (LTIF) for all our employees at sea. across the rest of the fleet. • Promote safety culture through continuous training Near miss reports 66.7 72.7 71.2 (average per ship) Accounting for our safety performance and improve safety-related performance. We measure LTIF in work-related incidents per million • Work towards bringing the entire Group into the overall Fatalities 1 0 0 working hours that cause absence from work for more safety measurement and performance. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 10 Being a fair employer We want to treat all employees fairly and Commitment and practice Women make up 26% of our workforce, a figure that is on a strive to foster a diverse and engaging DFDS has more than 7,000 employees in 20 countries par with our industry, and more than half of our workforce and as such our workforce is multicultural and reflective is employed at sea. We recognise that our industry creates workplace that attracts, develops and of the communities where we live and work. The diverse special challenges for women, particularly the time at sea; retains employees across all our capabilities and talents of our workforce enable DFDS to however, diversity among employees and managers matters countries of operation. provide high quality services and fulfil the needs of our to us and we want to employ more women. customers. Highlights of employee figures Gender distribution, 2017 Distribution of employees on land and at sea Employees per country, 2017 100% 8,000 8,000 7,000 80% 6,000 6,000 5,000 60% 4,000 4,000 3,000 40% 2,000 2,000 1,000 20% 0 0% 0 Germany / France / Italy / Spain Holland / Belgium Baltic Countries / Poland / Russia Sweden / Norway / Finland Women Men Land Sea UK / Ireland Denmark 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 11 We also have an agreement with the Danish union Dansk Respecting others Metal and its maritime division to support employees who are members of the union in the event of severe illness It is our goal to deal fairly and equitably with all (see p. 22). employees. We respect everybody and our code of conduct requires us to: Initiatives and results • Treat our colleagues, customers, suppliers and Attracting talent other stakeholders with respect, dignity, fairness In 2017, we increased our workforce by more than 150 and courtesy. employees. We participate in the ‘battle’ for talent, and • Take pride in the diversity of our workforce and we are confident that our strong purpose will enable view it as a competitive advantage to be nurtured. us to attract employees who are even more talented in • Commit to maintaining a work environment that is the future. During 2018, we will increase our focus on free from discrimination or harassment. attracting talented employees to DFDS and put the • Try to balance work and private life and help emphasis on employer branding. others to do the same. • Invest in the ongoing enhancement of our skills and abilities. • Provide a safe working environment for our Defining and activating our purpose employees. We believe that a company with a strong purpose is an attractive company to work for; hence, DFDS has articulated the purpose of our business and our activities to everyone working at DFDS. This is addressed in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which supplements our Code of Business Conduct and HR policies. Through an extensive and engaging process, we defined With our policies and employee handbook, we support DFDS’ purpose: We Move for All to Grow. people and the business in mitigating risks and making the right decisions, for example in relation to recruitment, A working group of senior managers at DFDS led the inclusion, employee and leadership development, talent development of the purpose based on the assumption that spotting, working environment, performance management, it is the people who make DFDS unique. Eighty colleagues remuneration and benefits, and organisational efficiency. representing various employee groups, countries, units and functions tested different statements and, based on To ensure strong relations between the company and our their feedback, the working group decided on the final employees, DFDS has taken steps in addition to our legal purpose statement. obligations. We aim to discuss and resolve issues, before they develop into disputes and we seek an open and We established a purpose team responsible for the 2017 trusting dialogue with unions and works councils. For launch and the ongoing implementation. The results of example, we have established the European Dockers the purpose process will be integrated into the Employee Trade Union Forum with representatives from our Engagement Survey and our preliminary target is that terminals where we discuss current and upcoming 80% of our employees will have heard about the purpose issues three times a year. by mid-2018. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 12 Improved onboarding process To follow up on the results, we have an online action minimum of 60% of all training provision in 2018 includes Successful onboarding of new colleagues is key to retaining plan tool for all DFDS managers and we focus on any digital elements. talented staff. We want to find the best way of getting potential managers who need assistance from HR in everyone to embrace THE DFDS WAY and have identified improving results. Gender equality improvement areas to our onboarding process. During 2017, In 2017, the DFDS’ Board of Directors had 50% female we have worked on a unified onboarding package, which Training and development for all representation, excluding employee-elected members. will be implemented in 2018. In 2017, we have enhanced our training activities by There are nine members of the board, of whom six are adding new opportunities, resources and competencies. elected by the general assembly. This is above the Employee satisfaction The portfolio now consists of 14 recurrent training requirement set by Danish law. However, when we look We conduct a biannual Employee Engagement Survey programmes within three main categories: Leadership at representation at senior management level at DFDS, among all employees. We were pleased to see an increase development, Personal development and Sales & the representation of women is only 4%, despite our in the response rate since 2015 from 79% to 83%, and Customer Service development. efforts and focus on gender equality. saw slight improvements in most areas. Responses on Satisfaction & Motivation as well as Loyalty show As part of the digital transformation of DFDS, we will We will maintain a strong focus on increasing the number satisfactory results for both employees on land and implement digital elements in all training initiatives of women in senior management positions during the next at sea. Areas for improvement include Professional and activities to ensure greater outreach and offer oncouple of years as outlined in our Diversity & Inclusion & Personal Development. demand training. The objective is to ensure that a Policy. During 2018, we will initiate new actions to help meet our ambitions. Leadership development Personal development Sales & Customer Service Examples of our existing initiatives include our HORIZON development talent programme, where the proportion of women • 600+ managers have participated • 80 employees participated in our enrolled in 2017 was high. Furthermore, it is now part of in our general leadership training training programme for personal • Our Customer Focus sales training our recruitment processes to include representatives of programme, ZOOM, since it was development, FOCUS, in 2017. continued. both genders when interviewing candidates to help initiated in 2009. • Our new programme, • 330+ sales and customer service address unconscious bias. During 2017, we have also • Two new programmes for DFDS Negotiation Skills, was employees participated in the DFDS developed a concept for an All for Inclusion network experienced leaders were implemented in 2017 and offered to Way of Selling in 2017, during which that we plan to launch in 2018. introduced in 2017 focussing all employees who are frequently all participants have undertaken a on coaching and situational involved in negotiations. 6-9 months’ certification process. Expectations for 2018 leadership. • 22 new talents from different • 75 sales managers participated in • Activate our purpose: We Move for All to Grow. • Our Succession Programme has parts of the organisation enrolled the Sales Management Programme, • Increase focus on attracting talented employees been redesigned to ensure on our 18-month HORIZON talent which was developed and through employer branding. continuous development of programme in 2017. implemented in 2017. • Implement unified onboarding package. new managers at top level and • Our Contact Centre Programme • Use Employee Engagement Survey findings to improve will be launched in 2018. was implemented in 2017 to ensure employee satisfaction. • An introduction programme, alignment of standards in our • Continue development of training programmes and The New Manager, has been customer service, and to develop implement digital elements in training. developed and was implemented skills and competencies • Make progress on diversity commitments and targets in 2017. All new managers must accordingly. through launch of new initiatives. participate in the programme no later than three months after taking up their new role. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 13 Reducing our environmental impact We strive to reduce our energy consumption and the environmental impact of our operations and constantly seek innovative and intelligent ways to develop DFDS in a greener direction. Commitment and practice DFDS provides customers with a wide range of transport services through our European shipping and logistics network. DFDS fully recognises the impact these services and activities have on the environment. As stated in our Environmental Policy and Code of Business Conduct, we consider the environmental impact of everything we do and strive to ensure continuous improvements. We also have a specific Health, Safety & Environmental Policy as part of our Global Ship Management System. DFDS’ impact on the environment is mainly associated with the operation of our marine vessels and road transport. Hence, we focus on reducing emissions from ships and trucks, as well as developing and implementing new environmental technology. We also focus on our warehouses, office buildings and terminal operations to reduce our impact on the environment. We are affected by new climate and environmental legislation, be it national, regional or international. Through trade organisations, such as Danish Shipping and Interferry, and direct participation in fora such as the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and EU, DFDS aims to take timely action to ensure compliance. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 14 At the international level, we consider it likely that the The increase is due to increased shipping activities as the IMO and the EU will promote new and/or stricter legislation. total distance sailed increased by 6%, and the number of Accounting for our CO2 emissions At a regional level, ports served by DFDS may have stricter vessel days increased by 10% in 2017. However, this DFDS records CO2e emissions covering scope 1 and environmental regulations imposed than national/does not alter the fact that our ships are reducing their 2 as defined in the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. international legislation prescribes. DFDS anticipates that emissions, as the average consumption per unit per mile We include all DFDS sites, vessels and trucks and the consequences will be in the form of either penalties or sailed keeps falling, as can be seen in the figure below. record fuel consumption using an ISO 14064-certified discounts on port fees. Continued reductions in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions software tool to calculate the CO2e emissions. are a target that continues to be of importance to us from environmental, compliance and financial perspectives. Environmental practices On 1 January 2018, the EU Monitoring, Reporting and Local initiatives and employees are the primary Verification (MRV) system on CO2 emissions commenced. driving forces behind our environmental efforts and We prepared for this during 2017 and have all systems In 2017, the EU agreed not to include shipping in the EU practices, which include: and procedures in place. The IMO has agreed to a similar Emissions Trading System (ETS) and to leave the GHG • Collecting, monitoring and measuring environCO2 data collection system to take effect on 1 January reduction efforts to the IMO’s Marine Environment mental data from all of our activities. 2019. Compared to the EU system, there are significant Protection Committee (MEPC). This is a decision we • Minimising our waste and optimising our waste variances, and we plan to run the two systems in parallel. welcome. handling at all facilities and on all vessels. • Ensuring disposal of assets for recycling in a sustainable manner. • Cooperating with wider society to reduce emissions from our vessels to limits below the legal requirements. Average fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet • Adopting a partnership approach and continuously 6,6 coming up with innovative ways of solving 12 months’ moving average logistical challenges in an environmentally 6,4 Fuel consumption (g/GT/Nm) sound way. 6,2 • Implementing good neighbour policies, respecting 6,0 local environments and populations. 5,8 • Communicating openly about our environmental footprint and ongoing plans to reduce impact. 5,6 5,4 5,2 5,0 Initiatives and results 4,8 Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Monitoring CO2 emissions Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov Jan Mar Maj Juli Sep Nov In 2017, DFDS’ total CO2 emissions amounted to 1,597,000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tonnes. The ships represent 96% of DFDS’ total CO2 emissions and therefore warrant extra attention. We have measured the CO 2 emissions based on our vessels’ fuel consumption over the past 10 years. Compared to 2016, this is an increase of 3.9%. As seen, we are continuing to decrease the average fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 15 Risk to DFDS DFDS’ mitigating actions Through trade, organisations argue for a fair system that ensures a level playing field and CO2 levy, global (rating 8) can be effectively controlled. In due course, communicate with stakeholders about changes Globally impose levy on CO2 to motivate companies to reduce GHG emissions. so they also can prepare for new scenarios. Follow discussion at national and supranational level. Should the matter be tabled engage Mandatory slow steaming, global/national (rating 8) in discussions on the potential consequences of the imposed restrictions and ensure level Impose mandatory speed restrictions on vessels. playing field. Follow political developments in the EU and at MEPC through direct participation or Legislation on retrofitting, global/EU (rating 7) through trade organisations such as shipowners’ associations and Interferry to ensure New environmental legislation requiring retrofitting to ships or rolling stock. early detection of political trends. Follow discussions in EU and national fora and lobby for any decision on a CO2 levy to CO2 levy, EU/national (rating 7) be global to ensure it is implemented practically and effectively. Join forces with other EU/national implementation of levy on CO2 to motivate companies to reduce GHG. like-minded bodies in the lobbying efforts. Engage in dialogue with ports, other stakeholders and trade conferences to continue to Compulsory shore power, national (rating 7) table alternatives to shore power that have the same – or better – effects on the underlying Compulsory use of shore power connections in one or more key ports. problem that shore power is intended to solve. Increase in weather severity (rating 7) Ensure that flood protection plans are updated for all key terminals – both those operated More violent and frequent storms and flooding affect ship scheduling and by DFDS and where DFDS has major business and engage with business partners to ensure terminals’ workability. they are well prepared for severe weather events.a Ban on diesel cars/trucks in cities, national (rating 7) Follow local developments and adapt truck fleet as required. Temporary ban on diesel vehicles in one or more major cities effecting haulage deliveries. CO2 limits per vessel, EU (rating 7) Keep up pressure on MEPC to ensure action at global level. Should this fail, execute a Use of ships’ performance data (EU MRV) as benchmark to set individual vessels’ communication strategy to highlight the unbalanced impact such a measure would have emissions limits. on shipping. Autonomous trucks (rating 7) Feasibility and environmental performance of autonomous trucks compared Follow development and engage in dialogue with major truck manufacturers. to short-sea transport. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 16 Waste management among other things, will monitor driver behaviour related Environment and climate risks Over the past couple of years DFDS has increased its to safety as well as fuel savings. We maintain an environment and climate risk focus on waste management at our headquarters, DFDS matrix, where we assess and rate issues against House, and at our terminals in Copenhagen, Denmark. In 2017, DFDS has also invested in more than 1,000 new the likelihood of occurrence and the economic and This has resulted in significant cost reductions as we have trailers as well as 150 new low-emission trucks to ensure reputational impact on DFDS. Below are the biggest reduced waste through increased reuse and recycling. reliable customer services and reduce the environmental risks identified in 2017, rated 7-9 on a scale from impact. 1 to 9. Piloting biofuels in trucks DFDS strives to provide environmentally friendly Expectations for 2018 multimodal transport solutions and, during 2017, DFDS • Prepare EU MRV data collection for the first year of decided to transition to the use of biofuels for the Swedish reporting in 2018. truck fleet, which consists of 100 trucks. In 2017, more • Prepare for IMO system on fuel oil data collection for Ship-shore initiatives than 80% of the Swedish fleet was using 100% biofuel on reporting coming into effect in 2019. During 2017, we implemented a ship-shore initiative, a frequent basis and the rest were using a blend variant. • Prepare IHS documentation for relevant ships. which aims to optimise the time our ships stay in port. • Decrease the percentage of empty kilometres driven This results in more time at sea, which has both financial Haulage drive improvements by DFDS trucks by a further 5%. and environmental benefits. Employees at sea and in the Through a major initiative involving all our logistics • Invest in new SMART data tools to provide DFDS’ ports have been able to reduce the ships’ port time, offices, we have worked to reduce empty kilometres for planners with information to make better choices and which enables the ships to sail to their destination at a DFDS trucks as well as our sub-contractors. In 2017, we thereby reduce both empty running and excessive slower speed and save fuel. One example is from DFDS managed to reduce the percentage of empty kilometres equipment. in Felixstowe, UK, which handles three departures a day. driven by more than 5%. On top of this, we have launched • Implement new truck management systems across Despite increases in shipping volumes, they managed to a new truck management system for DFDS trucks, which the entire DFDS fleet of trucks. gain nine minutes per cargo operation when loading and unloading the ships. Ballast water management The MEPC, which addresses environmental issues under the IMO’s remit, has decided to relax the implementation schedule for mandatory fitting of ballast water cleaning systems for ships over 400 GT. Globally, this applies to around 60,000 ships. Four of our ships have been retrofitted and we have taken note of this revised timetable in our fleet’s upgrading. Ship recycling policy Both the EU and IMO have dedicated ship recycling policies. Since 2013, DFDS has had a bespoke ship recycling policy, which we will align with the EU and IMO legislation. Part of the initial work will be to complete the documentation of the required Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM). The work must be completed by the end of 2020. No DFDS ships were recycled in 2017. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 17 Creating value for our customers Superior reliability We constantly work to improve the customer experience for our freight customers and passengers and our focus is driven by the principles of DFDS’ Guiding Star for each We bring Easy to customer segment. you solutions work with Commitment and practice We service over 8,000 freight customers by providing DFDS efficient shipping and port terminal services, as well as transport and logistics services, and we provide safe GUIDING STAR overnight and short-sea ferry services for more than six million passengers annually. THE DFDS WAY and our Code of Business Conduct (see p. 4) make up our overall behavioural guidance in our engagement with customers across our divisions and corporate service functions. To enable customers and other stakeholders to feel confident about our way of operating, we have made our Code of Business Conduct Empowered people Fast communication publicly available. with “can-do” attitude when it matters For each of our two customer segments we have a DFDS Guiding Star with principles outlining our customer focus to help us improve our customer practice and achieve high customer satisfaction. We constantly work to develop our customer focus concepts to understand even better the future needs of our customers, and we tailor our initiatives to the customer segments as outlined below. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 18 Expectations for 2018 Freight customers DFDS Freight • Increase live connectivity for customers through portals as well as EDI connections etc. Initiatives and results Terminals app • Invest in communication tools to ensure fast and accurate communication with customers. Customer satisfaction and feedback All you need for smooth • Continue to realise digital opportunities at DFDS’ delivery and pick-up terminals. Our aim is to be recognised as the preferred supplier in our dealings with freight customers and customer surveys are important measurement tools for us. We generally have high customer satisfaction and in 2017, we aimed to improve our scores in net promotor customer DELIVER PICK UP Passengers satisfaction as well as increase the number of responses Release no. Unit ID 12345678 ABCDE1234 in our survey compared to 2016. We managed to gain the Initiatives and results same high number of responses in 2017 and we performed Training and surveys well, although not to the same high level as in 2016. Pick up at terminal Vlaardingen We want to offer our passengers an experience that SAILING INFO meets or exceeds their expectations. To this end, we train In 2017, DFDS set a target to become even better at our crew to engage with customers through our internal meeting customer demands in order to support and GET DIRECTIONS service level agreement programme and help them to continue the positive trend seen in our surveys over the keep customers satisfied and solve problems as they past years. As a result, DFDS invested in more time face Ready for pick-up occur. We monitor customer satisfaction through surveys to face with customers. The feedback showed that the In rare cases the unit may not be available where we annually ask approximately 80,000 passengers customers want us to focus on being an active business NEW SEARCH for their opinions to gain a deeper understanding of their partner and to deliver new and optimised digital needs. Our customer satisfaction is high, and we use their solutions. insights to serve as a basis for continuous improvement in our day-to-day operations and services on board. Based Improved digital customer journeys on customer feedback, we have increased our efforts In 2017, we continued the digital transformation of DFDS to reduce food waste in our restaurants in the past two across our shipping freight and logistics services. We use years with good results. 08.17 computer robots to remove manual and trivial tasks from Digital advances within shipping freight and logistics our operations and we continue to develop new online Digital transformation • Developed and launched My DFDS Freight app(s) – tools for our customers and support customer awareness It is part of our strategy to attract more passengers and Ferry Alerts and Terminals. regarding digital impact and opportunities within the grow our passenger business. Our digital sales and shipping and logistics sector. services are key to this. Today, more than 80% book and • Improved digital connectivity with our customers. purchase their journeys online, and the increasing demand • Launched new versions of My Freight Portal and During the year, we provided our customers with for easy and reliable online services is expected to My Logistics Portal (booking portals) with new Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) solutions to ensure that continue. DFDS is in the midst of a digital transformation features, such as live track-and-trace. vital shipping information is securely transferred from the to meet our customers’ demands and a new step is to • Developed new enhanced added-value products customer’s systems to DFDS’ operating systems. replace our passenger websites with a unified website, and services portfolio as a new business service. Furthermore, our customers can now receive live GPS DFDS.com. This follows our organisational change in 2017, • Identified and realised digital opportunities at updates on the position of our trucks. This provides a where we moved our passenger business from a countryDFDS’ terminals. transparent overview of their supply chain, which can based structure to a centralised and more functional be used for further optimisation. structure. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 19 During 2017, we further developed our passenger apps countries and the entitlement of passengers to certain Expectations for 2018 to cover more cruise ferry routes, and developed and rights in the event of delays or cancellations. • Implement new marketing tools that allow us to tailor launched our new passenger booking system Seabook on our offers based on survey information the customer two of our cruise ferry routes. We have also developed Keeping passengers informed has allowed us to retain. and implemented LS Retail, a new sales system for shops, We place high priority on keeping passengers informed • Continue development and implementation of our restaurants and bars on all passenger ships. It allows us throughout their journey. Much of this communication passenger booking system Seabook and our point of to serve customers in any of our sales outlets, with the takes place directly at check-in and on board the ships, sales system LS Retail on our passenger routes. ability to order and pay on the spot. The systems will help but increasingly we communicate before and after the • Replace our 17 passenger websites with a unified us deliver highly connected, value-enhancing customer journey via email, internet and social media. We have website, DFDS.com. experiences. guidelines to ensure consistency across the communication channels. In case of complaints, we seek to handle them on Data protection board if possible. In case of major disruption to services, we As part of our ongoing customer improvement initiatives, inform passengers directly via texts, email or telephone. we address customers’ needs through analyses of customer information with due consideration to data protection. DFDS respects data privacy and complies with the European Data Protection Directive as well as with the national data protection acts in the countries in which we operate. DFDS further follows the mandates of the proposed European General Data Protection Regulation to ensure compliance with new regulations. Passenger rights DFDS complies with the European Maritime Passenger Rights Regulations. In accordance with the regulations, we ensure that assistance is offered to disabled passengers and to those with reduced mobility. We support passengers with special needs from booking to port facilities and, ultimately, their voyages on board our ships. As also required, DFDS provides transparency in pricing across Recognition • DFDS’ customer focus has been recognised with several awards. In 2017, these included: • World Travel Awards Winner: ‘World’s Leading Ferry Operator’. This was the seventh consecutive year we won this award. • World Travel Awards Winner: ‘Europe’s Leading Ferry Operator’. This was the eleventh consecutive year we won this award. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 20 Responsible unacceptable and we are committed to working towards the elimination of facilitation payments. In a CSR context, the tools are helpful in managing grey zones and avoiding bribery. procurement DFDS Group Procurement leads all major tenders and negotiations and concludes procurement contracts related to goods and services covering the entire DFDS IMPA ACT suppliers and self-assessments IMPA ACT allows members to access a common database containing information about suppliers who have been Group. In accordance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, through a vetting process and are therefore deemed all procurement of goods and services is done on an to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our We expect our suppliers to follow our objective basis. This means that selecting suppliers and spending in 2017 from the list of 26 IMPA ACT suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct and we continue products most suited for the purpose is evaluated was around DKK 170 million, which represents about objectively using factors such as price and quality, 17% of our supplier spending required for the operation to work with IMPA ACT self-assessment including delivery and payment terms. of our ships. as part of our responsible procurement practice. Initiatives and results In 2016, DFDS introduced the IMPA ACT Supplier Increased transparency through e-sourcing Self-Assessment Survey with the first of our strategic and e-auctions suppliers. In 2017, we continued this work with the second Commitment and practice As an objective and transparent way of choosing a of our strategic suppliers. Through self-assessment, we DFDS’ annual sourcing of goods and services amounts to supplier, while still getting the best conditions for DFDS, gain a clearer understanding of whether the supplier is on more than DKK 9 billion from more than 15,000 suppliers. we started to embrace procurement tools such as the right track in ensuring compliance with our Supplier For our ships alone, we issue around 5,000 purchase orders e-sourcing and e-auctions in 2013. E-sourcing is now a Code of Conduct, or whether we need to engage more per month. Via our purchasing practices, DFDS may cause standard for our tendering and we have continued the thoroughly with the supplier. Fewer than 10 of our or contribute to adverse impacts on human rights including roll-out of the approach to a few new categories in 2017. suppliers are categorised as strategic. labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption principles in the supply chain. To minimise the risk of adverse impact we primarily source from European suppliers using the DFDS Supplier Code of Conduct, which is publicly available. We aim to include our Supplier Code of Conduct in all our IMPA ACT improving CSR in the shipping and marine industry contracts. The DFDS Supplier Code of Conduct incorporates IMPA ACT is an independent initiative of the International Many shipping companies share the same suppliers and a the code developed in cooperation with IMPA. Here, our Marine Purchasing Association (IMPA) that seeks to standardised common system helps to ensure compliance suppliers agree to conform to the code and adhere to all improve the economic, social and environmental throughout the industry. It also decreases bureaucracy applicable laws, rules and regulations where they operate. compliance of its ship purchaser and supplier members and is cost-effective. For example, shipping companies The supplier is requested to have policies and procedures through a responsible supply chain management benefit from their peers’ assessment of joint suppliers and in place to: programme. DFDS joined IMPA ACT in 2015. the suppliers only have to focus on one code of conduct. • Respect internationally recognised human rights, including labour rights. At the core of the programme is the IMPA ACT Supplier • Address significant impacts on the environment. Code of Conduct. The code represents current best • Counter corrupt practices. practice by incorporating both the UN Global Compact principles on core labour rights, the environment and The requirements are similar to those that we impose anti-corruption, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business on ourselves through DFDS’ Code of Business Conduct and Human Rights. (see p. 5). As stated in the code, DFDS considers the offer of bribes, whether directly or through third parties, 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 21 Makers management and owner benefits During 2016, DFDS signed a contract with Jinling shipyard in China to build a minimum of two ro-ro vessels (roll-on/roll-off ships used to carry wheeled cargo such as cars, trucks etc.). In close cooperation with our Technical Organisation, we also developed a new procedure for selecting manufacturers for critical categories and agreed on a governance mechanism for manufacturer selection with the shipyard. In practice, this ensures that DFDS has a high degree of influence and can control the manufacturer selection for key equipment, which helps us minimise the risk of adverse impact in our supply chain. We initiated the programme in 2016 and continued in 2017, to include negotiating owner benefits from key manufacturers selected for our newbuilding programme. The owner benefits range from commission fees, credit vouchers and extended warranties to free training, spare parts and services. The owner benefits are a direct value addition to DFDS from the competitive supplier market for being part of a newbuilding project. Expectations for 2018 • Formally include CSR as a fixed agenda item in strategic supplier meetings. • Continue to embrace technology and digitisation in the development of efficient procurement tools, including the use of use e-sourcing and e-auctions where these are suitable methods. • Continue to roll out the IMPACT self-assessments among our strategic suppliers. • Continue the manufacturer management and owner benefits programme. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 22 Supporting local contribute to the fight against breast cancer. We introduced a pink trailer, which carries goods throughout most of Europe. For each 10 km driven, DFDS donates EUR 1 to the communities and charity Breast Cancer Now in the UK. By the end of 2017, the trailer had covered more than 26,000 km. initiatives Our passengers can also support the cause by donating money when they book a journey with us. We have different local initiatives such as the Pink Lunch for passengers in the Netherlands, while in Denmark, we have pink balloons. We support people in need and take an Customers can write a message on the balloon to someone activite interest in community issues they hold dear who has fought or is fighting breast cancer. through targeted programmes and We donate the money to breast cancer organisations in the countries where the money is raised. initiatives in the communities in which we operate. in 2009, we have employeed 47 former criminals, mainly on our ships on the route from Oslo, Norway, to Copenhagen, Denmark. Commitment and practice “For many years, we have enjoyed Each year, we transport about 2.5 million trucks and a great deal of cooperation In 2017, DFDS opened the doors to four young people from trailers through communities close to port terminals and High:five. At the end of 2017, two of the young people with DFDS, which has provided other facilities operated by DFDS in and around the Baltic were working for us, one in a permanent job and the other Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel. We also serve important opportunities for close to permanent employment. One candidate stopped about six million passengers who pass through such our young people. after 11 months in a job on our ship Pearl Seaways after communities, many of them in their cars. Many of the young people who some problems, but we are looking into opportunities for a day-to-day job on board our ship Crown Seaways. The In many of these communities, we are part of the local ask High:five for help to move on final candidate stopped after six months of work due to life and we take an active interest in community issues, in life need to get away from collaboration problems. including job creation and supporting community initiatives. their normal environment, As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we accept DFDS has a leading role in the programme as Henrik Holck, community support and donations, be these in-kind services, and at DFDS they get the clear EVP of DFDS’ People & Ships Division, is Chairman of knowledge, services or direct financial contributions. We are structure and supportive High:five. About 80% of the participants in the programme careful to ensure that any donation or sponsorship is not environment they need„ permanently give up a life of crime. used as a disguise for bribery. Improving employees’ health and well-being It is part of our conduct that donations and sponsorships Ole Hessel, Director of High:five In partnership with the Danish union Dansk Metal and its are reported to the line manager and that amounts in maritime division (Metal Maritime), DFDS established the excess of a specific level must be approved by our CEO foundation Den Sociale Arbejdsmarkedsfond to provide or CFO. Helping young people leave a life of crime financial support to those of our employees covered DFDS works closely with High:five in Denmark. High:five by DFDS’ agreements with Metal Maritime. Through the Initiatives and results is a programme that finds jobs in private companies for scheme, employees can apply to work part-time if, for DFDS’ pink initiatives against breast cancer young people with criminal records and offers them a way health reasons, they are unable to work full-time. In 2016, DFDS started to activate its network to back to a crime-free life. Since DFDS joined the programme The agreement is unique to the Danish labour market. 2017 DFDS CSR REPORT 2017 / P 23 In 2017, 18 employees benefitted from the scheme. and the Salvation Army in Norway. The lunch is partly • Continue to offer apprenticeships in partnership This includes employees who were offered a place in an organised on a voluntary basis by DFDS employees. In with MNTB. extensive loss-weight programme to help them improve 2017, about 600 homeless people accepted the invitation, • Engage with local charities to offer a free Christmas their health and well-being. The scheme also benefitted and leftover food from the event was donated to the local lunch to homeless people. employees who needed time off to take care of seriously shelters. ill relatives as well as colleagues who needed to reduce their workload for health reasons. Engaging in environmental protection An example of a new engagement is DFDS’ sponsorship of Opportunities for young people the Boskalis Beach Clean-up Tour 2017 van Stichting De Employees engaged in donations and raising funds DFDS has taken a leading role in a UK apprenticeship Noordzee in Holland. In addition to sponsorship of EUR DFDS appreciates and encourages the many initiatives programme that has been running since 2012. 10,000, DFDS employees were among the 142 volunteers taken by our employees to raise funds for charity or Apprenticeships are offered in partnership with the UK’s who participated in the clean-up of the 12 km stretch supporting local communities in need. Here are a few Merchant Navy Training Board (MNTB), the shipping of coast. Some 947 kg of waste was collected from the examples from 2017: industry’s central body for promoting and developing beach. • Employees in Newcastle, UK, donated essential sector-specific education and training skills. items to the local BAY Foodbank, which provides We hosted the day together with the environmental emergency food provision to individuals or In 2012, DFDS was the first UK ferry operator to offer organisation ORCA. ORCA is also a partner with DFDS in families experiencing a financial crisis. an apprenticeship scheme with the first cohort of a programme capturing data on marine wildlife and • Employees in Poznan, Poland, participated in the apprentices and in 2017, we were the first to offer a new monitoring of marine mammals and the health of the sea global charity event Wings for Life World Run. maritime caterer apprenticeship programme. The new from our passenger ships sailing between IJmuiden, HolThe event supports spinal cord research projects programme is aimed at 17-24 year olds with a minimum land, and Newcastle, UK. We give ORCA free travel for one and clinical trials. Employees also entered other of C grade in Maths and English at General Certificate of of their employees who is permanently on board the ferries. runs for charity in Dieppe and Paris, France and in Secondary Education level. Unions and communities in IJmuiden, Holland. the South East of the UK have welcomed the programme In 2017, our combined freight and passenger ship Victoria • Employees supported the European campaign for as it offers opportunities to the younger generation in Seaways also hosted equipment from the German the fight against breast cancer by donating EUR 1 a region with few opportunities. It also supports the research organisation Fraunhofer Institute for Wind per 100 steps walked during the annual ITB travel maritime industry where, in the UK, 70% of all ratings Energy and Energy System Technology. For several fair in Berlin, Germany. employed are over the age of 40. months, the equipment measured wind to create data • Further funding for charities was raised through for a European wind atlas showing potential hotspots employees engaged in charity football, golf and DFDS is also in partnership with a Kent-based college in for wind turbines on the ships sailing the route between other sports events in Dieppe and Paris, France; the UK to engage with people and businesses where we Kiel, Germany, and Klaipėda, Lithuania. Grimsby, Immingham and Newhaven, UK; Klaipėda, operate. We also engage with the local schools to help Lithuania; Ghent, Belgium and in Vlaardingen and children get work experience on the ships and on land so DFDS also supported a scientific programme run by the IJmuiden, Holland, to support the fight against they have a better platform for making educational and German polar and marine research organisation, the breast cancer, pancreatic cancer and other diseases. career choices. Alfred Wegener Institute, by donating sea transport on Princess Seaways for researchers on the highSEA Together with DFDS’ main shareholder, the Lauritzen Christmas lunch for homeless people programme to examine marine algae species. Foundation, DFDS also supported surgery on a little For eight consecutive years, DFDS has offered a free girl, the daughter of a crewmember in the Philippines, Christmas lunch to homeless people on board our Expectations for 2018 who was suffering from a life-threatening heart passenger ships in Copenhagen, Denmark and in Oslo, • Continue our pink initiatives against breast cancer. disease. Norway. We issue invitations in collaboration with the • Engage with High:five to look into opportunities for charities WeShelter in Denmark, the Church City Mission recruitment of a ship assistant. DFDS A/S Sundkrogsgade 11 DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø Tel. +45 3342 3342 Fax. +45 3342 3311 www.dfds.com CVR 14 19 47 11 Addresses of DFDS’ subsidiaries, locations and offices are available from www.dfds.com
