Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 2 Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse As one of the world’s leading banks, we are committed to delivering our financial experience and expertise to corporate, institutional and government clients and to ultra-high-networth individuals worldwide, in addition to affluent and retail clients in Switzerland. 1 2 3 4 Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Founded in 1856, Credit Suisse today has a global in Banking in the Economy as an for the reach with operations in around 50 countries. We and Society Employer Environment believe that our responsible approach to business and the dedication and expertise of our over 46,000 Around employees are key factors determining our long-term 12.8% CHF 158 bn 46,840 11,000 success. We have a broad understanding of our look-through CET1 is Credit Suisse’s volume individuals from over hours of training on duties as a financial services provider, member of capital ratio at end-2017 of loans outstanding in 150 different countries environmental management Switzerland at end-2017 work at Credit Suisse and health and safety society and employer. This approach is also reflected were provided in our efforts to protect the environment. The following key figures show the diverse nature of our activi806 18,410 48% 76% ties in the area of corporate responsibility in 2017: transactions or client of our employees around of our leadership roles of the electricity we relationships were the world volunteered were filled internally consumed globally assessed for potential their time to help charitable was generated using environmental and causes renewable energy social risks sources Go to contents Go to Chapter 1 Go to Chapter 2 Go to Chapter 3 Go to Chapter 4 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 3 Contents 1 Responsibility in Banking 12 1.1 Trust and Expertise 13 1.2 Risk Management and Sustainability 21 1.3 Responsible Investment Products 28 and Services 2 Responsibility in the Economy and Society 37 2.1 Our Role in the Economy and Society 38 2.2 Our Social Commitments 44 Overview 2 3 Responsibility as an Employer 50 Foreword 4 3.1 Responsibility as an Employer 51 Our Understanding of 6 4 Responsibility for the Environment 61 Corporate Responsibility 4.1 Responsibility for the Environment 62 Reporting on Corporate Responsibility 69 For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Credit Suisse Group”, “Credit Suisse”, the “Group”, “we”, “us” and “our” mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. Go to Foreword The business of Credit Suisse AG, the direct bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially similar to the Group, and we use these terms to refer to both when the subject is the same or substantially similar. We use the term the “bank” when we are referring only to Credit Suisse AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 4 Foreword Dear Reader 2017 was a crucial year of delivery in the three-year restructuring plan we launched at the end of 2015. Our strategy is to be a leading wealth manager with strong investment banking capabilities. In a changing and often challenging operating environment, we made good progress against our five key strategic objectives during the year: We continued our efforts to (i) strengthen our capital position, (ii) deliver profitable growth, (iii) reduce our fixed cost base, (iv) rightsize and de-risk our trading activities, and (v) resolve our key legacy issues. The indispensable and deep restructuring we engaged in requires us to take certain difficult decisions – particularly in the context of our cost program – as we transform our business and position it for long-term success. Where it is necessary to adapt the size of our workforce as part of these measures, we are committed to acting in a fair and responsible way. A Business Founded on Trust We work hard to earn the trust of our stakeholders day after day. Credit Suisse strives to be a reliable and professional partner to our clients around the globe and to generate attractive returns for our shareholders over the long term. At the same time, we recognize that for many stakeholders, a bank’s reputation is today often as important as its performance. At Credit Suisse, we are committed to ensuring that we operate with integrity and have effective governance Urs Rohner, Chairman of the Board of Directors (left) and Tidjane Thiam, Chief Executive Officer (right) structures, as well as maintain a rigorous compliance and control framework. All our employees and members of the Board of Directors are obligated to adhere to Credit Suisse’s Code of Conduct. In early 2017 we launched our new Conduct and Ethics Standards, which promote a shared understanding and expectations in terms of our culture and conduct across the Group. Read on Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 5 Underscoring the importance we assign to the area of compliance, we created Protecting the Climate and the Environment in 2015 a Compliance and Regulatory Affairs unit operating as an independent Environmental and climate protection is one of the pillars of our corporate Executive Board-level function and overseeing all compliance and regulatory responsibilities. We strive to conduct our business in an environmentally matters at Credit Suisse. sustainable manner. As part of these efforts, we apply internal policies and guidelines governing certain sensitive industries when assessing potential Responsibilities Beyond Banking transactions and client relationships. Our approach is also reflected in the We have a broad understanding of our corporate responsibilities as a global development of products and services focusing on green finance. At an bank. In this context, we recognize the importance of international agreements operational level, we promote the efficient use of resources within our organisuch as the UN Global Compact that promote responsible business practices. zation and reduce the direct impacts of our activities on the environment and We are also committed to addressing social challenges: In collaboration with the climate through our global environmental management system. We have selected partner organizations, we support initiatives that generate a positive been operating on a greenhouse gas neutral basis at all our locations around economic or social impact in areas such as financial inclusion, microfinance the globe since 2010. and education. In addition to receiving funding, these partners benefit from the skills and expertise of our employees. We allow each employee to devote Dialogue with Our Stakeholders up to four days per year to support social projects. We are proud that in 2017, We believe that an active dialogue is essential to build relationships of trust. a total of 18,410 of our employees around the world dedicated more than We listen to the views of our clients and cultivate an ongoing exchange of 184,500 hours to volunteering. opinions with a wide range of other stakeholders, including regulators and policymakers, the media and non-governmental organizations, to gain a clear 2017 also marked the 15th anniversary of impact investing at Credit Suisse – understanding of what they expect from us as a bank. In this way, we can a field in which we have long played a pioneering role. A milestone during the gauge the topics that matter to them and we have an opportunity to present year was the establishment of our Impact Advisory and Finance Department our own viewpoint. This Corporate Responsibility Report is designed to be in the CEO Office, which aims to facilitate projects and initiatives across the part of this constructive dialogue and we welcome your comments on any of Group that have a positive economic and social impact, as well as generating the topics discussed here. a financial return – thus benefiting our wealth management, institutional and corporate clients. Best regards Urs Rohner Tidjane Thiam Chairman of the Board of Chief Executive Directors Officer March 2018 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 6 Our Understanding of Our Understanding of Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse our long-term success and that they help to Credit Suisse For Credit Suisse, corporate responsibility is about promote an understanding of the important role Materiality creating sustainable value for our clients, shareholwe play in the economy and society. Assessment ders, employees and other stakeholders. We strive Engaging with to comply with the values and standards set out in credit-suisse.com/responsibility Stakeholders our Code of Conduct in every aspect of our work – including in our relationship with our stakeholders. Structure of the Report We do so based on our broad understanding of our The Corporate Responsibility Report is structured duties as a financial services provider and employer in accordance with the four areas outlined above: and as an integral part of the economy and society. our responsibilities in banking and in the economy Our approach also reflects our commitment to proand society, our role as an employer and our tecting the environment. responsibility for the environment. Our reporting on corporate responsibility reflects the standards Further Our primary focus as a global bank is on running set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). information: our business responsibly and successfully. We are In addition, we report on the progress we have made  see p. 69 –70 aware of the high standards expected of us and in implementing the ten principles of the United Further we endeavor to engage in an open dialogue with Nations (UN) Global Compact and provide examinformation: Further our various stakeholders. This enables us to actively ples of how we can contribute to the realization  see p. 71 information:  see p. 10 –11 identify their needs and interests, to develop approof the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Further priate solutions and to take account of key challenges Further information and data on our GRI indicators information: when evolving our strategy. are available online at:  see p. 72 We believe that this dialogue and our responsible credit-suisse.com/gri approach to business are key factors determining Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 7 Our UnderOur Understanding of Corporate Responsibility standing of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility in Banking in the Economy and Society Responsibility •• Trust and Expertise •• Our Role in the Economy and Society Corporate •• Risk Management and Sustainability •• Our Social Commitments Responsibility at •• Responsible Investment Products and Services •• Sponsorship Credit Suisse Our main responsibility is to ensure that we run our company As a global bank, we see ourselves as an integral part of the successfully on a long-term basis for the benefit of our clients, shareeconomy and society. We therefore aim to run our business in Credit Suisse holders, employees and society as a whole. Competence, compliance, a way that creates value for all our stakeholders. Through our Materiality diligence and responsible conduct are key to the success of our role as a financial intermediary, we support entrepreneurship and Assessment business. This includes taking account of social and environeconomic growth, and we make an economic contribution mental aspects when conducting our business. as an employer, taxpayer and contractual partner. We also support various humanitarian and charitable Engaging with organizations and projects as well as cultural Stakeholders and sporting events. Code of Conduct Responsibility Responsibility as an Employer for the Environment •• Credit Suisse as an Employer • Climate and Biodiversity •• Diversity and Inclusion • Environmental Management Qualified and motivated employees are a vital We are committed to conducting our business with success factor. We want to be an employer of choice a long-term view to supporting environmental sustainworldwide and therefore offer our people progressive working ability. We believe important pillars of this approach include conditions and varied career opportunities in a multicultural environour support for the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient ment to be able to attract the best talent. economy as well as the protection of biodiversity. We therefore strive to promote the efficient use of resources and address sustainability issues when managing risks. We also develop products and services that incorporate environmental aspects for our clients. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 8 Our UnderCredit Suisse Materiality Assessment standing of Material issues Importance Definition and scope of terms See pages Corporate (high to very high) Responsibility Compliance with laws and regulations / prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing / anti-corruption / 13 – 20, 21– 27, Culture of Compliance 1 combating financial market crime (e. g. fraud, anti-competitive practices) / sanctions compliance / tax compliance / corporate culture 51– 52 and Conduct Corporate Systemic risk / capital and liquidity / total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) / legal entity structure / resolvability / 13– 20, 38 – 43 Financial and Political Responsibility at 2 political and economic stability / negative interest rates System Stability Credit Suisse Business strategy / financial results / share price / dividends / capital, liquidity and funding position / stability of the company / 13 – 20, 38 – 43, Company Performance 3 operational risk (incl. business continuity management, technology risks) / cost efficiency / cost reductions 58 Credit Suisse and Strategy Materiality Consumer and Investor Suitability and appropriateness / data security / privacy / transparency of fees 13 – 20 Assessment 4 Protection Blockchain / fintech / digital transformation / big data, automation 20 Engaging with 5 Digitalization / Fintech Stakeholders Environmental management system / assessment of sustainability risks in transactions / policies for sensitive industries / 21– 27, 62 – 68 Environmental and 6 impacts on ecosystems and landscapes (incl. biodiversity, agriculture and forestry) / responsible supply chain management Social Risk Management Operational structure / governance framework / management team / voting rights 12 – 20 7 Corporate Governance Human Resources and Diversity and inclusion / non-discrimination / training and skills management / attracting and retaining talent / health and safety / 51– 60 8 Talent Management work-life balance / employees over 50 years of age / deployments to Business Delivery Centers Responsible Sustainable products and services / impact investing (incl. microfinance, conservation finance) / integration of environmental, social 28 – 36, 62 – 64, 9 and governance (ESG) issues in products and services / Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 68 Investments Fair working conditions; no child labor, no forced labor / human rights aspects in supply chain and business relations / indigenous 21– 27 10 Human Rights peoples’ rights / positive contribution to the realization of human rights Reducing the carbon footprint of own operations / greenhouse gas neutrality / managing climate risks / facilitating 21– 27, 62 – 68 11 Climate Change transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy through product offering / climate-related disclosure Incentives and Responsible approach to compensation / executive compensation / criteria for incentives / deferral, claw-backs 59 – 60 12 Compensation Policy Advisory process, relationship managers / range and quality of products and services / expertise (e. g. research, advisory) / 19– 20, Quality and Range of 13 performance and pricing of products and services / technology 28 – 36, 46, Services and Advice 51– 53 Contribution to the Purchasing, sourcing / tax contribution / lending to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and start-ups 38 – 43 14 Economy Philanthropy / supporting social and humanitarian projects / employee engagement, including skills-based volunteering / “militia” 32 – 34, 41, 15 Social Commitments system of politics in our Swiss home market 44 – 49 Relevance to stakeholders (average) Expected future importance for Credit Suisse (based on stakeholder survey) Detailed information on Credit Suisse Group’s financial performance, Impact on Credit Suisse Increasing importance corporate governance and compen­sation practices can be found in the Range of external stakeholder views No change Annual Report 2017. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 9 Our UnderCredit Suisse Materiality Assessment The stakeholders who provided direct feedback standing of We aim to focus our corporate responsibility reportincluded clients, investors and analysts, policyCorporate ing activities on topics that are relevant to our busimakers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), Responsibility ness as well as to our stakeholders. We therefore local community organizations, suppliers, academia, regularly undertake a materiality assessment in order sustainability professionals and employees. Corporate to identify critical economic, environmental and Responsibility at social issues that may either have a significant The material issues and their respective definitions Credit Suisse impact on the company’s business performance or were determined, revised and enhanced in a comCredit Suisse substantively influence the assessments and deciprehensive three-stage process comprising identifiMateriality sions of our stakeholders. cation, prioritization and review. The outputs led us Assessment to slightly extend the previous list of material issues. Engaging with The materiality assessment is based on our ongoing The findings reflect average values of importance Further Stakeholders dialogue with stakeholders across all parts of our based on the assessment methodology. FurtherInformation:  see p. 10 –11 business. We strive to ensure that the list of material more, we analyzed the expected future importance issues identified in the past remains relevant and of the material issues to our stakeholders to help us that important new topics are addressed. In 2017, anticipate and identify emerging business issues. we therefore expanded the scope of our research and reached out to a larger number and broader We are committed to regularly undertaking a materirange of external and internal stakeholders in all ality assessment. We believe doing so will help us to regions where we operate. identify new trends, evolve our strategy accordingly and tailor our reporting to align it to the interests and We engaged with our stakeholders through a strucneeds of our business and our stakeholders. tured survey comprising both quantitative and qualitative elements, complemented by a dedicated The materiality assessment is also available online at: media analysis, independent research and information from our monitoring tools. Internally, we received credit-suisse.com/materialityassessment feedback at various levels, including from leaders of relevant business units. This information also helped us to determine the impact of these material issues on Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 10 Our UnderCredit Suisse and the Sustainable Development Goals Engaging with Stakeholders standing of The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the Our business works on the basis of trust: Our longCorporate UN in 2015 form a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for term success depends to a significant extent on our Responsibility Sustainable Development. As they are based on a participatory ability to inspire confidence in our stakeholders. In process, responsibility for achieving them will be shared among the current challenging regulatory environment and in Corporate states, the private sector, the scientific community and civil view of recent developments in the area of financial Responsibility at society. Credit Suisse contributes to the realization of the SDGs market policy, it is essential that we take steps to Credit Suisse in various ways, including in our role as a financial intermediary safeguard and maintain trust in our company. We Credit Suisse and employer. Further examples of how we aim to support the therefore regularly engage in a dialogue with clients, Further Materiality realization of the SDGs include our impact investing activities shareholders, investors and employees as well as Information: Assessment across the bank and our corporate citizenship initiatives (see with regulators and policymakers, NGOs and other  see chart on p. 11 Engaging with pages 30–31 and 44–49). At the same time, our focus on susstakeholders. This dialogue – combined with the Stakeholders tainability risk management can help us to reduce potential insights we gain through our involvement in initiatives, negative impacts of certain business activities on the realization associations, forums and professional bodies, as well of the SDGs (see page 21–27). as the findings of surveys – strengthens our understanding of the different, and sometimes conflicting, NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER perspectives of our stakeholders. This approach POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION helps us to identify their interests and expectations at an early stage, to offer our perspective and to help AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE develop solutions to address current challenges CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION wherever possible. At the same time, this exchange provides us with a more detailed understanding of CLIMATE LIFE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS our corporate responsibilities. ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS Further Information Information about our engagement with stakeholders, as well as our range of publications that Developed in collaboration with | TheGlobalGoals@trollback.com | +1.212.529.1010 For queries on usage, contact: dpicampaigns@un.org are designed to contribute to the public debate, can be found online at: credit-suisse.com/responsibility/dialogue Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 11 Our UnderOur Stakeholders standing of Corporate Responsibility sts n aly Po lic da ym s an Credit Suisse We strive to ak er Corporate or s, e st strives to engage in an cultivate a dialogue re Responsibility at i nv open dialogue with clients, with policymakers, legislators g ul Credit Suisse s, er shareholders, investors and and regulators, as well as at or ld ho analysts to identify their needs and members of the business communsa Credit Suisse re ha interests and to provide them with ity and other stakeholder groups. nd Materiality ,s timely and relevant information about We contribute our expertise to discusme Assessment nt s our company, our strategy and sions about economic, political dia C lie performance, our investment and social issues through our expertise and our research. involvement in initiatives, Engaging with t So associations and forums. Stakeholders ke c So ors Ma cia ty r ie fa ct l tors Econom fac ic Credit Suisse We work with organizaWe maintain a dialogue tions that represent our with NGOs, intergovemployees’ concerns and En ernmental organizations t r s en viro Wo or interests. We also engage in pl n m e ntal fact k o (IGOs), local organizations nm ac a dialogue with suppliers and e vir and other stakeholders to unEn service providers about our rederstand their concerns and to quirements relating to responsible address social and environmentsocial and environmental conduct. al issues. We contribute to the public ie s ni t debate on these topics through our publicEm mu ations, initiatives and events. Working plo om ye with partner organizations, we strive lc es to contribute to economic and lo ca an t social development. s, ra O d de G un s /I ion N GO s, su pp lie r s Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 12 1 Responsibility in Banking 1.1 Trust and Expertise 13 1.2 Risk Management and Sustainability 21 1.3 Responsible Investment Products 28 and Services Read the chapter Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 13 Trust and Expertise 1 Responsibility Credit Suisse offers clients high-quality service and advice, supports in Banking efforts to increase financial stability and strives to maintain a rigorous compliance and control culture to inspire trust in our bank. 1.1 Trust and Expertise Credit Suisse is committed to operating professionfourth quarter of 2017, we reassessed our defer1.2 ally and with integrity to gain and maintain the trust red tax assets and recognized an associated tax Risk Management of our stakeholders. Our strategy is to be a leading charge of CHF 2.3 billion, primarily resulting from and Sustainability wealth manager with strong investment banking the US tax reform. This non-cash item led to a 1.3 capabilities. We aim to capture the opportunities reported net loss attributable to shareholders for Responsible available to us as a provider of integrated solutions the year. However, our operating performance Investment Products and Services that address the increasingly complex wealth manimproved significantly. agement and business needs of ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI) and successful entrepreneurs During 2017, Credit Suisse also transformed and around the globe. To achieve this, we are taking a substantially strengthened its capital position after balanced approach between mature and emerging completing a rights issue, which closed in June markets. We believe that our strategy will generate 2017, as well as generating capital organically. At significant value for our shareholders and also benthe end of 2017, our look-through common equity efit our clients, employees and other stakeholders. tier 1 (CET1) ratio was 12.8%. Our look-through tier 1 leverage ratio rose to 5.2% from 4.4% at the 2017 was a crucial year of delivery in the threeend of 2016. Thanks to our relentless focus on year restructuring plan we launched at the end costs and our strategic approach to productivity of 2015. We made strong progress against our gains, we achieved our 2017 cost target. Imporkey strategic objectives during the year. In partitantly, we have lowered costs while investing in our cular, we advanced towards our goal of profitable client franchise and improving our control framework. growth, increasing our reported pre-tax income to Our strategic decision to focus on UHNWI and CHF 1.8 billion and our adjusted1 pre-tax income 1  djusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliaA to CHF 2.8 billion for the full year 2017. In the tion of the adjusted results to the most directly comparable US GAAP measures, see page 80. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 14 Strengthening of Look-through CET1 Capital Ratio In our non-core Strategic Resolution Unit (SRU), 13 we made significant progress in disposing of legacy 12.8% 1 12 positions and in de-risking. In 2017, we announced that we now plan to wind down the division by the 11.4% 11.5% Responsibility 11 end of 2018. This progress in the SRU is central to in Banking 10 10.1% the restructuring of the Group as it helps to free up capital resources that can be redeployed to areas 9 1.1 where we expect to produce higher returns such Trust and 8 as our Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Expertise 7 Management and Asia Pacific divisions. 1.2 Risk Management 6 Detailed information on our strategy and financial performance is and Sustainability provided in the Annual Report 2017 of Credit Suisse Group AG. 5 2014 2015 2016 2017 1.3 Adapting to the New Regulatory Landscape Responsible The global implementation of extensive regulatory Investment Products and Services entrepreneur clients and allocate more capital to reforms continued in 2017 with the aim of further our Wealth Management and connected businesses1 reinforcing the stability and integrity of the global is paying off. In 2017, we made strong progress financial system. Reforms in prudential regulation towards our profit targets and attracted significant are intended to make banks less likely to fail as net new assets, ending the year with record assets well as easier to resolve if the point of non-viability under management in Wealth Management2. is reached. The effect of these reforms is that banks have generally increased capital, augmented liquidity, In Investment Banking & Capital Markets, we imimproved governance and controls, and adapted their proved our share of wallet across all key products legal entity structures to help ensure resolvability. after rebalancing our product mix towards advisory and equity underwriting while maintaining our leadAt Credit Suisse, we consider it important to actively ing leveraged finance franchise. After right-sizing help shape these new standards. For example, we our Global Markets division, lowering its risk and have been working consistently with regulators, intercapital consumption, we significantly strengthened national standard-setting bodies and the finance its profitability in 2017 and we are on track to industry for a number of years to help address the achieve our targets for the business in 2018. “Too Big to Fail” (TBTF) issue. In 2015, the Financial 1 SUB, IWM, APAC WM&C and IBCM Stability Board (FSB) issued the final standard for 2 Combined assets under management for SUB PC, IWM PB and APAC PB within WM&C. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 15 total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC), which introfrom Credit Suisse AG. In addition, several branches duced an internationally valid minimum standard for of Credit Suisse Services AG were registered and 1 global systemically important banks (G-SIB). In Switbecame operational. In the UK, London branch zerland, the ordinances on the implementation of the became operational in June 2017. In India, Pune Responsibility TLAC standard entered into force in mid-2016. The branch became operational in November 2017. in Banking Swiss capital requirements are substantially more In Singapore, Singapore branch became operatiostringent than the Basel minimum requirements, as is nal in January 2018. In the US, Credit Suisse 1.1 the amount of TLAC eligible bonds that is required to Services (USA) LLC became operational in January Trust and comply with the Swiss TLAC standard. In 2017, 2017. The launch of service companies means that Expertise Credit Suisse issued an aggregate of USD 12 billion if one or more business entities were to fail, critical 1.2 of bail-in bonds. In addition, in 2017 the FSB recogsupport services could continue to operate in a Risk Management nized the progress Credit Suisse has made to reduce resolution period. and Sustainability its systemic impact and lowered the G-SIB required 1.3 progressive buffer for Credit Suisse from 1.5% to In February 2017, Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG and Responsible 1%, taking Credit Suisse to the lowest tier of systCredit Suisse Asset Management International Investment Products and Services emic importance. Holding Ltd (CSAM IHAG), with a participating interest of 49% and 51%, respectively, incorporaCredit Suisse made significant progress in 2017 ted Credit Suisse Asset Management & Investor in evolving the Group’s legal entity structure to Services (Schweiz) Holding AG (CSAM Holding), address the TBTF issue and, additionally, the a holding company domiciled in Switzerland. CSAM challenges presented by the expected withdrawal Schweiz was incorporated in February 2017 and of the UK from the EU. As part of our implementareceived the Swiss-related asset management busition efforts, we continue to hold regular consultaness from Credit Suisse AG through a transfer of tions with the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory assets in accordance with the Swiss Merger Act. Authority FINMA (FINMA) and other regulators. All transfers of participations were made at the participations’ Swiss GAAP carrying value as recorded In line with this work and in order to provide operaby the transferor. tional continuity of resolution-critical support services, Credit Suisse Services AG, the service comIn the UK, we continued client migrations to Credit pany parent, became operational in Switzerland Suisse AG Dublin branch, as well as the strategic in July 2017, with the transfer of employees, net infrastructure build-out in Credit Suisse International assets and our Business Delivery Center in Poland Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 16 Client Satisfaction Is Key An objective of regulatory reform is to strengthen It is vital for Credit Suisse to gather unbiased and representative banks while continuing to strengthen markets. In 1 feedback from existing and prospective clients. This provides us response to regulatory initiatives focused on derivawith valuable insights into how we can improve our service in all tives, Credit Suisse has implemented mandatory Responsibility aspects of the client experience such as personal advice, clearing of over-the-counter derivatives in line with in Banking digital channels and the customer service center. As part of our the rest of the market. Authorities are also working continuing commitment to maintaining a strong dialogue with to make markets more efficient and fair, as seen 1.1 our clients about their needs and expectations, we are planning with the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Trust and a client satisfaction survey in selected markets in 2018. Directive (MiFID) II, which became effective on Expertise January 3, 2018. In the EU and other impacted 1.2 jurisdictions, we implemented new provisions that Risk Management (CSi) and the development of our strategy to address increase investor protection and market transparand Sustainability the expected withdrawl of the UK from the EU. ency. We have maintained our focus on know-your1.3 customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) Responsible In the US, we completed the first Comprehensive rules and controls, given the ongoing prevalence of Investment Products and Services Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) submission. financial crime. We also further enhanced and strengthened data and infrastructure that support stress testing and An emerging trend during 2017 was the support for capital planning capabilities in the US. the adoption of quasi-voluntary codes such as the standards published by the Fixed Income, Currencies In 2018, work continues to implement our plans to and Commodities (FICC) Market Standards Board address the expected withdrawal of the UK from the (FMSB) and the FX Global Code published by the EU, building out the EU entity solution that should Global Foreign Exchange Committee. For the FMSB allow us to continue to access EU27 clients and standards, at the end of 2017 we acknowledged markets in the event of a withdrawal of the UK that the standards represent generally recognized from the EU without a deal in place to lessen the good practice and confirmed that our applicable effects of the country leaving the single market. entities were committed to conducting their activities To achieve our EU strategy, we have identified key in a manner consistent with the core principles. deliverables, including continuous engagement with Credit Suisse strongly supports the adoption of home, European and local regulators. the Global FX Code by FX market participants and expects to sign the FX Global Code’s Statement of Commitment on a global basis by mid-2018. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 17 Financial Integrity Management, Accountability, Partner and TransCompliance and Regulatory Affairs operates as parency – to further embed expectations of good 1 an independent Executive Board-level function, conduct in our employees. underscoring the high level of importance that Responsibility Credit Suisse assigns to this topic. The function’s Credit Suisse has a company-wide Business in Banking mandate is to oversee all compliance and reguContinuity Management (BCM) Program in place latory matters for Credit Suisse and includes being to support the maintenance of critical business pro1.1 a proactive, independent function that partners with cesses in the event of a major internal or external Trust and the businesses by continuously challenging and incident. The aim of the BCM Program is to exercise Expertise supporting them to effectively manage compliance a duty of care to employees, protect client and com1.2 risk. The Internal Audit department uses a riskpany assets and to minimize the financial, regulatory, Risk Management based approach to assess whether the control reputational and strategic impact of such incidents. and Sustainability environment enables compliance with internal and 1.3 external standards, policies and guidelines. To protect against the risk of corruption, we have Responsible global standards in place related to corruption preInvestment Products and Services Recognizing the critical role of employees in helpvention. We also strive to prevent the improper use ing to preserve financial integrity, we aim for the of products and services by third parties. As part of highest standards of personal accountability and our efforts to fulfill our due diligence requirements, ethical conduct from each member of our workwe issue policies governing topics such as business force. Credit Suisse employees at all levels of the relations with politically exposed persons (PEP), the organization, as well as the members of the Board prevention of money laundering and terrorist financof Directors, are obligated to adhere to our Code ing, as well as the adherence to applicable economic of Conduct. To ensure we are continuously and trade sanctions laws. We have a wide range of informed of the latest regulations and industry policies, procedures and internal controls, with standards, our employees are required to particirequirements such as the screening of third parties pate in an annual targeted and tailored training who conduct business for or on behalf of Credit curriculum. It includes, but is not limited to, develSuisse and dedicated controls related to gifts and opments in the finance industry and internal best entertainment, internships and other employment practices in order to achieve compliant growth. In opportunities, charitable contributions and sponsorearly 2017, we launched a globally consistent ship, and conflicts of interests. Strict internal controls Further information: approach to Conduct and Ethics with a set of six are used to monitor compliance with these policies.  see p. 51– 52 standards – Client Focus, Meritocracy, Stakeholder Furthermore, the bank is actively involved in the Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 18 development and implementation of industry standCommitment to Client Tax Compliance ards to combat money laundering and corruption. Credit Suisse policies mandate that we do not 1 One example is Credit Suisse’s participation in the accept or manage client assets if we know or Wolfsberg Group, which reflects our commitment to become aware of information that would support Responsibility implementing the latest anti-money laundering and a suspicion of tax non-compliance. To address in Banking anti-bribery standards while also staying abreast of the regulatory and reputational risks associated important regulatory and market developments. In with undeclared assets held by private clients, 1.1 addition, employees must ensure that transactions Credit Suisse has, over the last several years, Trust and that may impact on the reputation of Credit Suisse carried out comprehensive client tax programs Expertise undergo our bank-wide standardized Reputational and reviews covering clients in essentially all of Further 1.2 information: Risk Review Process. our major markets. In addition, we have a Client Risk Management  see p. 22–23 Tax Compliance Policy that underpins our zero and Sustainability Credit Suisse manages improper employee behavior tolerance approach to tax evasion or the facilitation 1.3 and infractions through global escalation and disof tax evasion. Responsible ciplinary governance processes across three lines Investment Products and Services of defense. Our disciplinary process provides a Credit Suisse adheres to its obligation as a financial structure that is designed to confirm that the bank’s institution to collect information regarding the tax articulated standards of professional conduct, policlassification of clients in order to assist in the sharcies and procedures are adhered to and enforced ing of information by tax authorities across borders. on an ongoing basis, subject to local differences. In connection with the move towards increased Our Conduct and Ethics Boards provide an indeaccess to cross-border bank data by foreign tax pendent review of disciplinary matters and, where authorities, Switzerland is one of a number of necessary, participate in or challenge decisions that countries that have agreed to accept the Common may impact employee performance reviews and Reporting Standard (CRS) developed by the Organiscompensation. Additionally, employees have a duty ation for Economic Co-operation and Development to report concerns of potential legal, regulatory or (OECD), which represents the global standard for the ethical misconduct to their line managers or to ComAutomatic Exchange of Information (AEI) in tax matpliance and Regulatory Affairs. Employees worldwide ters. Under the AEI, financial institutions are expectalso have the option of calling our Integrity Hotline, ed to provide information on assets and income for where they can report such issues anonymously, accounts held or controlled by clients who have a where permitted by local law. tax residence in a foreign participating country. The information will be reported to the bank’s Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 19 domestic tax authority to enable regulators in parrisk profile as well as financial needs and plans, and ticipating countries to share tax-relevant client data it incorporates sophisticated analytical tools that can 1 among each other. Switzerland belongs to the group identify counterparty risks and simulate potential of countries that started to collect tax-relevant data in returns in different scenarios to provide an objective Responsibility 2017, with the first exchange of information in 2018. basis for client investment decisions. Credit Suisse in Banking has been committed to strengthening investor proAs part of the efforts to build a tax-compliant and tection for a number of years and has invested in the 1.1 internationally accepted financial center, Switzerland related systems, processes and employee training – Trust and reached a Model 2 intergovernmental agreement including a mandatory certification program for relaExpertise Further (IGA) with the US in 2013 that facilitated the impletionship managers. We also support the project to information: 1.2 mentation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance develop a Federal Financial Services Act, which is  see p. 52– 53 Risk Management Act (FATCA) in July 2014. This law aims to achieve part of a larger legislative effort to create uniform and Sustainability a broad exchange of information and transparency competitive conditions for financial intermediaries, 1.3 regarding the offshore accounts of US taxpayers by improve client protection and bring Swiss legislation Responsible requiring all participating non-US financial institutions in line with new or emerging international standards. Investment Products and Services worldwide to regularly and automatically provide This should ultimately also remove potential barriers reporting to the US authorities about the identity, to cross-border activities and to market access for income and assets of US persons. Credit Suisse Swiss financial services providers. The Federal adheres to the requirements of the IGA and continFinancial Services Act is expected to contain code ues to monitor developments in this space closely. of conduct provisions for financial services providers to improve investor protection. High-Quality Service and Advice When providing advice to our clients, we assess credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking its suitability to help ensure that our clients have Further the requisite knowledge and experience to underThis chapter addresses the following issues information: stand the associated risks and to make sure that 1 Culture of Compliance and Conduct  see p. 8 our advice is in line with their risk profile and invest2 Financial and Political System Stability ment objectives. When executing orders on behalf 3 Company Performance and Strategy of our clients, we assess the appropriateness of 4 Consumer and Investor Protection the transaction for them and address potential mis13 Quality and Range of Services and Advice matches. The Credit Suisse advisory process helps us to understand our clients’ circumstances, their credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 20 Challenge and Response 2017 1 Challenge: How is Credit Suisse to further increase efficiency, to responding to the advance of strengthen client loyalty, to simplify Responsibility digitalization? global access to our offering, and in Banking to address reputational and conduct Response: Digitalization is fundamentrisks at an early stage. 1.1 ally altering our industry and is thereTrust and fore an important topic for Credit Expertise Suisse. For example, the evolving digit1.2 al landscape is one of several factors Risk Management transforming the way clients interact and Sustainability with their bank. We recognize that 1.3 innovative concepts are essential to Responsible ensure we can continue to offer clients Investment Products and Services excellent products and services in the future via the channels they prefer. Reflecting our efforts to expand our range of digital products and services along the client lifecycle, Credit Suisse launched Viva Kids in Switzerland in 2017. This new offering includes the digital piggy bank “Digipigi” and two apps, and it aims to increase the financial literacy of children. At the same time, we recognize the potential of digital solutions to drive cost efficiencies across our organization and to support labor-intensive processes. Going forward, we expect the use of digital technology will help the Group Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 21 Risk Management 1 Responsibility and Sustainability in Banking To achieve long-term success, it is essential that we pursue a 1.1 Trust and responsible approach to business. We expect our employees to Expertise act professionally, with integrity and in compliance with applicable 1.2 laws, regulations, due diligence requirements and industry Risk Management and Sustainability standards. We also take sustainability issues into account as an integral part of our risk review process. 1.3 Responsible Investment Products and Services It is vital that we operate responsibly and demonSustainability as an Integral Part of strate a high degree of risk awareness in all our Our Business business activities. Reflecting this commitment, all Our “Statement on Sustainability” defines the objecemployees globally and the members of the Board tives and principles underpinning our approach in of Directors are obligated to adhere to Credit this area. It refers to international agreements that Suisse’s Code of Conduct. In addition, our Conduct Credit Suisse has voluntarily pledged to uphold, such Further and Ethics Standards that were rolled out in 2017 as the UN Global Compact with its ten principles information: are designed to ensure that people throughout in the areas of human rights, labor standards,  see p. 71 Credit Suisse share the same understanding and environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts. expectations in terms of our culture and conduct. More information on our sustainability commitments Appropriate risk-taking, ensuring sustainability and is available at: acting responsibly towards society are key elements of these standards. credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 22 Reputational Risk Review Process Assessment of Sustainability Risks within the Credit Suisse carries out a series of measures to Reputational Risk Review Process 1 review business risks. If there are grounds to believe that a potential transaction or client relationship 1. Risk classification and responsibility Responsibility could pose an unacceptable risk or is not compatible Potential environmental or human rights-related Other risks potential risks in Banking with our existing agreements or internal guidelines, Credit Suisse conducts a Group-wide standardized Internal specialist unit Various Further 1.1 information: Reputational Risk Review Process. Sustainability Affairs specialist units Trust and  see charts on Expertise p. 22–23 Potential risks may arise due to the nature and pur1.2 pose of a proposed transaction or service, the iden2. Assessment and recommendation Risk Management tity or activities of a potential client or the regulatory Aspects to be checked according to internal and Sustainability policies and guidelines or political context in which the business will be 1.3 transacted. Nature of transaction Analysis of various riskResponsible Identity and activities of the potential client specific aspects Investment Products and Services Environmental and social risks are some of the Regulatory and political context aspects considered in the Reputational Risk Review Process. Our internal specialist unit Sustainability Environmental and social aspects of client operations Affairs evaluates whether the potential client’s activities are consistent with the relevant industry standards and whether the transaction is compatible with 3. Review and decision Credit Suisse’s policies and guidelines for sensitive Decision by Reputational Risk Approver or Committee (approval/approval with conditions/rejection) sectors. Based on the outcome of this analysis, Sustainability Affairs submits its assessment to a Reputational Risk Approver, who is a senior manager Optional escalation independent from the area of business in question, Decision by Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee or Global Reputational Risk Approver or to the respective Reputational Risk Committees. (approval/approval with conditions/rejection) They have the authority to approve, reject or impose conditions on our participation in a transaction. In cases of particularly complex or cross-divisional transactions, the decision may be referred to the Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 23 Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee (RRSC) Transactions assessed on the basis of potential or escalated to the Global Reputational Risk Approver. environmental and social risks in 2017 1 The RRSC, chaired by the Group’s Chief Risk Officer, is the most senior governing body responsible Responsibility for the oversight of review processes and policies 74% approved in Banking and the discussion of reputational risks and sustain806 7% 13% approved with conditions rejected or not pursued transactions ability issues. More information on this process is assessed 6% pending1 1.1 available at: Trust and Expertise credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement These statistics exclude potential transactions that were not formally reviewed as part of the risk 1.2 review process because they were immediately identified by the relationship manager as being Risk Management Sector Policies and Guidelines non-compliant with the bank’s requirements and guidelines. and Sustainability Certain industries are particularly sensitive from a 1 As of January 31, 2018. 1.3 social or environmental perspective. They include oil Responsible and gas, mining, power generation, and forestry and Sustainability risk assessments by sector in 2017 Investment Products and Services agribusiness, which covers pulp and paper as well as Transactions assessed 1 2017 2016 palm oil production. To assess potential transactions Metals and mining 162 129 with clients in these industries, we have defined speForestry and agribusiness 58 53 cific global policies and guidelines, taking account of Oil and gas 199 132 standards developed by international organizations such as the UN and the World Bank. These sector Power generation and transmission 68 72 policies and guidelines cover topics including: ComChemicals 31 24 pliance with industry-specific, internationally recogDefense 32 24 nized standards on the environment and human Infrastructure and transportation 48 40 rights; measures to assess and reduce the environFinance 34 41 mental impact of operations; the protection of the health and safety of company employees and surOther 174 143 rounding communities; respect for the human rights Total 806 658 of the local population; and business areas and 1 Including Equator Principles (EP) transactions (2017: 5 transactions; 2016: 0 transactions). practices that Credit Suisse explicitly will not finance. For a comprehensive disclosure in accordance with EP requirements, see: Sector policies and guidelines are regularly reviewed credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 24 and updated to reflect the latest developments and in the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) challenges, for example in areas such as climate in the “Banks and Investors” category. The RSPO is Further 1 information: change. In 2017, we consolidated our guidelines on the leading certification standard for palm oil and  see p. 68 power generation, which include restrictions on the promotes the cultivation and use of sustainable palm Responsibility financing of new mining projects to extract thermal oil products through global standards and by engain Banking coal and new coal-fired power plants. We also upging stakeholder groups throughout the supply chain. dated our due diligence framework for shale opera1.1 tions and engaged in discussions about how to more Respecting Human Rights Trust and explicitly reflect the rights of indigenous peoples in We strive to assume our responsibilities in the area Expertise company policies. Furthermore, we reviewed our risk of human rights in accordance with the International 1.2 assessment process with regard to the protection Bill of Human Rights as well as the corresponding Risk Management of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. A summary of our principles on human and labor rights set out in the and Sustainability sector policies and guidelines can be found at: UN Global Compact. We take account of these prin1.3 ciples in our own policies and business activities. Responsible credit-suisse.com/sectorpolicies Our “Statement on Human Rights” describes the Investment Products and Services basis of our responsibility to respect human rights Credit Suisse also follows the Equator Principles and the approaches, processes and tools we use to (EP) – a framework for the management of environimplement it. Equally, we expect our business partFurther mental and social risks that is based on standards ners to recognize and uphold human rights. information: defined by the International Finance Corporation  see box on p. 25 (IFC) and is applied by more than 90 banks for speWe also take account of the UN “Protect, Respect cific types of finance for industrial and infrastructure and Remedy” framework and the UN Guiding Principrojects. In 2017, Credit Suisse continued its active ples on Business and Human Rights. To promote a participation in the Steering Committee of the Equabetter understanding of what the Guiding Principles tor Principles and acted as the regional representamean for the banking sector, Credit Suisse cotive for Europe within the Equator Principles Associinitiated the Thun Group together with other financial ation. We also publicly expressed our support for the institutions in 2011. In 2017, the Thun Group pubrecommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s lished its second discussion paper, which focuses on Further information: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures potential direct links to adverse human rights impacts  see p. 68 (FSB TCFD) at the One Planet Summit in Paris in in a corporate and investment banking context. December 2017. Furthermore, we are a participant Credit Suisse’s most direct link to human rights Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 25 issues is in our own activities, especially in our workSupplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk ing relationship with our employees, and this is Management (TPRM) 1 consequently the area where we believe we can Credit Suisse works with numerous suppliers and service providexercise the greatest influence. In addition, the ers from a broad range of sectors. We expect these partners to Responsibility provision of certain financial services may be linked address risks responsibly and to conduct their business in a in Banking to negative human rights impacts – particularly if socially and environmentally responsible manner. Our Supplier they relate to business activities of clients that could Code of Conduct aims to ensure that our external business part1.1 potentially affect local populations. Using our ners respect human rights, labor rights, employment laws and Trust and Reputational Risk Review Process, we therefore environmental regulations. To manage financial, operational and Expertise perform detailed reviews of aspects of transactions reputational risks and to meet the increasing regulatory require1.2 that are sensitive from a human rights perspective. ments governing business relationships with third parties, Credit Risk Management Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Suisse introduced the Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) and Sustainability Transparency Statement sets out the steps that Framework in 2016. Through TPRM, we assess potential envi1.3 Credit Suisse is taking to prevent the occurrence of ronmental, social and labor law-related risks, among others, in Responsible modern slavery and human trafficking in our connection with third parties. The framework also allows Credit Investment Products and Services business operations and within our supply chain. Suisse to continuously monitor these relationships, to raise and Further information on the topic of human rights, track issues, and to thus better understand the associated risks. including our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Further information is available at: Transparency Statement, can be found at: credit-suisse.com/suppliers credit-suisse.com/humanrights Dialogue, Knowledge-Sharing and Training Credit Suisse engages in an ongoing dialogue with a range of stakeholders on sustainability issues. This includes our active participation in industry initiatives such as the Equator Principles and the Thun Group as well as in the Advisory Group to the OECD Responsible Business Conduct in the Financial Sector project – a multi-stakeholder group that aims to define practical approaches on how financial Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 26 institutions can integrate the provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises into their due 1 diligence practices. Responsibility In 2017, Credit Suisse also hosted a roundtable disin Banking cussion in Hong Kong on sustainable soft commodities such as palm oil, timber, pulp and paper, focus1.1 ing on their environmental and social impacts and on Trust and related disclosures. Furthermore, we organized and Expertise hosted a two-day meeting between banks and rep1.2 resentatives of civil society to discuss current topics Risk Management related to biodiversity, human rights and climate and Sustainability change at our conference facilities outside of Zurich. 1.3 For the seventh consecutive year, we organized a Responsible roundtable, which in 2017 took place in London, to Investment Products and Services engage with other global banks on environmental and social risks in investment banking. To ensure that the expertise required to address environmental and human rights risks is firmly embedded within Credit Suisse, we provided more than 200 employees in client-facing roles or relevant specialist units with training in sustainability risk management in 2017. Further information: This chapter addresses the following issues:  see p. 8 1 Culture of Compliance and Conduct 6 Environmental and Social Risk Management 10 Human Rights 11 Climate Change credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 27 Challenge and Response 2017 1 Challenge: Sometimes Credit actions with companies in the energy Suisse has to make decisions infrastructure sector and other sensiResponsibility about controversial transactions tive industries. We have also defined in Banking where opinions about the potential sector-specific policies based on environmental and social impacts standards developed by international 1.1 can differ widely, depending on organizations such as the UN and the Trust and the perspective of each party. World Bank. To take account of Expertise One such example is the Dakota differing viewpoints, we engage in a 1.2 Access Pipeline – an energy infradialogue with NGOs and other key Risk Management structure project in the US – which stakeholders, bilaterally or through and Sustainability attracted a high level of public events and multilateral discussions. 1.3 attention and criticism in 2017. Even if opinions differ, we believe that Responsible How does the Group address these exchanges encourage each Investment Products and Services such challenges? party to see issues from a different perspective and promote mutual Response: Companies operating in understanding. Examples of this diasensitive sectors frequently play a key logue in 2017 include our discussions economic role in the global supply of with NGOs and indigenous peoples’ energy and commodities. They may representatives related to concerns also be a major employer in economiabout the Dakota Access Pipeline as cally weak regions. At the same time, well as our hosting of a two-day we recognize that the activities of meeting with banks and civil society these companies can, in some cases, representatives to discuss topics have a significant impact on the clirelated to biodiversity, human rights mate, biodiversity, water resources or and climate change. the inhabitants of a specific area. To Further information can be found at: identify and manage these risks, Credit Suisse carries out a comprewww.credit-suisse.com/ hensive analysis of potential transriskmanagement Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 28 Responsible Investment 1 Responsibility Products and Services in Banking The demand from clients for products and services that 1.1 Trust and consider environmental, social and governance criteria is Expertise rising steadily. At Credit Suisse, we offer investors a broad 1.2 range of investment products and services that aim to Risk Management and Sustainability benefit society and the environment. 1.3 Responsible Investment Products Further and Services A growing number of individual clients, charitable Finance Department (IAF) in 2017. We also partner information: foundations and institutional clients such as pension with experts from research institutes, NGOs and  see p. 30 – 31 funds are seeking to combine financial returns with leading think-tanks to enhance our approach, and we positive social or environmental impacts. In 2017, conduct in-house research related to sustainability Credit Suisse continued to expand its range of prodtopics. Furthermore, we provide training for relationucts and services that focus on environmental and ship managers in this area, and we aim to contribute social benefits. They also help to increase transparto international developments such as the UN Susency through data on environmental, social and govtainable Development Goals (SDGs) introduced in ernance (ESG) factors as well as aiming to improve 2015 and the Paris Agreement, which entered into risk management in client investment portfolios. force in 2016 and aims to strengthen the global response to climate change. Our responsible investment products and services cover a variety of asset classes and various risk/ We design products and services that are based on Further return profiles. To further facilitate projects and initiaour Philanthropy & Sustainable Investment (P&SI) information: tives that have a positive economic and social approach. The relevant teams help clients to cons see p. 32 impact, we established the Impact Advisory and ider social and environmental objectives when Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 29 managing their wealth by, for example, investing in Assets Invested According to Sustainability Criteria¹ products in impact investing areas such as micro1 22,791 finance, or by integrating sustainability criteria into their investment portfolios. At the end of 2017, more Further Responsibility information: than CHF 22.7 billion of assets were invested 19,684 in Banking  see chart according to sustainability criteria at Credit Suisse. +16% 1.1 Sustainable Investment Trust and Sustainable investment has been a fast-growing Expertise market segment in recent years, with an especially 1.2 strong increase in demand from institutional inves2016 in CHF m 2017 in CHF m Risk Management tors, charitable foundations and younger clients. 1 Includes assets that meet sustainability, or environmental, and Sustainability social and governance (ESG), criteria, including positive Institutional investors in particular have been identiand/or negative screening, and that consider social and/ 1.3 fied in studies by think-tanks and academics as or environmental impacts. Responsible driving the increasing demand for sustainable Investment Products and Services investment. Credit Suisse is a signatory to the Principles for Credit Suisse offers solutions that incorporate ESG Responsible Investment (PRI), a voluntary, investorcriteria into the investment process and decisions as led framework that promotes a better understanding an integral part of our approach to wealth manageof the implications of sustainability and the incorporament. Our sustainable investment offering comprises tion of ESG information into investment decisions. portfolio solutions as well as products across a We also support the Green Bond Principles, and we range of asset classes, including equities, fixed are a partner to the Climate Bonds Initiative. We are income, real estate, alternative investments, thematic involved in organizations such as Swiss Sustainable investments and index solutions. We also provide Finance (SSF), Sustainable Finance Geneva and the strategic advice and portfolio health checks as well Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG), a profesas investment advice based on sustainability criteria sional association for sustainable investments in to clients, produce individual sustainability portfolio Germany, Austria and Switzerland. reports and organize events with clients and other stakeholders on the topic of sustainable investment. We also contribute to the dialogue on developments in the sustainable investment space. For example, in Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 30 2017 we hosted an expert panel at our offices in (GRESB). Currently, more than 850 real estate fund Hong Kong. Its focus was on market trends and on managers and real estate companies benchmark 1 policy and regulatory aspects of how the Zurich and their real estate assets through the GRESB platHong Kong financial centers can support the SDGs – form, representing properties with a total value of Responsibility especially in terms of promoting investment opporover USD 3.7 trillion. In 2017, Global Real Estate in Banking tunities. achieved 14 GRESB Green Star awards in recognition of its sustainability performance. 1.1 Credit Suisse also regards sustainability as an Trust and essential requirement in the management and Impact Investing Expertise development of the properties within our various 2017 marked the 15th anniversary of impact invest1.2 real estate products. Credit Suisse Global Real ing at Credit Suisse. The bank has played a pioneerRisk Management Estate (formerly Real Estate Investment Manageing role in this area, which is expected to grow and Sustainability ment) has over CHF 44.6 billion of assets under significantly in the future. Impact investing is about 1.3 management as of end-2017 and a portfolio of actively placing capital in enterprises that generate Responsible around 1,300 properties across 20 countries. a financial return and make a measurable, positive Investment Products and Services impact on society and/or the environment. Global Real Estate’s commitment to sustainable real Credit Suisse’s impact investing business includes estate is reflected in its investment solutions and its around USD 3.3 billion of assets under administrasustainable investment approach to the whole porttion1 and over USD 670 million in client holdings. To folio. All managed properties are monitored and mark our 15th anniversary of operating in this controlled by the building technology company sector, we held around 40 events across the globe, Siemens Switzerland AG with the aim of ensuring including the Credit Suisse Salon, a thought leadertransparency across the lifecycle of each property. ship event, which in 2017 focused on the topic In addition, Global Real Estate takes account of of achieving impact through philanthropic and investglobal climate, energy and renewable energy targets, ment activities. and it complies with the corresponding regulatory requirements. In 2017, we established the Impact Advisory and Finance Department (IAF), which aims to facilitate To systematically assess its sustainability perforprojects and initiatives that have a positive economic mance, Global Real Estate regularly participates in and social impact as well as generating a financial the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark return. IAF reports directly to the CEO and directs 1 Assets in investment funds and vehicles administered by Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 31 and coordinates activities across the Group. By enaBarrier-Free Access at Credit Suisse bling and advancing impact investing and sustainable 1 business activities across the Group, IAF seeks to benefit wealth management, institutional and corpoResponsibility rate clients. in Banking Impact investing activities include investments in 1.1 small and medium-sized businesses with a social or Trust and environmental mission and the development of finanExpertise cial products, such as those designed to support 1.2 smallholder farmers and high-potential students in We consider it vital to make our products and services accessRisk Management developing countries. Our six Higher Education ible to all our clients. We therefore assign high priority to and Sustainability Notes, the latest two of which were launched in employee training to ensure that Credit Suisse employees can 1.3 2017, are an example of these activities. In addition, respond effectively to the needs of clients with disabilities. To Responsible we act as the impact advisor to the Asia Impact make it easier to communicate with clients with hearing impairInvestment Products and Services Investment Fund I L.P., which invests in fast-growing ments at bank counters and in meeting rooms, all Credit Suisse businesses that address social challenges across branches in Switzerland are equipped with mobile induction Asia. Credit Suisse is also a co-founder of the Susloops that filter out background noise. We have also installed tainable Finance Collective Asia initiative, which aims 491 talking ATMs across Switzerland. Voice output in English, to accelerate the funding of circular economy, susGerman, French and Italian is triggered automatically when tainable energy and positive social impact projects. clients plug their headphones into one of the machines. At 74 locations across Switzerland, ATMs have been positioned at a We are continuing to expand our activities in the height that makes them easily accessible to wheelchair users. area of conservation finance, a fast-growing environWe are also taking steps to adapt our premises to give people mental finance market focusing on the generation of with restricted mobility barrier-free access to our branches and long-term and diversified sources of revenue that office buildings. In addition, Credit Suisse supplies bank statecan play a major role in ensuring biodiversity conserments in braille or large print upon request and – thanks to new vation and the health of natural ecosystems. In technologies (e.g. magnification software) – offers barrier-free 2016, we were one of the four founding members of access to online information and applications for employees with a cross-sectoral initiative – the Coalition for Private visual impairments. Investment in Conservation (CPIC) – that is focused credit-suisse.com/accessibility Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 32 Philanthropy & Sustainable Investment at Credit Suisse (P&SI) 1 Philanthropy Impact Investing Sustainable Investment •• Individual or family charitable structures: We •• Financial inclusion: The provision of access to •• Sustainable portfolio solutions: Based on each Responsibility offer solutions for the establishment and management of a client’s charitable structure. These solutions may financial services for people at the base of the income pyramid. We have been a leader in microclient’s values and objectives, we offer sustainable investment solutions that take account of susin Banking include input into the governance framework and finance and financial inclusion since 2002, with tainability criteria to combine the goals of financial services relating to investment strategy and asset around USD 2.9 billion of assets under adminisreturns with social and/or environmental impact. This management. tration, of which around USD 413 million are client offering includes strategic advice, portfolio health 1.1 holdings that are used to fund microfinance instituchecks, advisory and discretionary mandate solutions Trust and •• Charitable client foundations: Accentus, Empiris, tions. This includes a range of investments for private and individual sustainability portfolio reports. When Expertise Symphasis and SymAsia: an alternative for clients and institutional clients. We also offer several global screening and constructing portfolios, we use a comto creating a charitable foundation of their own. This microfinance funds, structured products and a private bination of sustainable investment approaches. The offering is targeted at clients who prefer to delegate equity fund of funds. More information is available at: exclusion approach avoids investments in companies 1.2 the setting-up and management of their charitable credit-suisse.com/financialinclusion tied to certain areas of business that may be conRisk Management foundation yet still wish to determine the projects sidered controversial from an ESG perspective, such and Sustainability supported. Credit Suisse assumes the foundations’ •• Higher education: Support for high-potential studas gambling. The norm-based approach reduces a operating costs. More information is available at: ents from underprivileged backgrounds. We provide portfolio’s exposure to companies involved in controcredit-suisse.com/clientfoundations them with access to a college education through versial activities. The best-in-class approach identifies 1.3 investment products, thus giving them better employcompanies that perform well in terms of ESG criteria Responsible ment prospects and opportunities to earn a higher within a peer group by assessing their ability to sucInvestment Products income. More information is available at: cessfully manage ESG issues such as CO2 emissions and Services credit-suisse.com/highereducation or labor standards. The portfolio’s sustainability profile may be further improved through investments that •• Conservation finance: Creation of new, long-term are related specifically to sustainability aspects such and diversified sources of revenue that can play a as energy efficiency, water, education or health care. major role in ensuring biodiversity conservation and the health of natural ecosystems. More information •• To complement our solutions offering, we have also can be found at: addressed the topic of sustainability through single credit-suisse.com/conservationfinance sustainable investment products, such as the Credit Suisse (CH) Sustainability Fund Balanced •• Fair agriculture: We promote responsible production CHF, the Credit Suisse (Lux) European Climate Value methods by supporting smallholder farmers in achievProperty Fund, the CSIF (Lux) Equities Emerging ing better trading conditions and by guaranteeing a Markets Sustainability Blue, and the CSIF III World minimum price for their produce. ex CH Sustainability Index Blue – Pension Fund. •• Social enterprises: Financial support for small and •• Credit Suisse Global Real Estate (formerly Real medium-sized businesses that pursue social objectEstate Investment Management) regards sustainabilives. ity as an essential requirement when managing and developing its real estate holdings. Its active sustainability strategy is designed to address challenges in a business increasingly impacted by stricter regulation. Social and environmental impact Social and environmental impact + financial return Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 33 on delivering novel investment blueprints to bring ucts and a private equity fund of funds. We are a more private capital into conservation finance. As a member (and have a seat on the Boards) of the 1 member of the CPIC Steering Committee, we supEuropean Microfinance Platform, a network of about ported the coalition in its initial activities and co-led 130 organizations, as well as the Swiss Capacity Responsibility its efforts to develop investment blueprints in sustainBuilding Facility, a public-private partnership between in Banking able fisheries. In 2017, we held the fourth Annual the Swiss financial sector and the Swiss Agency for Conservation Finance Conference in New York City, Development Collaboration (SDC). We also work 1.1 the biggest annual event in the sector. Furthermore, with the Global Impact Investment Network (GIIN) Trust and we have expanded our role as advisor to ultra-highon a number of projects, including in microfinance. In Expertise net-worth individuals in conservation finance. addition, our Financial Inclusion Initiative (FII; formerly Further 1.2 the Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative) helps information: Risk Management  see box on We conduct a range of activities in green finance to to drive market development and innovation in this and Sustainability p. 46 achieve a positive impact on the environment while sector. The initiative aims to strengthen the ability of 1.3 also creating financial value for our clients. For financial services providers to serve the increasingly Responsible example, we helped the Swiss waste management diverse financial needs of people at the base of the Investment Products and Services company “Helvetia Environnement” to place its first income pyramid. To this end, we support the devecorporate green bond in 2017, and we supported lopment of new products and services focusing on the Swiss Canton of Geneva in issuing the first education, agriculture and gender diversity, among municipal green bond denominated in Swiss francs. other themes. We also make the expertise of our Further information: We also offer green finance products and services employees available to our financial inclusion and  see p. 36 across a wide range of asset classes in wealth manimpact investing partners through several volunteeragement and investment banking. ing programs, and we invest in early-stage innovation and financial technology through our partnership In financial inclusion, investments are designed to with Accion’s fintech accelerator Venture Lab. provide economically disadvantaged people – especially those in emerging markets and developing Philanthropy countries – with access to financial services. Our In the area of philanthropy, Credit Suisse works with activities in this area benefited over 3.3 million peoclients to help them incorporate their personal values ple in 2017. We provide a range of advisory services and objectives into their philanthropic engagements and capital market transactions, as well as offering and investment strategy. We provide a set of tools several global microfinance funds, structured proddesigned to contribute to making a measurable Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 34 impact and help tackle social or environmental also structured and placed two additional securitizachallenges through philanthropy. We can also create tions in 2017 to reach a total of USD 1 billion of 1 subfoundations for clients under one of Credit asset-backed securities issuance supported by Suisse’s umbrella charitable foundations – Accentus, loans, leases, and power purchase agreements. Responsibility Empiris and Symphasis in Switzerland or SymAsia In addition, Credit Suisse put in place USD 600 million in Banking in Singapore. Since they were established, the Swiss in solar asset-backed warehouse capacity. umbrella foundations have distributed a total of more 1.1 than CHF 114 million to over 2,600 charitable Since 2009, a total of around USD 3 billion of Trust and initiatives worldwide, and in 2017 they carried out capital has been committed to 22 renewable energy Expertise 330 projects in developing countries and in Switzeropportunities as a result of the collaboration 1.2 land. In Asia, SymAsia has received around between our Strategic Transactions Group and our Risk Management USD 84 million of donor-advised funds and has Debt Capital Markets Solutions team. A milestone and Sustainability gifted around USD 42 million since it was estabtransaction in 2016 was a USD 300 million resident1.3 lished in 2010. ial solar fund with SolarCity, which was subsequently Responsible acquired by Tesla. In 2017, we continued to deploy Investment Products and Services Renewable Energy Project Finance capital to commercial and industrial solar funds set Our Investment Banking & Capital Markets division up with Onyx and Tesla. and our Global Markets division serve clients through a range of products and services, including advisory Research services related to mergers and acquisitions, restrucThroughout 2017, we conducted sustainability-related turings and spin-offs as well as debt and equity research across our divisions. Investment Strategy & underwriting of public offerings and private placeResearch within Investment Solutions and Products – ments. Our expertise is diversified in renewable a division within International Wealth Management – energy areas such as solar, wind, geothermal, biopublished several research updates on sustainmass, biofuels, fuel cells and energy efficiency. In ability topics. In May 2017, the team launched a set 2017, Credit Suisse served as sole structuring agent of research themes called Supertrends. These are and sole bookrunner on Sunnova’s inaugural long-term trends we expect to be of importance USD 255 million securitization, Dividend Solar’s particularly to investors with a multi-year investment inaugural USD 129 million securitization, and Tesla horizon. Many of these Supertrends span a range of Energy’s USD 340 million solar securitization, the sub-themes. For example, the Millennials Supertrend largest completed in the market to date. Credit Suisse takes account of developments in the areas of Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 35 sustainable businesses, clean energy and social and the valuation of listed companies, offers a enterprises. In addition to the Supertrends, Investgovernance framework that systematically scores 1 ment Strategy & Research also published an analysis 2,500 incentive plans based on their alignment with of electric vehicles and maintains investment lists of wealth-creating principles and pay-for-performance Responsibility companies that achieve high ESG ratings. best practices. Investors gain insights into a firm’s in Banking strategy, changes to that strategy and the quality of The Credit Suisse Research Institute (CSRI) is Credit its board. The team is now extending its systematic 1.1 Suisse’s in-house think-tank. It studies long-term scoring to look at a company’s quality and valuation Trust and economic developments that have a global impact exposure to carbon emissions. This new tool aims Expertise within and beyond the financial services sector or to enable investors to assess the significance of 1.2 may do so in the future. The CSRI publishes original companies’ greenhouse gas emissions by gauging Risk Management research on topics ranging from economics or emission intensity and quantifying the impact of and Sustainability monetary policy to gender equality and consumer carbon costs on return on capital. The tool can be 1.3 behavior. used to study individual companies, build custom Responsible scorecards around carbon metrics and financial Investment Products and Services In investment research, we publish global economic metrics and analyze portfolios against benchmarks. assessments and market outlooks in a range of reports. In 2017, one of our core research publicaFurther tions for clients examined the role of corporate This chapter addresses the following issues: information: governance in family-owned companies. Previously, 9 Responsible Investments  see p. 8 we also conducted assessments of the important 13 Quality and Range of Services and Advice role gender diversity plays in corporate performance and published the findings in our 2016 Gender 3000 credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking study. Credit Suisse also addresses ESG topics through thematic research. Credit Suisse Global Markets Equity Research has developed a method to calculate the probabilities of achieving implied returns in infrastructure investments. Credit Suisse HOLT, a team in Equities focused on corporate performance Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 36 Challenge and Response 2017 1 Challenge: To make more balanced finance, as well as debt and equity and sustainable use of the world’s underwriting of public offerings and Responsibility natural resources, there is a clear private placements. Credit Suisse has in Banking need to access new sources of been involved in around 100 transacenergy, raw materials, and clean tions with a value of USD 77 billion in 1.1 technologies. The financing of the area of renewable energy since Trust and investments that support environ2010. Furthermore, we supported Expertise mentally sustainable development – clients on a number of green bond 1.2 a sector known as green finance – issuances in 2017. In our Global Risk Management is thus gaining in importance Markets division, Credit Suisse’s HOLT and Sustainability and scale. How does Credit Suisse team is working on incorporating data 1.3 contribute to green finance? on carbon emissions into its equity Responsible research platform, with the aim of Investment Products and Services Response: Our green finance solutions allowing investors to assess carbon cover a wide range of asset classes intensity and carbon-adjusted returns designed to positively impact the tranin conjunction with operating perforsition to a low-carbon and climatemance. Finally, Credit Suisse Energy resilient economy, drawing upon the Infrastructure Partners, an investment expertise of various specialist departmanager specialized in investments in ments across our divisions. In the area the European energy sector, focuses of wealth management, for example, on direct investments in the capitalour offering comprises a number of intensive elements of the value chain, funds focused on sustainability, green such as energy transmission, generabond investments and sustainable real tion, storage and efficiency. estate as well as products and services in conservation finance. In investment banking, we provide advice for buyside and sellside clients in mergers and acquisitions, project and corporate Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 37 2 Responsibility in the Economy and Society 2.1 Our Role in the Economy and Society 38 2.2 Our Social Commitments 44 Read the chapter Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 38 Our Role in the 2 Responsibility in the Economy Economy and Society and Society By conducting our business responsibly and efficiently, we create 2.1 Our Role in value for our clients and shareholders. Through our activities, the Economy we also seek to make an important contribution to the functioning and Society of the economy and strive to play a constructive role in society. 2.2 Our Social Commitments Our primary function as a global bank is to be a this process. In the credit business, for example, reliable and professional partner to our clients around we analyze, measure and monitor credit risk expothe world, offering them a range of financial products sures and charge appropriate interest rates on loans. and services to meet their individual needs. In this Our capital policy is intended to ensure that we are context, Credit Suisse also performs functions that capable of absorbing potential credit losses in a variare viewed as systemically relevant, including depositety of stress scenarios. taking and lending. We play an important role as a financial intermediary, bringing together borrowers Supporting Growth and Partnering with and lenders of capital globally – from companies Entrepreneurs and public sector bodies to private individuals and The importance of banks for the continued deveinstitutions. We supply businesses with the capital lopment and growth of the economy is demonstresources they need to expand their activities and rated by our activities in our Swiss home market. finance innovation, thus helping to drive economic We are dedicated to serving private, corporate and growth and job creation. By assuming market and institutional clients in Switzerland. Credit Suisse is credit risks, banks make an important contribution a trusted financial partner to around 100,000 comto the efficient functioning of the economic system. panies or around 1 in 3 businesses in Switzerland. Effective risk management is an important part of The majority of Credit Suisse’s corporate clients Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 39 are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) best possible support to help them run their busithat generally have no direct access to the capital nesses effectively. In total, Credit Suisse had around 2 markets and are therefore often reliant on bank CHF 158 billion of loans outstanding in Switzerland loans to fund working capital and/or investments. at the end of 2017, including mortgages and loans Responsibility One of our goals is to assist these companies to private companies, the public sector and private in the Economy through a fair, competitive and risk-adjusted lending clients. Credit Suisse is also a long-term strategic and Society policy. We are committed to providing our Swiss financial partner to a number of multinational foreign corporate clients with individual advice and the companies that are domiciled in Switzerland. 2.1 Our Role in the Economy and Society Risk Capital for Growth and Innovation SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs: Key figures for 2010 –2017 SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs was founded by Credit 2.2 Suisse and the Swiss Venture Club in 2010. The Credit Suisse Our Social Commitments subsidiary invests venture capital in innovative small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with growth potential. For Number of financing Total sum invested to date: seven years, SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs has helped requests considered: CHF to support and strengthen the Swiss entrepreneur landscape, 108 million producing positive overall results. It has provided a total of CHF 108 million of venture capital to 44 companies during this 2,500 million time to help create or preserve jobs in order to sustainably A total of strengthen Switzerland as a center of industry. Recent success stories include TradePlus24 Ltd., a fintech specialist lender that 24 2,570 offers a simple new way for companies to increase their working firms are included people have been Over in the portfolio employed by all capital and lend against their global accounts receivable in a fully automated way, and ScanTrust, which aims to put an end 300 the portfolio companies to date to product piracy with a copy-proof QR code. Both firms are patents are held by portfolio now well prepared to further grow their business with the supcompanies, underscoring their Capital returned since 2010: innovative strength port of SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs. More information CHF is available at: 57 million svc-riskcapital.ch Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 40 As the “Bank for Entrepreneurs”, we offer a broad and vendor management processes to assess risks range of products and services such as business when conducting business with suppliers. 2 succession planning or international business transactions, as well as our entire expertise from In addition, Credit Suisse plays an important role as Further Responsibility across investment banking and wealth management, an employer, offering progressive working conditions, information: in the Economy to serve both the corporate and private financial competitive compensation and interesting career  see p. 51– 60 and Society needs of entrepreneurs. opportunities across a range of businesses to a total of 46,840 employees in around 50 countries world2.1 An Integral Part of the Economy and Society wide. Around 16,490 members of our global workOur Role in We make a direct contribution to the economy force are based in Switzerland – making us one of the Economy and Society and society in a variety of ways, including in our the largest employers in our home market. capacity as a taxpayer. Over the past five years, 2.2 Credit Suisse has paid an annual average of Maintaining a Constructive Dialogue Our Social Commitments CHF 0.6 billion in corporate income tax worldCredit Suisse considers it important to engage wide. Credit Suisse is subject to further taxes in discussions with various stakeholders – from unrelated to income, which totaled around clients, employees and investors to policymakers, CHF 0.4 billion in 2017 alone. legislators, regulators and representatives of the business community and society – in order to We also make a contribution as a client and understand the issues that are important to them contractual partner. Credit Suisse purchased about and to help find constructive solutions to current CHF 5.9 billion of goods, services and licenses from challenges. This exchange of views and ideas has suppliers around the globe in 2017. Suppliers are grown increasingly important in recent years in required to meet strict standards in areas such as view of international developments and discussions business ethics and integrity, employee health and surrounding the role of the finance industry in the safety, and environmental protection, as defined global economy. Reflecting our commitment to diain Credit Suisse’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The logue, we are a member of a number of industry establishment of reliable relationships with these associations, umbrella organizations and think-tanks. external partners helps to ensure the quality and More information about our membership of industry value of the products and services we source. In bodies is available at: Further information: addition, our Third Party Risk Management (TPRM)  see box on Framework is now embedded in day-to-day sourcing credit-suisse.com/network p. 25 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 41 Supporting the Swiss Political System party at cantonal and federal level: To be eligible a party must 2 have at least five seats in the Federal Assembly (Swiss parliament). This transparent approach – based on objective criteria – Responsibility enables Credit Suisse to make a politically neutral contribution in the Economy to support the work of the parties in performing functions of and Society state. Credit Suisse makes a maximum of CHF 1 million of financial support available each year for this purpose. This com2.1 mitment is reviewed regularly. This support is exclusive to Credit Our Role in Suisse’s home market; Credit Suisse does not offer financial the Economy and Society support to political parties in other countries. In the US, however, employees have the option of making voluntary private donations 2.2 Our Social within the bank through a Political Action Committee. Commitments In our Swiss home market, we not only engage in an open diaHolders of Public Office logue with policymakers that involves the regular exchange of Credit Suisse offers working time arrangements to employees in information and ideas but also actively support the functioning Switzerland who hold an elected public office alongside their role of the Swiss “militia” system of politics, where Swiss citizens at the bank. These employees can devote up to 20% of their assume roles in political bodies at federal, cantonal or commuworking hours to a public role while receiving their full salary nity level alongside their regular professions. Consequently, from the bank – irrespective of their party affiliation and views. Swiss members of parliament are not professional politicians and Each year, Credit Suisse’s Public Affairs and Policy department the parties do not receive state funding. organizes a meeting for around 380 employees who hold an elected public office. This annual event enables them to take Credit Suisse helps to strengthen this system of politics and to part in workshops and to engage in discussions with their promote political diversity by making financial contributions availcolleagues and Credit Suisse’s top management. In 2017, the able to political parties that request funding, irrespective of their event centered on the theme “Digital and Analog Challenges in political agenda and position. This financial support does not give Local Politics”. After a welcome speech by Urs Rohner, Chairrise to any obligations among the political parties that receive it. man of the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse, the participants The only factor that influences the support given by Credit elaborated on various topics in workshops led by Credit Suisse’s Suisse is the number of parliamentary mandates held by each Talent Development Team. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 42 We also contribute to the public debate by produBroader Social Commitments cing publications, analyses and specialist articles on Credit Suisse views itself as an integral part of sociFurther 2 economic, political and social issues, as well as by ety and engages in a range of social initiatives information: commissioning studies from independent research across different regions to promote social cohesion  see p. 44 – 47 Responsibility institutions on a range of topics. One example is the and stability. These commitments take various forms in the Economy Global Wealth Report published by the Credit Suisse – from our collaboration with selected partner organand Society Research Institute, which provides comprehensive izations to the volunteer work of Credit Suisse information on the development of global household employees around the globe. Sponsorship, which 2.1 wealth each year. For four decades, we have pubhas been an integral part of our corporate strategy Our Role in lished the Credit Suisse Worry Barometer in Switzerand culture for more than three decades, is a further the Economy and Society land based on the findings of a representative survey example of our social commitments. We sponsor of Swiss citizens to identify the issues that are of activities that focus on the areas of sports and cul2.2 greatest concern to the public. The findings of the ture, with particular importance being assigned to Our Social Commitments 2017 survey revealed that retirement provision ranks the promotion of young talent. More information as the main worry among Swiss voters, followed by about our sponsorship commitments is available at: unemployment. More information on these publications is available at: credit-suisse.com/sponsoring credit-suisse.com/gwr Further credit-suisse.com/worrybarometer This chapter addresses the following issues information: 2 Financial and Political System Stability  see p. 8 3 Company Performance and Strategy Green Finance: Environmental Sustainability 15 Years of Investing for Impact 2017 Switzerland and 14 Contribution to the Economy in the Marketplace Financial Innovation for a Brighter Future Credit Suisse 15 Social Commitments credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society Publications on topics ranging from Green Finance to Credit Suisse’s role in Switzerland are available at: credit-suisse.com/publications Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 43 Combating Youth Unemployment Challenge and Response 2017 Check Your Chance is an association launched by the bank 2 and the SVC Foundation for Entrepreneurship and six non-profit Challenge: Developments surorganizations in 2015 to continue the successful work of Credit rounding the UK’s expected Responsibility Suisse’s Youth Unemployment Initiative in cooperation with withdrawal from the EU, the new in the Economy partner organizations. In 2017, Check Your Chance which is Administration in the US and and Society supported by the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs increased competition between (SECO), provided assistance to around 1,100 young adults who financial centers shaped the glob2.1 were unable to find first-time employment after completing an al operating environment for banks Our Role in apprenticeship or finishing a degree or who had not yet obtained worldwide in 2017. How did Credit the Economy and Society initial professional training. Check Your Chance intervenes at an Suisse contribute to the debate early stage to offer them targeted support – including providing about these topics? 2.2 advice on choosing a career or completing job applications as Our Social Commitments well as successful interview techniques. In this way, the assoResponse: We continued to engage in ciation can help young people to avoid the financial and social a constructive dialogue with regulators, challenges of long-term unemployment. In 2017, Check Your policymakers, standard-setting bodies, Chance successfully launched the first national helpline 0800 trade associations and other relevant GO4JOB in order to establish early contact with young people stakeholders in 2017. As part of these at risk of unemployment and with their parents and teachers. efforts, we published reports on topics including competitiveness and digitalicheck-your-chance.ch zation. We also participated in various working groups aiming at enhanced framework conditions in their respective jurisdictions. For example, Credit Suisse was a member of working groups in Switzerland and also in the UK where the focus was on challenges surrounding “Brexit”. We additionally provided input on proposals about future financial market regulation made by the new Administration in the US. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 44 Our Social Commitments 2 Responsibility Credit Suisse and our clients and employees have, in the Economy for many years, been committed to fostering inclusive and Society growth by addressing socio-economic challenges. 2.1 Together we support selected partner organizations Our Role in the Economy by providing funding and professional expertise to enable and Society social and humanitarian projects around the world. 2.2 Our Social Commitments Companies can only achieve long-term success if Non-profit Board Service Program they operate in an economically stable and socially At Credit Suisse we believe that by coupling financial contribucohesive environment. To create a sustainable tions with the expertise of our employees, we are better able to impact, we have established strategic partnerships to strengthen the capacity of non-profit organizations (NPOs). Our contribute to the achievement of the United Nations’ Non-profit Board Service Program, which was launched in the Further information: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our US in 2009 and rolled out globally in 2015, offers training and  see p. 72 global and regional initiatives. We make effective use placement assistance to employees interested in serving on the of our social and financial capital to not only have a boards of NPOs, as well as additional support and resources positive impact on society but also on employees for existing board members. Not only does non-profit board and our core business. service add value to NPOs and the community but our analysis has shown that serving on the board of an NPO helps employSocial Impact: Inclusive Growth through ees improve their leadership, strategy and persuasion skills Education and Access to Financial Services and enhances their ability to work under circumstances different We regard education and access to financial services from the ones they may encounter in the workplace. In 2017, as key drivers of growth and an effective means of over 410 employees participated in our program, and 280 of empowering people to help themselves. We also them received training. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 45 have the potential to increase our impact beyond the Education funding of long-term partnerships with selected Education drives economic empowerment and social mobility. 2 organizations through our most valuable asset – our Our Global Education Initiative and our regional education activiemployees. As a result, we have defined three focus ties support programs that improve access to and the quality of Responsibility Further themes for our social commitments: Education, educational opportunities. For example, we support the KIPP in the Economy information: financial inclusion and employee engagement. Foundation in the US, City Year UK in the United Kingdom, and and Society  see boxes on Teach For All in several countries in their efforts to provide new p. 45 – 47 Employees: Expertise, Development, opportunities to disadvantaged young people. As part of our 2.1 Commitment Global Education Initiative, we also partner with Plan International, Our Role in Our employees play an integral part in our social Aflatoun International and – since 2017 – with our long-standing the Economy and Society commitments, dedicating over 184,500 hours of partner Room to Read on our Financial Education for Girls signatheir time and expertise in 2017. As part of the ture program. As a global financial institution, we see first hand 2.2 bank’s Human Capital Strategy, we allow each how important financial skills are in allowing people to actively Our Social Commitments employee to devote up to four days per year to supparticipate in the economy and society. The Financial Education port social projects run by our partners in the comfor Girls program aims to improve the financial education and life munities where we live and work. skills of approximately 100,000 adolescent girls in Brazil, China, India, Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Tanzania, and to encourage them In 2017, we continued to place an emphasis on to transition through secondary school. It is aligned with both the volunteering programs that promote the transfer of Financial Inclusion Initiative and the core business of Credit skills and knowledge between employees and Suisse. More information is available at: partners. This enables our employees to use their credit-suisse.com/responsibility/education expertise to make a difference and gives them the Global Education Initiative – Spotlight on Financial Education 2014–2017 opportunity to enhance their own skills and professional development. In 2017, our employees around the world dedicated over 65,700 hours to skills-based volunteering. These volunteering efforts also help to 3,458 strengthen the bank’s corporate culture and foster 1,495 teachers have been trained cross-team and cross-cultural collaboration. In addischools have benefited from our support 94,246 tion, our internal surveys have shown that employee adolescent girls worldwide have benefited from financial education participation in volunteering programs results in an and life skills classes increase in our employees’ satisfaction at work. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 46 Increasing Impact through Our Core Business, Financial Inclusion Clients and Partners Credit Suisse is a leader in the field of financial inclusion and 2 The teams managing our two global initiatives in microfinance and, at end-2017, had around USD 2.9 billion of financial inclusion and education work closely with assets under administration1 used for the financing of microResponsibility internal specialist units to provide philanthropic finance institutions. 2017 marked the 15th anniversary of Credit in the Economy advice and services to our clients and develop Suisse’s commitment in this field (see pages 30–33 and 48). In and Society impact investing products to further increase their addition to capital, microfinance institutions also need talent and combined social impact. 2017 marked the 15th anniknow-how to be able to scale up their activities responsibly with Further 2.1 information: versary of microfinance and impact investing at diverse products and services. Our Financial Inclusion Initiative Our Role in  see p. 30 – 33 Credit Suisse, a field in which the bank has long (FII; formerly Microfinance Capacity Building Initiative; renamed the Economy and p. 48 and Society been a pioneer. This achievement was celebrated to reflect the increasingly diverse nature of the industry) focuses with a series of approximately 40 events around the on strengthening these institutions’ ability to serve the financially 2.2 world, including the Credit Suisse Salon with Credit excluded through the development of financial products and serOur Social Commitments Suisse CEO Tidjane Thiam, human rights lawyer vices in areas such as financing for agriculture and smallholder Amal Clooney and World Bank President Jim Yong farmers, the construction of homes and the funding of education Kim. Through impact investing, we give clients as well as the provision of financial services for women. Further access to alternative investments that not only geninformation can be found at: erate a financial return but also produce a positive social and/or environmental impact – including in the credit-suisse.com/financialinclusion areas of financial inclusion and education. Moreover, we are increasingly involving our clients in the development and delivery of volunteering and awarenessOver 4,150 raising programs. In Switzerland, clients and employ110 local employees of microfinance institutions ees also have the option of supporting selected have been trained microfinance institutions partner organizations through Micro-Donations; payand fintech start-ups have benefited from our support ments made by credit or debit card can be rounded up by a pre-defined amount. This amount, or the Over interest earned on their bank account, is donated to 228,100 selected aid organizations and charitable institutions people have access to new or improved products and services among our partners. In 2017, we further extended the selection of participating organizations to 20. 1 Assets in investment funds and vehicles administered by Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 47 Further information: This chapter addresses the following issues: Global Citizens Program  see p. 8 13 Quality and Range of Services and Advice The Global Citizens Program (GCP) is Credit Suisse’s flagship 2 15 Social Commitments international skills-based volunteering program. Designed to promote the transfer of skills and expertise between employees and Responsibility credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society social organizations, the GCP provides employees with the in the Economy opportunity to leverage and develop their talents while at the and Society More information on our initiatives in the areas of same time building the capacity of our partner organizations in financial inclusion, education and employee engagethe areas of education and financial inclusion. Assignments in 2.1 ment is available at: this leadership development program last from one week to Our Role in three months and have become an important component of the the Economy and Society credit-suisse.com/responsibility/initiatives bank’s learning and development offering. Since its launch in 2010, more than 305 employees have gone on assignment in 2.2 50 countries around the globe. More information is available at: Our Social Commitments credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gcp Employee Engagement Volunteering Worldwide – Selected Figures for 2017 18,410 Volunteers 53 234 230 partners received both countries in which our funding and skills-based partners are active volunteering support Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 48 Driving the Sustainable Development Goals through Challenge and Response 2017 Financial Services and Education 2 Since 2015, the public and private sector have joined forces to deliver the Challenge: How does Credit Suisse United Nations’ SDGs. Although they do not constitute an SDG themselves, make sure its activities have positive Responsibility financial services – at both a micro and macro level – are key enablers of the social impacts where they are needed in the Economy goals. Financial innovation is needed to fill the USD 2.3 trillion funding gap at most and, at the same time, are releand Society the macro level. At the same time, access to new and diverse financial services vant to the bank and its clients? at the micro level is essential in order for low-income families to access educa2.1 tion, health care, housing and employment. At Credit Suisse, we believe that Response: In a rapidly changing industry and Our Role in we can make a positive contribution to financial inclusion by promoting better society, we not only adapt to shifting requirethe Economy and Society access to financial services and by supplying capital to companies whose ments but also aim to play an active role in offerings help to address global challenges through impact finance. Together shaping them. For example, that means 2.2 with our partners, we develop both investment products covering a broad identifying trends and concerns at an early Our Social Commitments spectrum of themes and banking products for people at the base of the stage, designing our programs accordingly income pyramid. and fostering thought leadership on key topics such as financial expertise. In 2017, Our Global Education Initiative and our Financial Inclusion Initiative funded by for example, we joined forces with Pro the Credit Suisse Foundation are two of the bank’s programs that support the Juventute, a charitable foundation dedicated realization of the SDGs. Together, these initiatives and many of our investment to supporting the rights and needs of Swiss vehicles serve thousands of clients and have billions of dollars of assets under children and young people, to publish the administration. In addition, our employees share their expertise with our partfirst Swiss research study on pocket money ners through programs such as the Global Citizens Program and Virtual Volunin the context of the launch of Viva Kids. teering, thus facilitating the exchange of knowledge between the global finanThis new offering includes a digital piggy cial world and local organizations. 2017 marked the 15th anniversary of microfbank – “Digipigi” – and aims to increase the inance and impact investing at Credit Suisse. To underscore our commitment financial literacy of children. We also conto addressing social challenges through impact finance, we recently created an ducted a global research project to examine Impact Advisory and Finance Department, reporting directly to the Group CEO. the most effective approach to improving the This is expected to help expand our impact investing and sustainable developfinancial education and life skills of girls in ment activities and allow us to continue to drive product innovation for our cliparticular, thus further strengthening our ents and society as a whole. programs and advancing knowledge-sharing on this topic. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 49 Selected projects in 2017 ¹ 2 Skills-Based Volunteering in Asia Pacific In the Asia Pacific region, we strive to provide both extra hands and skills-based volunteering for our charity partners through our various employee engagement opportunities. In Singapore in 2017, for example, Credit Responsibility Suisse supported an entrepreneurship program with the Halogen Foundation, an initiative aimed at improving in the Economy the business skills of young people between the ages of 15 and 19 from disadvantaged communities. Over 100 Credit Suisse employees volunteered approximately 300 hours of their time over the course of 8 months and Society to coach 36 students on their business plans and presentation skills, supporting them in acquiring skills that are expected to help them to enter the workforce and contribute to society. This is in line with Credit Suisse’s commitment to supporting entrepreneurs at all levels. 2.1 Our Role in Strengthening the Capacity of Non-profit Organizations in the US the Economy In the US, we aim to strengthen the capacity of NPOs through a comprehensive range of volunteer and and Society financial support. Building on our existing programs (see page 44), Corporate Citizenship Americas conducted a survey of the professional development requirements of our partner organizations and, together with Credit Suisse Leadership Development staff, developed a curriculum to meet these needs. Via the resulting five-part 2.2 training program, a team of employees from Human Resources made their specialist skills available to our Our Social partners. The first of these workshops focusing on new managers was held in December 2016, with the bank Commitments staging a further four training sessions in the first quarter of 2017. The topics covered were: How to conduct difficult discussions, conflict management, people management during change processes, and coaching skills for managers. In total, 114 employees from 22 of our partner organizations participated in the training. Partnering to Address Inequality in Arts Education in the UK In the UK, our efforts focus on education and support for children and young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. Building on the bank’s sponsorship relationship with the National Gallery and the Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation’s founding partnership with City Year UK, Credit Suisse supported the design and delivery of a collaborative education outreach program to tackle the inequality that exists around access to the arts. The program gives disadvantaged young people access to the gallery’s collection, facilitated by expert educators from the Gallery as well as trained City Year UK volunteers. Over 50 students participated in the program during the 2016–2017 school year. The benefits of the program are twofold – pupils are given the freedom to explore their creativity in ways that have a positive impact on their critical thinking skills and confidence, while City Year UK volunteers develop leadership and creative skills as well as their confidence in talking about art. The program has also inspired the National Gallery to review its educational offering, culminating in new thinking around working with targeted schools in disadvantaged communities. Collaboration with Strategic Partners in Switzerland In Switzerland, we work with over 80 NPOs to help those in need and to address major social challenges. Thanks to the dedication of our employees and clients, we are able to provide our partners with valuable professional skills, labor, and financial support in the form of donations. We have been cooperating with the Swiss Red Cross and Pro Juventute, particularly at the strategic level, in developing additional opportunities for volunteer work, for example. In connection with our core topic of financial education, we joined forces with Pro Juventute to publish the first comprehensive Swiss survey on pocket money. In addition, through various programs we are continuing our efforts to combat youth unemployment and to teach children and young people about financial matters and debt prevention. 1 For a list of additional regional projects in 2017, see: credit-suisse.com/responsibility/projects Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 50 3 Responsibility as an Employer 3.1 Responsibility as an Employer 51 Read the chapter Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 51 Responsibility as an Employer 3 Responsibility Our ability to inspire trust and generate client satisfaction is a as an basic prerequisite for our long-term success. We can only achieve Employer this if we have skilled, responsible and motivated employees. 3.1 Responsibility as an Employer The success of our company ultimately depends on holders, clients, employees, legislators and policythe skills, experience and conduct of our employees. makers are focusing increasingly on the ethics, For our business to perform well, we must offer our behavior and integrity of banks. We have therefore clients best-in-class banking solutions and services. implemented a new governance framework that This goal can only be realized if we can attract and defines how we manage conduct and ethics at retain the most talented professionals in our role as Credit Suisse. This framework includes a Group an employer of choice. Conduct and Ethics Board (CEB) as well as dedicated divisional CEBs and a joint CEB for our corporate At Credit Suisse, we offer exciting careers, progresfunctions. In early 2017, we introduced a set of six Further sive employment conditions and wide-ranging trainConduct and Ethics Standards to the broader organinformation: ing and development opportunities. As a result, our ization to ensure a common understanding and con see p. 17 employees benefit from attractive long-term career sistent expectations in respect of our culture and prospects in an international working environment, conduct. The initiative is sponsored by the Board of helping us to retain their knowledge and experience Directors and the Executive Board of Credit Suisse, within the bank and to derive maximum benefit from underscoring its strategic importance to the bank. it for our clients. Our Conduct and Ethics Standards are embedded in Conduct and Ethics Standards our core HR processes, such as performance manThe way we interact with clients, external stakeagement, recruitment, promotion, development and holders and each other is of key importance for the the disciplinary process. The Executive Board has delivery of our strategy. At the same time, shareparticipated in a series of videos offering its endorseCredit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 52 ment and views on each of the standards to all account of employee interests but also consider our employees. Additionally, with the introduction of the obligations towards our shareholders and towards Further 3 Credit Suisse Employee Award based on our Conregulators. Our compensation plans are aligned with information: duct and Ethics Standards, we seek to recognize our strategic ambitions and developed in close con see box on p. 59 Responsibility employee engagement and to drive the further implesultation with shareholders and in accordance with as an mentation of these behavioral standards throughout regulatory requirements. Employer the bank. Leadership Development 3.1 A Culture of Performance and Development Leading by example is of key importance when it Responsibility Our employees’ performance objectives are aligned comes to promoting a strong corporate culture and as an Employer with the bank’s strategy, which places clients at the the achievement of our business objectives. In 2017, center of all that we do. We measure our employees’ we introduced a new approach to developing our performance based on their contribution to the leaders. One of its key components is the Manageachievement of our business goals. In 2017, we ment Excellence Program, a mandatory program for replaced the existing competency model with the all new managers at the bank. In addition, a global new Conduct and Ethics Standards to ensure and cross-divisional curriculum provides targeted employee performance is measured against our leadership development opportunities for experiexpectations in respect of conduct and culture. Our enced managers. All new programs are based on the globally consistent performance management proConduct and Ethics Standards and our Credit cess better enables line managers to assess the Suisse-specific leadership model, the Leadership performance, the behavior and the development Code. Both curriculum components provide a framepotential of employees on an annual basis. In 2017, work for expected leadership behavior, help to build we again assessed the potential of our employees in the leadership culture at Credit Suisse and foster the order to effectively manage our pool of talent and development of leadership skills. The programs support individual development. Line managers comencompass a blend of modular classroom training, plete various training courses in which they learn e-learning, mentoring and coaching, work in study how to give team members the best possible supgroups, assessments and networking opportunities. port to achieve their professional objectives. We offer our employees market-driven and competitive Client Skills and Compliance rates of pay based on performance-related compenOur training and development programs enable us to sation structures. In doing so, we not only take enhance the quality of our service and advisory Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 53 offering, and to continuously adapt our business to well as on changing EU requirements such as the evolving market and client needs. Our One CurricuEU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 3 lum training program provides a comprehensive (MiFID) II. In 2017, each employee completed at onboarding plan for our employees in our Swiss Unileast six mandatory training modules, depending on Responsibility versal Bank and International Wealth Management their area of responsibility. as an divisions, offering information and training about speEmployer cific products, solutions and advisory, as well as giving an insight into compliance and risk. Our Conduct 3.1 and Ethics Standards are also an integral part of this Responsibility onboarding program. as an Employer Since 2017, our front-facing employees have been required to complete the Swiss Association for Quality (SAQ) certification. This intensifies the cooperation between Swiss banks and institutions in the area of professional development. To date, around 1,900 Credit Suisse employees have obtained SAQ certification and more than 500 candidates are currently going through the certification process. Talent Development in 2017 Credit Suisse offers its employees a wide range of training programs involving traditional classroom 64,300 participants in instructor-led courses instruction, e-learning, video-based courses and online learning communities. Additionally, employees 51,100 classroom-delivered training days can complete training programs on their mobile devices, enhancing the user experience and offering 580 classroom leadership training sessions short training sessions. In 2017, we launched over 17 hours of training per employee (average) 70 new mandatory e-learning programs for regulatory level of satisfaction among course topics such as financial crime, operational risk 81% participants (average) management, and compliance with our Conduct and Ethics Standards. Our relationship managers com741,400 participants in e-learning courses plete courses on cross-border business activities as Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 54 Diversity and Inclusion Finance Charter, a pledge to support the progresThe diversity of our workforce, including the different sion of women into senior roles across our UK legal 3 skills, mindsets, knowledge and experience of our entities. More information can be found at: employees, gives us a better understanding of our Responsibility clients’ expectations, cultural backgrounds and credit-suisse.com/responsibility/mentoring as an regional markets. Credit Suisse today employs people Employer from 179 different countries. We are committed to Internal Mobility providing and promoting equal opportunities, regardInternal mobility is an essential part of building a career at 3.1 less of ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual orientaCredit Suisse. We encourage our employees to explore opporResponsibility tion, gender identity, religion, age, civil or marital tunities in new business areas, to expand their knowledge of as an Employer status, pregnancy, disability, or any other characteristhe bank by taking on new roles, or to move to a different tics protected by law. country to continue developing their skills and interests. We strive to reward employees who are committed to our diverse Our internal experts work closely with our businesses cultural values, have a proven track record and are willing to across the globe to ensure that a diversity and inclutake on new challenges. sion framework is firmly embedded in our corporate culture. They partner with managers on the planning Key Figures for 2017 and implementation of initiatives to promote an inclusive working environment. We also consider it imporOver 4,100 tant to engage in a dialogue with external partners in the area of diversity and inclusion. A list of the Over 800 organizations, initiatives and events we supported in employees moved into a different 2017, as well as further information, can be found at: role internally employees were hired through credit-suisse.com/responsibility/partnerships Internals First – our internal recruitment initiative 48% Advancement of Women We recognize the positive impact of gender diversity and we therefore want to ensure we have appropriof our leadership roles (Managing Directors and Directors) ate female representation in management positions. were filled internally In June 2016, Credit Suisse signed the Women in Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 55 Investing in Young Talent Credit Suisse collaborates with leading universities around We provide a wide range of attractive opportunities the world to source graduate talent. We deliver university 3 for young professionals and graduates who are intercourses including the Financial Risk Analytics and Busiested in pursuing a career at Credit Suisse. Junior ness Management course at BITS Pilani, India, and we Responsibility hires receive specific training, mentoring and career conduct interactive webinars such as case studies on as an advice, aiding their transition to full-time employimpact investing and sustainability investments delivered Employer ment. An example is our award-winning Steps to by experts from our Asia Pacific division to prospective Success program, now in its fifth intake, which campus recruits studying at universities globally. Addition3.1 offers university scholarship funding for UK and US ally, we develop and support our youngest employees. Responsibility students from underprivileged and underrepresented Credit Suisse apprentices went on assignment to as an Employer backgrounds. Wroclaw, Shanghai and New York in 2017 to work on projects and to increase their multicultural competencies. Population of Young Talents and Campus Recruits In 2017, we also ran coding competitions around the in Our Swiss Home Market in 2017 globe to encourage the best developers to embark on a career in financial technology. In our Swiss home market, where Credit Suisse is one of the country’s biggest 315 students in a Career Start Program employers, we offer opportunities for a large number of 222 internships (from 12 weeks to 6 months) young people who are interested in starting a career in banking. Young Talents1 601 (commercial and IT apprentices, HMS and Junior Banker) 68 high school graduates 533 commercial and IT apprentices1 in total young people in education benefited from a structured training 1,138 program2 1 including Neue Aargauer Bank 2 including Career Starter, internships, Junior Banker and apprenticeships Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 56 Employee Facts and Figures Attractive Working Environment and Flexible as of December 31, 2017 Working 3 At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to offer 46,840 employees with permanent contracts (full-time equivalents) our employees modern and flexible working models. Responsibility Our office environment, which has been designed as an 36% proportion of female employees (full-time equivalents) according to the Smart Working concept, allows Employer employees to choose their workspace based on their 38% proportion of female employees (number of employees) needs at a specific point in time. Approximately 3.1 15,000 employees now work in Smart Working enviResponsibility proportion of women in senior management positions (Managing as an Employer 20% Directors and Directors) ronments in our offices worldwide. We also consider employee health and safety to be of the utmost importance, and we have internal policies in place to help guarantee the safety of our office environment. Subject matter experts ensure that continuous safety improvements are put in place to ensure we are in 20% of all female employees 5% of all male employees line with local legal requirements. In 2011, Credit Suisse became the first Swiss financial services prowork part-time work part-time vider to be awarded OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) for its operations in Switzerland. Proportion of women: Board of Directors/Executive Board 2 of 12 members of the Board of Directors 1 of 11 members of the Executive Board Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 57 In 2016, Credit Suisse in Switzerland was also recNumber of Employees Full-time equivalents as of December 31, 2017 ognized with the “Friendly Work Space” label from 3 Health Promotion Switzerland (GesundheitsBy division förderung Schweiz), indicating the successful impleResponsibility mentation of Corporate Health Management. 12,600 Swiss Universal Bank 10,250 International Wealth Management as an 7,230 Asia Pacific Employer In consultation with various specialist units, we have 11,740 3,190 Global Markets Investment Banking & Total: developed several offerings that help our employees 46,840 Capital Markets 3.1 to combine their professional and private commitemployees1 1 Including 300 positions in the Corporate Center Responsibility and 1,530 positions in the Strategic Resolution Unit. ments as effectively as possible. In order to promote Excluding fixed-term contracts. as an Employer a dialogue that takes into account the collective interests of our employees, Credit Suisse has worked closely with organizations such as the EuroEmployee age structure pean Works Council and the Credit Suisse Staff 1.4% < 20 years (apprentices) Council in Switzerland for many years. More informa21.2% from 20 to 29 years 36.6% from 30 to 39 years tion is available at: 25.8% from 40 to 49 years 13.3% from 50 to 59 years 1.7% > 59 years credit-suisse.com/responsibility/flexibilityhealth Further information: This chapter addresses the following issues:  see p. 8 1 Culture of Compliance and Conduct 8 Human Resources and Talent Management 12 Incentives and Compensation Policy Employee Turnover 13 Quality and Range of Services and Advice 2017: 2016: 11.1% voluntary turnover 10.0% voluntary turnover 5.1% involuntary turnover 5.6% involuntary turnover Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 58 Impact of Cost Reduction Measures When we outlined our new strategy in October 2015, we Council has confirmed that we are assuming our social responsi3 announced the implementation of targeted efficiency measures bility and offer a good package of measures to assist affected to reduce our fixed cost base, create operating leverage, and free employees. In 2017, we took steps to right-size our workforce in a Responsibility up resources that can be reinvested in growth initiatives and in number of business centers. At the end of the year, our Business as an improving controls. At our most recent Investor Day in November Delivery Centers (BDCs) had a total of around 10,000 employEmployer 2017, we confirmed our 2018 adjusted operating cost base1 ees, corresponding to approximately 21% of the bank’s global target of less than CHF 17 billion, which would result in cumulaworkforce. The BDC model is being further developed with a 3.1 tive net savings1 of over CHF 4.2 billion since 2015. These cost strategic focus on delivering bank-wide efficiencies. Responsibility savings are to be realized through various workforce strategy as an Employer ¹ Our cost savings program is measured using an adjusted operating cost base at constant foreign exinitiatives, the reduction of business complexity and the exiting change rates. Adjusted operating cost base at constant foreign exchange rates includes adjustments as made in all our disclosures for restructuring expenses, major litigation provisions, expenses related of activities that are not in line with our strategy. While lowering to business sales and a goodwill impairment taken in the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as adjustcosts1, we are continuing to invest in our client franchise, the ments for certain accounting changes (which had not been in place at the launch of the cost savings program), debit valuation adjustments related volatility and for foreign exchange. Adjusted results are implementation of regulatory and compliance requirements, and non-GAAP financial measures. the further transformation of our technology through digitalization, robotics and automation, as well as in measures to increase efficiency. Credit Suisse aims to operate with a total adjusted operating cost base at constant foreign exchange rates1 of between CHF 16.5 billion and CHF 17 billion in 2019 and 2020, subject to market conditions and investment opportunities within this range. When carrying out any headcount reductions, we work closely with organizations that represent employee interests, such as the Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland, to support individuals who are affected by these measures. We have a comprehensive process in place to assist these individuals in the search for a new position, and we strive to minimize the impact of the reduction in employee numbers through internal transfers and by taking advantage of natural employee turnover. The Credit Suisse Staff Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 59 Responsible Approach to Compensation The objectives of the Group’s compensation policy include the Executive Board voluntarily proposed to reduce both their 3 attracting and retaining employees, and motivating them to 2016 STI awards and 2017 LTI opportunities by 40%. The Board achieve sustainable results with integrity and fairness. of Directors also decided to maintain the proposed aggregate Responsibility The key elements of the compensation framework for Group amount of Board compensation at the same level as approved by as an employees comprise fixed compensation (base salary, pension shareholders for 2015 and 2016. All revised compensation proEmployer and other benefits) and variable incentive compensation, which posals were approved by shareholders at the AGM on April 28, is determined based on the Group’s performance as well as 2017. However, the consultative vote on the 2016 Compensation 3.1 individual performance evaluations. Variable incentive compReport resulted in only 58% of votes in favor. Against this backResponsibility ensation is deferred for persons with a total compensation of ground, after his appointment as the new Chair of the Compenas an Employer CHF/USD 250,000 or higher, mainly in the form of share-based sation Committee, Kai S. Nargolwala held meetings with shareawards or Contingent Capital Awards (CCA). All deferred comholders covering approximately 40% of our shareholder base durpensation awards contain provisions that enable the Group to ing 2017 in order to understand better their concerns and views reduce or cancel the awards prior to settlement under certain on compensation and to gain feedback on proposed changes to circumstances. For the Executive Board, variable incentive comour compensation design. In its comprehensive review of our pensation comprises short-term incentive (STI) awards, which are overall compensation framework, the Compensation Committee linked to the achievement of performance objectives for the prior carefully considered the shareholder feedback and was also year, and long-term incentive (LTI) awards, which are based on mindful of the objectives of our compensation strategy. The future performance outcomes measured against predetermined Compensation Committee decided that the overall compensation performance targets over a period of three years. Maximum STI framework remained appropriate but refinements were required in and LTI opportunity levels are determined for each Executive certain areas, in particular with respect to the Executive Board, Board member and are each expressed as a multiple of base to strengthen the link between delivery of our strategy and our salary. At the end of the respective performance cycles, the compensation outcomes. Further details on the changes, which maximum payout level for each award is capped at 100% of the are planned to take effect for 2018 and onwards, can be found opportunity level. in the 2017 Compensation Report. After we published the 2016 Compensation Report, some shareIn terms of the 2017 compensation outcomes for the Group, total holders expressed concerns over the amount of variable incentive variable incentive compensation awarded was CHF 3.2 billion, up compensation proposed for the Executive Board. Recognizing 3% compared to 2016, after a downward adjustment was these concerns, the Chief Executive Officer and each member of applied by the Compensation Committee to take into account Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 60 the impact of the US tax reform on the Group’s 2017 results. Challenge and Response 2017 In accordance with Swiss law, the Group will submit Board 3 of Directors and Executive Board compensation recommendaChallenge: Make responsible use tions for binding votes by shareholders at the AGM in 2018. of resources and ensure that our Responsibility Comprehensive information on the Group, Executive Board and work is performed by employees as an Board of Directors compensation can be found in the 2017 in the most appropriate locations. Employer Compensation Report. What impact does this have on the structure of Credit Suisse? 3.1 Responsibility Response: In view of the ongoing as an Employer transformation of the financial services industry, as well as low interest rates and rising costs, we transferred additional services from regional headquarters to our captive Business Delivery Centers (BDCs) around the world in 2017. This meant that we reduced the number of positions in regional headquarters while at the same time moving functions and services to our BDCs, which now account for around 21% of our workforce. Targeted training to further enhance the expertise and management skills of our employees provides increased career development opportunities and helps us to attract and retain the best talent for our BDCs, actively strengthening their role by assigning them functions with greater responsibility. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 61 4 Responsibility for the Environment 4.1 Responsibility for the Environment 62 Read the chapter Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 62 Responsibility for the Environment 4 Responsibility We take environmental impacts into account when conducting for the our business by developing sustainable products and services Environment and addressing sustainability issues in our risk management. 4.1 The implementation of various operational measures helps us Responsibility for the Environment to reduce our environmental footprint. Credit Suisse believes that it is in the interests of and services with a focus on environmental and both our organization and our clients for us to social themes. develop and support measures that contribute to a more environmentally sustainable economy. Our Climate Change commitments in this area are based on our Code of The Paris Agreement to strengthen the global Conduct. Our “Statement on Sustainability” explains response to the threat of climate change entered our aims relating to the balancing of economic, into force in 2016. Its overarching aim is to limit the environmental and social issues when performing our rise in the global temperature to well below 2° Celsius activities as a bank. The UN Global Compact and above pre-industrial levels. As a global financial instiFurther Information: the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted tution, we recognize our share of responsibilities in  see p. 71–72 by the UN in 2015 are other important points of combating climate change by supporting the transireference in this area. tion to a low-carbon and climate-resilient global economy. Our principles and our approach to climate In our banking businesses, environmental aspects protection are set out in our “Statement on Climate are considered when managing transaction-related Change”, which describes how we intend to address risks. Applying our Reputational Risk Review Proclimate-related risks, mobilize financial resources and Further cess, we assess whether projects or client activities reduce our own environmental footprint. information: could pose a major risk to the environment, the  see p. 67 climate or biodiversity. To open up sources of capital In addition to our wide range of activities in the area Further for the development of future markets, Credit Suisse of green finance, we continued to focus on climate information: offers clients a broad range of investment products issues in risk management in 2017. For example,  see p. 36 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 63 Credit Suisse evaluated possible approaches to systematic approach, the portfolio’s CO2 emissions addressing the recommendations of the Financial have globally been reduced by 12.5% since 2010. Further 4 Information: Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related  see p. 68 Financial Disclosures (FSB TCFD) published in 2017 Credit Suisse Global Real Estate also operates the Responsibility and co-signed a public statement of support. “greenproperty” quality seal, which had been applied for the to around CHF 3 billion of real assets by the end of Environment Improving the energy efficiency of buildings is an 2017. In addition, Global Real Estate has a portfolio important component of global efforts to tackle cliwith approximately one million square meters that are 4.1 mate change. Around one-third of all global CO2 certified according to the Swiss property label MinerResponsibility for emissions originate from the real estate industry. We gie as well as 200,000 square meters globally certithe Environment have been operating on a greenhouse gas neutral fied according to the LEED (Leadership in Energy basis at all our locations around the globe since and Environmental Design) standard. In recognition of 2010 in line with our strategy to reduce, substitute the ESG performance of its property portfolio, Global Further Information: and offset greenhouse gas emissions. This allowed Real Estate was recognized in 2016 by the Global  see p. 66 us to reduce our global net greenhouse gas emisReal Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) as sions by 41% (99,400 metric tons of CO2 equiva“Global Sector Leader” and “Regional Sector Leader”. lents) over the past two years. In 2017, we continued to participate in the dialogue We are confronted with the challenge of climate about the development of strategies for sustainable, change not only when managing our operational climate-friendly business practices. In Switzerland, premises but also in our capacity as a leading real we have for a number of years been hosting the estate investment manager with a global portfolio Lifefair Forum event series that explores topics such of properties worth over CHF 44.6 billion at the as climate-related issues. At these events in 2017, end of 2017. experts from the business community, the political arena and NGOs engaged in discussions about digiTo enhance energy efficiency and to reduce CO2 talization and mobility, future energy, logistics and emissions, Credit Suisse Global Real Estate (formsustainability. erly Real Estate Investment Management) analyzes and optimizes its real estate portfolio systematically. Further information on climate-related topics and our Jointly with its long-term partner Siemens Switzer“Statement on Climate Change” is available at: land AG, it implements specific building optimization measures. As a result of Global Real Estate’s www.credit-suisse.com/climate Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 64 Biodiversity and Natural Capital tainable finance. In addition, Credit Suisse organized Further The importance of financial services in promoting the Asia Pacific Land Use Forum (APLUF) in information: 4 sustainability and biodiversity was underscored when Bangkok, at which various stakeholder groups disAPLUF world leaders reaffirmed their commitment to green cussed risks and possible solutions when planning Bangkok Responsibility finance at the One Planet Summit’s “Climate and managing fieldand forest-based agricultural for the Finance Day” in December 2017. At Credit Suisse, activities. We also participated in a panel discussion Environment we view the protection of biodiversity as an integral with NGOs and other banks on the occasion of part of our sustainability commitments. the launch of WWF’s World Heritage Sites report 4.1 “How banks can safeguard our world heritage” in Responsibility for To consider biodiversity-related issues in our risk London, and we expanded our role as an advisor the Environment management processes, we cover this topic in our to the Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit sector-specific policies and guidelines. Our policy (SPOTT), joining the Technical Advisory Group for requirements for the forestry and agribusiness industhe SPOTT Timber, Paper and Pulp tool developtry are aligned with sustainability initiatives for the ment. Finally, we intensified our advisory activities relevant sectors, including the standards of the for clients in this area. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) – of which we are a member and the Forest StewardCredit Suisse has long been a pioneer in the Further ship Council (FSC). To promote good forestry and conservation finance space. Conservation finance information: agribusiness practices and to discourage net forest focuses on the creation of new, long-term, and  see p. 31–33 conversion, our policies include restrictions on diversified sources of revenue that can play a major financing activities related to High Conservation role in ensuring biodiversity conservation and the Value Forests, provisions for the particular scrutiny health of natural ecosystems. In 2016, we co-foundof peatland operations, and the prohibition of finaned the Coalition for Private Investment in Conservation cial services for operations in protected areas such (CPIC), which we led through 2017 in collaboration as UNESCO World Heritage sites. with the CPIC Steering Committee. This initiative aims to contribute to the preservation of eco-systems Credit Suisse addresses the issue of environmental through the development of investment blueprints sustainability and sustainable land use in different for new return-oriented investment products in the ways. In 2017, we took part in a series of internasector. For five years, we have hosted the Credit tional workshops about sustainable land use, includSuisse Annual Conservation Finance Conference in ing workshops organized by the ASEAN Bankers New York, where specialists discuss solutions for Association and Bursa Malaysia on the topic of susfurther developing the conservation finance sector. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 65 Further information is available at: Raising Employee Awareness of Environmental Issues www.credit-suisse.com/conservationfinance We give employees the opportunity to make a personal contri4 bution to environmental protection, and we inform them about Environmental Management environmental issues. In that context, around 1,900 employees Responsibility Credit Suisse strives to make more efficient use of worldwide were signed up to our regional Sustainability Netfor the natural resources and to reduce greenhouse gas works as of end-2017. In addition, Credit Suisse once again Environment emissions. These efforts are focused on energy took part in the symbolic Earth Hour climate campaign, with the management because energy consumption is the lights being switched off for one hour in 48 Credit Suisse 4.1 area in which our operations have the greatest direct offices around the world on March 25, 2017. To increase Responsibility for impact on the environment. In order to reduce enviawareness of environmental management as well as on health the Environment ronmental impacts and lower costs, we continuously and safety, we provided 11,000 hours of training together with implement a variety of measures through our envivarious service providers in 2017. Credit Suisse participated in ronmental management system, which is certified the “bike to work” campaign for the tenth time in 2017, with globally in accordance with ISO 14001. In 2017, as 79 teams of employees in Switzerland cycling a total of around in previous years, we concentrated on further 118,566 kilometers – which is approximately equivalent to improving energy efficiency and on reducing power circumventing the globe three times. and energy consumption. For example, we achieved approximately 6.4 gigawatt-hours (GWh) of energy savings in 2017 through the ongoing virtualization of For Credit Suisse as a global financial institution, our global server infrastructure across all our Enterbusiness travel is a challenge we face in our efforts prise Data Centers. Through our efficiency program to reduce our environmental footprint. While it is in Switzerland, we were able to further lower our often essential to maintain direct contact with cliCO2 emissions by reducing energy consumption by ents, business travel accounts for around 36% of around 2.3 GWh and water consumption decreased our global greenhouse gas emissions. We therefore by around 1,200 m3. encourage employees to travel by train when covering shorter distances, and to use telephone and vidWe also involve external service providers and supeo conferencing where this is possible. Consequentpliers in environmental management efforts where ly, the use of videoconferencing (desktop-based and appropriate. In 2017, we once again passed the surin videoconferencing rooms) amounted to approxiveillance audit of our global environmental managemately 211,500 hours in 2017. For air travel, we ment system carried out by the external certification purchase greenhouse gas neutral tickets that offset company SGS without corrective measures. all the emissions from our flights through emissions Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 66 reduction certificates (ERCs). In 2017, this amountto work from home from time to time can help to ed to 46,200 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. reduce local emissions from regional commuter traf4 fic. Finally, we reduce our environmental footprint To further increase our use of climate-friendly energy through the use of paper produced from forests that Responsibility sources, we also acquired renewable energy certifiare managed sustainably in line with Forest Stewardfor the cates (RECs) for five Credit Suisse offices in Italy, ship Council (FSC) criteria; in 2017, this accounted Environment Poland, the US, Hong Kong and India in 2017. As a for 92% of internal paper consumption in Switzerland. result of systematically pursuing our four-pillar straFurther 4.1 tegy, our net global greenhouse gas emissions This chapter addresses the following issues: information: Responsibility for 6 Environmental and Social Risk Management  see p. 8 decreased by 41% in comparison to 2015, and by the Environment compensating the remaining emissions through 9 Responsible Investments ERCs we again achieved greenhouse gas neutrality. 11 Climate Change Flexible working models that enable our employees credit-suisse.com/responsibility/environment Global Greenhouse Gas Neutrality – Our Four-Pillar Strategy Credit Suisse has been greenhouse gas neutral globally through climate-friendly energy and through renewable greenhouse gas emissions decreased by around 32% to since 2010. We systematically pursue our four-pillar energy certificates (RECs) and the compensation of 141,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalents during the year strategy based on operational efficiency improvements, remaining emissions through the purchase of emissions compared to 2016. By implementing these measures, we investments, the substitution of existing energy sources reduction certificates (ERCs). As a result, our net global achieved greenhouse gas neutrality. 1. Optimizing Operations Efficiency gains and reduction of energy consumption through the optimization of Reduction of own installations material and energy consumption 2. Investments Reduction of own Reduction of energy consumption through greenhouse gas energy-saving investments emissions 3. Substitution Use of climate-friendly energy sources Reduction of greenhouse Greenhouse gas (2017: A total of 321 million kilowatt hours gas emissions each time neutrality or 76% of our electricity consumed globally energy is consumed were generated using renewable resources) Compensation of 4. Compensation remaining greenhouse Purchase of emissions reduction certificates (ERCs) gas emissions (60% of ERCs meet the Gold Standard) Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 67 Credit Suisse’s greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 Portfolio of purchased emissions reduction certificates (ERCs) 20171 4 56% 36% 8% Energy use of buildings Business travel Paper, waste, water, extinguishing 30% 20% 20% Wind Biomass/biogas power Hydropower Responsibility Total: agent losses and coolant losses 10% Photovoltaic power 141,300 for the metric tons 10% 10% Geothermal power Cookstoves Environment 1 60% of ERCs meet the Gold Standard. 4.1 Responsibility for the Environment Global key performance indicators for environmental management1 2017 20162 2015 Absolute Per FTE 3 Absolute Per FTE 3 Absolute Per FTE 3 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in metric tons)4 141,300 3.0 207,600 4.4 240,700 5.0 Energy (MWh) 495,700 10.5 520,500 10.9 558,000 12 Business travel (km) 418,900,000 8,850 432,124,000 9,100 552,430,000 11,400 Paper (t) 2,700 0.06 3,700 0.08 4,100 0.08 Water (m ) 3 943,700 20 904,210 19 1,023,000 21 Waste (t) 13,000 0.27 11,500 0.24 11,300 0.23 1  According to VfU standard 2013 for the year 2015 and according to 3 As of December 31 of the reporting year; employees (full-time equivalents)  VfU standard 2015 for the years 2016 and 2017 (rounded figures). 4 Net greenhouse gas emissions. 2 Minor adjustments made to 2016 basic data sets. Further information on environmental management and examples of Detailed information on Credit Suisse’s four-pillar strategy is available measures taken globally and in all our regions are available at: online at: credit-suisse.com/environmentalmanagement credit-suisse.com/4pillarstrategy Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 68 Challenges and Responses 2017 our Group-wide, standardized ReputaResponse: We expect the implementational Risk Review Process (RRRP) tion of the TCFD recommendations to 4 Challenge: The Paris Agreement is (see pages 22-23). Within that proresult in more comprehensive informaconsidered a milestone in the cess, we evaluate factors such as a tion about the financial impacts of cliResponsibility global effort to mitigate the company’s CO2 footprint or its energy mate change. Due to the complexity of for the effects of climate change. It aims efficiency targets, while some of our the recommendations, their implemenEnvironment to limit the rise in global temperapolicies and guidelines require clients tation is expected to take a number of ture to well below 2° Celsius to have a plan in place to deal with cliyears but is likely to result in more 4.1 above pre-industrial levels. Since mate change risks. Our updated policy informed investment, credit and insurResponsibility for the agreement entered into force on mining and guidelines on power ance underwriting decisions. In anticithe Environment in 2016, climate change has congeneration include restrictions on the pation of the TCFD recommendations, tinued to be an important issue in financing of new mining projects that in 2016, Credit Suisse piloted an both the public and private secextract thermal coal and new coal-fired approach to identifying and undertors. What is Credit Suisse’s power plants (see page 24). standing portfolio-level climate policy approach to addressing the chalrisk for our coal mining and power genlenge of climate change? Challenge: The Task Force on eration credit portfolios. In early 2017, Climate-related Financial Disclowe participated in the consultation on Response: At Credit Suisse, we sures (TCFD), established in the draft TCFD recommendations, and believe that our role as a financial December 2015 by the Financial at the One Planet Summit in Decemintermediary is to act as a reliable Stability Board (FSB), is a busiber 2017 in Paris, we joined a group of partner in the transition to a world that ness-led initiative to increase the more than 200 companies to pubis less dependent on fossil fuels and to understanding of and transparency licly express our support for this initiaa low-carbon and climate-resilient on climate change in the financial tive. We have now established a work economy. In addition to operating on a markets. In 2017, the TCFD pubplan and a cross-functional project greenhouse gas neutral basis at all our lished its final report with recomteam to start implementing the TCFD locations around the globe since 2010, mendations for the voluntary recommendations in various workwe have continuously strengthened our reporting on material risks and streams over 2018 and 2019. In order activities in the area of green finance opportunities arising from climate to share experiences on the journey (see page 36). Our principles and our change. What does the TCFD towards TCFD adoption, we have approach to climate protection are set mean for Credit Suisse? joined the Forum on Implementation of out in our “Statement on Climate TCFD Recommendations convened by Change”, and they are also reflected in the Institute of International Finance (IIF). Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 69 Reporting on Corporate Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative Achievements and Objectives in Through our reporting on corporate responsibility, have made in implementing the ten principles of the Banking we inform our stakeholders openly and transparently UN Global Compact, as well as our contribution to Further Achievements about the ways in which we address economic, envisupporting the Sustainable Development Goals. information: and Objectives in  see ronmental and social challenges in our daily business Economy and Society p. 71–72 activities as well as about the principles that guide The contents of the report, along with additional Achievements us in our work. These principles are set out in our information, are also published on the internet. and Objectives as Code of Conduct and in the Group-wide “Statement Comprehensive information about our efforts relating an Employer on Sustainability”. They apply to all our activities and to corporate responsibility is available at: Achievements to our relationship with our stakeholders. Further and Objectives in credit-suisse.com/responsibility information can be found at: Environment credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments Global Reporting Initiative Our reporting on corporate responsibility reflects Scope of the Report the standards set out in the Global Reporting Initiative This report forms an integral part of our Annual (GRI) – a voluntary standard for reporting on sustainaReporting Suite and focuses on the financial year bility. The GRI Standards help to increase transparen2017. It explains how our commitments and aspiracy and comparability in this area. In line with the GRI tions in the area of corporate responsibility are put Standards, Credit Suisse regularly conducts a materiinto practice as a key component of our operations, ality assessment in order to better understand the and it provides an overview of our principal activities views and interests of our stakeholders. This report and milestones in 2017. It also documents the covers the issues classified as particularly important in Further measures we have put in place and the progress we the context of the materiality assessment. Information:  see p. 8 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 70 Reporting on Credit Suisse’s 2017 reporting on corporate responCorporate sibility has been prepared in accordance with the Responsibility GRI Standards: Core option. Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 will be reported voluntarily to the Global SIX Swiss Exchange in accordance with the new Reporting opting-in regulation for companies issuing sustainaInitiative bility reports. As in previous years, selected indicaAchievements tors of our GRI-based disclosure on corporate and Objectives in responsibility will be externally assessed and indeBanking pendently assured by SGS. Further details regarding Achievements our GRI indicators and the external review are and Objectives in available at: Economy and Society Achievements credit-suisse.com/gri and Objectives as an Employer Achievements and Objectives in Environment Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 71 Implementation of the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Reporting on Over 9,600 businesses from 161 countries have pledged to uphold the ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and antiCorporate corruption efforts defined in the UN Global Compact. In 2000, Credit Suisse became one of the first companies to sign up to this leading international initiative on responsible business practices. Through our Corporate Responsibility Report, we communicate annually on the progress we have made in implementing the ten Responsibility principles, and we are actively participating in the Global Compact Network Switzerland. WE SUPPORT The ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Implementation at Credit Suisse See pages Global Reporting Human Rights Initiative Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect •• Involvement in the formulation of sector-specific recommendations for the application of the UN Guiding 24 –25 the protection of internationally proclaimed Principles on Business and Human Rights (Thun Group of Banks) Achievements human rights; and •• Statement on Human Rights 24 –25 and Objectives in Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in •• Sustainability risk management 21–27 Banking human rights abuses. •• Sector-specific policies and guidelines 23 –24 Achievements Labor and Objectives in Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of •• Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee representation) 57 Economy and Society association and the effective recognition of •• European Works Council 57 the right to collective bargaining; Achievements and Objectives as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and •• Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) 25, 40 compulsory labor; Framework an Employer •• Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement 25 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and •• Sector-specific policies and guidelines 23 –24 Achievements •• Supply Management: Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) 25, 40 and Objectives in Framework Environment Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of •• Diversity and Inclusion 54 employment and occupation. •• Barrier-free access 31 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary •• Statement on Climate Change 62– 63 approach to environmental challenges; •• Sustainability risk management 21–27 •• Sector-specific policies and guidelines 23 –24 •• Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 29 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater •• Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010 62 – 68 environmental responsibility; and •• ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 65 –67 •• Activities in the area of conservation finance 31– 33, 64 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of •• Use of clean energy technologies in our operations 62–68 environmentally friendly technologies. •• Green finance 33, 36 •• Renewable energy project financing 34 •• Active in the area of green real estate 30, 63 •• Co-initiator of the Coalition for Private Investment in Conservation (CPIC) 31–33, 64 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in •• Member of the Wolfsberg Group 18 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. •• Internal standards and training for employees 17, 19, 52–53 •• Integrity Hotline 18 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 72 Our Contribution to the Realization of the Sustainable Development Goals Reporting on Sustainable development is a key aspect of our corporate responsibility. Since the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the UN in 2015, we have Corporate been considering how we, as a global financial institution, can contribute to the realization of the SDGs. In consultation with our stakeholders, we also identified ways to support the post-2015 development agenda of the UN. The following table provides an overview of our wide-ranging activities relating to selected objectives. Responsibility Objective Our contribution  See pages Goal 4: Quality Education Global Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and •• We promote access to education and help to improve the quality of education through our Global Education Initiative 45 Reporting promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. •• We run a financial education program for girls in Brazil, China, India, Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Tanzania 45, 48 Initiative •• We support regional education programs in collaboration with partner organizations 44 – 49 Goal 5: Gender Equality Achievements Achieve gender equality and empower all women and •• We foster diversity and inclusion within our organization 54 and Objectives in girls. •• We take measures to increase the representation of women in management positions within our organization 54 Banking •• We promote access to financial services for women in developing countries and emerging markets through our financial 33, inclusion activities and run a financial education program for girls 44–49 Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy Achievements Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and •• We provide renewable energy financing 34 and Objectives in modern energy for all. •• We strive to use climate-friendly energy sources for our business premises and have buildings certified according 65 –67 Economy and Society to energy efficiency standards •• We run an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 65 – 67 Achievements Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth and Objectives as Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic •• We offer progressive working conditions for our employees 51–60 growth, full and productive employment and decent work •• We support economic growth and entrepreneurship through our role as a lender and financial intermediary 38 –43 an Employer for all. •• We are an integral part of the economy and society in our role as an employer, client, contractual partner and taxpayer 38 –43 •• We support an initiative to combat youth unemployment in Switzerland 43 •• We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets through our activities in the area 33, Achievements of financial inclusion 44–49 and Objectives in Environment Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and •• We supply risk capital to support growth and innovation, including through SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs 39 sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. in Switzerland •• We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets through our activities 33, in the area of financial inclusion 44 –49 •• We provide renewable energy financing 34 •• We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 21– 27 Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, •• We invest in real estate that meets “greenproperty” sustainability criteria 63 resilient and sustainable. •• We are committed to improving the ESG performance (environmental, social and governance performance), 30, 63 energy efficiency and carbon footprint of our real estate investment portfolio •• Credit Suisse (Lux) European Climate Value Property Fund 32 Goal 13: Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its •• We have achieved greenhouse gas neutrality for all our operations globally 62– 68 impacts. •• We offer a range of green finance products and services for our clients 33, 36 •• We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 21–27 Goal 15: Life on Land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terres•• We are active in the area of conservation finance 31– 33, 64 trial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat •• We have an ongoing advisory role to the Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) and joined 64 desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation the Technical Advisory Group for the SPOTT Timber, Paper and Pulp tool development and halt biodiversity loss. •• We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 21–27 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 73 Sustainability Indices and Ratings Assigned to Credit Suisse in 2017 Reporting on Corporate Indices Brief description Credit Suisse Responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability Global best-in-class approach: The top 10% of the 2,500 largest Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability World World Index (DJSI World) companies in the S&P Global Broad Market IndexSM that lead the field in Index since it was launched in 1999. terms of sustainability. Global Dow Jones Sustainability European best-in-class approach: The top 20% of the 600 largest European Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the European Index of Reporting Europe Index companies in the S&P Global Broad Market IndexSM that lead the field in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since it was launched in 2001. Initiative (DJSI Europe) terms of sustainability. FTSE4Good Index Companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series Achievements since it was launched in 2001. and Objectives in Banking Ratings Brief description Credit Suisse CDP CDP represents institutional investors with invested assets of USD 87 trillion; its B (rating scale: D– to A) Achievements aim is to offer transparent guidance to investors on climate-related opportunities and Objectives in and risks for companies. Economy and Society MSCI ESG Rating MSCI ESG Ratings assess a company’s performance based on environmental, BB (rating scale: AAA to CCC) social and governance (ESG) themes, focusing on key ESG issues identified for the industry. Achievements RobecoSAM As part of its Corporate Sustainability Assessment, RobecoSAM analyzes 69% (industry average: 40%) Economic dimension: 59%; and Objectives as the sustainability performance of over 3,400 listed companies every year. Environmental dimension: 85%; Social dimension: 74% an Employer This involves assessing companies on the basis of environmental, social and economic criteria. Achievements Sustainalytics The sustainability research carried out by Sustainalytics focuses on 63 points (rating scale: 1 to 100) and Objectives in environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. (80th percentile; rated 43 out of 211) Environment Sustainability Networks and Initiatives Credit Suisse actively participates in a number of sustainability networks and initiatives worldwide. Climate Bonds Initiative Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Coalition for Private Investment in Conservation (CPIC) Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Equator Principles UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Green Bond Principles UN Global Compact WE SUPPORT Oebu – Swiss Business Council for Sustainable Development Further information can be found online at: credit-suisse.com/agreements Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 74 Reporting on Objectives/Achievements 2017 and Objectives 2018 Corporate Responsibility Global Banking Reporting Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Initiative •• We remain focused on our key priorities to ensure we are well positioned to •• In the second year of our three-year restructuring program, we remained grow profitably and produce long-term value for our shareholders. We are focused on execution and delivered against a number of key objectives: Achievements committed to maintaining a look-through CET1 ratio of 11–12% in the course – We substantially strengthened our capital position by raising CHF 4.1 billion and Objectives in of 2017, excluding the impact of the planned partial IPO1 of Credit Suisse in a rights offering while retaining full ownership of our Swiss business, and (Schweiz) AG by the end of 2017. We aim to achieve an operating cost base by generating capital from profitable organic growth and from the disposal of Banking of below CHF 18.5 billion by end-2017 as a result of cost discipline and manlegacy assets and activities. agement, while continuing to invest in strengthening our client franchises and – We ended the year with a look-through CET1 ratio of 12.8%, after deducAchievements improving our control framework. We will strive to make further progress with tion of approximately 45 basis points from increased risk-weighted assets our restructuring program in 2017 and to capture profitable growth opportunirelating to operational risk in the second half of the year. Our look-through and Objectives in ties across our franchises and geographies. tier 1 leverage ratio rose to 5.2%. Economy and Society − We generated profitable growth, increasing our reported pre-tax income to CHF 1.8 billion and our adjusted pre-tax income2 by 349% compared to 2016 to CHF 2.8 billion in 2017. Achievements − Our positive operating leverage accelerated, with adjusted net revenues2 and Objectives as 5% higher in 2017 and adjusted operating expenses2 6% lower, each as an Employer compared to 2016. − We achieved our 2017 cost target with an adjusted operating cost base at constant foreign exchange rates2 of CHF 18 billion, bringing our total Achievements net cost savings2 to CHF 3.2 billion over the two years since the start of and Objectives in the cost program. At the same time, we continued to selectively invest in technology, talent and controls. Environment − We increased the adjusted return on regulatory capital year on year in all five of our operating divisions. − We made further significant progress in disposing of and de-risking legacy positions in the SRU, reducing its drag on Group profitability by 37% in 2017. − We will propose an all cash dividend to the Annual General Meeting for the financial year 2017, removing the dilution associated with the option to elect a scrip dividend. •• Continue implementation of the Legal Entity Program strategy and focus on •• The execution of the program evolving the Group’s legal entity structure to the completion of the remaining major deliverables, including: launching sersupport the realization of our strategic objectives, increase the resilience of vice companies in the US, Switzerland, UK and Singapore, completing first the Group and meet developing and future regulatory requirements has connon-public comprehensive capital analysis and review (CCAR) framework subtinued to progress, including: mission. In addition, the Legal Entity Program has been expanded to assess − Successfully launching service companies in the US, Switzerland, the UK, solutions following the expected withdrawal of the UK from the EU. Singapore and India, supporting the operational continuity of resolutioncritical services globally − In Switzerland, completing the transfer of our Swiss asset management business from Credit Suisse AG to Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG − In the US, completing the first non-public comprehensive capital analysis and review (CCAR) framework submission − In the UK, continued client migrations to Credit Suisse AG Dublin branch − Continued work on strategy implementation relating to the expected withdrawal of the UK from the EU. 1 In 2017, we decided not to pursue a partial initial public offering of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, thus retaining full ownership of a historically stable income stream in our home market of Switzerland and avoiding complexity in the business structure and activities of a key division of the Group. 2 Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures. For a reconciliation of the adjusted results to the most directly comparable US GAAP measures, see page 80. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 75 Reporting on Corporate Banking Responsibility Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 •• Continue to engage with stakeholders on applying environmental and human •• We have continued to engage in a dialogue with NGOs and other stakeholders Global rights considerations in risk management processes related to business transin 2017 and have further strengthened the visibility of sustainability concerns in Reporting actions and client relationships. know-your-customer and onboarding processes. Furthermore, we have develInitiative oped a process to identify engagements with companies in sensitive sectors, and we assign priority to their ongoing monitoring. Achievements •• Participate in the consultation on the recommendations released by the Finan•• We participated in the consultation on the draft TCFD recommendations in and Objectives in cial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (FSB early 2017. After publication of the final TCFD report, we developed a plan to Banking TCFD) and engage with industry associations and relevant internal functions to start to address the recommendations and joined the Forum on Implementation develop approaches to addressing the FSB TCFD recommendations. of TCFD Recommendations launched by the Institute of International Finance. Achievements and Objectives in Economy and Society Objectives 2018 •• Our main priority in 2018 is to maintain strong business momentum while Achievements completing our restructuring. Our objectives include: and Objectives as − Driving growth and working towards the 2018 profit targets defined for each an Employer of our divisions. − Further strengthening collaboration between our wealth management and investment banking businesses. Achievements − Reducing our adjusted operating cost base at constant FX rates1 to below and Objectives in CHF 17 billion by end-2018 while continuing to selectively invest in the Group and in measures to improve efficiency and grow the franchise. Environment − Maintaining a strong capital position, with a look-through CET1 ratio of over 12.5%. − Completing the wind-down of the SRU by end-2018, earlier than originally planned. •• Launch a cross-functional project to start implementing the recommendations released by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (FSB TCFD) in various work-streams throughout 2018 and 2019 and share experiences in the Forum on Implementation of TCFD Recommendations launched by the Institute of International Finance. •• Roll out and test the recently developed approach to transaction reviews with clients active in sectors with medium sustainability risks. For further information on our cost savings and targets, see page 80. 1  Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 76 Reporting on Corporate Economy and Society Responsibility Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Global •• Maintain a close dialogue with relevant stakeholders on the topics of investor •• Credit Suisse held meetings with different stakeholder groups, including protection, tax rules, the stability of the financial sector and digitalization. policymakers, to address these topics at different levels and across Reporting various regions. Furthermore, we published articles and white papers on Initiative a range of subjects, such as digitalization. •• Demonstrate how a financial services provider like Credit Suisse can leverage •• In 2017 we further deepened our cooperation with non-governmental Achievements its capital, products and services, clients, employees and network of public and organizations (NGOs), governments, employees and clients in order to and Objectives in private partners to address society’s most pressing challenges while delivering our meet societal challenges and work together to contribute to the United strategy and strengthening our own institution. This will be highlighted by our Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With regard to SDG Banking 15 years of Investing for Impact anniversary in 2017. 4 (Quality Education), more than 2,640 employees dedicated their time and expertise to mentoring, teaching and tutoring activities benefiting Achievements children and youth. Additionally, we reached more than 596,250 enrolled school children and young adults through our Global Education Initiaand Objectives in tive, including our flagship program Financial Education for Girls and Economy and Society educational programs in all our regions. Through our Financial Inclusion Initiative, for example, we were engaged in topics such as access to finance for women, financing humanitarian aid and supporting fintech Achievements innovations in emerging markets. Moreover, around 40 events were held and Objectives as all over the world to mark the 15th anniversary of our work in impact an Employer investing – including the Credit Suisse Salon, which explored how we can contribute to the realization of the SDGs through philanthropic and investment activities. In Switzerland, we also expanded our MicroAchievements Donations offering, increasing the number of beneficiary partners from and Objectives in 10 to 20 non-profit organizations. Environment Objectives 2018 •• Contribute to the future development of financial market regulation by providing thought leadership and engaging in a constructive dialogue with stakeholders. •• We aim to make a lasting, meaningful contribution to society and to continue contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals in key areas. To address the most pressing issues facing society, we utilize the bank’s capital – its financial resources, products and services as well as the skills of our employees and our broad network of public and private partners. We aim to develop solutions that benefit society, our employees and Credit Suisse. These efforts include our two global initiatives in the areas of education and financial inclusion, whose tenth anniversaries are taking place in 2018. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 77 Reporting on Corporate Employer Responsibility Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Global •• Further embed the Conduct and Ethics Standards throughout our organization •• In 2017, our Conduct and Ethics Standards were rolled out across the entire to ensure a common understanding as well as consistency about our expectabank to ensure a common understanding and consistent expectations in Reporting tions at Credit Suisse with regard to culture and conduct and to further drive respect of our culture and conduct. The initiative is sponsored by the Board Initiative alignment and standardization. of Directors and the Executive Board of Credit Suisse, underscoring its strategic importance for the bank. Our Conduct and Ethics Standards have been embedded into our core HR processes, such as performance management, Achievements recruitment, promotion, development and the disciplinary process. The Execand Objectives in utive Board has participated in a series of videos offering its endorsement Banking and views on each of the standards to all employees. Additionally, with the introduction of the Credit Suisse Employee Award based on our Conduct and Ethics Standards, we recognize our employees’ engagement and drive impleAchievements mentation of these behavioral standards throughout the bank. and Objectives in •• Continue to attract, develop and retain employees to optimally support our •• In our performance management process, we ensure that the personal objecEconomy and Society business. tives of employees are linked to the bank’s strategic goals, and that their performance and behavior is measured against the bank’s new Conduct and Ethics Standards. To help employees with families achieve a good work/life Achievements balance, we provide parental leave in different locations and offer additional and Objectives as coaching and support for new parents who are returning to the workplace. an Employer We encourage all employees to make full use of their annual leave entitlement. We offer a comprehensive development curriculum to enable employees to learn new leadership and professional skills, including offerings in personal Achievements effectiveness, risk and client management training. We pursue a robust diverand Objectives in sity and inclusion agenda on a bank-wide and divisional level, including training Environment for managers to help them mitigate the impact of unconscious bias when making personnel-related decisions. Objectives 2018 •• Further strengthen leadership capabilities at Credit Suisse. •• Continue to embed the Conduct and Ethics Standards to ensure a common understanding of our expectations at Credit Suisse regarding culture and conduct. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 78 Reporting on Corporate Environment Responsibility Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Global •• Ensure a successful global ISO 14001 control audit under the direction of the •• We successfully passed the ISO 14001 control audit under the direction of the certification company SGS. certification company SGS without any corrective measures – in 2017, the audit Reporting focused on buildings in Singapore, India and southern Switzerland. Initiative •• Adapt the processes and documentation related to our environment manage•• Our ISO 14001 documentation was updated to meet the requirements of the ment system to the new ISO 14001 standard (valid from 2018) by revising the new ISO 14001:2015 standard in readiness for the planned 2018 audit of the Achievements governance model across all management areas and levels involved. transition of our environmental management system to the new standard. We and Objectives in systematically reviewed and addressed all the gaps identified in the analysis of our existing ISO 14001 arrangements and duly adapted the governance model Banking in accordance with our organizational structure. Achievements •• We also further reduced the ecological footprint of our operating activities by 32% year on year to 141,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalents – thanks, in and Objectives in particular, to the ongoing energy-related optimization of our premises, the Economy and Society further consolidation of the portfolio around buildings with a high level of energy efficiency, and the use of state-of-the-art IT infrastructure. Achievements •• By substituting existing energy sources through renewable energy certificates and Objectives as (RECs), we also generated 76% of our electricity from renewable energy in an Employer 2017, which represents a significant increase of 19% on the previous year •• We achieved global greenhouse gas neutrality for the eighth year in succession. Achievements and Objectives in •• Deepen engagement with key external stakeholders in relation to sustainable •• In 2017, we took part in a series of international workshops about sustainable Environment land use management. land use, including workshops organized by the ASEAN Bankers Association and Bursa Malaysia on the topic of sustainable finance. In addition, Credit Suisse organized the Asia Pacific Land Use Forum (APLUF) in Bangkok. We expanded our role as an advisor to the Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT), joining the Technical Advisory Group for the SPOTT Timber, Paper and Pulp tool development. Objectives 2018 •• Successful completion of the audit of our certified environmental management system in the framework of the transition to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. Successful global re-certification in compliance with the new ISO 14001 standard. •• Continued global greenhouse gas neutrality. •• Develop and implement a framework for long-term objectives aiming to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and to contribute to the overarching goal of the Paris Agreement, which is to limit the rise in the global temperature to well below 2º Celsius above pre-industrial levels. •• Further expand engagement and advisory services related to sustainable land use. Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 79 Abbreviations Disclaimer/ APAC – Asia Pacific; APAC PB within WM&C – Asia Pacific Private Banking within •• operational factors such as systems failure, human error, or the failure to impleInquiries Wealth Management & Connected; FINMA – Swiss Financial Market Supervisory ment procedures properly; Authority FINMA; FX – Foreign Exchange; GM – Global Markets; IBCM – Invest•• the risk of cyberattacks on our business or operations; ment Banking & Capital Markets; IWM – International Wealth Management; IWM •• actions taken by regulators with respect to our business and practices and posPB – International Wealth Management Private Banking; SRU – Strategic Resolusible resulting changes to our business organization, practices and policies in tion Unit; SUB – Swiss Universal Bank; SUB PC – Swiss Universal Bank Private countries in which we conduct our operations; Clients; UHNWI – Ultra-High-Net-Worth Individuals; WM&C – Wealth Management •• the effects of changes in laws, regulations or accounting or tax standards, poli& Connected cies or practices in countries in which we conduct our operations; •• the potential effects of proposed changes in our legal entity structure; Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information •• competition or changes in our competitive position in geographic and business areas in which we conduct our operations; This report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements. In •• the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; addition, in the future we, and others on our behalf, may make statements that •• the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our brand; constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements may •• the ability to increase market share and control expenses; include, without limitation, statements relating to the following: •• technological changes; •• the timely development and acceptance of our new products and services and •• our plans, objectives, ambitions, targets or goals; the perceived overall value of these products and services by users; •• our future economic performance or prospects; •• acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired businesses successfully, •• the potential effect on our future performance of certain contingencies; and and divestitures, including the ability to sell non-core assets; •• assumptions underlying any such statements. •• the adverse resolution of litigation, regulatory proceedings, and other contingencies; and Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and “plans” and similar •• other unforeseen or unexpected events and our success at managing these and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the the risks involved in the foregoing. exclusive means of identifying such statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. When evaluating forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the foregoing By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncerfactors and other uncertainties and events, including the information set forth in tainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, pro“Risk factors” in I – Information on the company in our Annual Report 2017. jections and other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause Important information about this publication results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, ambitions, targets, expectaInformation referenced in this Corporate Responsibility Report, whether via website tions, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. links or otherwise, is not incorporated into this Corporate Responsibility Report. These factors include: As of January 1, 2013, Basel III was implemented in Switzerland along with the •• the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access capital markets; Swiss “Too Big to Fail” legislation and regulations thereunder (in each case, subject •• market volatility and interest rate fluctuations and developments affecting interto certain phase-in periods). As of January 1, 2015, the Bank for International est rate levels; Settlements (BIS) leverage ratio framework, as issued by Basel Committee on •• the strength of the global economy in general and the strength of the econoBanking Supervision, was implemented in Switzerland by FINMA. Credit Suisse’s mies of the countries in which we conduct our operations, in particular the risk related disclosures are in accordance with its interpretation of such requirements, of continued slow economic recovery or downturn in the US or other developed including relevant assumptions. Changes in the interpretation of these requirements countries or in emerging markets in 2018 and beyond; in Switzerland or in any of Credit Suisse’s assumptions or estimates could result in •• the direct and indirect impacts of deterioration or slow recovery in residential different numbers from those shown herein. and commercial real estate markets; •• adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect of us, sovereign issuUnless otherwise noted, leverage exposure is based on the BIS leverage ratio frameers, structured credit products or other credit-related exposures; work and consists of period-end balance sheet assets and prescribed regulatory •• the ability to achieve our strategic goals, including those related to cost efficienadjustments. The look-through BIS tier 1 leverage ratio and CET1 leverage ratio are cy, income/(loss) before taxes, capital ratios and return on regulatory capital, calculated as look-through BIS tier 1 capital and CET1 capital, respectively, divided leverage exposure threshold, risk-weighted assets threshold, return on tangible by period-end leverage exposure. equity and other targets, objectives and ambitions; •• the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to us; We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. Factors •• the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, trade and tax beyond our control, including but not limited to the market and economic conditions, policies, as well as currency fluctuations; changes in laws, rules or regulations and other challenges discussed in our public •• political and social developments, including war, civil unrest or terrorist activity; filings, could limit our ability to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of these •• the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation, nationalization or coninitiatives. fiscation of assets in countries in which we conduct our operations; Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 80 Adjusted results are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude goodwill impairment Disclaimer/ and certain other revenues and expenses included in our reported results. Management believes that adjusted results provide a useful presentation of our operating Inquiries results for purposes of assessing our Group and divisional performance consistently over time, on a basis that excludes items that management does not consider representative of our underlying performance. Provided below is a reconciliation of our adjusted results to the most directly comparable US GAAP measures. Reconciliation of adjusted results (in CHF million) 2017 2016 Net revenues 20,900 20,323 Real estate gains 0 (424) (Gains)/losses on business sales 13 58 Adjusted net revenues 20,913 19,957 Provision for credit losses 210 252 Total operating expenses 18,897 22,337 Restructuring expenses (455) (540) Major litigation provisions (493) (2,707) Expenses related to business sales (8) 0 Inquiries Adjusted total operating expenses 17,941 19,090 Income/(loss) before taxes 1,793 (2,266) Credit Suisse Corporate Communications Total adjustments 969 2,881 Adjusted income/(loss) before taxes 2,762 615 Tel. +41 844 33 88 44 media.relations@credit-suisse.com Our cost savings program is measured using and adjusted operating cost base at constant foreign exchange rates. 2017 net cost savings represents the difference between 2015 “adjusted operating cost base at constant FX rates” of Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility & CHF 21.2 billion and 2017 “adjusted operating cost base at constant FX rates” of CHF 18.0 billion. “Adjusted operating cost base at constant FX rates” is a nonStakeholder Communications GAAP financial measure and includes adjustments as made in all our disclosures for restructuring expenses (CHF 355 million in 2015, CHF 540 million in 2016 and Tel. +41 44 334 54 26 CHF 455 million in 2017), major litigation provisions (CHF 820 million in 2015, responsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com CHF 2,707 million in 2016 and CHF 493 million in 2017), expenses related to business sales of CHF 8 million in 2017 and a goodwill impairment taken in the fourth quarter of 2015 of CHF 3,797 million as well as adjustments for certain accounting changes (which had not been in place at the launch of the cost savings Photography program) of CHF 170 million in 2017, debit valuation adjustments related to volatility of CHF 83 million in 2017 and for foreign exchange (CHF (319) million in 2015, Credit Suisse (3, 4, 49), Getty Images (1, 41, 61), CHF (293) million in 2016 and CHF (326) million in 2017). Adjustments for FX apply unweighted currency exchange rates, i.e., a straight line average of monthly iStockphoto (31, 37, 50) Mauritius Images (12) rates, consistently for the periods under review. Design Source Associates AG
