Teleplan CSR Annual Report 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Statement from Chief Executive Officer François Lacombe We are a company that is passionate about enhancing the lifecycle of electronic products, their components and materials and keeping their highest utility and value at all times. Through our CSR section on our website and our annual CSR report we provide a detailed look at the progress Teleplan has made in our key priorities: transition to circular business processes, value recovery solutions, environmental responsibility and ethical sourcing in addition to areas such as human rights and more. We also communicate our CSR vision for the future which includes ambitious, measurable goals for innovating services and solutions to extend product life and value recovery; creating an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace; promoting and encouraging employee charity fundraising through matched funding among other important CSR targets. At the beginning of 2017 we evolved our Corporate Vision statement to better reflect our business focus “Leading the Circular Economy for electronics through innovative diagnostic, repair and value recovery solutions”. We have been engaged in the circular economy movement for two years now and play an important role in enabling circularity for our clients and demonstrating our thought leadership position as the first, and still only, after market services provider in this movement. Our focus on innovating test solutions for multiple technologies is key to extending product life and the value recovery solutions which are our strategic priority will deliver the benefits of a circular economy. We have made good progress and gains over the past year and we look forward to sharing these developments in this report. From April 2018 onwards we will be supporting “Lessons for Life”, a significant step in our CSR journey. Lessons for Life is a children’s’ charity that funds educational projects in Africa. The ethos is that education changes everything and that every child, no matter where they are born, has the right to a quality education that equips them for life. Our monetary contribution is assigned to Child Aid in Uganda and will directly support children to attend and stay in school and benefit from school and classroom improvements. Working with Lessons for Life is a great privilege for us all at Teleplan. We hope our donation, fundraising efforts and future support can contribute towards the education of individuals who can use their newly learned skills to benefit others. Additionally, we will work with Lessons for Life to further spread awareness of their beliefs and grow their support. By living our three values Leading, Unifying and Caring as well as acting with purpose we continue to evolve our CSR story. François Lacombe Chief Executive Officer 2. Introduction Teleplan provides lifecycle care solutions for technology products. The company’s expertise is in extending the lifecycle of electronic devices through the provision of a range of services which include customer care and reverse logistics; screening and testing; parts management; repair, refurbishment and resale. When the product lifecycle cannot be extended, parts and materials are harvested and reused or disposed of responsibly. The company has been in operation for 35 years. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Teleplan supports customers in over 120 countries from its service centers in Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific and employs 5000 people.Working closely with its customers, leading consumer 1 electronics brands, operators, retailers and e-tailers as well as insurance companies the company is continually innovating to ensure its services keep up with advances in technology. Teleplan plays a vital role in mitigating the social and environmental impacts of the global consumer electronics industry. Sustainability is at the core of the business in the development and provision of services which keep products in use for as long as possible and maximise the value of parts and materials at end of life. Teleplan’s experience, expertise and proven track record in providing leading electronics brands with after-market services which optimise the value and utility of their products means it is well placed to take a leadership role in the global movement to transform to a circular economy. Teleplan was the first after-market services provider to become a member of the Circular Economy 100 Network in 2016. Teleplan’s commitment to sustainability is underpinned by the management of the ethical, social and environmental impacts of the business. Principally these are:  innovation of services and solutions to extend product life and maximise recovered value  meeting the highest ethical standards in the conduct of the business  creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper  ensuring the health, safety and well being of employees and facilities  the judicious consumption of energy  the responsible management of waste  charity fund raising and engagement with the community Teleplan manages these impacts through systems and procedures which are integral to day-to-day operations. The company maintains certification to internationally recognized standards. The company has a comprehensive Code of Conduct, translated into seven languages and fully disseminated across the organization. It works to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) code formerly known as Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). RBA is a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies which works with a common code of conduct to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Teleplan recognizes the importance of meeting customers’ requirements to ensure an ethical supply chain and has set the RBA Code as the standard it works to. It is assessed annually by EcoVadis and has achieved a Gold rating for the past two years. It is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and publishes a Communication of Progress (COP) on the UN Global Compact website each year. The Teleplan Management Board agrees objectives and targets to ensure that the social and environmental impacts of the business are managed appropriately. A report on progress towards the 2 achievement of these targets is made to the Management Board annually. The annual CSR report is published on the Teleplan website. 3 3. Teleplan’s CSR journey and achievements to date 2013 CSR 2014 charter Teleplan 2014 EICC 2015 defined and Code of Labor and Participate in published, Conduct 2014 Ethics Lead 2014 First CDP (Carbon EICC Code of 2014 CSR translated EcoVadis Auditors annual CSR 2015 Disclosure Conduct KPIs agreed into 7 Bronze trained and report EcoVadis Project) adopted and reported languages rating qualified published Silver rating Supply Chain 2016 Authorised Treatment Facility (AATF) 2016 Circular achieved at 2016 UN Economy 2016 Circular UK service 2015 2016 Join Global customer 2016 Circular Economy center for Signatory to Circular 2016 Compact experience Economy Product the UN Global Economy EcoVadis report center White Paper Passport treatment of Compact 100 Network Gold rating published opened published piloted e-waste 2017 Kicked off process 94% of of R2 Teleplan and eliminating 2017 electronics Matched customer2017 CE 100 single use Teleplan recycling funding for 2017 UN owned network 3D plastics in awarded standard employee Global materials, 2017 printing of Teleplan’s Cisco achieved at charity fund Compact parts and Ecovadis parts project supply chain Sustainability four service raising report equipment Gold rating led by HP ecosystem Award centers launched published recycled 4. Innovation of services to extend product life Launch of mobile ecosystem platform Innovation is at the core of Teleplan’s focus on extending product lifecycle. The continuous development of testers and solutions which reduce test cycles, increase levels of automation, improve productivity and output quality, and are controlled and verified through collected data points ensure after-market services are cost effective and deliver customer satisfaction. In 2017 Teleplan deployed its full functional and automated smart phone testing platform with Revolution and Nest at its service center locations in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific and also at customer premises and third party logistic hubs. This smart phone testing platform provides consistent, reliable and objective testing for Android and IOS based smart phones. It delivers increased productivity and fault detection accuracy and reduces test times by up to 70%. The high quality, objective, flexible, repeatable, full functional testing enables the diagnosis of a fault and the right disposition decision in respect of repair, refurbishment, same unit return, swap, resell or recycle. Test results can also be used to improve upstream fault detection in customer service processes and in the new build environment thus contributing overall to reducing returns and extending product life. Early in 2018 Teleplan unveiled Optiline, an objective grading tester, which can determine the physical and optical condition of any mobile phone or other electronic device surface. 4 Working with customers on bespoke solutions to reduce waste and operationalise circular economy principles In October 2017, Teleplan joined six other major suppliers of Dutch telecommunications company KPN including global network manufacturers and supply chain and recycling companies, in a commitment to ensure all new KPN network and consumer hardware is designed to last longer, produced using less virgin raw materials, and built in such a way that close to 100% of the parts and resources can be reused or recycled by 2025. This ‘Circular Economy Manifesto’ also looks into existing KPN hardware installed internally and externally to recover value from devices and parts which can be still used. The goal is to extend the lifecycle of products, delivering benefits to KPN’s ecosystem including its employees, its customers, investors and other stakeholders in their supply chain. Teleplan is supporting the operationalisation of circular economy principles through its diversified offering of value recovery solutions for storage, networking and Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) products. Since Teleplan processes over 65% of the worldwide Return Merchandise Authorisation (RMA) returns of Hard Disc Drives (HDD) for Western Digital, Seagate, Toshiba and HGST the opportunities for extending product life and value recovery in this niche segment are significant and impactful... Leading thought leadership in Circular Economy discussions The Circular Economy 100 network is a global platform bringing together leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. A circular economy is an economic model in which resources are kept in use for as long as possible, the maximum value is extracted from them whilst in use, and products and materials are recovered and regenerated at the end of life. Teleplan was the first and still is the only company operating in after-market services that has joined the CE 100 network. During 2017 Teleplan moderated Circular Economy Panels in Las Vegas and Amsterdam as part of the company’s Reverse Logistics Association engagement. The annual customer appreciation day held in November in the Netherlands was also focussed on Circular Economy with Markus Laubscher, Subject Matter Expert on Sustainability and Circular Economy at Philips as one of the guest speakers. Sustainability focus recognized by Cisco with Sustainability Award 2017 Teleplan has been awarded Cisco’s “Sustainability Award” .This prestigious award recognizes Teleplan for demonstrating sustainability leadership above and beyond standard sustainability practices, and leading the industry through their approaches to reduce negative environmental impacts and raise positive social impacts. The distinction was awarded during Cisco’s 26th Annual Supplier Appreciation Event. 5. Used and refurbished electronic devices – an established and growing market As new consumer electronic devices are launched on to the market, increased numbers of old, disused, or discarded electronics are disposed of well before the end of their useful life creating a waste management issue and depleting vital resources. Optimal recycling and material recovery schemes are critical to dealing with this increasing waste mountain but prolonging the life cycle of these devices through the sale of refurbished (“second-hand”) devices is becoming an established and growing market. For example the second-hand mobile phone market is expected to grow 4-5 5 times faster than the overall smartphone market. It is estimated that more than 120 million devices will be resold or reused in 2018, representing a global market worth US$17 billion.* Innovation and new technologies are creating exponential growth in consumer electronics and exacerbating these issues. Virtual Reality headsets for example are predicted to create a $2.8 billion market by 2020, compared to around $37 million in 2015. With this influx of new devices, manufacturers and retailers have a responsibility to ensure that electronic products pass back into the manufacturing cycle and components re-enter the supply chain. The after-market services Teleplan provides promote consumer confidence in buying used products. Services which include rigorous automated and objective testing, verification processes and data deletion compliant with recognised industry standards. *Estimates based on Teleplan research and publically available data 6. Ethical Conduct of the business Teleplan Code of Conduct The Teleplan Code of Conduct prescribes the important legal and ethical principles that all Teleplan employees, managers and directors must observe in conducting the company’s business. It provides a standing guide for handling business situations and determining key business decisions and actions in an honest, ethical and professional manner. Teleplan’s Code of Conduct is published on the corporate website and communicated to employees when they join the Company. It is translated into the seven principal languages used across the company and includes information on how to raise concerns, issues or suspected violations of the Code. Employees confirm their understanding of the Code and compliance to it through a written signoff process. Teleplan has an established whistle blowing policy and procedure which ensures that any individual can report in confidence and without fear of reprisal, actual or alleged breaches of the Teleplan Code of Conduct. Reports are managed by the General Counsel. There were no unresolved issues in 2017. Teleplan achieves a Gold rating in leading ethical standards assessment Teleplan has participated in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading and highly respected organization in this field, for each of the last four years and in 2017 maintained the Gold rating achieved in 2016. This reflects a comprehensive and ongoing improvement program and places Teleplan in the top 5% of the organizations EcoVadis assesses. Teleplan working to international standards Many of Teleplan’s customers are members of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA – formerly the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition EICC), a coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies which works with a common code of conduct to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Teleplan recognizes the importance of meeting customers’ requirements to ensure an ethical supply chain and has set the RBA Code as the standard it works to. To ensure that Teleplan has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and 6 audit to the RBA Code three members of the Quality Management team are qualified RBA Labor and Ethics Lead Auditors. RBA and SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) are undertaken on an ongoing basis and were conducted at two of Teleplan’s service centers this year. Teleplan maintains its certification to international standards. The three principal standards it works to are the environmental standard ISO 14001, health and safety OHSAS/ISO 18001 and quality ISO 9001. In 2017 the service center in Dallas achieved certification to ISO 14001 and OHSAS/ISO 18001. Ethical supply chain Teleplan expects its major local and regional suppliers to be aligned with and meet the social, environmental and ethical standards of the RBA Code of Conduct. This is the standard to which the company works and which has been adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan provides its customers with service solutions which range from simple repairs to highly sophisticated technological and electronic solutions. The units and components required to undertake these service solutions are purchased primarily from the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or from a supplier designated by the OEM. In these instances, which are the bulk of Teleplan’s activity, Teleplan does not determine the supplier or source of the component. In other instances Teleplan purchases industry standard parts. Teleplan does not subcontract the manufacturing of any units or components. Whilst a material part of the supply chain is determined by the customer, Teleplan recognises the importance of its role in driving ethical practices in the supply chain. 7 Teleplan Service Centers ISO Certifications and Recycling Standards and Licenses Square ISO OHSAS Recycling Site meterage ISO 9001 14001 18001 standards/licenses Bydgoszcz 10,372    WEEE Prague 13,200    WEEE WEEE 2,508 Havant   x Zoetermeer 15,713    WEEELABEX 2018 Tallinn 736  x x x Genk 1,250 x x x WEEE Mexicali 23,227    R2 Roseville 39,865    R2 Dallas 6,596    R2 Reynosa 13,178  2018 2018 R2 2018 Harrisburg 10,405  x x x Chile 1,100 x x x x Penang 17,193    R2 Hong Kong 3,159  x x x Singapore 1,551   x x Suzhou 5,850    x Jakarta 1,296  x x x Targeting international e-waste management standards The company is working towards certification to the WEEELABEX standard at its service center in Zoetermeer, The Netherlands. The WEEELABEX standard addresses the collection, sorting, storage, transportation, preparation for re-use, treatment, processing and disposal of all kinds of WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment). The newly opened service center in Genk, Belgium has achieved its licence for the handling of WEEE. In the Americas and Asia Pacific Teleplan is working with Sustainable Electronics Recycling International (SERI) on the R2 electronics recycling standard and has achieved certification at four service centers in 2017 – Mexicali, Mexico, Dallas, Texas, Roseville, California and Penang, Malaysia. The R2 Standard is the leading standard for the electronics recycling industry and provides a common set of processes, safety measures, and documentation requirements for businesses that repair and recycle used electronics. It is rigorously and independently audited, emphasizing quality, safety, transparency and environmental and social responsibility. 8 7. Creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace Teleplan employs some 5,000 people across multiple service centers and geographies. The recruitment, employment, training and development, health, safety and well being of these employees are integral to the prosperity and success of the business. Teleplan is committed to developing and maintaining a workplace and working environment in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper. Teleplan has established management systems which ensure that the business:  Complies with all non-discrimination requirements and provides equal opportunities in employment at every level.  Maintains an environment which promotes inclusion and diversity where individuals are free from any physical, sexual, psychological, verbal or visual harassment or abuse  Observes all applicable restrictions on the maximum hours employees are legally permitted to work  Pays employees at least the minimum wage required by local law and provides all legally mandated benefits  Upholds the right to freely chosen employment and does not use forced, indentured or bonded labor  Requires a minimum age requirement for employment consistent with local law  Upholds the right to freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining in accordance with applicable laws and regulations These policies and procedures apply equally to permanent and temporary contract employees. Employee training and development programs are developed and managed by the service center management working with the locally based human resources specialists thus facilitating learning which is tailored to local employee and business requirements. Teleplan promotes a sharing culture with its social networking service Teleplan recognizes the importance of effective, open dialogue between employees in engendering an inclusive, supportive and value-led culture. The organisation uses multiple employee communications channels including quarterly CEO updates, a bi-monthly employee newsletter INTOUCH and periodic town hall meetings in the service centers. Social media platforms such as LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter are included as well. The company operates Yammer, an enterprise wide social networking service. Available to all Teleplan employees, it enables individuals to initiate dialogue with their colleagues quickly, easily and effectively. Using a platform similar to Facebook it provides opportunities to share knowledge, information and news, ask questions and discuss current issues. It facilitates access to and the sharing of documents, data, project plans and contributes to efficient and effective teamwork. 9 8. Health and Safety of employees and facilities Health and safety performance Teleplan works to the OHSAS/ISO 18001 standard and is certified to this standard at eight of its service centers. The service center in Dallas, USA achieved certification in 2017 and one further service center is targeted to achieve the standard in 2018. Teleplan began collecting health and safety data in 2014. In 2017 the number of recordable incidents was 59 (2016:45). The absolute number of days lost as a result of these incidents was 458 (2016: 1,515). The incident rate (as defined by OHSA) was 1.2 (2016:0.88). The Severity Rate was 8 days (2016: 34 days). This means that for every recordable incident in 2017 an average of 8 days was lost due to work related injuries and illnesses. 9. Effective space management promoting reduced energy consumption Teleplan began collecting energy consumption data in 2014. Teleplan has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain program for the last three years. The overall trend in the period 2014 to 2017, is a decrease in the consumption of electricity. Natural gas consumption figures have been restated for 2016 and show an increase in consumption over the 2014 to 2017 period. Electricity consumption decreased by 9.4% in 2017 to 39,907 MW/h (2016: 44,030 MW/h). Natural gas consumption increased by 6.1% to 330,946 m3 (2016*: 311,853 m3). *2016 restated The decrease in electricity consumption is the result of a reduction in square footage in Teleplan service centers as space and facilities are used more efficiently and effectively. Levels of energy consumption are also impacted by the type of activity undertaken and this varies in line with customer requirements. All larger service centers undertake energy management activities and engage employees in the judicious use of resources. Investment is ongoing in energy efficiency initiatives and energy efficient equipment. In 2017 these included converting to LED lighting; the installation of motion sensors in rest rooms; HVAC energy management systems; improved ventilation systems; heat zoning; improved alignment of energy usage to working hours and switching off test equipment when not in use 10 Electricty Consumption 50.000 40.000 30.000 EMEA MHw APAC 20.000 AMER 10.000 2014 2015 2016 2017 Natural Gas Consumption 350.000 300.000 250.000 Meters 3 200.000 EMEA 150.000 APAC AMER 100.000 50.000 2014 2015 2016 2017 10. Recycling rates increased and target achieved Teleplan has a vital role in mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices through the provision of repair services. When a repair cannot be made, the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials is integral to Teleplan’s customer proposition. Teleplan has well established programs to recover, reuse and recycle electronic waste at all its service centers. Other types of waste handled include cardboard and paper, metals and plastics, hazardous spare parts and substances such as batteries and florescent bulbs all of which are managed through recycling programs. In 2017, Teleplan achieved its target and recycled 9,509 metric tons (2016: 6,543 metric tons) or 94% (2016:88%) of its own and customer-owned materials, parts and equipment. 11 Waste Streams Recycled 3,90 4,00 3,50 3,10 3,00 Tons (000's) 2,50 2,00 1,40 1,50 1,00 0,70 0,30 0,50 0,02 0,00 11. Matched funding enhancing employee charity fund raising and community engagement In recognition of Teleplan employees enthusiastic involvement both individually and together in fundraising activities and volunteering initiatives in support of the good causes important to them and to the community in which they work Teleplan launched a matched funding program in 2017 which reinforces the company’s commitment to living its values and reaching out beyond its usual business boundaries. Community and charitable activities are celebrated company-wide through the employee newsletter INTOUCH. These are a few examples of the many and varied activities undertaken by Teleplan employees in 2017. An employee at Havant service center undertook a sponsored walk to the summit of the Sydney Harbour Bridge and two of her colleagues did a sky dive, all raising money for the UK charity Over the Wall which provides residential summer camps for children and their families with serious illnesses and conditions. Teleplan Harrisburg has partnered with the S. Wilson Pollok Center for Industrial Training to offer contracts to people with disabilities or other special vocational needs. The not for profit organization offers a community-based programme serving the needs of individuals with vocational challenges. It contracts with local industry to provide services which include hand assembly, packing and labelling and it is the assembly of packaging which is being provided to Teleplan. Teleplan Penang has formed a Central Working Committee (CWC) of sixteen employees with a two year mandate to drive local social activities. One of their early initiatives has been to raise funds for and visit “The Lighthouse Drop-In Centre” for homeless people and gain a better understanding of its work. The aim of the centre is to help those who are poor and marginalized to be physically, emotionally, mentally, spiritually, and socially developed. CWC’s mission for the day was to cook and provide dinner for all the homeless people that visited the center; the first of an ongoing relationship with Teleplan Penang employees. 12 Looking ahead, in 2018 the company is engaging at corporate level with the charity Lessons for Life which embodies Teleplan’s vision, values and strategic focus. Lessons for Life is a children’s charity that funds education projects in Africa. The charity’s vision and mission are underpinned by the belief that education changes everything and that every child, no matter where they are born, has the right to a quality education that equips them for life. Lessons for Life supports children to make the dream of a good quality education a reality by removing the economic barriers to attending school, paying school fees, covering the costs of uniforms, books, stationery, sanitary protection and personal hygiene kits. The charity funds partners in Kenya, Lesotho, Rwanda, South Africa and Uganda. 12. CSR 2017 target achievements and midterm 2020 targets The objectives of the Teleplan CSR programme were developed in 2013 when the programme was first formalised. A number of these objectives have now been achieved and are fully integrated into business as usual. Longer term targets have been developed which reflect the company’s focus and drive to be full participants in the circular economy. As the circular economy becomes a greater imperative for Teleplan’s customers, Teleplan is developing and implementing solutions tailored to specific technologies and customer requirements. This is reflected in the achievement of targets in 2017 and the realignment of the 2020 targets. Objective Achievement 2017 Target 2018 Target 2020 Innovation of services and solutions to extend product life Teleplan to be a leader  Advised and  Continue to be a  Develop and and driver in the supported key thought leader in implement transformation to a customers on their relation to Circular solutions circular economy, CE journey Economy tailored to providing value creating  Participated in and  Contribution to an services and solutions. specific contributed to HDD re-use relevant CE academic technologies workshops and research with and customer conferences. iNEMI and requirements leading a coproject on data storage devices re-use. Teleplan to demonstrate  IT Mobile Continue program to Establish a program its commitment to Device Policy equip new Teleplan to equip all circular economy amended to employees with Teleplan through its own affirm the refurbished devices employees with practices. provision of and replace outdated refurbished mobile refurbished (not phones of existing devices when a new) mobile employees with replacement is phones for refurbished mobile required. eligible phones sourced from employees one of Teleplan’s  94 eligible mobile centers of employees have excellence been equipped with refurbished mobile devices Ethical conduct of the business 13 Ensure the highest  Teleplan Code of Ongoing management ethical standards in the Conduct awareness to ensure compliance conduct of our business and understanding with the Teleplan integral to the new Code of Conduct. employee induction process  Employee whistle blower and helpline maintained to promote compliance with the Teleplan Code of Conduct Exceed customer  Achieved EcoVadis  Implementation of expectations in the Gold rating in 2017 Environmental ethical, social and  Undertook RBA Impact Estimation environmental customer audit at Tool as part of our management of our two service centers Value Recovery business Solutions (VRS) and its reporting  Maintain EcoVadis rating  Meet all customer ethical, social and environmental audit requirements Creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper Ensure employees are Apply the learning and Achieve optimal engaged and Determined the optimal optimal ratio of ratio of temporary motivated to make ratio of temporary temporary to vs. permanent optimal contribution to contract to permanent permanent employees employees across the prosperity and employees in the in Europe and APAC Teleplan global success of the Americas region. regions. Maintain and operations business continue to optimise the ratio in the Americas Health and safety of employees and facilities Ensure a safe workplace Further enhanced and One additional and minimise workplace maintained OHSAS OHSAS 18001 accidents 18001 certification at 8 certified service service centers across center the world. Dallas service center achieved certification in 2017 Consumption of energy Compliance with Further enhanced and Achieve ISO14001 at international maintained ISO 14001 one additional service environmental certification at 10 center management standards service centers Manage use of energy Energy consumption Adopt an energy Reduce overall in major sites efficiently decreased as a result of consumption ratio energy local energy reduction appropriate to the consumption by a 14 programs such as business to facilitate percentage introduction of LED analysis and informed by the lighting, air conditioner management of energy reduction energy consumption. program usage control and /or installation of central ventilation system Reduce CO2 emissions Participated in the CDP Evaluate opportunities Reduce CO2 Supply Chain program to source alternative emissions by a for the third year energy sources percentage informed by the Implementation of opportunities Environmental available to source Estimation Tool as alternative forms of part of Teleplan’s energy. VRS solution Management of waste Compliance with Achieved R2 Achieve certification Extend recycling international waste Sustainable Electronics to the WEEELABEX standards and management standards Recycling standard at standard at one site in licenses to global four additional service Europe. footprint center locations in the Americas and Asia Pacific region. Optimise the recovery, 94% of Teleplan and Standardize Zero waste to reuse and recycling of customer-owned downstream waste landfill program operational and materials, parts and process at service implemented at customer waste equipment recycled. center level as a key major service milestone in the centers development and implementation of the Zero Waste to Landfill program Engagement with the community Facilitate employee Introduced matched Partnership with a Maintain matched charity fund raising and funding to promote and charity at Corporate funding to promote volunteering encourage employee level and initiate and encourage charity fund raising related local matched employee charity funding activities fund raising 13. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period covered by COP: January to December 2017 Statement of continued support from François Lacombe, CEO at Teleplan I am pleased to confirm that Teleplan reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders by publishing this communication on our website. The table below summarises our actions and provides a reference for further information. 15 Francois Lacombe CEO Teleplan 12th November 2018 INDEX OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SUPPORTED IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 Principle Action Further information/reference Human Rights Principle 1 The Teleplan Code of Conduct is Page 6 section 6 of this report published on the Teleplan website Businesses should support and and is integral to the new employee Teleplan Code of Conduct respect the protection of induction process. internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Teleplan works to the social, Pages 6, 7 section 6 of this report environmental and ethical make sure that they are not standards of the EICC Code of complicit in human rights abuses. Conduct. This is the standard adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan expects its major suppliers to be aligned with and meet the EICC Code of Conduct. Labor Principle 3 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Pages 8,9 section 7 of this report sets the company labor Businesses should uphold the standards. It is translated into Teleplan Code of Conduct freedom of association and the the seven principal languages effective recognition of the right to used across Teleplan’s collective bargaining; operations. Awareness and understanding of the Code and Principle 4 its importance to the business are promoted through a the elimination of all forms of forced program of employee training and compulsory labour; and communications and form an integral part of the induction Principle 5 of new employees. the effective abolition of child Teleplan has an established labour; and whistle blowing policy and procedure. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in Three members of the Quality Management team are trained respect of employment and and qualified as EICC Labor occupation and Ethics Lead Auditors and lead a program of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Environment Principle 7 Teleplan plays a vital role in Pages 1, 2 section 2 of this report mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices 16 Businesses should support a through the provision of repair Teleplan website precautionary approach to services and the recovery, environmental challenges; reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials. Teleplan enables its customers to manage faulty, damaged and waste products thereby prolonging the life of the product and reducing waste. Principle 8 Teleplan, is a member of the Pages 4,5, 6 sections 4 and 5 of Circular Economy 100 (CE100) this report undertake initiatives to promote network. CE100 is a global greater environmental platform bringing together Teleplan news release responsibility; and leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to Principle 9 accelerate the transition to a circular economy. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Teleplan has implemented a technologies. Global Circular Economy Taskforce which is working across the Teleplan operational regions on a number of circular economy projects including Product Passport. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 The Teleplan Code of Conduct Pages 6,7 section 6 of this prescribes the legal and ethical report Businesses should work against principles that all Teleplan’s corruption in all its forms, including employees, officers and Teleplan Code of Conduct extortion and bribery. directors must observe in conducting Teleplan’s business. Teleplan has set the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code as the standard it works to and has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the EICC Code. Teleplan participates in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading organization in this field. 17
