Global Compact Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 2017/2018 Declaration of Support and Progress Support Report m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Regarding Its Membership in The United Nations “Global Compact” Mannheim, Germany – November 2018 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Introduction The m:con – mannheim:congress LLC (hereafter m:con) is an established and respected service provider in the event and trade fair industry in Germany. Since 2008, m:con has been committed to the guidelines and principles of the UN Global Compact and was one of the first in this industry to join the UN Global Compact network. The commitment to a policy of sustainability within the business sector, within the event and trade fair industry, presents an enormous challenge, and requires a continuous and conscious handling of resources. This demands a high degree of innovative thinking as well as unceasing degree of self-reflectivity. m:con is sincerely committed to this issue. The subject of sustainability in the event and trade fair industry is influenced by and consists of various contradictions. Temporary structures that are intended for very short periods of time are quickly constructed with a great deal of effort, materials and energy. It is often the case in this industry that more priority is given to convenience and ad hoc structures, rather than to longitude. In addition, many of the methods for advertisement for such events, simultaneously produce large amounts of paper products, which ultimately contribute to massive quantities of waste. Therefore, the power and influence of the event and trade fair industry in regard to ecological, economic and social sustainability cannot be underestimated. The m:con is consciously aware of the ongoing necessity for concrete measures regarding sustainability. We firmly believe that these measures must be communicated to our clients and partners and implemented within the conceptual planning of events and trade fairs. The m:con views itself as a pioneer in this field and increasingly strives to make its clients and partners aware of the significance of sustainability in this sector. This report documents the achievements of m:con from September 2017 to November 2018 and also provides information regarding future projects that are currently underway. 1 Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights/Social Aspect Principle 1 Enterprises shall support and respect the protection of International Human Rights within their area of influence as well as Principle 2 – ensure that they are not guilty of violating human rights in any area of their business dealings Socially Oriented Initiatives and Projects of m:con The m:con company has been steadfast in its participation in socially oriented initiatives and projects. m:con strives to continuously increase its social engagement and firsthand participation in such projects. As in past years, the company carefully selects and pays very close attention to the sustainability of the projects in which it is engaged throughout the year. Moreover, m:con strives to find creative and innovative ways in which to be socially engaged in the city of Mannheim, as well as in the Rhine-Neckar region. The company started the year 2014 off with a project that speaks not only to the physical wellbeing of its employees and visitors, but also generates funding for an extremely important cause, namely pediatric oncology. In cooperation with the company A Punkt Wellness LLC, m:con installed in January 2014 several massage chairs in the building’s foyer, accessible to everyone. These massage chairs can be utilized for 1 Euro per 5-minute session. From October 2017 to May 2018 the massage chairs earned €561 which was handed over to the Uniklinikum Mannheim as part of the annual m:con donation, total amount €7950, for the neuroblastoma project. For several years now, this cooperation between m:con and the Children’s Clinic, Mannheim (Kinderklinikum Mannheim) has existed in order to support research into neuroblastomas. The support from m:con does not limit itself to the company’s own annual donation and the massage chair promotion, but also comprises, amongst other things, the organization and execution of an annual Charity Golf Tournament. In 2017 and 2018, the well-known charity event titled “m:con goes Golf” was carried out in cooperation with the Dorint Kongresshotel and the Adler Mannheim ice hockey team for the eighth and ninth time. In order to continue supporting the research, a ten-year anniversary charity golf tournament is planned for next year. 40,000 Euros were donated both in 2017 and in 2018. On 16th and 17thJune 2017, the dance festival m))) motion took place for the 12th time in the premises of the Rosengarten. On 07th June 2016, m:con celebrated its 10-year anniversary with the annual Dance Festival m)))motion. For the anniversary, the “Anpfiff ins Leben e.V.” was obtained as a further partner. This association has, in addition to the holistic youth sports 2 Global Compact Communication on Progress promotions from 2015, also set up an organization division with equal authorization under the name “Bewegungsförderung für Amputierte” (Promotion of Movement for Amputees). The association was able to present itself and its new division within the scope of the m)))motion. m:con furthered its links with this collaboration in 2017, in order to dedicate itself to this dancing sport, as well as to integrate it sustainably into the event concept in the future. In 2018, this partnership was enhanced even further with a dance workshop for people with amputations, within the scope of this year’s m)))motion. In doing so, m:con would like to send a message that one’s opportunities in life do not end with an amputation and that one can still have a social life. Since 2014, m:con has also supported the charity auction “Kunst tut gut!” (Art does you well!) from the Mannheim Competence Center for Sexually Transmitted Diseases (Kompetenzzentrum zu sexuell übertragbaren Infektionen Mannheims – KOSI.MA). This is an organization that advises and supports citizens with questions pertaining to the topics of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, regardless of their sexual orientation. For the fifth time, on 2nd December 2018, m:con, in cooperation with KOSI.MA, Künstlerbund Rhein-Neckar, and the Prince House Gallery Mannheim, invites people to the charity auction at the Mannheimer Rosengarten. Initiatives and Networks of m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH In 2006, three DAX companies Daimler, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Telekom along with BP Europe SE, joined forces and initiated the Corporate Charter of Diversity in Germany. The German Charter of Diversity is based on the French business initiative titled Charte de la Diversité and served as a step in the recognition of the significance of diversity and the ensuing demographic changes regarding Germany’s workforce. Many companies have come to realize the significance of diverse teams and staff, and that such teams open new opportunities for innovative and creative solutions. The implementation of the Charter aims to create and maintain a workplace environment that is free of prejudice and discrimination. Diversity and inclusion are topics that are important to the corporate culture and environment of m:con. In April 2013 the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC became a signatory of the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany and is, as of now, the sole congress venue and professional congress organizer in the Federal State of Baden-Wuerttemberg to support this business initiative. On the 5 July 2017 m:con was awarded the Lea-Mittelstandspreis für soziale Verantwortung in Baden-Württemberg – Leistung, Engagement, Anerkennung [SME award for social responsibility – performance, commitment, recognition]. This recognizes the 3 Global Compact Communication on Progress voluntary commitment of small and medium-sized companies beyond their own economic activity. The Ministry for Finance and the Economy and the Caritas charity in BadenWürttemberg award this SME prize once a year in order to bring these CSR activities into the limelight and encourage others to follow suit. In addition to commitments regarding regional events and national initiatives, the company m:con is also active in multiple regional, national and international networks. Here, the focus is placed on the promotion of the exchange of knowledge between different branches. In 2016, network activity increased enormously. At the moment, m:con actively participates in approx. 50 mainly regional networks. Barrier-free Measures in the m:con Congress Centre Rosengarten In the past few years, m:con has taken architectural and constructional measures to ensure accessibility for people with limited mobility as well as people with hearing impairments. The m:con Congress Center continues to design and install pictograms that show the entryways for people in wheelchairs, as well as the entryways to the induction loop systems. Induction loops are necessary in order to generate an electromagnetic field that ensures better sound quality and audio transmission for hearing aids. In the future, pictograms that show the entryways for people in wheelchairs, as well as the entryways to the induction loop systems, are to be visible at the entrance, in the foyer of the building, and in the entire building area leading to both main conference halls. The well-being of employees and visitors with special requirements is of great importance to the Management of m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH. Therefore, a person has been appointed who acts as a contact for both employees and for visitors, representing the interests of these people and dealing with their needs. The tasks of this contact person are: ✓ Attending to the concerns and complaints of employees and visitors with special needs ✓ Revision and implementation of measures which further assist individuals with special needs in the workplace and in the Congress Center Rosengarten (preventive as well as conducive measures). m:con – mannheim:congress LLC fulfills the yearly quota in accordance with the Article 80 Section 2 of the Social Legal Code. This Social Legal Code stipulates that 5 % of the entire staff must be comprised of employees with special needs. In the case that these regulations are not adhered to, companies are penalized and required to pay a fine. The company is pleased to announce that it has not had to pay any fines during the last years. 4 Global Compact Communication on Progress Future Measures The m:con Congress Centre Rosengarten always works to improve its accessibility for all customers and visitors with special needs. The goal is to enable equal access to the building for all visitors with limited mobility. Furthermore, at Congress Centre Rosengarten’s events, participants should also have the opportunity to have the path through the Congress Centre indicated for them. In the course of the current renovation of the fire protection infrastructure of the Congress Centre Rosengarten’s old building portions, the signage throughout the building is also to be modernized for this purpose. In the future, a large portion of the signage will be converted to digital screens. Also, two communication points in the entrance area are to be installed. This allows for a personalized and interactive exchange of information using gestures, as well as voice control. In autumn of this year, the website of m:con will be renewed. The process of the website relaunch has already been initiated and an appropriate agency has been selected through a standard tender procedure (also known as “pitch-procedure”). The aim is to improve the flow of information and increase user-friendliness. 5 Global Compact Communication on Progress Working Standards/The Economic and Social Aspect Principle 3 Enterprises should safeguard freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as well as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced labor Principle 5 the abolition of child labor Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in both hiring practices and on-the-job assignment work Social Aspects, Working Standards and Antidiscrimination As a one hundred percent subsidiary company of the City of Mannheim Investment Company LLC, m:con is legally obliged to uphold the stipulations of the Collective Wage Agreements for Employees in Public Service Jobs (TVÖD). m:con – mannheim:congress LLC strictly adheres to the statutory and standardized salary payment regulations, entailed in this agreement, for all current as well as future employees. As early as 1996, the company demonstrated it willingness to accommodate and promote a work-life balance model by introducing the possibility of home-office for several of its employees, in particular for those who take parental leave. In 2007, the flexi-time scale model was introduced so that employees are not required to punch a time clock and enjoy greater freedom to select their working hours based on individual needs. In order to better control the work-life balance of the employees and to accord with legal responsibilities and requirements, m:con has installed an electronic time recording system in November 2015, which accurately calculates and determines the working hours. The company’s management and Workers’ Council entered into an agreement that allowed employees to individually and independently create their own work schedules, as long as these remained within the time frame as specified by the company’s flexi-time scale. In order to ensure the accuracy of employees’ working hours, a detailed system, one which is similar to a traffic light account (Ampelkonto), was created and implemented. Working hours are accumulated and stored in an account that offers an oversight and management thereof. The traffic light system works in the following manner: Green light: the employee is within the monthly 30 overtime and 10 minus hours limit 6 Global Compact Communication on Progress Yellow Light: A warning is given if the employee has exceeded the monthly 30-50 hours maximum, or is in overdraft with 1020 minus hours. In this case the employee’s Line Manager is contacted and asked to assist in finding a solution to decrease or increase the number of hours within the account. Red light: In the case that overtime hours have surpassed the 50 hours of overtime limit or the work hours account indicates 20 hours in the minus; the Human Resources department and the Line Manager are called together to swiftly find and implement a solution. Aside from the flexible arrangement of working hours, since September 2018, m:con has offered its employees the opportunity to use a converted conference room as a creative space. The room is equipped with special technology in the form of a touchscreen mounted on the wall, which is to promote creative collaboration with paperless means. Along with the screen, the interior of the room was designed to be “cozy”. Both the coloring scheme and the use of Iceland moss (waterproof moss) on the walls significantly differentiate the room from a normal conference room. Add to that a foosball table as well as several beanbags to create a creative, yet relaxing atmosphere. In order to promote family and vocation, m:con closed a Company Agreement on the Childcare Allowance on 1st January 2016 (for 2016). This voluntary service is granted to employees actively employed at the company, who have a child living in their household that does not yet have to attend school up to an age of maximum six-seven years. The topics of discrimination and exclusion are both taken very seriously by the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC. The company’s human resources policies strictly prohibit discriminatory practices or behavior towards its staff or during recruitment. Advertisements for vacancies are formulated in gender neutral language and are impartial to the sex, “race”, sexual orientation or religious beliefs of the applicant. As mentioned earlier, m:con became the first congress center in Southern Germany to promote the topic of diversity by signing the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany in 2013. m:con counts currently 114 employees. The make-up of the staff is as follows: 102 employees (19 on a part-time basis), 6 auxiliary workers (all part-time), 12 trainees and three interns. In December 2013, an introductory workshop (“Einsteiger-Tag”), that offers an overview of the company’s various departments and specific tasks, was implemented for all new m:con employees. The head of each department at m:con was requested to give a 30 minute introduction and overview of her or his specific area and to explain exactly how the various departments interact and cooperate to complete the tasks that are demanded of a service provider. Further, a guided tour through the entire Congress Center has also become part of a 7 Global Compact Communication on Progress welcoming incentive offered to all new employees so that they can familiarize themselves with the history and inner as well as outer workings of the building and its various halls. In 2015, the company introduced a Starter Package in addition to the existing “Kick-Start” welcome brochure, in order to make life easier for new employees when starting work. The Starter Package contains all the necessary information on the history of the company and its structure, as well as guidelines. Since 2016, “Kick-Start” will now also be provided to new employees in digital form on a USB stick. Since July 2017, m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH has been a member of the Erfolgsfaktor Familie business network. This membership is a declaration by the company that it has a family-friendly human resources policy and contributes to making family friendliness a trademark of German business. The collaboration between employees is of great importance to m:con. Two annual teambuilding events are, amongst others, the Christmas Party and the Summer Festival. This last is traditionally organized by the apprentices at m:con. Not only the employees and their families come together, but also collaborative events are conducted (for example a team quiz) which are intended to intensify the exchange and cooperation between employees. In addition to regular additional training, subject-related closed conferences are held within the scope of the internal further training academy, IECA, which are intended to reflect the team-building concept. In 2016, m:con employees also formed their own football team for two football tournaments. The revitalization of the Lunch&Learn format is another m:con teambuilding measure. In order to further encourage foreign language skills, the company is offering a range of different language courses on a voluntary basis since 2017. Lessons take place once a week in the lunch break. The health and wellbeing of all m:con staff members are also of importance to the General Management of the company. That’s why m:con and the former fitness and rehabilitation center Sportomed (a part of the Pfitzenmeier consortium since August 2018) concluded a cooperation agreement in 2011. Sportomed offers all m:con employees the opportunity to train in and utilize its fitness facilities without having to pay extra. In addition, regular consultations take place on the subject of old-age provision. Here, in addition to the general consultation, it is possible to obtain information individually in a subsequent dialogue. The m:con has its own Workers’ Council which is re-elected regularly every four years. The last election took place on 28th March 2018. The members of the Workers’ Council take on the task of protecting the rights of their colleagues and representing their interests. The Workers’ 8 Global Compact Communication on Progress Council acts as a neutral instrument and contributes towards the work standards of the Global Compact of the United Nations being upheld. The next elections are planned for 2022. The Workers’ Council has and will continue with the improvement of communication measures. This is achieved by maintaining fixed weekly office hours during which employees have direct access to members of the council. Communication is also enhanced by use of an intranet platform where employees and council members can exchange ideas and information. In addition, one member of the council has been assigned the duty of attending to the needs and concerns of the B.A. degree trainees and apprentices. Education and Advanced Training The m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH offers vocational training, dual study courses and trainee positions and apprentice internships in various divisions. The following specialist subjects are offered: • Event technician • Event administrators • Administrators for office management • Office administrators • Voluntary work in the field of company communications • Dual study course in trade fair, congress and event management • Dual study course in digital media • IT specialist in the field of system integration m:con also offers training opportunities and short-term internships to high school pupils and students so that they can gain practical work experience in the event and congress management sector from early on. At the time of this reporting, our company has six trainees who are B.A. students from the Baden Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University; five are vocational-technical trainees. In addition, there are three secondary school interns. It is m:con’s goal whenever possible to offer its trainees upon completion of their studies an employment contract. As mentioned above, the Summer Festival, which takes place annually in July, is traditionally organized by the apprentices. In 2018, this was changed for the first time and the apprentices will organize the Christmas Party. This is intended to give trainees at m: con the opportunity to 9 Global Compact Communication on Progress develop their creativity and opportunity to independently plan and carry out projects. The change is also intended to integrate the new students and trainees directly into the company via the given project. In addition, there are regular meetings in which the trainees exchange cross-sectoral information and can help each other in emerging problems. In this way, the apprentices should grow to form a team. Every year, and depending on requirements, m:con employees receive the opportunity to attend further training courses and seminars from all areas of event and congress management. Here employees can also utilize the range of offers provided by the in-house Further training Academy IECA. In 2005, m:con established The International Event & Congress Academy (IECA) which offers additional training to employed individuals who are already working in the event and congress sector. Since 2010, IECA has cooperated with the regional Rhine-Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce and continuously built upon and advanced the types of workshops and courses it offered. Since 2012, the IECA Academy has expanded its seminar/course selection and includes workshops and seminars in the areas of sustainability in the congress and event sector, event management & compliance, diversity and intercultural communication. These seminars are open to not only outside participants but, also to m:con employees as well. In June 2015, m:con opened an office in Berlin and will therefore expand the IECA Academy and offer additional seminars and courses for the event and congress industry. 10 Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Protection/Ecological Aspect Principle 7 Enterprises shall take preventive actions and support preventative measures when dealing with environmental issues. Principle 8 – take initiatives to create greater awareness and responsibility towards the environment and Principle 9 – promote the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technology. Initiatives and Awards In addition to creating public awareness regarding the issue of environmental protection and responsibility within the business and entertainment event sector, m:con has completed additional certification. In 2011, m:con received its first certification by the FAMABSustainable Company. FAMAB Sustainable Company has developed a certification system for environmental sustainability for the event and trade fair sector in cooperation with the companies CO2OL and Viabono. FAMAB Sustainable Company has in the meantime become a cross border European label. As of now, FAMAB is recognized as the sustainability certification process for Germany and Switzerland. After rigorous reporting and two extensive telephone interviews, m:con was awarded in 2011 the FAMAB certification for a two-year period and became recertified in February 2014 and December 2016. A renewed certification for 2018 is in progress. m:con became a supporter in October 2012 of the German Convention Bureau’s (GCB) and European Association of Event Centre’s (EVVC) sustainability initiative titled Fairpflichtet. m:con also fulfilled the conditions for the Fairplichtet certification. Fairpflichtet advocates a sustainability codex for the German event and trade fair industry that corresponds to the principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2014 and 2017, certification procedures were carried out again. m:con is proud of these achievements and has communicated its continuous progress in the field of sustainability through the publication of external and internal press releases. With the current renovation of the fire protection infrastructure and the aforementioned introduction of communication points, also underway are a spatial relocation of the information stand and a re-structuring of its contents (InfoQuelle) in the foyer of the congress center. Its services will continue to be actively provided in the future. Here, visitors can learn about eventrelated topics, as well as restaurants, shopping opportunities, and additional attractions in 11 Global Compact Communication on Progress Mannheim and throughout the Rhein-Neckar region. At selected events, participants will be provided with, among other things, free bicycles for environmentally friendly movement about the event location. Also, m:con’s successes in the area of sustainability and its memberships will be clearly listed for all visitors after the renovations have been completed. More information can be found at: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability-2/. This area entails the following: • Global Compact certificate, • Fairpflichtet certificate • Sustainable Company certificate • ClimatePartner – carbon footprint calculation certificate • Certificate of the climate protection alliance Mannheim • Charta der Vielfalt – diversity & inclusion • 100% green electricity for travel certificate awarded by the German Railways (Deutsche Bahn) Since January 2014, m:con is listed in the “Green Meetings 2.0” data base, which enlists all event and congress organizers that offer green meetings: http://www.greenmeeting20.de/location/ 26-m-con-congresse-tagungen-events-mannheim. m:con installed a C02 computer and had their C02 balance inspected through the consulting company ClimatePartner GmbH: http://www.climatepartner.com/en/services/ consulting/carbon-footprint/. ClimatePartner has branch firms in Munich and Berlin and is a consulting partner of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The demand for sustainable events and the use of the C02 computer has up to now been low on the part of our customers. Therefore, m:con is currently working on an extended communications concept in order to obtain customers for the sustainable implementation of events. In 2017 m:con joined the initiative Mannheimer Bündnis für ein Zusammenleben in Vielfalt [Mannheim alliance for living together in diversity]. The alliance pursues the objectives of strengthening respectful coexistence and of countering the various forms of discrimination. By signing the Mannheim Declaration, m:con declares itself in agreement with a fundamental set of values shared by parties actively committed to living together successfully in the diverse city of Mannheim. Since October 2017, m:con has also been a member of the Klimaschutz-Allianz der Stadt Mannheim [Mannheim climate protection alliance]. The climate protection alliance was founded in 2017 and brings together Mannheim businesses and the Council of the City of 12 Global Compact Communication on Progress Mannheim. The alliance sets out to win industrial companies, small and medium-sized businesses and municipal business units for the improved protection of the environment and climate and to make the commitment of sustainable companies more visible. Successful measures on the road to the climate protection target of reducing CO2 emissions by 2020 by 40% in comparison to 1990, include energy savings and greater energy efficiency. Further measures may include business transportation concepts and moves to adapt to climate change. Since 2018, m:con has been committed to improving its snack concept for seminars. At events, seminars and conferences, packaged snacks should be avoided as much as possible in our own seminar rooms. Premium items with a sustained advertising effect and certified production (IFS/FSSC) have been selected. Health and hygiene aspects also play a significant role. Acquisition of three company bicycles and an electric cargo-bike: in 2017, the City of Mannheim celebrated the 200th anniversary of the invention of the bicycle. To mark this celebration, m:con provided its employees with 2 bicycles and an electric cargo-bike. Thus, starting from January 2017, employees had the opportunity to revert to an environmentally friendly means of transportation for nearby service rides or to make purchases within Mannheim or Ludwigshafen. Also, the bicycles serve the employees in identifying with the city of Mannheim and the bicycle’s anniversary year. An additional employee bicycle was acquired in the summer of 2017. Even in the area of events, m:con places value on providing guests with alternatives for mobility that are as environmentally friendly as possible. This starts with the opportunity to plan one’s journey to be as environmentally friendly as possible through m:con’s own website via the “Green Mobility” tool and extends to the cooperation with local public transportation companies and the Deutsche Bahn, which provides discounts or free rides with a congress ticket. This also includes the aforementioned opportunity for congress participants to use rental bicycles around the congress. Furthermore, in 2017, m:con received professional consultation on the topic of operational mobility management within the scope of the “mobile gewinnt” (mobile wins) support initiative. The aim of the support initiative is to support businesses involved in sustainable mobility in further expanding their current activities. Here, both the inhouse mobility as well as employees’ commutes were taken into consideration. In m:con’s case, the mobility of event participants was also examined. Among others, the initiative strives to design traffic more efficiently and to promote the use of bicycles and public transportation. Operational mobility management is a concept that combines many good ideas and paves the way to healthy and environmentally 13 Global Compact Communication on Progress friendly mobility. As a result of this report, in the Spring of 2018, the amount of bicycle parking spaces was increased. Another planned measure for 2019 is the placement of a beehive on the roof of the building. With several parks in the immediate and nearby proximity, this is to contribute to the preservation of its own green space as well as all the green spaces within the hive’s reach. Following a pilot phase, if appropriate, additional colonies are to be placed. Deutsche Umweltpreis (2019)German Environmental Award: After fulfilling strict criteria regarding technical, administrative and organizational capacities; the German Environmental Foundation (DBU-Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt) https://www.dbu.de/ selected the city of Mannheim and the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC from twenty-four competitors from the event and congress industry across Germany to host the German Environmental Award in 2019. See: http://www.forum-csr.net/default.asp?News=8397. Environmental Friendliness of the m:con in Collaboration with Specialized Partner Companies WISAG/MVV As in past years, m:con still maintains its partnership with the facility management company WISAG Service Holding and the energy provider MVV Public Holding Company. Both corporations are vital to m:con’s infrastructure. The Congress Center procures ecological power from the MVV AG and strives to consistently increase the proportion of ecological power used. In autumn 2016, the ecological power proportion of power consumption lay at 40.2%. By autumn 2017, an increase of 5.3% took place, so that the proportion currently lies at 45.5%. Within the time period April-May 2016, the “BFE Institut für Energie und Umwelt GmbH” (Institute for Energy and the Environment) conducted an energy consultation on a voluntary basis. Current data were collected, analyzed and assessed by the Congress Center Rosengarten. In addition, economic and ecological savings potentials were revealed. In the near future, plans and considerations are to be made regarding the optimization and the appropriate implementation, and these are to be recorded in the energy management system. WISAG and MVV provide m:con with the following services: Energy (electricity, heating, water) and electrical utility maintenance Documentation, reporting and consultation in regard to the optimization of these processes Technical building engineering management Maintenance of the facility and its premises 14 Global Compact Communication on Progress Seating Housekeeping m:con maintains the following ecologically friendly measures for disposal of waste products and house-keeping: Utilization of bio-degradable cleaning products Leftover foodstuff is collected and processed into biogas by an organic waste contractor Sanitary facilities that utilize a “lotus effect” (water repellent) system In-house separation of waste materials In the past few years, the conversion to LED lighting in several halls and other areas of the Congress Center Rosengarten was already launched together with WISAG. During the summer breaks of 2016 and 2017, a large portion of the lighting in the new construction of the Rosengarten was converted to environmentally friendly and durable LED lighting. This relates to the ceiling illumination, as well as a 27 x 3 m-large light wall in the foyer of the third level of the building. This way, energy consumption as well as the resulting costs are to be reduced. CO² emissions can also be reduced. These measures were acknowledged with a nomination for the “Meeting Experts Green Award 2017”. Within the scope of the current renovation of the fire protection infrastructure, the lighting in the respective renovation section of the old construction will also be swapped out and replaced with an environmentally friendly alternative. Along with their substantially reduced electricity consumption, LEDs also possess a significantly higher lifespan, as well as lower rates of outages and thereby lead to savings in the facility’s maintenance and servicing costs. Dorint Congress Hotel The Dorint Congress Hotel is the catering partner of m:con and works in close cooperation with the company to provide sustainable catering options to clients. Our catering partner provides the following: Dorint Hotel has implemented a user-friendly Co2 calculator for guests Locally grown produce from the Palatinate region is utilized, which minimizes transport, thus reducing CO2 emissions Organic food catering services and Fair Trade coffee and tea upon request Procurement of still and carbonated water in returnable deposit bottles instead of plastic bottles via a regional supplier 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress To the extent possible, the foregoing of disposable packaging The utilization of energy saving of dishwashers that have reduced water consumption by more than 35% Reusable flatware is used for all events Event participants are provided with lunchboxes in brown recycled paper. They are also able to compose their own lunchboxes, avoiding further waste and preventing food from being thrown away Upon request, there are special gluten and lactose-free meals, as well as vegetarian and vegan dishes. Through the acquisition of new mobile buffet elements, there are substantial savings arising from the amount of table linens and thereby a reduction of the water and detergent consumption in addition to the necessary transports to the laundry facility. Other partners: Office requirements: Ordering of office materials from a manufacturer from the RhineNeckar metropolitan region, which offers environmentally-friendly products. Print orders: m:con has also concerned itself in-depth with the reduction of printed materials and the use of advertising means which are gentle on resources. Print orders are only issued to FSC-certified printshops. On 29th February 2012, m:con introduced its mobile congress App for Smartphones and an online questionnaire for customers with which they can assess the performances and services of the agency. The introduction of these environmentally-friendly products has ensured that only a few printed congress’ guides and questionnaires are still required. Advertising means: With a view to environmentally-friendly advertising means, m:con uses brand pens, notebooks from FSC sources and coasters made of recycled leather and waives products (e.g. made of plastic) which continue to place strain on the natural resources and the environment. 16 Global Compact Communication on Progress m:con – mannheim:congress LLC Surroundings: Superb Location and Climate Friendly Infrastructure The m:con congress center Mannheim has a superb location in the low emissions zone of the city center and is seven minutes away (by foot) or 900 meters from the main station Mannheim’s main station is the second most important railway junction in the ICE highspeed inter-city train system. Thirty minutes by train from Frankfurt International Airport makes arriving to Mannheim easy and, as of January 2014, climate neutral train service, since the German National Railway now utilizes 100% green electricity. m:con – mannheim:congress LLC maintains its partnership with the German National Railway and provides visitors with a rail/travel event entrance ticket. In addition, m:con cooperates with the local transportation network (ÖPNV) of the Rhine-Neckar Metropolitan Region and provides congress and cultural event visitors with a combined public transportation and entrance ticket. Rental bicycles are offered free of charge to m:con guests and visitors during their stay in Mannheim Electric cars are used by m:con for shuttle services to and from Mannheim’s main station and the city center. A public recharging station for electric vehicles has been implemented and is currently in use. The m:con Berlin office enables clients located in Northern Germany to reduce travel time and distance, thus reducing carbon (CO2) emissions. 17 Global Compact Communication on Progress Fight Against Corruption Principle 10 Enterprises shall take action against all forms of corruption, and especially against blackmail and bribes. Compliance-System In April 2015, m:con’s detailed compliance system went into effect. In addition, a compliance brochure was produced that outlines the basic compliance principles as upheld by the (MCGK) Mannheim Corporate Governance Codex. This brochure will serve as a tool to better assist all m:con-mannheim congress staff members (Line Managers as well as lower level employees) in their interactions with clients in regard to compliance guidelines and standards. These guidelines are alluded to periodically. In addition, there is a permanent Compliance Officer from whom employees can seek advice in case of doubt. A t m:con, compliance is seen as an important component of responsible company management. Primary objectives are risk minimization and damage prevention, improving transparency and reputation and ensuring that we act in a way that complies with regulations and the law. It is important to make clear that establishing a compliance system is not an attempt to monitor employees in everything they do; the focus is rather on the due diligence incumbent upon a company and above all the fact that we, as a public company, place increased value on our reputation. Pledge to Make Public Announcements m:con is a 100% subsidiary of the City of Mannheim’s Investment Company (LLC) and as a contractor of public services m:con appoints all delivery, construction or service contracts according to policies stipulated by tendering laws against restrictions on competition (GEB). The company ensures fair competition in conformity with the market for all contracts by making public announcements for all tenders. Compliance to the Pharmaceutical Code: As a Professional Congress Organizer, the planning and hosting of scientific and medical conferences is one of our main activities. These conferences take place in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry and members of this business sector. m:con always strictly respects the regulations of the pharmaceutical code (FSA-Code) as stipulated by the Union of “Voluntary Self-Regulation Controls for the Pharmaceutical Industry e.V.”) when planning and 18 Global Compact Communication on Progress hosting an event so that such may be carried out according to the wishes of our clients and free of dishonest influences. To ensure that all endeavors are transparent and adhere to these regulations, several m:con employees have attended workshops and received additional training so that they are informed about the contents, regulations and interpretations of the pharmaceutical codes that need to be considered while planning events that deal with or concentrate on this topic. MedTech – a shared code for ethical conduct The new code of ethics of the European trade association representing the medical technology industry, MedTech Europe, has the objective of protecting and strengthening the relationship between industry and medical professionals. It makes clear demands on collaboration. Here too, m:con has committed to abiding by the guidelines of the code of ethics in the planning and implementation of medical events, because the new conditions also require changes with regard to professional training formats. In order to strengthen transparency, since 1 January 2017 member companies have made public the training grants they provide to healthcare institutions. Conferences enjoying financial support from a member company must be vetted as being compliant in advance by the conference vetting system. In future, member companies will not be permitted to provide direct financial support for the active or passive conference participation of medical professionals. From 1 January 2018 the only way to do this will be as training grants received by healthcare institutions with a written agreement. It is worth noting here that all grants must be made public. Whilst it is not possible to identify individual professionals, the member company must nevertheless set out which department or field will profit from the grants. Measure to Prevent Partiality As in the past, all invitations to m:con-mannheim congress events contain an explicit notification that anyone who receives an invitation to an event must ensure that her/his participation in the event has been authorized by the responsible authorities. Our invitations contain the following passage: “This invitation is being sent to you under the conditions that you have obtained the necessary approval from the responsible authorities to attend this event. If this has not been granted, then please disregard this invitation”. 19 Global Compact Communication on Progress This progress report and the measures described within will also be made available in German, thus making it accessible to all our stakeholders. The report shall be posted on our Green Meetings website as of December 2018. Please see: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability/ Furthermore, we continuously refer to m:con’s membership in the UN Global Compact Network in order to foster more public awareness in our region for the UN Global Compact and its principles. Johann W. Wagner Chief Executive Officer m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Rosengartenplatz 2 68161 Mannheim, Germany 20
