UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 JANUARY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Henrik Marstrand, CEO & Founder, Mater Design “Mater means ‘mother’ in Latin. The name is the daily reminder of our small contribution to preventing the challenges ‘mother earth’ faces. Design influences how we as humans live our lives; it shapes values, culture and society. Unfortunately, we are increasingly aware that the choices made during design processes often have environmental consequences. However, as a manufacturer, we have the opportunity to rethink dubious practices and create ethical and sustainable design that minimises adverse social and environmental impacts.” HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision We believe that good results, durable products and designs if we treat people with respect and decency. This accounts for our employees and designers as well as our suppliers – many of whom is small business owners. At Mater we want to do more than just adhere to local laws and be in compliance with Human and Labour Rights as described in the UN Global Compact. But just to be clear we have strict policies to ensure the best way possible that we are in no way complicit in any kind of Human og Labour Rights abuses. We want to promote a culture with consideration to all every person that we are in direct contact with. Progress We are happy that Mater is getting more and more recognized on a global scale. We emphasize the importance of our Code of Conduct and the principles of UN Global Compact to all our suppliers in regard to all aspects of Human and Labour Rights and we are firm supporters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. Every year we review and update relevant policies. We are aware that due diligence is necessary on an ongoing basis. Especially when you consider that our business conduct is not only in Denmark but in many different places all over the world. This is relevant in regards of exploring new designs and trends, seeking inspiration and especially when we are looking for new suppliers. We still cherish local craftmanship and the traditions associated to their method of production but are obliged to unite and unify our high demands for ethical production and use of materials. On a continuous basis we try to educate and teach small suppliers to become better at enforcing the principles of UN Global Compact. Results In the last year there has been no reported incidents reported. We are pleased that we do in fact have no reported incidents during Maters lifetime. All our company procedures aim to protect internationally proclaimed Human and Labour Rights for all influenced by our business conduct and we have a zero tolerance of noncompliance. Over the years, we have experienced how an idealistic approach to better conditions for workers in the workshops and the choice of which wood to use can take you far, what really has an impact is the size of your order. With Mater’s growth strategy, it is our sincere hope that larger orders to our suppliers from our side will result in an increased ability to have a positive impact on the ways of production and employment around the world. We have had success with talking to our suppliers and not trying to enforce our standards. We believe that through a genuine and open-minded approach we can improve the conditions for employees of our suppliers and create a mutual understanding. ENVIRONMENT Vision Maters vision is quite clear in regards of environmental awareness and sustainable business conduct. It has always been a cornerstone to our business but now – more than ever – we feel obliged to communicate just how important it is to us. We want you to know the story about the deigns that decorate your homes and how they are build. Concepts as reuse, recycling and conscious choices of material are recurring in all of our products and to every product we have a story – nothing is left to coincidence. Our designs aim at both commercial and residential use, we strive to avoid and minimize any adverse impact on society, by following ethical and sustainable production criteria and creating products that will both stand the test of time and inspire the consumer to cherish and savour them. 2018 and 2019 will be exiting years for Mater as we plan launch five new stores around Europe. The concept is to not only show our designs but tell the story and show how our designs are made with respect and care – or more precisely how every aspect of our designs has been carefully chosen with consideration to our surroundings. Progress We do of cause follow all relevant environmental laws and regulations in the countries we operate and are committed to act in accordance to these. Further all suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct with guidelines of the UN Global Compact and its principles. Our first concept stores opened in Copenhagen and we are planning to open five more in London, Hamburg, Oslo, Stockholm og München through 2018. We always seek designs that rethink how you can reuse and recycle material that normally would have little to no use otherwise. Sometimes this can be a long journey, but we feel that when we succeed the hard work and effort is all worth it. Results One of recent projects in development is in cooperation with the Danish company Really. We are trying to develop a new type of compressed material made of recycled material. This material is originally developed as noise suppressing fiber but when compressed it give a very special feel and look. We hope to present prototypes of this cooperation next Communication on Progress. We are always proud when we are able to create beautiful designs with material others don’t “believe in”. Along with the new material we are working on, we are looking forward to present even more different projects in 2018. The past years has been a sole focus on our products and the environmental footsteps they leave behind. But now we try to focus on the small details surrounding our entire business, For instance our gift certificates are made from one hundred percent biodegradable materials. Our store sign is made from recycled mirrors and the tables we work at is one of our newest projects in regards of sustainable materials. This project will be described further below. SELECT PRODUCTS Det Påklædte Møbel / The Dressed Furniture This design is created by a student named Frederik Colding Newman and has been chosen as part of our collection due to the fact that it has been created to underpin principles of The UN Global Compact. The furniture enables you to change certain parts of fabric hence change the look and feel of the chair – should design trends change. The design is indeed beautiful but we also those this chair as part of our collection because we want to signal to the next generation of designers that there is a market for sustainable design. We want to plant the seeds and create focus, curiosity and interest in the educational part of furniture design. Decay Tray The effects of decay and texture from the fungus inside the wood create very dramatically natural designs and some beautiful changes like special patterns of dark lines and sometimes discoloration. It originates from wood planks of waste and when the wood sucks up moisture from rain and its surroundings it starts to deteriorate. The process gives the wood a unique pattern making each tray different form each other. The decay process is stopped using an appropriate food save lacquer making the tray useful for serving purposes such as fruit, cookies or similar. SELECT PROJECTS Earth Gallery Maters Earth Gallery is one of our most comprehensive projects in 2018. Our Earth Galleries will become a place where you can explore our story. The surroundings will showcase our unique products but more importantly also to tell the story behind every little detail from craft methods to material choices and provide insights to the history of our brand. We develop installations to express and elaborate the story behind our choices of material as each is thoroughly selected, based on sustainability, durability, quality and feel. We tell the story to why they are sustainable and where are they sourced. How are they produced, shaped, dyed and crafted and how does that reflect to sustainable visions. We are continuously curious to work with new materials in our quest for designing sustainable and responsible interior. Our customers should expect an extension to the existing designs within lighting and seating, always created with our key purpose as a guiding star: we should always be able to answer why we chose this exact product and manufactured it at that particular workshop. We make ethical furniture. The showrooms will be an interpretation and display of our ethics, so not only will we show the products but we also aim to showcase the details of how they are manufactured and which considerations we took along the way. Alongside this, our Earth Galleries will be the place to find statement-pieces, such as “Grace” by Eva Harlou, or limited editions, such as our small trays made from decay wood. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Mater has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. Our dedication to addressing and advancing anticorruption and uphold our business integrity aspect is embedded in Maters values, code of conduct and policies. If we should encounter any concerns about a supplier violating the guidelines, our Code of Conduct allows us to terminate any cooperation immediately. Progress Mater will always undertake and participate in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with local communities to our global supply chain. Results We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zero-tolerance.
