Sustainability Report 2017-18 CONTENTS OUR ORGANIZATION OUR SUSTAINABILITY • Welcome to Mindtree 3 • Top view 8 • Top view 4 • Overview 9 • Overview 5 • Governance & advocacy 10 • Stakeholders & materiality 13 INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY • Overview 19 OUR COMMUNITIES • YORBIT a digital innovation for • Top view 24 learning 19 • Overview 25 • Samruddhi Abhiyan a model in • Leveraging technology 26 social innovation 20 • Nurturing the grassroots 27 • IOT-enabled buildings to enhance productivity 22 OUR PLANET OUR PEOPLE • Top view 32 • Top view 40 • Overview 33 • Overview 41 • Preserving resources 35 • Our talent pool 42 • Supply chain 37 • Engaging our people 48 ANNEXURES • Data tables, charts and graphs 56 OUR BUSINESS • UNGC & NVG application 73 • Top view 51 • GRI-G4 content index 78 • Overview 52 • Assurance statement 89 • Creating business value 53 • Data Assumptions & Techniques 92 • Outlook ahead 55 • Glossary 94 Our Organization Welcome to Mindtree Mindtree started 18 years ago as a technology solutions Company with an “We are Mindtree: Innovation for embedded intent of making societies sustainability is key ﬂourish. We believe we have lived up to to our further growth our vision on both counts ― technology as an inclusive and societal wellbeing. organization.” Mindtree, with its global 338 clients across geographies, revenues of USD 846.8 million, with proﬁts after tax (PAT) grown by 41.8% in FY 2017-18, remains well poised on economic Our ideology of being a technology company as well as social and environmental with a ‘human face’ provides an inherent sustainability. Pursuing a new dream of balance to our business. Our CSR initiatives, creating a ‘Memorable Mindtree’, and aligning environmental conservations and our our strategies and competencies towards this growing commitment to transparency through aspiration, our 17,723 Mindtree Minds engage responsibility reporting illustrate the themselves with our core values of inclusive and responsible nature of how we do collaborative spirit, unrelenting dedication and our business. expert thinking, to create sustainable value. This report shares our sustainability Mindtree operates at the frontiers of new performance as per GRI G4Comprehensive technology and thrives on its increasing criteria, and a few illustrations of our passion competences in new age, smart technologies for sustainability innovation. such as agile, Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), cloud etc. Welcome to possible. 3 Our Organization strengthening our path of collaboration with Top view Government(s) and other players to bring about large scale solutions. Mindtree plans to bring speed to the front and centre of our sustainability strategy for the long term vision. Mindtree would also be looking at involving itself in more active advocacy on responsible business, joining the growing voice of business to solve pressing issues of development. Strengthening the We have evidence model of partnerships, Krishnakumar Natarajan that our sustainability technology and Executive Chairman innovation. conviction has turned Rostow Ravanan out into a diﬀerentiator in CEO & MD the market. We stand There is an undisputable need for committed to global principles and businesses to zoom out to see the big picture frameworks of responsibility such as UNGC, of sustainable development and own the CDP and GRI, and we are now moving to responsibility for solutions to the many Integrated Reporting. Our six year long problems facing the planet today. Mindtree, journey in sustainability reporting has gone a having a social mission embedded into our long way in establishing us as an organization vision, has been serving several causes by of sustainable value―responsible, leveraging our core competence in trustworthy and evolving. technology. We would continue to do so in the future. At the same time, the reporting journey has helped us internally as well, opening us up to Our medium term focus on resource issues that we were unaware of. Gender pay conservation and renewable energy would be gap, for instance, was unwrapped for us by our strengthened by our plans of expansion of reporting journey, and is being explored solar power across locations. Our long term further by us now. vision of partnership with other players in the ecosystem of sustainable development is Mindtree believes in innovation which not highly important to us. We would be only leverages technology but which is also 4 people-centric in its impacts. Neither siloed And that forms the theme of this nor cast into a mere function, innovation sustainability report. at Mindtree, is an organization-wide phenomenon, leading to outcomes of Welcome to possible. participative engagement. That is the Mindtree way to innovation for sustainability. Overview Highlights • Launched Samruddhi Abhiyan in • 550KW solar plant at Mindtree Kanakapura, Karnataka. Kalinga gets ready to take oﬀ while • Launched livelihood interventions for Pune location will get a 300KW 125 women prisoners in Karnataka. solar plant next. • The 18th NCPEDP-Mindtree Hellen • Bengaluru East campus gets IGBC Keller Awards recognized 10 certiﬁcation and the Emerson exemplary achievements in the ﬁeld Cup award. of disability. • Our IOT platform gets ready for • INR 124,184,861 on CSR initiatives real-time resource monitoring. across its focal areas. • Our energy consumption, GHG • Our I Got suite of technology platforms emissions and water per-capita saw impact multiple stakeholder segments improvement while waste recycling enabling sustainable social performance stayed stable. transformations. • Volume of waste generated saw a Our Annual Report describes the impacts in detail. decline due to our eﬀorts. • Industry leading revenue growth of • YORBIT, our digital platform further 8.6% in the year. enhances virtual learning at • Mindtree signed contracts worth over Mindtree. USD one billion in 2017-18. • Mindtree launches new initiatives • Signed our single largest contract in in workplace sustainability-LEAD, our history. Career Scape, oZone and the • 338 active clients being served across Diversity Index. the globe. • 29.5% women in our talent pool. • Our 10 million USD clients grew from • Exuberance, our women leadership 16 to 17; 5 million USD clients went program goes through its second up from 30 to 38. batch. • Our best scores so far on independent Customer Experience Survey. 5 Recognitions • The workplace is poised to become more engaging as a result of our digital learning • Special commendation in 2017, Golden platform and a host of other newly launched Peacock award for Excellence in Corporate programs. Governance. • Emerson Cup award for our IGBC-Platinum • Our business is poised to consistently building at our Bengaluru East campus. deliver industry-leading growth. Our • Mindtree Kalinga campus received IGBC excellent growth trajectory, highly Platinum rating, and recognition by STPI encouraging customer satisfaction scores, and Odisha Government for green initiatives. order bookings worth over USD one billion, • NHRD award 2017 for best practice in our cutting-edge operation and delivery building leadership in digital era. systems and a talent pool getting • Placed in ‘Working Mother and AVTAR 2017 future-ready, place us in a conﬁdent zone. Top 100 Best Companies for Women in India’. • Our social, environmental and ﬁnancial • IFC World Bank develops a case study on our bottom lines would come together to create childcare facilities. a ‘Memorable Mindtree’. • Mindtree received several awards and recognitions in diﬀerent technological areas • Mindtree has launched itself into integrated during the year. (Our Annual Report shares reporting, thus approaching the new the details.) frontiers of reporting and transparency. Looking ahead • The Mindtree Foundation continues to deepen its integrated models of social change, serving interconnected issues with a grassroots approach focussed on a chosen set of taluks, involving passionate volunteers from Mindtree. • Ecological sustainability is expected to get a further boost as a result of using the new solar plants and IOT solutions for real-time resource monitoring. Other measures for resource eﬃciency across energy, emissions, water and waste are also expected to grow from strength to strength. 6 Our Sustainability Our Sustainability Top view and supported this journey in transparency. Our esteemed customers have acknowledged our sustainability eﬀorts shared through our reports. With non-ﬁnancial performance gaining ground as a strong driver for creation of long term value, relevance and Mindtree trust, we are aware strengthens its commitment to of the task ahead of us. transparency and its As an organization, Chitra Byregowda, evolution. Head, Sustainability and Diversity we have learnt to address sustainability in a Sustainability as a driving philosophy at more structured way, and are Mindtree has been as old as Mindtree, with keen to evolve it further by adopting societal welfare being embedded into our Integrated Reporting. mission right from inception. The journey of reporting started in 2012-13, based on the Mindtree’s way of sustainability reporting third generation GRI framework. We gradually presents our reports anchored by a theme evolved to GRI 4-Core in 2015-16, and to which tells a story untold by the GRI GRI 4-Comprehensive in 2016-17. We framework. Over the years, we have shared present here, our sixth annual sustainability the stories of individual responsibility, report based on GRI 4-in accordance with internal community impacts on sustainability, Comprehensive criterion. The scope and Mindtree as a learning organization and our boundary for our annual FY 2017-18 spirit of volunteering. This report touches sustainability report remains the same as in upon our passion for innovation for our previous reports, with no changes in sustainability. structure that may have any signiﬁcant bearing on the report. Do feel free to provide your feedback on this report. The journey in reporting has been valuable for us. Our stakeholders have encouraged Welcome to possible. 8 Overview Mindtree Sustainability Framework Values guiding us Workplace sustainability • Diverse workforce Honesty • Inclusive workspace • Labour regulation • Employee engagement Integrity Governance and advocacy • Policies Mindtree • Code of conduct sustainability • Transparency framework • Risk management Fairness • Reporting and disclosure • Financial compliance Ecological sustainability Transparency • Carbon footprint reduction • Resource conservation • Environmental legislation compliance • Green infrastructure Sustainability enabling structure Executive oversight CSR Steering on Sustainability: Committee Vice Chairman and COO CSR Board Head of Committee CSR Sustainability Policy Advocacy platforms 9 Governance and advocacy Global endorsements and Our sustainability policies adherences in sustainability • Integrity policy • OECD principles • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy • UNGC signatory • Whistle-blower policy • NVG RBSEE • Prevention of sexual harassment policy • The Precautionary Principle • Internationally proclaimed human rights • Code of conduct for our people • CDP • Code of conduct for suppliers • BRR • Non-discrimination policy • GRI-based sustainability reporting • Equal remuneration policy • Open door policy for communication • Environmental health and safety policy • CSR policy • Maternity policy • Reasonable accommodation policy Governance and advocacy, a pillar of our sustainability framework, is built to empower us as a responsible business. Follow Do what is right openness in our and not what is communication convenient. to all our stakeholders. Act in the Provide complete spirit of law transparency on our and not just the operations. letter of law. 10 Sustainability at the board contributions. We are yet to formally bring Our board sets the direction for in an exclusive focus on EES (Economic, sustainability. The Vice Chairman and Environmental, Social) in goal-setting, President is the leader in-charge of selection, training, evaluation and sustainability, including sustainability remuneration of the board. EES aspects, reporting. Our CSR Committee at present, form a natural part of selection, is chaired by our Chairman. Our esteemed leadership development and evaluation of board reﬂects a wide range of expertise and performance of board members. Some of excellence across diverse domains, including our top leaders carry EES goals as a natural business responsibility aspects, with part of their roles. (Please refer to our members involved in social causes and Annual Report for more details on our board-related disclosures.) Board of Directors Sl. No. Director Designation 1 Mr. Krishnakumar Natarajan, 61 Executive Chairman 2 Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy, 57 Executive Vice Chairman, President & COO 3 Mr. Rostow Ravanan, 47 CEO & Managing Director 4 Mr. Subroto Bagchi, 61 Non-Executive Director 5 Prof. Pankaj Chandra, 59 Independent Director 6 Ms. Apurva Purohit, 51 Independent Director 7 Ms. Manisha Girotra, 48 Independent Director 8 Mr. Milind Sarwate, 58 Independent Director 9 Mr. Akshaya Bhargava, 61 Independent Director Notes: 1. Mr. V. G. Siddhartha, Non-Executive Director, resigned from the Board on March 09, 2018. 2. Dr. Albert Hieronimus, Independent Director, retired from the Board on April 01, 2017. 11 di t Committee Relationship Au s’ Co er m o ld ke m Mr. Milind Sarwate h itt Chairperson Sta ee Ms. Apurva Purohit Prof. Pankaj Chandra Member Chairperson Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Member Re m u n e ra t i o n l Responsibili & Co c ia ty i on So C t m e Mr. Krishnakumar N om i na mi ra t Chairperson Ms. Apurva Purohit mi Nom Chairperson t te Corp t tee Mr. Subroto Bagchi o e Prof. Pankaj Chandra Member Member Prof. Pankaj Chandra Mr. Subroto Bagchi Member Member Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Mr. Krishnakumar N Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member ag ement Com str ative Comm M an mi tt in i itt e s k dm e Ri ee A Mr. Krishnakumar N Chairperson Mr. Krishnakumar N Chairperson Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Mr. Rostow Ravanan Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Mr. N.S. Parthasarathy Member Mr. Akshaya Bhargava Member 12 Stakeholders and materiality Our Stakeholders Partners and suppliers Our People Investors and Mindtree Customers shareholders Regulators and public Communities policy makers & NGOs Our exercise of identiﬁcation and source of critical stakeholder feedback for us. prioritisation of stakeholders has shown us Mindtree keeps evolving these platforms several segments to be constantly engaged periodically, revamping and reﬁning them as with. The wide range of engagement platforms per the needs and requirements of the we have designed help us be in touch with stakeholders and the business. (Please refer to their concerns and expectations in a two-way our key stakeholder engagement table in this dialogue. These platforms also work as a section for a detailed view.) EMPLOYEES Ongoing Engagement PeopleHub – content-rich intranet portal Access to comprehensive organization-wide information encompassing all policies, practices, programs, people systems and applications Genie An online resolution and interaction platform for queries Global Contact Center 24/7 Call Centre help desk for queries on employee beneﬁts, payroll, expense reimbursements Senior management interactions and webcast New changes within the organization addressed during open house sessions by senior management Blogs and discussion groups Konnect Mindtree’s social platform MindSpace CEO wall direct communication from the CEO 13 EMPLOYEES Ongoing Engagement MindSpeak Dialogues on issues related to career progression and promotion, favouritism / discrimination, performance management. Attended to by the concerned People Function representative and brought to satisfactory closure. Whistleblower Ensuring a fair and equitable workplace: An opportunity to blow the whistle against anyone who bypasses the integrity norms of the organization. Open door policy For accessibility, openness and transparency in communication. One can reach out to anyone, including the Chairman of the Company, at any point in time. Skip level meetings Helps sort out concerns that one might not be comfortable discussing with the immediate manager. Speciﬁc engagement events for diﬀerent groups Mindtree Minds celebrate their respective business function related events (e.g.: IMTS Bash, Mindtree Got Talent, Ethnic Day) Periodic Engagement MiVoice Employee satisfaction survey PACE – Performance Management System Performance appraisal discussions (Annual) Formal mid-year review discussion (Half-yearly) Award Functions Chairman Awards (Annual) Pillars Awards (Annual) All Minds Meet A platform to interact with the senior management, ask questions and voice opinions (Quarterly) Open Sessions CEO interaction with middle management and above (Biannual) CUSTOMERS Ongoing Engagement Project feedback through surveys Customer visits Periodic Engagement Customer Experience Survey (CES) – CXO and Sr. level contacts (Annual) Project Feedback Survey – Operational and Mid-level contacts (Quarterly) Steering committee meetings for larger customers (Quarterly) 14 COMMUNITIES AND NGOs Ongoing Engagement Interaction with communities and NGOs through Mindtree Foundation such as social and volunteer programs PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS Ongoing Engagement Operational reviews, vendor meets Periodic Engagement • Supplier satisfaction survey • Supplier / Vendor evaluation (Annual) INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS Ongoing Engagement Dedicated email id for investors, Stakeholder Relationship Committee Newsletters on Mindtree website Periodic Engagement • Annual Report • Annual General Meeting • Quarterly shareholder reports / updates • Investor / Analyst meets REGULATORS AND PUBLIC POLICY MAKERS Ongoing Engagement Workshops Panel discussions Steering committees Periodic Engagement Participation in NASSCOM, CII events and other regulatory bodies 15 Issues material to us At Mindtree, stakeholder feedback, concerns last two years, we have been revisiting and and issues ﬂow in through various revising this set internally. For the year engagement platforms. We carried out an 2017-18, the issues pertinent to materiality extensive materiality exercise in 2015-16 to saw a combination of consolidation and a few arrive at and prioritize a set of key issues gaining more focus. material to us and our stakeholders. Over the SOCIAL * HIGH, MEDIUM and LOW denote level of concern with each issue • People Focus • Employee Wellbeing • Vendor Engagement • CSR Projects • Talent Development • Supplier Sustainability • Diversity & Inclusion ECOLOGICAL • Green Energy • Climate Change • Environmental Stewardship Management Systems ECONOMIC • Delivery Excellence • Agile • Automation • Sales Transformation 16 Goals on material issues: 2017-18 People focus • Create account/project packages for all major • Create a smarter workplace by enhancing people accounts and projects. experience, using technology and simplifying policies and processes. Diversity and inclusion • Sustain the culture that Mindtree Minds value. • Groom talent by focusing on diversity index. • Increase people satisfaction and reduce attrition. • Engage men as champions for women’s advancement. CSR projects • Identify part time jobs for second career women. • Sustain current programs. • Create a community and a buddy system for the • Make at least one CSR project to handover diﬀerently-abled Mindtree Minds. to the State Government. • Strategic focus on creating a pipeline of • Get our CSR projects audited by third party. technology women in the mid-management level. Supplier sustainability and vendor management • To drive sustainability as a key agenda point Delivery excellence with supply chain partners. • Create a more proactive, productive and • Identify enterprises comprising either minority consultative global delivery model with deeper or women entrepreneurs and engage them as engineering expertise. local suppliers. • Continue to focus on upskilling teams. • Manage labour conditions, regulations and compliance, code of conduct and policies. Sales transformation • Prepare for engaging with customers with Employee wellbeing higher expectations from Mindtree and be • Engage Mindtree Minds with habits that mutually signiﬁcant to clients. promote wellbeing. • Implement online campaigns to improve Automation positivity and reduce stress. • Adopt and manage the disruption brought about • Identify and implement new activities that by automation with a humane approach. promote wellbeing and can also be extended to families of Mindtree Minds. Agile • Make Mindtree a more agile organization. Talent development • Groom talent by focusing on talent assessment Environmental focus and development. • Achieving 20% solar energy component in the • Build a leadership pipeline with a focus on overall energy mix, in the medium term. on-boarding, integration and development • Continuous reduction in resource consumption: of leaders. per capita energy, GHG emissions and water • Create developers, full stack engineers, leads consumption, and increase in waste and architects as per organizational needs. management eﬃciency. • Continue to add new genres/courses and • Continue to ensure stringent environmental implement learning policy. compliance. 17 Our Innovation for Sustainability Overview Innovating on social change, people learning and environmental processes Mindtree is committed to sustainability and This stance, we believe, is an important recognizes innovation as a path to achieve it. enabler for sustainability innovations. This is Innovation for social and environmental because sustainability cannot thrive in an sustainability is a form of innovation that is of environment where economic considerations special signiﬁcance. Sustainability innovation are seen as a trade-oﬀ instead of as a occurs in Mindtree spontaneously, just as complementary endeavour. social responsibility is naturally embedded in our vision. Our Finance function perspective recognizes and encourages innovations in social and environmental value creation, and is a strong supporter of sustainability innovations. Innovating for our people YORBITa digital innovation for learning New technology trends, especially automation to up-skill, re-skill and multi-skill our talent and artiﬁcial intelligence, are posing both risk pool, across the globe, on a continuous basis. and opportunity disruptions for organizations. In 2017-18, the platform has grown both While organizations are gearing up to get horizontally and vertically, by adding many new future-ready on new capabilities, there are courses and also going deeper into several concerns surfacing on skill redundancies. areas, taking our virtual learning component to Organizations owe a responsibility to their a whopping 82% of all learning initiatives. employees to mitigate these concerns. YORBIT is unique in that it allows learners to Mindtree has leveraged technology as a learn at their own time, place and pace. Being medium to mitigate these risks. In 2016, we virtual, it eliminates constraints of location and launched YORBIT, our digital learning platform time, and allows all Mindtree Minds, across 19 the globe, to reap the beneﬁts. Learners are YORBIT has also got account and project level encouraged to select their own courses from courses, speciﬁcally designed to meet the a wide selection of technology, engineering, learning needs of customer projects and consulting, domain, business and accounts. leadership genres. With multiple beneﬁts built into its design, it is Courses in YORBIT are structured as bite-sized not surprising that our people have taken to modules, which allow for easy assimilation. YORBIT in such a big way. We have received They are organized as 101, 201 and 301 courses numerous positive feedback validating that based on the depth of the skill that they cover. YORBIT has been making a signiﬁcant impact on This is supplemented by our CloudLab which learners and their careers. allows users a safe environment to practice and apply their learning. Number of courses Usage Data Level 101 1,130 101,576 completed 1,892 in progress Level 201 795 25,618 completed 7,943 in progress Level 301 62 129 completed 114 in progress Innovating for communities Samruddhi Abhiyan a model in social innovation The Mindtree Foundation has been pursuing its Our in-depth work in Kanakapura taluk of focal themes of support for education, disability Karnataka led us to a ﬁrst-hand witnessing of and sustainable livelihood in the rural regions how health, hygiene, ﬁtness, sanitation, culture of India. With our taluk-based approach, and and environment are all interconnected with often linking our themes for integrated poverty, education and livelihood. We reﬂected solutions, we strive to bring in sustainable on the need for more integrated models. We social transformation. were also keen to strengthen Swachh Bharat agenda in the rural areas. 20 The result was Samruddhi Abhiyan. (Samruddhi The on-the-ground changes spearheaded by stands for ‘abundance/prosperity’ in Kannada rural children and the enthusiasm they language.) The model combined education with displayed for the cause, were heartening. A health and ﬁtness, sanitation and hygiene, grand ceremony was held to honour the winning culture and environment. It included multiple schools. The project caught the attention of the stakeholders and beneﬁciaries. The idea was to government and was recognized as a role model empower 13,395 rural children with right for social transformation. The State Government knowledge and avenues to create and inspire has now adopted our model to scale it up sustainable environment. A physical survey of further across the State, touching the lives of 161 schools in the taluk provided the baseline. several hundred thousand children. We announced a contest among schools as an incentive for the behavioural change intended. Sustainability innovations need to be Bringing in the technology lever, we developed accessible, replicable and scalable to be able an app for the schools to upload their activities to impact society and environment. They also and progress. Screening, short listing and need to be integrated in thought and design, physical veriﬁcation followed. Advocacy, to begin with. dialogue, engagement, collaboration, competitive spirit, monitoring, and ﬁnally, awards and recognition came together in this exciting project. 21 Innovating for our resources: IoT-enabled buildings to enhance productivity At Mindtree, we have always believed in categorized data. As part of this step, application of our technological expertise to consumption data and asset operational create sustainable solutions that contribute information are stored categorically for ease of towards making our planet green and clean. analysis and anomaly detection. We are poised to implement ‘Gladius Connected Buildings’, a full-ﬂedged building The compute component of the system involves IOT solution, which will integrate all aspects of remote monitoring and predictive diagnostics. building management systems with the IT System learning and customized programming systems. generate alerts and improve utilizations resulting in cost beneﬁts. Early detection of The solution developed after two years of wear and tear, failure forecasting and groundwork, turns buildings into smart performance engineering bring in enormous buildings by automating, measuring and eﬃciencies by enhancing asset life. Proactive monitoring diﬀerent systems to deliver user maintenance and engineering interventions comfort increasing productivity, apart from bring in better control further resulting in delivering increased energy eﬃciency and life streamlined operations. expectancy of assets. It works on the principle of ‘connect-collect-compute-control’, and is Real-time corrections and adjustments in executed in a phased and sequential manner. ambient temperature, freshness of the air, The connect part involves building a robust and humidity levels ― all have a subtle but deﬁnite secure device infrastructure for data gathering, eﬀect on the physical and mental comfort of rule based ﬁltering and granular data of usage the people engaged at our workplace. IOT and consumption details. Availability of has the potential to deliver many innovative hardware, maintenance, data, equipment solutions. At Mindtree, we customize it to sourcing and support are ensured 24/7 here. enhance our people comfort, wellbeing and productivity, and at the same time, make our The collection part involves gathering the data systems more energy eﬃcient and increase from the assets and creating digital twins with asset life. 22 Our Communities Our Communities Top view We have gone a step further now, innovating on our model, bringing in new themes and needs which are related to our central vision. Samrudhhi Abhiyan, our new project in Kanakapura, enmeshes our formal themes of education, poverty and health with national themes such as cleanliness (Swacch CSR needs Bharat) along with integrated models culture, sports and and social innovations. environment. With thousands of rural Abraham Moses children engaged in the Head, General Manager, Mindtree Foundation program and diverse rural stakeholders participating as well, our project Mindtree’s CSR initiatives are unique. has received the Karnataka State Government’s Articulated as a part of Mindtree’s mission appreciation, which has adopted our programs to make societies ﬂourish, CSR at Mindtree and spreading across the Government schools is non-strategic in intent, and anchored on in Karnataka. Another important factor for the grassroot work with direct involvement of success of our social interventions is the shift top leadership. we enabled in the common public from the role of mere recipients of beneﬁts to that of The Mindtree Foundation uses a taluk-based active stakeholders. This is possible only approach to development initiatives for better through the long-term relationship and trust focus and to string several themes within a we build with the society. taluk. The purpose is to serve our chosen causes in an integrated way. The ground Our regular projects, with the support of level experience gives us a sense of our valuable NGO partners, continue to grow interconnection between issues and spurs their roots in states across India, thereby us to oﬀer integrated models. We have been making a diﬀerence to the disadvantaged successful in linking disability, education segments of society. and livelihood in need-deﬁnitions and our integrated projects have strived to meet Welcome to possible. these multiple need gaps. 24 Overview Total funds Total to be spent: beneﬁciaries: Volunteers: INR 104,397,260 30,055 6,761 INR 124,184,861 23,836 6,219 Funds spent: CSR Volunteering beneﬁciaries: beneﬁciaries: • Launched Samruddhi Abhiyan in • The 18th NCPEDP Mindtree Hellen Kanakapura, Karnataka Keller Awards recognized 10 • Launched livelihood interventions for exemplary achievements in the ﬁeld 125 women prisoners in Karnataka of disability Leveraging technology DIGNI Φ Mindtree developed the prototype of this Digital Nethra for Eye product over several years. It was presented to Arvind Eye Hospitals in 2017-18. Arvind Eye Hospitals came in to support Mindtree in 2015 to support the concept by validating and testing the product on the ground. DIGNIΦ is an Android application software. A smart phone ﬁxed on a ﬁxture captures the page of printed text and sends the audio to the headset of the low-vision or visually-impaired user. Currently, it is only available in English language. The innovation is set to develop further by converting charts, diagrams and pictures to audio for the beneﬁt DIGNIΦ is an assistive technology solution of the visually impaired children. We also plan which has the goal of transforming the lives of to launch the product in 23 Indian languages, a million visually impaired children by 2020. going forward. 25 VIKAS The kit VIKAS, developed under the leadership Visual Intervention Kit of Mindtree Foundation helps parents or with Analytics for caretakers of children with Cognitive Visual Special Children Dysfunction (CVD) to conduct optical and perceptual function exercises at aﬀordable prices at home. The prototype was presented to Arvind Hospitals, our partners for speciﬁcation deﬁnition, validation and testing. Mindtree Foundation which works closely with children with disability is keen on taking this assistive technology product further to transform the lives of children with CVD. Children in the age-group of 4 to 15 years, School of Possibles, teachers from urban slum and rural schools and Mindtree Kalinga: parents were oﬀered workshops designed for Taking sustainability each segment. to children, teachers and parents Children’s workshops, most of them about a week long, had usefulness, sustainability and entrepreneurship as themes. A large number of Our learning and development centre at activities had people such as gardener, Kalinga campus is host to several CSR housekeeping staﬀ, chef and hospitality staﬀ as contributions, hugely enabled by our Mindtree mentors. The little minds say they would love to volunteers. Under a new initiative called School come back for more. of Possibles, we extended our unconventional and creative learning models beyond our Campus Mindtree Minds. 26 Nurturing the grassroots: The Mindtree Foundation way Rise in our beneﬁciaries Total Volunteers Program CSR Volunteers Total Fund (INR) Beneﬁciaries Beneﬁciaries Beneﬁciaries Annual Plan (2017-18) 30,613 5,500 25,113 3,400 78,508,740 As on end of March 2018 98% 113% 95% 199% 62% Achieved in 2017-18 30,055 6,219 23,836 6,761 48,665,804 -8% Plan for 2018-19 22,500 5,500 17,000 3,400 72,500,000 CSR Projects & Focus Areas 18 1 CSR Projects 2 1 3 Livelihood 1 5 PwD Agastya 3,876 Children, Pune APD, SPARSH, 291 CWD, Bijapur 10 Education 12 BRDO 1,400 Rural Youth, Korategere 1 Sikshana, NH, Agastya, Edzilla, SSK 13,395 Children, Kanakapura SPASTN 514 PWD, Tiruvallur 5 CSR Project Taluk-Level Focus on Education, Locations PwD and Livelihood 27 Education Since 2010 90,456 25,710 1,516 students beneﬁtted. rural students got children with learning hands-on exposures diﬃculties improved their hope in Science. and conﬁdence. Year 2017-18 13,395 students are motivated to learn basic 800 students from 5th to 7th standard Mathematics and Kannada in the entire are provided with opportunities to learn Kanakapura Taluk, Karnataka. On an Mathematics and Science through tablets experimental basis, Mindtree Foundation and and technology platforms in Kanakapura Sikshana start working with Government of Taluk in Karnataka (through Suvidhya). Karnataka to scale up this program across Karnataka State. 175 students from 7th to 10th standards are provided with special coaching in Maths, 6,000 students are provided with Science, English, Social Studies, and Kannada opportunities to do hands-on experiments subjects from 10 villages around Bychapura in elementary school Science in Pune, in Koratagere Taluk, Karnataka (BRDO). Maharashtra, through Agastya, and in Kanakapura Taluk in Karnataka. 26 students are provided opportunities to pursue their medical education and become 232 students with learning diﬃculties are doctors from Kanakapura Taluk, Karnataka identiﬁed and provided with special coaching (Narayana Health). to improve their learnability in Kanakapura Taluk, Karnataka, through SSK. 28 Sustainable livelihoods Since 2014 5,996 2,294 774 people trained in people are people are placed in BPOs, various livelihood skills. self-employed. Government outsourced agencies and garment factories. Year 2017-18 1,400 rural youth are provided with livelihood 52 urban poor women, youth and children skills such as computer data entry, tally, are provided entrepreneur skills and computer tailoring, embroidery, electrical motor winding education to create sustainable livelihood and wiring at Bychapura and Koratagere, opportunities in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, with Karnataka. This program with BRDO covers the UMBC partnership. entire Koratagere Taluk. 40 urban poor women are provided with 125 prison women are trained to earn livelihood skills needed to teach and nurture livelihood in mushroom, watermelon children from Balavadis in Bangalore, cultivation, computer data entry, tailoring and Karnataka, through KSCCW. embroidery which helps them earn remission from their tenure of punishment. 29 Support for people with disability Since 2010 317 847 774 5 children received children received children enrolled barrier-free mobility aids. corrective surgeries. in schools. schools brought up. Year 2017-18 291 rural children with disabilities are 247 intellectually challenged youth with less provided with mobility aids, corrective than IQ-60 are trained in computer data entry surgeries, physiotherapies and access to operations to earn their livelihoods through school education at Bijapur Taluk 12 centres from Andhra Pradesh and (through APD). Telangana (AMBA). 514 rural children with disabilities are 237 rural unemployed youth including people provided with early interventions, home with disabilities (1,000 in ﬁve years) are based physiotherapies at Tiruvallur Taluk, provided with livelihood skills at Tamil Nadu (SPASTN). Bhubaneswar, Odisha (Gram Tarang). 75 children with disabilities are provided with education fees, corrective surgeries, assistive devices and physiotherapies in Bangalore, Karnataka (KSCCW). 30 Our Planet Our Planet Top view Our eﬀorts at using data analytics for resource eﬃciency have begun to bear fruit. The endeavours have been a combination of technological innovation and process innovation. Making the green convenient and Sustainability is attractive is the real about the environment pursuit of as well as business sustainability. At beneﬁt. Mindtree, this task Padmanabhan Kannan forms an overarching General Manager, Administration and Facilities goal. While we are constantly developing ways to boost behavioural aspects Ecological sustainability is one of the three of going green, we visualise ‘occupant pillars of sustainability framework of comfort’ as one of the key outcome goals for Mindtree, and resource eﬃciency is a key goal our IOT infrastructure. The real-time to pursue. Sustainability is about the monitoring and remediation of indoor environment and also about smart business. temperature and air quality made possible Our relentless eﬀorts at resource optimization, through IOT, we believe, would have a subtle particularly in the last 2-3 years, have not only and signiﬁcant impact on the comfort of helped the cause of resource conservation but our people. also brought in direct beneﬁts to the bottom line. Our savings on energy costs alone add Welcome to possible. up to more than 20% year on year. With our solar power plans taking oﬀ at Mindtree Kalinga in 2018 and our Pune location following suit, we are conﬁdent about being able to meet our goal of 20% solar energy by next year. 32 Overview Energy per capita Water GHG emissions Renewable Waste improved to consumption per capita energy: 61% of generation 167.25 kWh/ per capita decreased our overall decreased FTE/month from decreased from from 2.29 tons energy needs are from 398,342 170.74 kWh/ 1.02 kl/employe CO2e/employe being met from kg to 362,676 employee/month e/month to e/annum to renewable kg; we recycled in the previous 0.85 kl/FTE/ 2.17 tons energy (1oo% 89% of our year. month. CO2e/FTE/ Hydro at our waste Absolute water annum. West and 69% generated. consumption solar at our decreased as Whiteﬁeld, well. Bengaluru campuses). ` Mindtree Kalinga An additional gets IGBC 550KW solar Bengaluru building at Platinum, and plant at Our IOT East campus Mindtree recognition Mindtree platform gets IGBC Kalinga by STPI and Kalinga to Investments in gets ready certiﬁcation campus comes Odisha take oﬀ in environment for real-time and the under process Government 2018. Pune initiatives: resource Emerson Cup for USGBC for green location to INR 4,024,069 monitoring. award. certiﬁcation. initiatives. follow suit. 33 A GREEN ACCOLADE: Emerson Cup award for our Bengaluru East campus. The year 2017-18 saw our Our Bengaluru East campus vegetation, and 91% of the IGBC-platinum rated project has been a work of total landscape having been at Bengaluru East campus innovation in design and greened with locally winning the prestigious resource eﬃciency led by adaptive species of plants, Emerson Cup 2017 in the our Infrastructure team. The our work shows a high level ‘IGBC Green Existing combination of features we of performance across the Buildings Category’. have built in, such as heat criteria set by the Emerson recovery, precooling and VAV Cup. (variable air volume) The Platinum rating stands methods, and the entire More importantly, we have for global leadership in HVAC system being the satisfaction of green buildings, and the monitored through the conserving the scarce Emerson Cup award looks at building management resources of the planet while criteria: improved energy system, provide multiple managing people comfort performance; onsite beneﬁts in terms of energy and achieving good returns renewable energy; oﬀsite consumption, bottom line on investments. Green renewable energy; carbon savings and increased buildings are all about dioxide monitoring and occupant thermal comfort. multiple beneﬁts on multiple control; thermal comfort, bottom lines, the crux of indoor temperature & RH; With CO2 monitoring and sustainability, and the award heat island eﬀect for roof; control in place, 92% of the is a testimony to our eco-friendly landscaping exposed roof covered with conviction and relentless practices. high SRI (Solar Reﬂectance eﬀorts. Index) rooﬁng panels and Preserving resources centralized water cooling system. This has resulted in energy saving of 4.3 lakhs units Energy conservation per annum and reduction of CO2e by 390 • Energy performance per capita improved in metric tons. the year. • A small step such as using heat resistant • Best practices were implemented, through paint in our cafes has brought in which we were able to save over 18.13 considerable energy savings. lakhs units per annum with a net cost • Our drive to reduce the use of paper and savings of over 14.51 M INR. printing through increased digitization • 2.51 million units of solar power wheeled continues as ever. More than 1,500,000 back from oﬀ-site source to our East sheets of paper were saved in nine months campus, Bengaluru, meeting 69% of alone by avoiding printing. requirement, reducing cost by INR 5.26 • Replacing desktops with laptops gave us million and saving 2,181 tons of carbon additional power savings. emissions. • We have seen a signiﬁcant reduction in our • Solar water heating system was energy costs over the previous year in our implemented which helped in avoiding the headquarters. usage of electricity by 3.10 lakhs units, • The use of IOT from 2018 onwards is reduction of cost by 2.19 M INR and expected to bring in further energy reducing the carbon emission of 284 tons. eﬃciencies. • Our past investments in LED, battery • Our advanced lighting management monitoring systems with sensors, magnetic system gives us additional 2 to 3% savings tapes in chiller pipes and other initiatives in energy. continue to give us beneﬁts. A total of 10,500 LED ﬁttings have helped save 50% of our total lighting consumption. • Package AC unit which works with refrigerant was replaced with water-based air handling units which work with Emissions reduction • GHG emissions per capita reduced in the • Installation of Ultra Violet Germicidal year. Irradiation (UVGI) in HVAC system has • Our eﬀorts at reducing energy consumption beneﬁts in terms of multiple sustainability and our use of clean power consistently try impacts such as better heat transfer, better to contain emissions. Our proposed steps in air ﬂow and indoor air quality, less energy, solar power will further cut down our emission and costs. footprint in the years to come. 35 • A range of plans is underway for reducing supported with Common Bus System at our travel/commuting footprint. Our talent headquarters. All our eﬀorts at promoting acquisition procedure is making extensive eco-friendly commuting, including cycling use of WebEx platform for interviewing a and metro connectivity continue to large number of candidates, thus cutting encourage lower emissions at individual down on travel related emissions. Shifting levels. our guest houses closer to our location has • Air emissions and Ozone depleting helped as well. Business travel continues to substance emissions decreased over the be under scrutiny in order to control the previous year. carbon footprint. • Usage of mud bricks instead of burnt bricks • Our business travel decreased marginally. for on-going projects reduces our carbon • Employee commuting continues to be footprint. Water management • Water consumption, both in absolute terms areas as well. As a result of this, the water and per capita, decreased. processing costs have come down. • Our water management is anchored on RO-rejected water volumes have dipped recharge-reuse-recycle approach. from 60% to 20%, increasing the reclaimed • Water drawn by us is recycled at our RO water to 80%. plant. The treated and desalinated water is • Filtering of STP-rejected water enables us to used for chiller cooling tower. This has reuse it for purposes such as gardening, helped reduce ground water usage by landscaping and restroom ﬂushing, thus 1,200 KL per month. It has also further optimizing our water consumption. reduced our dependency on water supply by 12.5%. Converting tertiary treated water to potable water through UV RO plant which is being used for HVAC operations has also considerably reduced our dependence on groundwater. • Our dependence on water purchase has come down by 33% at our Bengaluru West location. Excess water from our rainwater harvesting system is used for recharging the ground water table. To our good fortune, the water table has risen in the surrounding 36 Waste management • Waste generation in absolute terms • Shifting away from the use of disposables decreased; waste recycling is stable. has reduced our solid waste volumes • Our food composting systems introduced considerable. (Mindtree has moved back to organic converter/digester last year. This conventional steel cups and cutlery, as a year we invested in a shredder machine to measure of commitment to sustainability.) better use garden waste for composting. • Our eﬀorts at stringent waste segregation Mindtree continues to improvise its has been more eﬀective in 2017-18. processes year-on-year. • Cafeteria management system at our • A large part of the solution lies in cutting Mindtree Kalinga campus started analysing down waste generation, and we are real-time food waste. performing well in that direction with the volume reducing by 9%. Renewable energy With our East campus at Bengaluru running 69% on solar energy and West campus at 100% hydro, our overall energy needs being met from renewable energy stands at 61%. Our goal of reaching 20% of total energy through solar is backed by a strong commitment. We are extending our clean energy plans to other locations. Mindtree Kalinga campus would have a 550KW solar system with best technology based on monocrystalline panels in 2018 and is all set to meet 30% of the energy requirements. We propose to introduce 300KW solar plant in our Pune location as well. Our supply chain predominantly local at locations of purchase Our supply chain approach follows a local brings in price and time eﬃciencies. Our sourcing approach as a responsible practice supplier code of conduct keeps issues of and as smart business. Our supply base being human rights and labour violations at bay. 37 Grievance mechanisms are well placed to and rationalizing our vendor classiﬁcation capture issues as they arise. Our policy has among tiers and sub-tiers. Procurement at an emphasis on minority vendor on-boarding. Mindtree initiates, supports and executes We are glad to encourage women-based sustainable purchases. We initiated an enterprises in our supplier base. AI-based tool for eﬃcient workforce management, bought cycles as green A small survey we conducted in 2017 February commuting options for our people, state-ofhas given us ideas on reﬁnements needed, and the-art building management systems, and we plan to conduct a larger survey in 2018-19 a host of green purchases such as organic to include larger segment of our suppliers in textiles and more sustainable carpets. the feedback and dialogue. Replacing conventional purchases with more sustainable options has been an ongoing The year 2017-18 saw us putting in methods journey in the last few years, and the last and measures for increasing price eﬃciencies year was no exception. 38 Our People Our People Top view Innovation, technology and people form the integrated vision at Mindtree, with innovation coming from people, technology making it come alive and people beneﬁting in multiple ways from this integration. Mindtree is aware that while creativity is People, technology natural, innovation and innovation form needs to be enabled. an integrated whole We create the in Mindtree vision. environment for N.S. Parthasarathy innovation to take place Executive Vice Chairman & COO across the organization and do not believe in relegating it into a function. Being an information technology Company serving customers across the globe, it is Gender diversity would be pursued constantly essential for us to apply and leverage as an important agenda under the people technology internally in ways that beneﬁt not function at Mindtree, and our entry-level focus only bottom lines but also people and the on women uptake and leadership program for environment. YORBIT, our digital learning our Lady Mindtree Minds would continue to platform and IOT, our technology path to strengthen our endeavour in our vision for resource monitoring are illustrations of this gender diversity. Gender pay adjustment is a internal vision. new area we are exploring now, the reporting data having sensitized us to the gap. Going further, as a part of our deepened vision for technology, we want to see technology go Having evolved our journey in sustainability all pervasive at Mindtree, touching every reporting over the last six years, we are now function, changing day-to-day work-life of all taking it to Integrated Reporting. people. This year, all functions at Mindtree are going to see pursuing problem-solving on Welcome to possible. changing themes through technology, with able support of tech professionals within the organization. 40 Overview YORBIT, our digital platform 127,323 educational courses Osmosis, our annual signiﬁcantly enhances taken by our people technology festival, virtual learning at on YORBIT. showcased experiential Mindtree. solutions. Introduced oZone, a Two leadership programs technology-based opportunity 29.5% women in our merged for better ﬁnder for our people talent pool. integration. within Mindtree. Placed in ‘Working Mother and We launched Diversity Index 46 people with disability are AVTAR 2017 Top 100 Best for better monitoring of mainstreamed in our Companies for Women the agenda. organization. in India’. Mindtree accorded with Gold level of recognition in NHRD award 2017 the 2017 Healthy Workplace Awards, given by Arogya World IFC World Bank does a case for best practice in India Trust in partnership study on our childcare building leadership with Public Health facilities. in digital era. Foundation. 41 Our talent pool Our culture recognizes our people as ‘people’ at Mindtree. The learning opportunities we and not ‘employees’ or ‘resources’. Nurturing oﬀer to our people are one of the key factors them and enabling them to succeed, forms a behind our relatively low levels of attrition. key aspect of our culture. Our digital learning platform YORBIT has Our talent pool continues to gain from our further enhanced the learning opportunities constant endeavours at nurturing our people. this year. (Refer to our theme story for Learning is a key part of people engagement details). 2017-18 saw yet another initiative to inspire emotional infrastructure is a crucial part of and challenge the potential of the star leadership at all levels. The ‘First Five’ performers at middle level. Our leadership program was conceived to create a strong journeys draw learnings from unusual sources organizational bond for campus hires through and are aligned to our strategic priorities for their ﬁrst ﬁve years in Mindtree. The blueprint building a Memorable Mindtree. Building an of this program is ready for launch this year. 42 Our top talent continues to be recognized opportunities. The program had a mix of through our Pillars program while Team Magic business, technology and delivery leaders Tool gets busy with measuring the impact of being groomed to climb further echelons of the Pillars program to make it more leadership. meaningful and impactful. In parallel, Exuberance, our exclusive We piloted the Future Leader learning leadership grooming program for lady program for mid-management leaders to Mindtree Minds touched another batch of high trigger and sharpen the entrepreneurial potential leaders and gave them exposure to streak, exposing them to critical components cross-functional knowledge, mentoring and of entrepreneurship. Structured as an exciting coaching by top leaders, nudging members journey of deep-seated learning, co-creating into unfamiliar and challenging zones and solutions to apply to live projects. prepare them for future leadership roles. While we constantly work on reﬁning our The year saw us creating an internal pool of learning programs, our Enterprise Leadership faculty for Behavioural Learning Programs, Program for Senior Management had another developing country-speciﬁc courses in culture successful engagement with global leaders for our delivery teams, and also launching coming together at Mindtree Kalinga and ‘train the trainer’ workshops in the USA for working on CXO-deﬁned, action learning our senior leaders who would facilitate projects on current and future business behavioural leadership programs. 43 Mindtree Kalinga (our Global learning and development centre at Bhubaneswar) brought our young Campus Minds in close interaction with our top leaders for guidance and several industry-connect talks and visits for inspiration. Top talent from our Campus Minds are in for a ﬁve year long journey to be groomed for lead roles, which would also reduce lateral hires. Our Campus Minds come with a good cultural ﬁt with Mindtree, and we want to leverage it further, anchoring them on a well-crafted emotional infrastructure platform. Our leadership journeys draw learnings from unusual sources and are aligned to our strategic priorities for building a ‘Memorable Mindtree’. Building an emotional infrastructure is a crucial part of leadership at all levels. 44 Our Philosophy Our principles in designing leadership journeys Horizontal Each person’s Learning from Individual Experiences/ & Vertical development Development unusual sources Stretch Assignments Learning from Real-Time Strategic Collective external Experts/Peers Projects/Experiences Leadership is HR as an spread through enabler of the networks environment Real-Time Customer Challenges MINDTREE 3.0 LEADERSHIP EMOTIONAL VISION INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS Global Proximity Leaders Young Enterprise Leaders Support Leadership Cultural Network -Pillar Champions Exclusivity Future Expertise/ Top Depth Led LeadershipRituals Lead and Management Exuberance Impact on Communities Conversation Feedback and development form two key aspects of our performance management approach. We moved away from performance ratings for mid-levels, two years ago. In 2017-18, we introduced mid-year review for all our people, focusing on mid-year feedback (no ratings) in a forward-looking mode. Individual Development Plans which are self-driven by individuals open an opportunity for Mindtree Minds to co-create professional and personal growth. 45 Career Scape Our career planning initiative has been across several areas and functions of the revived in 2017-18 after an in-depth research. organization. Career Scape serves as a An extensive role repository customised for platform for long-term employee engagement Mindtree and driven through a portal, has initiative. brought in greater role clarity and purpose. With performance ratings abolished at certain levels, role clarity and goal setting has assumed greater signiﬁcance. Using role descriptions, Career Scape provides a landscape of career map, empowering Mindtree Minds to pursue prospective career opportunities. Our relentless research into this domain has now begun to accrue beneﬁts Arboretum Our induction space for lateral hires level interactions for newcomers and brought revamped its programs in 2017-18, keeping them into a plethora of engagement and them comprehensive and eﬃcient. At the enculturation initiatives. Experiential, same time, we have introduced new e-learning personalised and culture-steeped modes of modules at senior levels, calendarized CXO induction have characterized our endeavours. 46 Osmosis Osmosis, our annual technology festival technologies such as machine learning, showcases the best technology solutions in computer vision and augmented reality to the organization. This event is one of our create solutions in areas such as video Knowledge Management initiatives. This year analytics, sentiment analysis and phygital Osmosis featured four tracks designed around retail. Tech-talks featured external experts the ‘Future of Technology’ and the ‘Future of addressing us on new age subjects such as Engineering’. The DevOps hackathon, at AR/VR, NLP, Cognitive Computing, AI, and so account level competition, shortlisted 15 on. The K-Safari event, showcased Mindtree ideas at account levels, which will be solutions where idea stalls became developed further as solution accelerators. experiential zones, bringing in novelty and a The Techie of the Year contest had our best real-life feel to the solutions demonstrated. technologists competing, using latest 47 Engaging our people A multitude of platforms and approaches a dashboard view of any topic for planning come together at Mindtree to involve Mindtree actions and interventions. We have further Minds in a valuable engagement. simpliﬁed goal-setting, for the beneﬁt of our people. A plethora of engagement platforms Our various learning programs (detailed are kept active at Mindtree to keep our earlier in the section) are invaluable tools internal stakeholders engaged deeply. (Refer of engagement with our people. New to our stakeholder engagement table for a initiatives keep emerging, bringing in novelty sample of platforms.) and evolving approaches. Our Lead program and oZone illustrate our ever-evolving Employee wellbeing programs in learning and development. Our workplace is designed to oﬀer a healthy and safe environment. OHSAS certiﬁcation of As a part of our intent to transform Mindtree all our locations, our health and safety policy, into a next-generation ‘uberized’ workplace, and a plethora of policies go a long way in we launched oZone (opportunity zone), a ensuring employee wellbeing. technology-based platform that enables Refer to our data tables for GRI related disclosures on performance on health and safety. Mindtree Minds to upload their skills and experience, explore opportunities within for the next move and ﬁnd suitable assignments. Health Mind Healthy Body Thousands of opportunities get created and Mindtree accorded with Gold level of used through the platform, creating an agile, recognition in the 2017 Healthy Workplace connected and dynamic workplace. Awards, given by Arogya World India Trust in partnership with Public Health Foundation. Our Spot On program continues to spot excellence in performance and recognize and Our health and wellbeing initiatives span reward it. Chairman’s Awards continue to diverse programs such as health camps, identify and celebrate individual achievements webinars, wellness and counselling sessions that have had a large impact on Mindtree and and so on. The year 2017-18 saw Mindtree inspires all Mindtree Minds. Our employee Minds increasingly making use of these wellbeing focus and the range of initiatives programs over physical, online and digital that comes with it further boost the platforms throughout the year. Towards the engagement levels. end of FY 2017-18, we launched a booster program in February in the form of a Wellness We are channelling all our internal data onto a Week focussing on holistic health and ﬁtness, single platform, MindSight, to be able to have with initiatives across physical health and 48 ﬁtness, psychological wellbeing, diet and Our digital initiative on healthcare, powered nutrition, mindfulness and so on. ‘Happy Mind, by zoojoo.be saw involvement of 11,429 Happy Lives’ was an additional campaign we active users taking up 11,701 challenges ran during this time. during the year. Refer to data annexures for details. Diversity To help meet our gender diversity goal (35%), • We are placed in ‘Working Mother and our talent acquisition initiative has been AVTAR 2017 Top 100 Best Companies pursuing women recruitment target and for Women in India’. achieving 49% campus hires as women for the • All our locations have childcare last two years. The avenues we have created facilities, either on-premise or within for second career women and women a 500 metre distance. returning to work after a hiatus, will help boost the numbers. The diversity index • Signiﬁcant investment has been made launched in 2017-18 is designed to monitor to oﬀer day care services for children our performance against our goals. Our MiLady of our employees in all Mindtree app keeps women on leave connected with locations at close quarters. our organization and engages Lady Mindtree • IFC World Bank conducted a detailed Minds in several beneﬁcial ways. We launched study of our childcare facilities and a unique initiative, Unconscious Bias Training, published a case study in 2017. with ‘men as champions’, where business leaders sensitize others on unconscious bias Our Diversity Charter towards gender. To promote regional diversity in the workplace, local language classes were started in Bengaluru, Chennai and Pune where Ethnicity / Nationality close to 300 Mindtree Minds learnt the local language. People with Disabilities Our policies and practices are oriented towards supporting working mothers, and we are recognized for our stance on this imperative. Gender Sexual Orientation 49 Our Business Our Business Top view several ways. Our CSR projects are focused on bringing about social impact in a sustainable manner. We are strengthening our endeavours for the visually impaired, through assistive technology products. Integrated reporting is the new frontier of reporting and indicates Sustainability leadership in is about creating economic value. integrated performance. Mindtree Jagannathan Chakravarthi Narasimhan welcomes the wave of Vice President, CFO Integrated Reporting (IR) recommended by SEBI, and Sustainability is about creating economic has geared up for the challenge. value for society and the planet through ways This year would be the ﬁrst year when that are beneﬁcial to business. Both society we would be embarking on this and business need value creation, and journey and we see it as a two to sustainability can empower businesses to three year journey in which we will create it. For instance, our investments in solar completely embed Integrated power replaces fossil fuels. This reduces the Thinking and setup systems and demand on the Government for increased processes to develop Integrated power generation. Reporting, which will be reviewed on a periodic basis by us, which will enable It further creates additional resources that are better decision making through strategic focus clean and which beneﬁt business in the long and eﬃcient resource allocation. run. Mindtree is committed to renewables as a signiﬁcant portion of its energy mix. Welcome to possible. As part of our CSR initiatives, we continue to share our ﬁnancial fortunes with society in 51 Overview Mindtree delivered a robust performance in 2017-18, poising us on a conﬁdent stance for the years ahead. With USD 846.8 million, Mindtree delivered industry-leading performance of 8.6% growth in the year. In rupee terms, the revenues touched INR 54,628 million, with proﬁts (PAT) at INR 5,701 million. We signed deals worth over USD one billion in 2017-18. 338 active clients. Our best scores so far on Customer Experience Survey. DRIVE and LEAN initiatives push forward for operational and delivery excellence. Mindtree receives awards and recognitions for its performance in several domains. Mindtree sketches a plan to transform into ‘Memorable Mindtree’. Creating Business value Mindtree stands strong in terms of constantly creating value for its customers, investors, employees and larger stakeholders, inspired by its futuristic vision and empowered by its strategy. The intent now is to catapult Mindtree into a ‘Memorable Mindtree’ zone. Several strategies, plans and programs have already come together to translate this vision into reality. 52 Industry-leading customer satisfaction achieved All the energy that we put in through the year Value for Money, in addition to qualitative manifests itself as our annual customer feedback on key expectations, business satisfaction scores, and this year, we have priorities, our strengths and areas to achieved the best ever. Our scores on overall strengthen. satisfaction and advocacy exceeded the industry average: we are setting the benchmark. We also conduct quarterly Project Feedback This is deﬁnitely an indicator that our Survey (PFS), which is transactional, and initiatives and actions are yielding extremely measures project execution parameters like positive results. Quality, Governance, Skills and so on. Similar to CES, our performance in PFS has also been The annual Customer Experience Survey (CES) is consistently great, exceeding the targets that conducted by an independent market research we have set internally. agency. The survey period is around six weeks and usually carried out in November-December It is a matter of pride for us as we deﬁne our timeframe. The survey measures aspects like strategies to sustain and improve this Overall Satisfaction, Loyalty, Advocacy and performance. CES Customer Experience Survey CES’15 CES’16 5.45 5.41 5.55 5.86 5.42 5.27 5.5 5.77 5.59 5.37 5.56 5.95 5.21 5.11 5.35 5.66 CES’17 CES’18 Satisfaction Loyalty Advocacy Value for Money Operational and delivery transformation Delivery excellence has been a key DRIVE, one of the key initiative from contributor to our high customer satisfaction Chairman’s oﬃce launched in 2016-17 and scores. We have been strengthening our evolved further in 2017-18, has spread across capability in that domain, along with our verticals, optimizing productivity, quality, operational excellence. cost, time, documentation, automation and so 53 on. LEAN, our key initiative for operational and tracking. LEAN is now undergoing a process of delivery excellence has run its seventh wave institutionalization, with thousands of our in 2017-18, spanning across locations. Each of people being trained on LEAN, and the rest these waves has helped us identify 15%-20% being oriented through 17 courses accessible potential opportunity to leverage. The program organization-wide on our digital platform helps us release, redeploy and reroute YORBIT. Mindtree has proudly shared its Mindtree Minds for increased value-added journey towards LEAN in external platforms services to our customers, yielding both such as Lean day @ Siemens, BSPIN and eﬃciency and enhanced customer value. The others. earlier redundancies have now turned into diﬀerentiators, with the power of LEAN. Mindtree’s approach is to orient our people towards LEAN and its potential through boot camp and training, and get a buy-in for adoption before every wave. The LEAN initiative is witnessing multiple beneﬁts, with LEAN Score Card built for project sustenance Automation and AI Automation is a trend on the rise both in our and skills at all times. YORBIT represents our internal and external landscape. Our internal endeavours in that direction. (Please read our initiatives in automation are set to bring in story on YORBIT in the theme section of this eﬃciencies along with people comfort. For report.) example, our IOT infrastructure which is currently underway, will not only make The AI wave in our industry and others is resource monitoring real-time but also ensure pervasive. Mindtree is keen on not only occupant comfort in terms of ambient embracing the trend but looks to lead the temperature and air quality. Our philosophy trend, as a part of our aspiration of making guides us to look at the human side of Mindtree ‘memorable’ (Mindtree 3.0). AI is automation closely. already here as a disruptive force capable of transforming industries with many As a response to concerns regarding organizations yet to adopt it. With $100-200 automation in our external space, we have billion in productivity gains estimated for IT adopted a people-oriented stance of reskilling Enabled Services companies and $400 billion and multiskilling to sustain relevance of talent to be unlocked in new solutions by 2025, we 54 at Mindtree, see this as a positive opportunity standardize Agile and to ensure high quality to seize. We have been incubating and and predictable deliveries. This framework has building our capabilities in machine learning been deﬁned by our Global Agile Center of and areas of deep learning in the recent past. Excellence. We are conﬁdent, it will enable us More recently, we launched AI Solutions as a to oﬀer consistency in design and execution in new practice in Mindtree. Our leaders in all our markets. charge of the new practice are currently forming the team to take this oﬀering forward. Agile and GATE Growing need for Agile across our markets keeps us growing tool in terms of developing our capabilities in the domain. In addition, there is a need to practice agile principles with consistency across sales and delivery. We have therefore developed a framework, GATE – Global Agile Teams for the Enterprise, to Outlook ahead With global economic growth expecting to making businesses digital is a crucial vision. pick up in the next two years, and especially One third of our revenues already come from with India expected to lead the growth phase the digital space and we expect it to grow up with 7.4% and 7.8% growth, the context for to 50% in the next couple of years. When overall growth is positive. For India, IT-BPM disruptive technologies are getting stronger revenues have grown to USD 167 billion at globally, strengths in digital business, block 8.4% growth, and domestic market has grown chain, IOT and AI are going to prove by 7.9% to USD 41 billion. themselves as growth drivers. Mindtree is placed on a strong position on all these By 2020, the sector revenue is expected to growth drivers. With our capabilities in be in the range of USD 200-225, growing to automation, integrated services and digital USD 350-400 by 2025. A signiﬁcant part of competencies complementing each other, we the growth ahead will come from digital are set for a positive journey ahead, and are technologies. Digital technologies now stand committed to excellence in our performance at 20% and are growing at 30%. At Mindtree, across multiple bottom lines social, digital technologies are a strength, and environmental included. More details on our economic strategy, focus and key projects can be found in our Annual Report. 55 (INR in crores) Our growing economic value additions 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Direct Economic Value Generated (A) Revenue (through core business segments) 5,462.83 5,236.39 4,672.97 Other Income (through other sources) 190.22 55.33 83.90 Total 5,653.05 5,291.72 4,756.87 Economic Value Distributed (B) Operating cost 1,167.53 1,134.15 1,067.71 Personnel expenses (wages+beneﬁts) 3,550.19 3,392.92 2,780.68 Interest charges 16.91 19.10 16.04 Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. 172.22 136.23 170.60 wherever business units are located) Taxes expenses Taxes and royalties (given to various govt. 25.37 32.57 39.40 wherever business units are located) Dividend tax paid Dividends (payments to capital providers) 148.79 167.93 209.50 Donations (political parties/politicians) Community development/CSR investments 4.60 4.80 3.60 paid to Mindtree Foundation Total 5,085.61 4,887.69 4,287.53 Economic Value Added (A B) 567.44 404.03 469.34 (INR in crores) Our contribution to employee beneﬁt plans 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Contribution to Beneﬁt Plan Contributions to Provident and other funds 210.03 188.23 158.84 Staﬀ welfare expenses 13.86 19.74 18.46 Total 223.89 207.97 177.30 (INR in crores) Government assistance received 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Financial Assistance Received IT exemption 301.22 282.75 352.40 Land provided at subsidised rate incentives Custom, excise duties waived 6.38 6.54 14.95 Others Total 307.60 289.29 367.35 56 Growing talent pool 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Categorization Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By employee category Associates (T4-C4) 9,357 4,672 14,029 8,600 4,222 12,822 9,113 4,162 13,275 Middle Management 2,680 443 3,123 2,621 425 3,046 2,415 368 2,783 (C5-C7) Senior Management 196 17 213 170 15 185 138 10 148 (C8-C9) Top Management 19 1 20 17 1 18 15 2 17 (C10C12) Subsidiary employee 126 54 180 5 5 10 52 22 74 By employee contract Permanent 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 Contract 991 328 1,319 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 By employee type Total no. of employees 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 in FTEs Full time employees 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 (Headcount) Part Time employees 991 328 1,319 849 282 1,131 869 345 1,214 (Headcount) By region India 9,707 4,635 14,342 9,016 4,230 13,246 9,437 4,161 13,598 UK 316 91 407 206 44 250 226 50 276 US 1,970 399 2,369 1,780 340 2,120 1,637 296 1,933 Others 385 62 447 411 54 465 433 57 490 By age <30 5,285 3,276 8,561 4,951 2,959 7,910 5,570 3,018 8,588 30-50 6,878 1,862 8,740 6,303 1,673 7,976 6,024 1,509 7,533 >50 215 49 264 159 36 195 139 37 176 Total 12,378 5,187 17,565 11,413 4,668 16,081 11,733 4,564 16,297 57 2017-18: People with Disabilities Male Female Total 37 9 46 Excellent return-to-work and retention, post-parenthood Types of Employees entitled Employees that Employees who Employees who returned Return Retention parental to parental leave took parental leave returned to work to work after leave ended to work Rate leave after leave ended and were still employed rate after 12 months Maternity All full time women 445 429 419 96% 94% Leave employee Paternity Mindtree Minds who 933 933 863 100% 92% Leave become fathers with a child birth or in cases where wife undergoes pre-mature termination of pregnancy 58 Total number of new employee hires by category, region, age and gender New Hires 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Categorization Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By employee category Associates (T4-C4) 2,817 1,267 4,084 1,998 1,040 3,038 3,482 1,613 5,095 Middle Management 305 42 347 388 54 442 498 81 579 (C5-C7) Senior Management 25 3 28 28 3 31 19 2 21 (C8-C9) Top Management 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 (C10C12) Subsidiary employee 162 69 231 0 0 0 59 28 87 By region India 2,681 1,162 3,843 2,065 994 3,059 3,546 1,580 5,126 UK 142 61 203 12 3 15 19 2 21 US 445 139 584 309 92 401 428 126 554 Others 44 19 63 30 8 38 66 17 83 By age <30 1,971 1,072 3,043 1,377 835 2,212 2,509 1,322 3,831 30-50 1,247 288 1,535 994 252 1,246 1,472 374 1,846 >50 94 21 115 45 10 55 78 29 107 Total 3,312 1,381 4,693 2,416 1,097 3,513 4,059 1,725 5,784 59 Total number of new employee hires leaving the organization in the reporting period by category, region, age and gender Attrition among new hires 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Categorization Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By employee category Associates (T4-C4) 195 67 262 172 78 250 291 106 397 Middle Management 23 7 30 32 7 39 38 8 46 (C5-C7) Senior Management 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 (C8-C9) Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (C10C12) Subsidiary employee 36 15 51 0 0 0 7 6 13 By region India 162 58 220 153 66 219 287 108 395 UK 24 13 37 1 1 2 1 0 1 US 58 15 73 49 17 66 47 12 59 Others 11 3 14 2 1 3 2 0 2 By age <30 105 57 162 99 44 143 189 77 266 30-50 135 29 164 101 38 139 142 39 181 >50 15 3 18 5 3 8 6 4 10 Total 255 89 344 205 85 290 337 120 457 60 Total employee attrition by category, region, age and gender Total attrition 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Categorization Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By employee category Associates (T4-C4) 1,889 784 2,673 2,286 928 3,214 2,205 957 3,162 Middle Management 399 61 460 417 69 486 348 54 402 (C5-C7) Senior Management 21 3 24 24 0 24 22 2 24 (C8-C9) Top Management 2 0 2 4 1 5 4 0 4 (C10C12) Subsidiary employee 36 15 51 0 0 0 7 6 13 By region India 1,854 741 2,595 2,298 903 3,201 2,249 976 3,225 UK 41 17 58 11 5 16 16 1 17 US 367 88 455 358 80 438 267 39 306 Others 85 17 102 64 10 74 54 3 57 By age <30 947 495 1,442 1,278 610 1,888 1,385 654 2,039 30-50 1,331 353 1,684 1,411 372 1,783 1,170 359 1,529 >50 69 15 84 42 16 58 31 6 37 Total 2,347 863 3,210 2,731 998 3,729 2,586 1,019 3,605 61 Rate of employee turnover by category, region, age and gender Turnover rate, well contained 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 Categorization Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total By employee category Associates (T4-C4) 20.2% 16.8% 19.1% 26.58% 21.98% 25.07% 24.20% 22.99% 23.82% Middle Management 14.9% 13.8% 14.7% 15.91% 16.24% 15.96% 14.41% 14.67% 14.44% (C5-C7) Senior Management 10.7% 17.6% 11.3% 14.12% 0.00% 12.97% 15.94% 20.00% 16.22% (C8-C9) Top Management 10.5% 0.0% 10.0% 23.53% 100.00% 27.78% 26.67% 0.00% 23.53% (C10C12) Subsidiary 28.6% 27.8% 28.3% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 13.46% 27.27% 17.57% Employee By region India 19.1% 16.0% 18.1% 25.49% 21.35% 24.17% 23.83% 23.46% 23.72% UK 13.0% 18.7% 14.3% 5.34% 11.36% 6.40% 7.08% 2.00% 6.16% US 18.6% 22.1% 19.2% 20.11% 23.53% 20.66% 16.31% 13.18% 15.83% Others 22.1% 27.4% 22.8% 15.57% 18.52% 15.91% 12.47% 5.26% 11.63% By age <30 17.9% 15.1% 16.8% 25.81% 20.62% 23.87% 24.87% 21.67% 23.74% 30-50 19.4% 19.0% 19.3% 22.39% 22.24% 22.35% 19.42% 23.79% 20.30% >50 32.1% 30.6% 31.8% 26.42% 44.44% 29.74% 22.30% 16.22% 21.02% Total 19.0% 16.6% 18.3% 21.17% 23.50% 21.85% 22.04% 22.33% 22.12% 62 Our senior management100% locally hired No. of Senior Management Employees 2017 18 Region Local Hires Total Number % of Locals India 16 16 100% UK & Europe 6 6 100% US 9 9 100% Others 0 0 Total 31 31 100% Entry level wages well above India (INR) UK (GBP) US (USD) local minimum wages 2017-18 (Per day) Male Female Male Female Male Female Entry level wage 1,100 1,100 102.8 100.8 133.1 124.8 Local minimum wage 358.1 358.1 60 60 100 100 Ratio 3.07 3.07 1.71 1.68 1.33 1.25 63 Remuneration India (in INR) UK (in GBP) US (in USD) Others (in USD) As on 31 Mar 2018: Ratio of Basic Salary & Remuneration of Women to Men Employee category Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Basic Salary Associates (T4-C4) 206,160 184,468 0.89 40,786 39,366 0.97 65,539 64,654 0.99 53,507 45,696 0.85 Middle Management 517,951 448,431 0.87 73,102 64,923 0.89 93,266 91,366 0.98 82,520 86,645 1.05 (C5-C7) Senior Management 1,163,519 1,065,504 0.92 129,018 135,333 1.05 165,294 174,830 1.06 173,839 173,839 1.00 (C8-C9) Top Management 2,025,715 2,025,715 1.00 180,451 230,000 1.27 278,015 278,015 1.00 (C10-C12) Remuneration Associates (T4-C4) 759,639 647,795 0.85 43,517 41,896 0.96 73,157 71,315 0.97 57,234 48,835 0.85 Middle Management 2,063,739 1,819,149 0.88 80,484 71,969 0.89 111,205 106,420 0.96 91,150 97,845 1.07 (C5-C7) Senior Management 4,600,703 4,123,832 0.90 156,302 184,133 1.18 215,395 210,301 0.98 225,260 225,260 1.00 (C8-C9) Top Management 8,912,898 8,912,898 1.00 240,000 330,000 1.38 399,314 399,314 1.00 (C10-C12) 64 Remuneration ratio India UK US Others As on 31 Mar 2018 ratio of basic salary & remuneration of Women to Men Employee category Basic Salary Associates 0.89 0.97 0.99 0.85 Middle Management 0.87 0.89 0.98 1.05 Senior Management 0.92 1.05 1.06 1.00 Top Management 1.27 Remuneration Associates 0.85 1.01 0.97 0.85 Middle Management 0.88 0.94 0.96 1.07 Senior Management 0.90 1.27 0.98 1.00 Top Management 1.38 65 Coverage of beneﬁts oﬀered to our people India US UK ROW Full Part-Time/ Full Part-Time/ Full Part-Time/ Full Part-Time/ Standard Beneﬁt Provided Time Contract Time Contract Time Contract Time Contract Group Term Life insurance Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Health care Medical Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No insurance Disability Eg: Cab facility Yes Yes No No No No No No Parental leave Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Retirement provision Yes Yes No Yes No Yes No (Superannuation No (PF+Gratuity) in Australia) Yes Yes Yes Yes (As approved by (As approved by (As approved by (As approved by Stock ownership Compensation No Compensation No Compensation No Compensation No committee) committee) committee) committee) B+ve (Counselling program) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Healthy Mind Health Body Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No (wellness program) Personal Accident insurance Yes No Yes No No No No No Special needs leave Yes No No No No No No No No No No (Salary advance Emergency Medical fund Yes No (Salary No (Salary No covers medical No advance covers) advance covers) emergencies) Loans & Advances (House deposit, Two wheeler, Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No (Car, House) Salary advance) Reduced working hours Yes No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Sabbatical Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No 66 Extensive Total no. of employees No. of hours of Average hours of training training coverage per category training per category per year per employee 2017-18 Training Data Category/Level/ Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Grade of employees Associates (T4-C4) 9,357 4,672 14,029 810,986 502,593 1,313,579 86.67 107.58 93.63 Middle Management 2,680 443 3,123 45,158 8,510 53,668 16.85 19.21 17.18 (C5-C7) Senior Management 196 17 213 444 444 888 2.27 26.12 4.17 (C8-C9) Top Management 19 1 20 10 10 0.53 0.50 (C10C12) Sub-Contractors 991 328 1319 1,807 525.35 2332 1.82 1.60 1.77 Total 13,243 5,461 18,704 858,405 512,072 1,370,477 64.82 93.77 73.27 Average per capita training hours has increased from 53.38 hours last year to 73.27 hours in 2017-18 Our trainings covered our people extensively; our talent reviews are still in progress and scheduled for October 2018. 67 Workplace injury incidents Overall By gender By region Category Male Female Headquarters Whiteﬁeld Total no. of injury incidents This can include: • Injuries inﬂicted at the workplace • Injuries inﬂicted during travel, 311 159 152 284 27 commuting etc. • Occupational disease incidents like ergonomic injuries, both major and minor like RSI, stress, etc. No. of lost days due to injuries 32 14 18 32 0 Total no. of person hours worked 24,042,744 17,066,808 6,975,936 21,909,096 2,133,648 Total no. of employees (LA1) 10,119 7,183 2,936 9,221 898 Incident rate per 100 employees = No. of incidents X 100 2.81 2.21 5.18 3.08 3.01 Total no. of employees Frequency Rate = No. of incidents X 100000 1.29 0.93 2.18 1.30 1.27 Total person hours worked Severity Rate = Total no. of lost days 0.11 0.09 0.12 0.11 0.00 Total no. of incidents 4.71% of our workforce participates in health and safety committees. 68 Health and Safety program coverage Online (Zoojoo.be) platform One-to-one No. of campaigns 5 Total no. of counselling sessions 206 Total no. of employee participation 11,429 Total no. of self-assessment tests 287 No. of health challenges taken 11,701 Total no. of articles 841 No. of webinars conducted 27 Total no. of counselling follow ups 55 No. of onsite sessions 0 Total no. of priority alerts 71 No. of group activities 24 In house sessions Sessions People impacted Health talks 30 1,200 Health camps 16 1,600 Total no. of articles 45 1,800 Supply chain composition and local spends of procurement Region Active suppliers % of suppliers Spend(USD) % Spend India 910 62% 76,355,584 46% US 278 19% 67,549,389 40% UK 119 8% 8,479,870 5% Others 164 11% 14,835,031 9% Total 1471 100% 167,219,874 100% Women owned org. % of Suppliers Spend (USD) % Spend 14 0.95% 4,621,145 2.764 Numbers indicated are based on businesses carried out with partners. 69 Environmental Performance Year-on-year snapshot 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Category 3.38 tons 3.39 tons 3.29 tons 2.44 tons 2.29 tons 2.17 tons GHG CO2e/ CO2e/ CO2e/ CO2e/ CO2e/ CO2e/ Emissions employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ FTE/annum annum annum annum annum annum 201 KwH/ 200.04 KwH/ 189.22 kWh/ 167.6 kWh/ 170.74 kWh/ 167.25 kWh/ Energy employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ FTE/month month month month month month 1.05 kl/ 1.28 kl/ 1.03 kl/ 0.91 kl/ 1.02 kl/ 0.85 kl/FTE/ Water employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ employee/ month month month month month month 65% 89.68% 80.62% 89.66% 89.28% 88.99% Waste Recycled Recycled Recycled Recycled Recycled Recycled Note: Our per capita measures in this year, exclude our support staﬀ, unlike in the previous year, as a step towards more stringent adherence to GRI G4 guidelines. 70 Energy and emissions management Energy performance (KwH) Emissions performance (tons CO2e) 30,269,592 28,408,536 22,007 19,814 11,763 10,157 637,465 717,083 1,461 812 DG Units Electricity Scope 3 Scope 2 Scope 1 Purchased 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 Scope 1 emissions performance (tons CO2e) Scope 3 emissions performance (tons CO2e) 13,038 11,213 527 608 8,732 8,419 187 726 90 119 144 134 8 8 93 48 Owned Fugitive Fuel Fuel Usage/ Vehicles Emissions Usage Energy Generated Freight Waste Business Employee (HFC) (LPG) (Diesel) Travel Commute 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 Business travel (km) Air emissions (kg) 1,682,048 1,573,059 71,896,952 71,600,433 1,584,632 649,356 547,498 242,561 292,812 250,139 154,152 38 34 41 22 15 20 Rail Road Client AirAirShort AirLong SPM SOX NOX Cabs Domestic haul haul 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 71 Water Management Ozone depleting substances (kg) Water performance (kl) 26,339 10,360 120,987 74,094 48,655 43,610 315 195 4,393 4,375 17 11 R22 CFC Packaged Private Municipal Ground Water (Refrigerant) (Equivalent) Water Suppliers Corporation Extraction 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 Water conservation (kl) Waste Management Waste disposal 10.86% 0.15% 756 4,200 4,838 47,376 40,137 184,394 148,417 Recharged Rainwater Total water Total water 88.99% to ground harvested recycled consumption 2016-17 2017-18 Recycle Incineration Landﬁll Waste management performance (kg) 37,836 40,153 37,890 34,562 27,287 26,261 99,434 79,489 161,333 192,555 8,598 15,620 Other Packaging Organic Inorganic Hazardous Electronic 2016-17 2017-18 72 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Guidelines The Ten Principles PRINCIPLES STATEMENT PAGE NO. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect Principle 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed 10 human rights; and Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 2 10 human rights abuses LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 3 of association and the eﬀective recognition NA of the right to collective bargaining; The elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4 10, 37 and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labour; and 10, 37 The elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 10 respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 10 approach to environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 10 environmental responsibility; and Encourage the development and diﬀusion Principle 9 35-38 of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 10 10 all its forms, including extortion and bribery NVG Report Application SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the A business entity. Thus, the reading of the report becomes more contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: 73 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. A-1 Basic information about Name 3 the business Nature of ownership 3 Details of the people in top management 11 Location of its operations National Annual Report and International Products and services oﬀered 3 Markets served Annual Report Sales 3 Net proﬁt 52 Tax paid 56 Economic and Financial Data Total assets Annual Report Market capitalisation Annual Report Number of employees 3 A-2 Management's commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 4, 10 Priorities in terms of the principle and the core elements 4 Reporting period/ cycle 8 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 8, 10 Any signiﬁcant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know Annual Report Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving 17 their performance during the reporting period B Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Eﬀorts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to the small businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. 74 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. B-1 Principle 1 – ethics, Governance structure of the business, transparency including committees under the Board and accountability responsible for organizational oversight. 12 In case no committee is constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight Mandate and composition (including number of independent members and/or non-executive members) of such committee 11, 12 with the number of oversight review meetings held State whether the person/committee head responsible for oversight review is 11, 12 independent from the executive authority or not. If yes, how Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Annual Report direction to the Board/Chief Executive Processes in place for the Board/ Chief Executive to ensure conﬂicts of interest Annual Report are avoided Internally developed statement on ethics, codes of conduct and details of the process 10 followed to ensure that the same are followed Frequency with which the Board/ Chief 11, Executive assesses BR performance Annual Report Principle 2 – products life Statement on the use of recyclable raw NA cycle sustainability materials used Statement on use of energy-eﬃcient technologies, designs and manufacturing/ 32 service-delivery processes Statement on copyrights issues in case of the products that involve use of traditional NA knowledge and geographical indicators Statement on use of sustainable practices 38 used in the value chain Principle 3 – employees' Total number of employees with percentage well-being of employees that are engaged through 57 contractors Statement on non-discriminatory 10 employment policy of the business entity 75 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. Percentage of employees who are women 5, 41 Number of persons with disabilities hired 41 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to any skilled and unskilled employee 63, 64 Number of training and skill upgradation programmes organized during the reporting 20, 67 period for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment None of wages during the reporting period Number of grievances submitted by the BRR employees (Annual Report) Statement on the process of Principle 4 – stakeholder identiﬁcation of stakeholders and 13 engagement engaging with them Statement on signiﬁcant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with 13-15 any of the stakeholder groups Principle 5 – human rights Statement on the policy of the business entity on observance of human rights in 10 their operation Statement on complaints of human rights BRR violations ﬁled during the reporting period (Annual Report) Principle 6 – Percentage of materials used that are NA environment recycled input materials Total energy consumed by the business 71 entity for its operations Statement on use of energy-saving processes and the total energy saved due to use of 35 such processes Use of renewable energy as percentage of 37 total energy consumption Total water consumed and the percentage of water that is recycled and reused 72 Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse gases and eﬀorts made to 35, 36 reduce the same 76 SUB PART ASPECTS PAGE NO. B-1 Statement on discharge of water and eﬄuents indicating the treatment done 36 before discharge and the destination of disposal Details of eﬀorts made for reconstruction of bio-diversity 34 Principle 7 – policy Statement on signiﬁcant policy advocacy advocacy eﬀorts undertaken with details of the 9 platforms used Principle 8 – inclusive Details of community investment and growth development work undertaken indicating the 25, 27 ﬁnancial resources deployed and the impact of this work with a longer-term perspective Details of innovative practices, products and services that particularly enhance access and 25, 26 allocation of resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society Principle 9 – customer Statement on whether the labelling of their value products has adequate information regarding product-related customer health NA and safety, method of use and disposal, product and process standards observed Details of the customer complaints on safety, labelling and safe disposal of NA the products received during the reporting period C Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure on by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its eﬀorts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. C-1 • Brief report on any material / signiﬁcant negative consequences Nil. of the operations of the business entity. No signiﬁcant impacts C-2 • Brief on goals and Social 6 targets in the area of social, environmental and economic responsibilities Environmental 6 that the business entity has set for itself for the next reporting period Economical 6, Annual Report 77 GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis Gen Standard Disclosure Item Location Assurance Disclosure G4-1 Statement by the MD, CEO and the Chairman 4 Yes G4-2 Description of key impacts, risk & opportunities Annual Report Yes Organizational proﬁle G4-3 Name of the organization 3 Yes G4-4 Primary brands, products, services. 3 Yes G4-5 Location of the headquarters Annual Report Yes G4-6 Number of countries of operation Annual Report Yes G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3, Annual Report Yes G4-8 Markets served Annual Report Yes G4-9 Scale of the organization 3 Yes G4-10 Employee proﬁle 57 Yes G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective None Yes bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 37, 38 Yes G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the year None Yes G4-14 Precautionary approach principle 10 Yes G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives 10 Yes to which the organization subscribes G4-16 Memberships of associations 9 Yes Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated Annual Report Yes ﬁnancial statements G4-18 Deﬁning the report content and aspect boundaries 16, 81-87 Yes G4-19 Material aspects 16, 81-87 Yes 78 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 81-87 Yes G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 81-87 Yes Eﬀect of any restatement of information G4-22 70 Yes provided in previous reports G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods None Yes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13 Yes G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 13 Yes G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 13-15 Yes G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 13-15 Yes Report proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period 8 Yes G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 8 Yes G4-30 Reporting cycle 8 Yes G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back page Yes G4-32 ‘Comprehensive’ option chosen 8 Yes G4-33 External assurance 89-92 Yes Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 11, 12 Yes G4-35 Process for delegating authority for EES topics from highest 11 Yes governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-35 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive level position with responsibility for EES topics and whether 11 Yes the post holder(s) report directly to the governance body G4-36 Process for consultation between stakeholders and highest governance body on EES topics. If delegated, to whom. Any 11 Yes feedback process to highest governance body G4-38 Report composition of the highest governance body 11 Yes G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance body is also 11 Yes an executive oﬃcer 79 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and criteria usedhow diversity, independence, EES 11, Yes Annual Report competence are considered and if stakeholders involved G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. (Cross board membership, cross-shareholding, Annual Report Yes controlling stakeholders, related party disclosures) G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ role in development, approval and updating the Organization’s purpose, value or mission 11 Yes statements, strategies, policies, goals related to EES impacts Highest governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 11 Yes governance body’s collective knowledge of EES topics G4-44 Processes of evaluation of highest governance body’s governance of EES topics. Whether such evaluation is independent or not and 11 Yes its frequency. Whether it is self-assessment. Actions taken in response to such evaluation Highest body’s role in risk management G4-45 Highest body’s role in identiﬁcation and management of EES impacts, risks and opportunities. Role in implementation of due Annual Report Yes diligence. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the Annual Report Yes eﬀectiveness of risk management processes for EES topics G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review of EES Annual Report Yes impacts, risks and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting G4-48 Highest committee/position that formally reviews and approves the 11 Yes sustainability report, and ensures that all material aspects are covered Highest governance body’s role in evaluating EES ( Economic, Environmental, Social) performance G4-49 Report the processes for communicating critical concerns to 13, 14, Yes the highest body Annual Report G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the 13, 14, Yes highest body, and the mechanism used to address and resolve them Annual Report 80 Remuneration and incentives G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest body and senior executives (with detailsﬁxed, variable, sign-on bonuses, termination pay, Annual Report Yes clawbacks, retirement beneﬁts). Report how performance criteria in remuneration policy relate to their EES objectives G4-52 Process for determining the remuneration reportwhether consultants are involved, whether independent of management/any Annual Report Yes other relationship with the organization G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Annual Report Yes regarding remuneration G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the highest paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations to Annual Report Yes the median percentage increase in the same for all employees (excluding the highest paid individual) in the same country Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms such 10 Yes as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical & 13-15 Yes lawful behavior and integrity-such as help lines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanism for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and matters 13-15 Yes related to organizational integrity 81 Speciﬁc Disclosures Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) Social category People Focus I&E DMA 42 Yes Employment I G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, 57 Yes broken down by gender LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 59-62 Yes by age group, gender and region LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 66 Yes signiﬁcant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 58 Yes Human Rights I HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, and Annual Grievance resolved through formal grievance Report Yes Mechanisms mechanisms. (BRR) Market I EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Presence gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of 63 Yes operations. EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant 63 Yes locations of operation General I G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 Yes disclosure Ethics and Integrity General I G4-34 to G4-55 Yes disclosureGovernance NonI HR3 Total number of incidents of None Yes discrimination discrimination and corrective actions taken 82 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) Supplier I&E DMA 37 Yes Sustainability Procurement E EC9 Proportion of spending on local Practices suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of 69 Yes operations Vendor E DMA 38 Yes Engagement Child Labour E HR5 HR5operations and suppliers None identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for (code of incidents of child labor, and measures Yes conduct) taken to contribute to the eﬀective abolition of child labor Forced or E HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for forced or compulsory None Compulsory labor and measures taken to contribute (code of Yes labour to the elimination of forced or conduct) compulsory labor Labor E LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Management operational changes, including whether these are speciﬁed in collective NA Yes Relations agreements Labor Practices E LA16 Number of grievances about labor Grievance practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved None Yes Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms CSR Projects E DMA 24 Yes Indirect E EC7 Development and impact of Economic infrastructure investments and services Impacts provided primarily for public beneﬁt 28-30 Yes through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, 28-30 Yes including the extent of impacts Indigenous E HR8 Total number of incidents of violations Rights involving rights of indigenous peoples NA Yes and actions taken Local E SO1 Percentage of operations with Communities implemented local community 100% Yes engagement, impact assessments, and development programs E SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and None Yes potential negative impacts on local communities 83 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) Compliance I SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and (under Society total number of non-monetary None Yes Performance) sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Grievance E SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on Mechanisms for society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved None Yes Impacts on through formal grievance mechanisms Society Employee I DMA 48 Yes Well-being Occupational I LA5 Percentage of workforce represented in Health and formal joint management-worker health Safety and safety committees that help 68 Yes monitor and advise on occupational safety program LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 68 Yes work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 48, 69 Yes LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions NA Yes Talent I DMA 42 Yes Development Training and I LA9 Average hours of training per year per Education employee broken down by employee 67 Yes category LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 20, 46, 47 Yes and assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 67 Yes development reviews, by gender Investment I HR1 Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 100% Yes clauses or that underwent human rights screening HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 100% Yes relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 84 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) Security I HR7 Percentage of security personnel Practices trained in the organization’s human 100% Yes rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Diversity & I DMA 49 Yes Inclusion Diversity and I LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Equal breakdown of employees per category Opportunity according to gender, age group, 57 Yes minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal E LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Remuneration by employee category by signiﬁcant 64 Yes for Women locations of operation and Men Economic category Delivery I DMA 52, 54, 55 Yes Excellence Sales Economic I EC1 Direct economic value generated and Transformation 56 Yes Performance distributed Automation Agile I EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's 33 Yes activities due to climate change I EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned 56 Yes beneﬁt plan obligations I EC4 Financial assistance received from 56 Yes government Product and I PR3 Type of product and service information Service required by the organization’s Labeling procedures for product and service information and labeling, and NA Yes percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to such information requirements I PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product None Yes and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes I PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Yes satisfaction Marketing I PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products None Yes Communications I PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing None Yes communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. 85 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) Customer I PR8 Total number of substantiated privacy complaints regarding breaches of None Yes customer privacy and losses of customer data Anti-Corruption I SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 100% Yes corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed I SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 100% Yes I SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None Yes AntiI SO7 Total number of legal actions for Competitive anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, None Yes Behavior and monopoly practices and their outcomes Environmental category Green Energy I&E DMA 38 Yes Overall I EN31 Total environmental expenditures and investments by type. 33 Yes Energy I EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 33 Yes I EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 35 Yes products and services Emission I EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 33 Yes emissions Climate Change I&E DMA 32 Yes Stewardship Economic I EC2 Financial implications and other risks Performance and opportunities for the organization's activities due to 33 Yes climate change Energy I EN3 Energy consumption within the organization (Direct energy 71 Yes consumption by primary energy source) I EN4 Energy consumption outside of the 71 Yes organization 86 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) I EN5 Energy intensity | Report the energy 71 Yes intensity ratio I EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 33 Yes I EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of 35 Yes products and services Water I EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 72 Yes E EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by Yes withdrawal of water None I EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 72 Yes recycled and reuse Emission I EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 71 Yes I EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 71 Yes EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 71 Yes emissions I EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 70 Yes intensity I EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 70 Yes emissions I EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 72 Yes substances (ODS) I EN21 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air 71 Yes emissions Eﬄuents and I EN22 Total water discharge by destination 71 Yes Waste and quality I EN23 Total weight of waste by type and 72 Yes disposal method I EN24 Total number and volume of None Yes signiﬁcant spills I EN25 Weight of transported, imported, None Yes exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the base convention2 annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 87 Material issue Material Aspect Speciﬁc Indicators Location/ Assurance aspect (GRI) boundary standard remarks (Internal / disclosure External) I EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and None Yes biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoﬀ Biodiversity I EN13 Habitats protected or restored 34 Yes Products and I EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of Services environmental impacts of products NA Yes and services I EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed NA Yes by category Transport E EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 71 Yes organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall I EN31 Total environmental expenditures and 33 Yes investments by type Environmental I DMA 32 Yes Management Systems Compliance I EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes categoryand total number of non-monetary None Yes environmental sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental I EN34 Number of grievances about Grievance environmental impacts ﬁled, None Yes Mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms *NA Not Applicable. 88 Assurance Statement 89 Assurance Statement 90 Assurance Statement 91 Assurance Statement 92 Data assumptions & techniques Company The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30 km per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the owned average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of vehicles the city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) awe arrive at the total kilometers travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make of the vehicle. Fuel usage Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. Refrigerant a) For HFC's the global warming potential of the refrigerant along with a conversion factor of 0.001 is converted into CO2e using standard conversion formulas. Employee a) For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel commute vehicles. An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total liters consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b) Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service the total kilometers travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. c) Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d) Mindtree uses parking lot ﬁgures to determine a factor of the employees using fourand twowheelers e) For fourand twowheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometers are calculated by assuming an average of 30 km per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. Business a) GHG protocol provides diﬀerent emission factors for domestic, short haul and long haul ﬂights. A distance travel based classiﬁcation into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available (international literature, Mindtree has considered the following categorisation to classify all ﬂights as per the categorization & domestic) below: Domestic, less than 463 km Short haul, between 464 and 1108 km Long haul, greater than 1108 km With this categorization, a majority of the ﬂights (98%) are long haul with the balance under short haul (1%) and domestic (0.2%). Waste a) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg b) Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.88 kgs. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed as opposed to the kg c) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126 g. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFL's being disposed as opposed to the Kg 93 d) Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250 g. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed as opposed to the Kg e) Weight of one DG ﬁlter is considered as 1.5 kg. This ﬁgure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of DG ﬁlters being disposed as opposed to the Kg f) The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.5kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g) In the event that waste (oil soaked cotton and DG ﬁlters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months h) Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. i) Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used. Freight Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air freight and emission factor for international is that of long haul. Water > For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, ﬁgures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 65 liters of water per day. 65 litres is derived based on ratio of the total water consumed in locations with accurate measure by the total number of employees. > Drinking water is collected in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied in 20 litres (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of litres. Air emissions > Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the months not measured. * The rupee to US dollar conversion factor was taken at the rupee-US dollar exchange rate of INR 45.6013 for the year 2010-11, INR 47.5709 for the year 2011-12, INR 54.2107 for the year 2012-13, INR 60.5237 for the year 2013-14, INR 61.0106 for the year 2014-15, INR 65.5510 for the year 2015-16 and INR 67.1533 for the year 2016-17 and INR 64.5118 for the year 2017-18. 94 Glossary of acronyms Acronym Expansion Acronym Expansion AI Artiﬁcial Intelligence INR Indian National Rupee APAC Asia-Paciﬁc region IOT Internet of Things AR Annual Report ISO International Organization for Standardization BOD Board of Directors IT Information Technology BRR Business Responsibility Report KWh Kilowatt Hour CDP Carbon Disclosure Project LMW Local Minimum Wages CFO Chief Financial Oﬃcer LPG Liquid Petroleum Gas Co2e Carbon Dioxide equivalent NCPEDP National centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People COO Chief Operating Oﬃcer NGO Non Government Organization CSR Corporate Social Responsibility NOX Oxides of Nitrogen DG Diesel Generators The Organization for Economic Co-operation OECD and Development Earnings before interest, tax, EBITDA NVG RBSEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, depreciation and amortization Environmental and Economic EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Responsibilities of Business Sexual Orientation EES Economic, Environmental, Social OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Sequence EHS Environment, Health and Safety PWD People with Disability ELW Entry Level Wages ROCE Return on Capital Employed EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa ROI Return on Investment EPS Earnings Per Share ROW Rest of the World FY Financial Year SEBI Securities Exchange Board of India GHG Green House Gases SOX Oxides of Sulphur GJ Giga Joules SPM Suspended Particulate Matter GRI Global Reporting Initiative STP Sewage Treatment Plant HFC Hydro Flouro Carbon RO Reverse Osmosis HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning UNGC United Nations Global Compact IFC International Finance Corporation USD United States Dollar IGBC Indian Green Building Council USGBC U.S. Green Building Council IGG I Got Garbage VFM Value For Money 95 Feedback and communication We welcome any feedback and suggestions which will further strengthen our sustainability programs. Contact details: Chitra Byregowda | Head – Sustainability & Diversity Chitra.Byregowda@mindtree.com Registered Adress: Mindtree, Global Village RVCE Post, Mysore Road, Bengaluru 560 059 Karnataka, India. Telephone: +91-80-6706 4000 Fax: +91-80-6706 4100 Courtesy: This Sustainability Report is designed by Vitamin India Pvt. Ltd. and developed by Bhairavi Business & Consultancy. Highly limited edition of hardcopy of our Sustainability Report is printed on 100% recycled paper certiﬁed by the UK-based National Association of Paper Merchants (NAPM) and Germany-based Blue Angel. www.mindtree.com The report can be downloaded at http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf
