We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Reporting on Communication on Progress. Period covered by our Communication on Progress(COP)From 12.27.2017 to 12.27.2018 Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director: 20th December 2018 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Neem Eco Events licensed under Vertivent Events India Pvt. Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Sonali NairManaging Director UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Introduction Neem Eco Events licensed under Vertivent Events India Pvt. Ltd. is committed to sustainability in all business activities and aims to apply highest ethical standards in order to ensure the long-term success of the Neem Eco Events and its stakeholders. In support of this goal, Neem implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct in 2017 and Neem licensed under Vertivent Events India Pvt. Ltd. subscribed to the UN Global Compact. Both specify minimum standards expected of Neem and are based on principles for: a) Human Rights b) Labour c) Environment d) Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 At Neem Eco Events all staff are committed to following these principles. Neem Eco Events further requires its suppliers to explicitly acknowledge and adhere to the principles embodied in the Code of Conduct to ensure that their own suppliers also will comply with these principles. a. Human Rights Description of Actions All offices further ensure that hiring, remuneration, advancement, training and termination decisions are based on objective factors and not connected to gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, or any other discriminating factors. Instead this is determined by skills, qualifications and experience required for the position in question. Neem does not tolerate workplace harassment, hereunder but not limited to words, signs, offensive jokes, e-mail statements, pranks, intimidation, sexual or physical harassment or violence. Policies are in place to protect all employees. These policies are made available to employees in a language, which is understood by the employees. Neem Eco Events has implemented ‘Work from home’ policy for employees to enable them have a better work-life balance. UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Measurement of Outcomes In 2017-18 no cases of harassment were reported at Neem office. Neem ensured that 100% of the service recommendations made for clients, we advocated sustainability and shared knowledge on eco-friendly alternatives to their business requirements. As part of our ‘Give Back’ goal, The Vert Community dedicates 5% of its profit to society and local community like farmers, women empowerment and senior citizens care. b. Labour Description of Actions No Neem office will hire any form of forced labour or child labours. All offices recognize and encourage the freedom of association rights of its employees and ensure that trade unions are able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without threat of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Measurement of Outcomes All Neem India’s remuneration are as a minimum consistent with Indian Labour Law and prevailing industry standards. Holiday, sick leave and maternity leave are provided in consistency with Indian Labour Law. Working hours are also consistent with Indian Law and prevailing industry standards. c. Environment Description of Actions Neem shall comply with all applicable environmental regulations. Measurement of Outcomes Neem Eco Event’s core service offering is to reduce the waste. Neem helps organizations work towards Sustainable Goals through innovative event consultation on initiatives like go green go paperless, water conservation, food in need etc. UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 In May 2018, Neem India has initiated a supplier program measuring cities and destinations that are working towards sustainability or are in need of consultation to convert their city to a greener one. These eco friendly destinations will then be suggested to clients on need basis, encouraging more and more destinations to switch to eco friendly measures. However, no progress was made due to the technical deficiencies identified in the sustainability calculator used. Setting up a new calculator is in progress and Neem expects to restart measuring from October Quarter 2019. d. Anti-Corruption Description of Actions The Neem Eco Events has a zero tolerance on corruption. All corruption, extortion and embezzlement are prohibited. Employees are not allowed to pay or accept bribes in business or government relationships. Neem shall conduct their business consistent with fair competition and in compliance with anti-trust laws. Neem Eco Event’s relationships with suppliers are based entirely on sound business decisions and fair dealing. Employees are not allowed to accept any gifts or entertainment. Employees are not allowed to accept or give kickbacks when obtaining or awarding contracts. UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018 We are a Sustainable Event's Consulting Firm UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL REPORT 2018 d. Anti-Corruption Measurement of Outcomes All staff at Neem are instructed not to pay corruption or bribery in order to unjustly influence public officials or suppliers. When deemed necessary, Neem encourages employees to go to government official / other relevant meetings two persons at a time in order to discourage corruption and bribery. UN Global Compact Annual Report Dec 2018
