UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2017 1. Introduction In its ten years of presence in telecommunications market continuously invest in the environment, sports, culture, in Serbia, Vip mobile has accomplished the sustainable education. Accepting the responsibility for our business growth in all business segments owing to its strategic operations and their influence, we induce, through our determination to focus on providing the best customer socially responsible operation, positive changes in the experience and on continuous improvement of the society and contribute to improving the quality of life in network, technology and offering of the innovative Serbia. products and services. Vip always puts its customers first, and the company is dedicated to adapt the products and services to their needs. Our objective in Vip mobile is to support the improvement of the local community, while constantly achieving better business results, which is why we 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address In 2017 we marked ten years of presence in the Serbian Serbia, programs aimed at social integration of children market. I’m proud to say that during this period, we have with disabilities and digital literacy programs. thrived and succeeded to establish fair and responsible We will continue with the implementation of corporate relationship with our employees, our customers, and the social responsibility based on UN Global Compact community we operate in. By initiating projects and principles and lead other companies as a good example practices relevant to the social and environmental of permanent and stable CSR practice in the Serbian situation in the country, we are glad to be able to raise business sector. awareness and make positive impact on the topics of social interest, such as helping the children and the elderly people, influencing the development of culture and sports, opening and resolving a number of environmental issues, and thus setting up the foundation of responsible, humanitarian impact in the business world. Our CSR strategy in 2017 has been mainly related to providing digital solutions for support of education in 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance 2.1. Care for employees HR Sector 2017 strategy was focused on talent management and leadership development, strengthening of corporate culture and promoting Vip mobile as a desirable employer. For our employees we provide additional benefits such as: • Voluntary health insurance • Voluntary pension insurance • Kindergarten on site at our headquarters building • Special benefits and discounts for shopping, sports, leisure • Various work-life balance benefits 2.1.1. Basic information about Vip employees and investment in their development 2017 Woman Man Age structure 2017 Gender structure 2017 Management share 2017 35.0% 42% 46% 32.89% 31.08% 30.0% 58% 54% 25.0% 20.0% 15.68% 15.0% 14.26% 10.0% 5.0% 3.04% 1.33% 0.86% 0.86% 0.0% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> 2.1.2. Managing talents, recognizing top performers, raising competencies One of the major company aims in human resources times, so that the employees, regardless of their gender, A1 Group Programs A1 Group portfolio contains development is continuing of employee competence may use them wherever and whenever they need them. various development programs for the employees from all development, creation of new development programs Leadership Journey Workshops, launched in companies which are a part of this Group. Our which will enable this aim’s implementation and enrich 2016, are still contributing to our leaders’ development. colleagues have on their disposal “A1 Learning Hub” the programs that have been a constituent part of Vip The program is continuously improved, so that it responds school open trainings, development programs for various mobile business culture for years. Our aim is to create an to employee development needs as well as current issues target groups as well as various online contents. A1 inspiring and stimulating environment in which our at all times. This workshop concept contributes to Group largely participates in the development strategy for employees can grow together with the company, fulfil additional internal exchange of knowledge and all employees, which is further developed and tailored to their potentials and be passionate about their work. experience between the younger and more experienced local needs by each of the respective companies. “Gallup Strength Based Program” means a long colleagues and even better connecting of colleagues at Cooperation with start up community: Changes term development program for our company leaders as all levels. on the market, technology development and growth of well as for the employees recognized as talents. This Within regularly planned activities for professional start up community brought along the need for developing program includes creating of each employee’s profile, development in 2017, our employees will attend courses the new competences necessary for finding one’s way based on their key strengths, 3 individual as well as 2 for development of professional skills, leadership, around the coming era. Given the circumstances, in order team coaching sessions. Each of the participants has their organizational and other “soft” skills in order to to connect with the start up community, we have launched own individual coach with whom they continuously work accomplish improvement in their respective fields. In a partnership cooperation with ICT Hub within which we on their development. During 2017 we continued the addition, we continuously support internal exchange of jointly create the strategy for development of future project “Vip e-mpowering classroom”, e-learning knowledge through the rotation programs, insight into the competences. In addition to attending the ICT Hub open platforms (online learning platform, a vault of new workplace of colleagues from other departments as well trainings, we are free to hire their lecturers and organize knowledge and skills in the form of virtual interactive as through an increasing number of cross-functional educational programs specifically intended for our needs. courses on various themes) enabling access to all projects. Mentorship Program During 2017 we will launch a employees in order to provide even larger support to Employee development in the field of new Mentorship Program in which our key employees will employee development. In the course of 2015 we had trends and work methodologies digitalization, receive the support from experienced mentors from other first workshops, after which we proceeded with agile transformation and an increasing access to new companies who will transfer their knowledge and continuous platform development. In 2017, the e-learning technologies are making us face the new challenges in the experience as well as various examples from other platform was improved, due to which, in addition to field of employee education. The transformation project, industries’ practice. numerous new and modern functionalities, the employees which is currently under way, includes, among other gained access to a large number of various contents. things, developing of internal and external education E-learning knowledge and content are available at all programs regarding these issues. 2.1.3. Social Recruiting In the course of 2017 we have continued and improved job recruiting via social networks in order to be able to search more efficiently and find the talents who are hard to come by, but also to increase the company visibility and raise the level of awareness regarding Vip as an employer. In 2017, we have launched a new IT system for employee recruiting and selection whose functionalities will enable us to be even better positioned in various channels, among other things, social networks. 2.2. Responsibility towards community Vip is dedicated to initiating positive changes in its environment, and, as a responsible company, it focuses its operations on improving the quality of life in Serbia. 2.2.1. Vip annual donation In the past ten years, Vip mobile has set up annual has partnered with a local foundation and supported the donation aimed at most relevant social topics and program “Battle for knowledge”. vulnerable groups. The projects were focusing on providing support to the blind and visually impaired people, Through the program, elementary schools in Serbia were victims of trafficking, children with autism, children with provided with mBot robots for teaching the basics of asthma and the young ones who have been treated for programming, electronics and robotics to children in cancer as well as children with disabilities. elementary schools. Aware of the importance of modern technologies and creativity development in modern education, in 2017 the focus was on providing advanced digital solutions for teaching elementary school children. For this purpose, Vip 2.2.2. Media literacy Nowadays, digital literacy is very important and it facilitates everyday life. In order to provide access to the knowledge about new technologies in distant and rural areas Vip has organized digital workshops in nursing homes and local community centers in less populated and underdeveloped locations. The workshops were held by Vip volunteers who explained to the participants the basics of using smartphones and computers. In this way, even in distant rural areas people were able to gain knowledge about new technologies. 2.2.3. Audio stories for children In order to provide new and inspirational digital material them. Each story was written with two ends, and children for children and their parents, Vip has initiated the project were the ones who were able to choose the end which “Maštalice”. It is a set of new audio stories for children they liked. With the help of pedagogues and children created with the help of children, using their inspiration psychologists, children were guided to recognize good and imagination and written by recognized Serbian values and behavior. The final stories were then authors. Workshops were held in kindergartens and interpreted by famous Serbian actors and posted on children were asked to talk about the topics which interest specially created web site http://vipmastalice.rs/ 2.2.4. Humanitarian SMS numbers For a number of years Vip has been enabling SMS donor activities for raising of funds for the actions of general social interest, including philanthropy. In 2017 only, Vip customers have donated more than 34 million RSD via SMS humanitarian numbers. 2.2.5. Vip Ecomotivation With constant efforts to reduce its environmental impact, Vip undertakes numerous measures for energy savings and reduction of waste and resources. In order to bring its environmental management system to an even higher level, Vip passed through certification process for ISO 14001 whereby it confirmed its commitment to sustainable management. Through its long-lasting program, Vip Ecomotivation and numerous activities within and outside the company, Vip contributes to raising awareness of its employees and of general public regarding the importance of preservation of the environment. 2.2.6. Employee volunteer service Employees of Vip often initiate and take part in numerous volunteering activities, putting in energy, time and knowledge for the welfare of other people and the community. Every year, employees of Vip participate in the traditional volunteering action “Our Belgrade” organized by Forum of Business Leaders of Serbia, dedicated to mentoring work with students taking educational internship in Vip, participate in voluntary blood donation campaigns, as well as in environmental actions often organized by Vip Eco Team. 2.3. Vip Sponsorships Vip’s orientation is to support young people who achieve top results and have a competitive spirit; who are eager to succeed, daring, energetic and different all features that perfectly match our brand’s character. In accordance with the corporate business strategy, we established long term sponsorships which are directed towards the young people striving for success in sports and culture. 2.3.1. Partnership with Serbian Volleyball Federation As general sponsor of the Volleyball Federation of Serbia volleyball in our country. During 2017 the total of 8 (OSS), Vip supports indoor volleyball, but in 2008 Vip tournaments were held throughout Serbia. Vip Beach initiated professional tournaments in beach volleyball and Masters volleyball school was organized in all host cities formed Vip Beach Masters National championship in of the tournament, which is intended for young talents beach volleyball, to popularize this attractive sport and under the age of 14 years. Since its founding, more than promote talented young players. Combining competitive 12,000 boys and girls have learned how to play spirit, a good atmosphere, but also the beauty of this volleyball through this school. dynamic collective sport, this prestigious competition gathers the best volleyball players from Serbia and the region and contributes to improving the quality of 2.3.2. Belgrade Dance Festival In 2017 Vip mobile, as a general sponsor for the tenth investments in Serbian culture, and jointly created the Owing to this cooperation Serbia became an year in a row, proudly supported the 14th Belgrade slogan Communication on the Move , best reflects the indispensable stopping point to a large number of Dance Festival which gathered the contemporary dance strength of a ten-year cooperation. To the popularization significant international dance performances. lovers in Belgrade and Novi Sad. of artistic dance in Serbia, Vip contributes by awarding a prize Vip calls to prominent artists from the region with Through the accompanying “Vip Talents” project, Enjoying the title of one of the most outstanding European distinctive dancing career abroad, then journalistic award Belgrade Dance Festival and Vip mobile had the youngest event, every spring Belgrade Dance Festival brings Vip step forward , but also through the Vip talents and ballet talents enrolled into the high quality educational together the most prestigious dance companies. As a support to the National Dance Foundation. and practical workshops held by top mentors who major partner of the Belgrade Dance Festival, Vip mobile contribute to guiding them on their way to professional has introduced a distinctive pattern of large companies artistic dancing. 2.4. Responsibility towards Compliance Vip mobile, as member of Telekom Austria Group, business ethics principles. Vip is also fully committed to of our services, shareholders, public, and our employees complies with the highest corporate management transparency in business reporting. Compliance is actively expect us to meet the highest standards, also in the sense standards, which are a foundation for establishing an implemented and incorporated into existing processes of integrity. excellent and long-term relationship with our customers, and controls. Right way -Right results. Compliance awarepartners and relevant state institutions. ness through Code of Conduct, compliance management Telekom Austria is listed on Vienna Stock Exchanges and policies, regular compliance trainings to all level operates in accordance with Austria security trade acts as employees within Vip mobile, whistle-blower (local and well as with stock exchange regulations. Vip mobile is group), Compliance Risk assessment sessions clearly conducting its operations in accordance with all laws and shows that it is important not only to achieve our goals, but regulations in force in the Republic of Serbia and with all also how we achieve them. Our business partners, users
