Foreword We uphold the UNGC by: Sustainable development of organizations of all kinds are a standard practice today in the global business. It is a trend extending locally, that companies in Romania will benefit from more and more. The UN Global Compact initiative demonstrates that we reached a critical mass and we have to encourage the whole business community to join the effort of consolidating the sustainability of the Romanian business sector. This will be an advantage for every Supporting Supporting Supporting a company seeking a sustainable development, 5 10 16 sustainable because organizations that manage their social our people our clients impact and their footprint responsibly will receive a environment bigger operational efficiency, a better management of resources, but also a repositioning in the relation with the stakeholders, the employees and the partners. EY joined the Global Compact Network Romania as a founding participant, because we believe in the 10 Principles governing this initiative. We wish for other companies in the country to join Bogdan Ion us, because only in this way we can create that Country Managing Partner EY Romania sort of ecosystem that could generate sustainable solutions for the future of Romania. 2 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 3 UN Global Compact This Communication on progress provides brief highlights of actions that EY is taking in Romania to address United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The 10 principles are listed below and, throughout the report, you will see how EY upholds them. Principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our people come first 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor 5 The effective abolition of child labor 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation At EY Romania, our people are the most After all, a diversity of ideas enables us to provide the important and we do our best to create a best services for our clients. We want to make sure that our talented people have the best environment 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to working place where they feel rewarded. to develop professionally and personally, so that they environmental challenges This is why we attract individuals from can reach their goals, have amazing experiences and Environment 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental different backgrounds who bring their own create their own personal brand. We attract people responsibility points of view and unique business skills. with integrity, who have a clear sense of personal and professional accountability, people with courage 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Creating the highest-performing teams with to lead, who can inspire and motivate others, people friendly technologies people that hold a variety of perspectives is with energy and enthusiasm, passionate about central to EY`s long term strategy. helping our clients meet their expectations. To support this promise, we create a valuable professional experience, by seeking out diversity, Anti-corruption 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, promoting constant learning and development, offering flexibility and, above all, protecting the including extortion and bribery safety and the well-being of our employees. 4 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 5 Junior Recruitment Campaign In 2017, we have introduced In 2017, more than 3500 EY Express program. “This year, the recruitment students applied for positions The project combines innovative process included some opened at EY Romania. Out of learning strategies that encourage novelties, such as video the 3500 participants, 88 were the development of practical skills, footage descriptions, recruited to join EY in autumn. based on: the possibility to apply Students from Bucharest, Clujaugmented reality, but also • Training of five key competences Napoca, Iasi, Timisoara and through the EY Express complex problem solving and Chisinau applied for junior program. Through EY critical thinking, interpersonal positions at EY and went through Express, we have created management, quality customer a complex recruitment process a new, intense learning service, risk management, project that lasted more than three experience, applied on the management; months. It had six stages: online most useful skills for the applications, CVs preselection, • Gamification a system of points future labor market. The initial assessment by psychometric supported by a storyline, which feedback received from the testing, video interviews, stimulates both cooperation students was directly from participating in EY Mega Days and competition between the trainers and mentors, and evaluation center and face-to-face participants. Points are awarded learning was peer-to-peer, final interviews. both individually and in teams and an appropriate relationship allows the assessment of progress between teamwork projects, 40 professionals from the and of the acquired skills; individual projects and company and 27 students, EY ambassadors from Bucharest, • Digital thinking the use of mentoring sessions.” Timisoara Iasi and Cluj were digital platforms for project actively involved in 45 career implementation, data collection Andreea Mihnea events, held from January 2017: and evaluation; HR Director of EY Romania. The exceptional EY Experience Building diverse leadership teams by increasing job fairs, workshops, conferences, • Feedback from trainers, mentors Because time is people`s most valuable possession, the number of senior Women leaders is a key from EY and from the School of open doors events or career days. we want to make sure that, at EY Romania, we focus for us: Values; provide the best environment for everyone`s career development – complex projects that are essential for • Peer-to-peer learning an honing old skills and developing new ones. appropriate relationship between At EY we work teamwork projects, individual We also think that learning is an ongoing process, to ensure that projects and mentoring sessions. that`s why our global learning curriculum helps everybody has equal employees to acquire the knowledge and skills that are designed to last a lifetime. We currently opportunities. As a result, out of 743 65% women offer more than 13.000 courses on our learning people* working at management system. They are designed to teach or EY Romania, 490 help refresh technical skills across service lines, in order to provide excellent services to our clients. are women. 3500 6 88 applicants selection stages joined Promoting diversity and inclusiveness We think broadly about differences – background, Furthermore, 68% of education, gender, ethnicity, nationality, age, working and thinking styles. Each of us is different and we 68% managers in our local women firm are women. value and respect the things that makes us unique. We make our best to create an environment where all of our people feel valued, where they are able to bring their differences to work each day. Inclusiveness is about leveraging those differences: everyone`s opinion is important and we want our people to feel the easiness of sharing their thoughts Within our management team, 49% of Over 3500 applicants from Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Iasi, 6 selection stages. • Online applications 88 juniors joined EY in September 2017 Partners & Executives are women. Timisoara and Chisinau. no matter what. In this way, everyone contributes • CVs preselection to their personal best in every encounter and this • Aptitude and ultimately achieves better business results. • psychometric testing • Video interviews • EY Mega Days • assessment center • Face to face final * Average number of employees in Romania in 2017. • interviews 6 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 7 EY Young Tax Professional of Development through worldFlexible work environment the Year class learning Flexibility has become increasingly EY Young Tax Professional of the Helping our people through their more important for employees, Year Program is organized every learning process is fundamental in who want to have a career without year and offers students from 20 order to create value for both our neglecting the personal aspects countries the opportunity to show employees and clients. In order to of their lives, such as family the technical and professional do that, we have an unique global commitments, volunteering or skills in the field of taxation. EY career development framework doing sports. At EY Romania, Romania is affiliated to the global called EYU, standing for EY and people can apply to WorkSmart program since 2010. In 2017, 45 YOU and focused on coaching EY program, which allows them to students were selected from over people to achieve their goals. work remotely, choosing flexible 163 sign-ups to participate in the EYU links to our global hours. We encourage everyone EY Tax Academy. Performance Management and to apply and use the flexible Following this edition, 17 finalists Development Process (PMPD). arrangements available. 48% of received junior positions at EY This program focuses on feedback, our people have accessed the Romania, and Diana Giusca was development and the relationship program in 2017. elected as the winner of this between the counselor and the year`s competition. counselee and their engagement Introduction of LEAD, a During the final stage of the with the business strategy. One new global model of career competition, that takes place of the aims of this program is to development and performance in Amsterdam, students have create a common understanding management. to analyze case studies and are across the organization, Through the LEAD program, interviewed by the jury. agree on expectations and we go from a retrospective use these agreements as the performance review and detailed, basis for measurement, review written assessments, to real-time and preparation of plans for feedback and more effective performance improvement and dialogue that focuses on individual development. career paths and personal longWe think that our employees` term aspirations. At the beginning development is the heart of our of each year and at least every culture because it contributes to 90 days thereafter, EY employees an engaging workplace, provides will meet dedicated counselors opportunities for everyone and to review their feedback and help deliver unique services to our discuss how they can get better clients. performance. 8 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 9 Our values are the core of our business Our values are the backbone of EY`s culture and they guide our actions and behavior. They represent our commitment to our stakeholders that we understand the confidence that they in us to deliver quality and excellence in everything we do. Who are we? Code of conduct The EY Global Code of Conduct Our Global Code of Conduct is The Global Code of Conduct provides the ethical framework on organized into five categories applies to everyone at EY, which we base our decisions – as containing guiding principles that regardless of their individual role, individuals and as members of our should be used by everyone within position or practice. global organization. the EY to guide our behavior The Code is anchored in our across all areas of our activity: values and beliefs and underpins • Working with one another all that we do. • Working with clients and others People with energy, enthusiasm People who build relationship People who demonstrate • Acting with professional and the courage to lead based on doing the right thing integrity, respect and teaming integrity • Maintaining our objectivity and independence • Respecting intellectual capital 10 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 11 Compliance with legal requirements Anti-Bribery Internal quality control systems The Anti Bribery Global Policy emphasizes the Providing high-quality professional audit services obligation of our people to comply with antiindependently, objectively and ethically is bribery laws and provides a clear definition of what fundamental to EY member firms` success as constitutes bribery. It also identifies reporting independent auditors. responsibilities when bribery is discovered We continue to invest to initiatives to promote enhanced objectivity, independence and professional Anti-Money Laundering skepticism. For example, we have: Our risk policy sets out the principles to be applied • Designed a comprehensive set of global audit by our staff to counteract money laundering and quality control policies and practices that meet terrorist financing. The two major subjects are the requirements of the International Standards client examination and the reporting of unusual on Quality Control, issued by the International transactions. Both subjects are addressed in this Auditing and Assurance Standard Boards policy. (IAASB) • A client acceptance and continuance Policy that sets out principles to determine whether to either Document retention accept a new client or to continue existing client EY member firms apply their retention policies to all or engagement. engagements and personnel. All documents must be Supporting our Is your nonfinancial performance revealing the preserved whenever any person becomes aware of any actual or reasonably anticipated claim, litigation, Independence practices true value of your business to investors? clients investigation, subpoena or other government Auditor independence is fundamental to the quality proceeding involving us or one of our clients that of audits and investor confidence in financial www.eyromania.ro/ may relate to our work. reporting and, more broadly, in the capital markets. Services that build a better working world eyccassinvestorsurvey2017.pdf We have a number of policies and systems in place to support this. Through every interaction with a client or colleague, Trade sanctions our people are making the working world a better Given the level of EY`s global integration, it is place than it was before. And our services are helping important that we are aware of the ever-changing Audit partner rotation to build trust and confidence. situation in respect of international trade sanctions. EY supports audit partner rotation because Tax service line helps clients meet their complex tax EY monitors sanctions issued in multiple geographies it provides a fresh perspective and promotes obligations and to understand risks associated with Helping companies become more sustainable and provides guidance to our people on impacted independence from company management, while their tax decisions. Through the Climate Change & Sustainability activities. retaining expertise and knowledge of the business. The Transaction Advisory Services (TAS) helps Services, we help clients deal with one of the most Audit partner rotation, combined with independence clients raise, preserve, invest and optimize capital. challenging issues of our time. We have a wide span requirements, enhanced systems of internal quality Insider trading Advisory service line improves clients` performance of services, ranging from waste management to controls and independent audit oversight, helps The Insider Trading Global Policy reaffirms the strengthen independence and objectivity. by helping them to translate their strategy into reality environmental reporting. obligation of our people not to trade in securities through better risk management. In addition to creating greater transparency, this with insider information, provides detail on what Advisory`s sub-service lines include: Performance can also help reduce the use of natural resources, constitutes insider information and identifies Improvement, Risk and IT Risk. It has deep increase efficiency and improve operational with whom our people should consult if they have competencies in risk, finance, supply chain and performance. questions regarding their responsibilities. customer and information technology. Transparent reporting increases a company`s The Assurance service line brings confidence to reputation, its access to capital and the trust of its Data privacy stakeholders. Auditors play a vital role in the efficient stakeholders. functioning of or capital markets by promoting The Global Personal Data Privacy Policy sets out the transparency and supporting investor confidence. principles to be applied to the use and protection of Detecting fraud and managing risk personal data, including that relating to current, past Our fraud investigation & dispute professionals help and prospective personnel, clients, suppliers and clients deal with complex issues of fraud, regulatory business associates. compliance and business disputes. We do this by assembling teams who bring their broad sector experience, their deep subject matter knowledge and the latest insights from our work. As a consequence, we are helping to build trust in the marketplace. 12 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 13 Communication and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Initiatives Spreading the knowledge EY Thought Leadership in EY promotes a healthy lifestyle Classic is fantastic! Romania while sustaining a good cause at We believe in the power of We conduct annually surveys the same time. In 2017 we have education, but also in the and studies that provide relevant sponsored, for the second year, importance of culture. This is why information on the local market. The Oltenia Marathon and EY we have supported the musical Thus, EY has become a valuable Volunteers Tribe has participated and educational project of the source of insights, for both with 10 runners. Classic is fantastic Association, clients and the mass-media. organized in collaboration with In 2017, we have developed 4 the “George Enescu” Philharmonic local surveys, mainly focused on and consisting of a series of entrepreneurship, talent and M&A. Supporting Entrepreneurs concerts addressed especially to Our effort is built up throughout children. the year and we will continue We believe entrepreneurs are key to economic health. “Our country has already become a constant to bring unique and timely Nowadays, when volatility is higher than ever, the presence in the World Entrepreneur Of The Year. information about the local entrepreneurs are those who continue to create value Through this program, we want to recognize the economy. and to believe in the future of business and in their success of the Romanian entrepreneurs and inspire teams. That`s why we made it our aim to discover, the young people to be courageous, to trust that celebrate and support our local entrepreneurs. they can build sustainable and successful business,“ EY Entrepreneur Of The YearTM As the first and only truly global award of its kind, the Bogdan Ion EY World Entrepreneur Of The YearTM celebrates Country Managing Partner, EY Romania. those who are building and leading successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing them through regional and national awards programs in over 150 cities in more than 60 countries. Each nation`s winner then competes for the title of EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year TM. Romania participated this year for the third time in the world final of the competition. In 2017, Cristian Covaciu, the winner of the national EOY competition, represented Romania at Monte Carlo. 14 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 15 Supporting environmental sustainability At EY, we are working towards minimizing the negative effects of climate change by helping our clients transition towards a low carbon economy. At the same time, we are challenging ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner and to find new ways to reduce our carbon footprint and waste stream. 16 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 17 Total business travel emissions 3964,55 tCO2eq Accounting for 84,6% of the total impact Emissions from office energy consumption EY Romania has implemented the certified quality and environment management systems according to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 Helping our clients become more sustainable Methodology All carbon calculations about EY Romania`s operational carbon footprint follow the methodology and guidelines provided by the World 558,83 Our CCaSS team helps clients reach their Managing our carbon footprint Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. tCO2eq sustainability goals by providing a range of skills and Although travel is critical to our business, we services. continue to invest in ways to reduce our biggest Data collection Accounting for 4,1% • We help organizations understand the environmental impacts of business travel and of the total impact We collect activity data from all offices in Romania in order to estimate components of a sustainability strategy and office energy, and to improve the way we measure our emissions. This data is then multiplied with the corresponding improve their performance. We have developed our progress. For us, reporting the carbon conversion factors. regional best practices to help clients address footprint means both taking responsibility for our the most important sustainability factors, environmental impact and being transparent with our • Emissions from offices energy consumption are estimated using including managing risk in a resource-constrained clients and stakeholders. activity data collected from our main office in Bucharest, alongside economy. the ones in Cluj-Napoca, Iasi and Timisoara. Paper consumption • We advise clients on meeting compliance targets • Emissions from air travel are estimated taking into consideration all related to waste management and pollution, routes, class ticket and number of passengers. helping them to reduce carbon emissions and • Emissions from ground travel are estimated using fuel consumption enhance their corporate reputation. EY Romana`s carbon footprint and fuel/engine efficiency. • Emissions from hotel stays are estimated considering the of the year, number of people and number of nights for both internal and external stays. • Emissions from printed materials are estimated taking into account the format of the printing and number of copies. 50,08 tCO2eq 4361 Accounting for 1,3% tCO2eq of the total impact 18 | Communication on Progress / 2018 Communication on Progress / 2018 | 19 EY | Assurance I Tax I Transactions I Advisory About EY Romania EY is one of the world’s largest professional services firms with 250,000 employees in over 700 offices in 150 countries and revenues of approximately $ 31.4 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. Our network is the most globally integrated and its resources help us provide our customers with services that benefit from opportunities around the world. In Romania, EY has been the leader in the professional services market since its inception in 1992. The 800 employees in Romania and the Republic of Moldova provide integrated audit, tax assistance, transaction assistance and business assistance services to multinational companies and local. We have offices in Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Timisoara, Iasi and Chisinau. EY Romania has joined in 2014 the only world-class competition for entrepreneurship, EY Entrepreneur Of The Year. The winner of the local edition is Romania in the world final that takes place every June in Monte Carlo. World Entrepreneur of the Year is awarded in the World Final. For more information, please visit www.ey.com ©2018 EYGM Limited All Rights Reserved. EY refers to one or more of the member firms of EY Global Limited (EYG), a UK private company limited by guarantee. EYG is the principal governance entity of the global EY organization and does not provide any service to clients. Contact: Raluca Buturca Senior Consultant, Climate Change & Sustainability Services EY Romania +40 21 402 4000 Anda Hutanu Corporate Communication Officer EY Romania +40 21 402 4000
