2017 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 1. MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT......................................... 04 2. ABOUT THE REPORT................................................................ 10 3. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT....................................................22 4. CHESF........................................................................................ 26 5. GOVERNANCE......................................................................... 46 6. MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS.............................................. 60 7. GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS.........................106 8. CORPORATE INFORMATION............................................... 126 CASA NOVA II WIND FARM 1 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT > 102-14, 102-15 > APOLONIO SALES HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT 6 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT THE QUEST FOR BALANCE AND A LOOK TO THE FUTURE In 2018, Chesf celebrates 70 years of history. A ing ourselves. In 2017, it was no different, but we milestone for a company that has grown along faced the challenges with a renewed spirit and with Brazil’s Northeastern region, overcome willingness to once again leave our mark across many challenges, and is now working hard to the Northeast. become more modern and efficient. The last few In order to achieve this strategy, and ecoyears have been challenging for Chesf. However, nomic and financial plan was developed, which these challenges also brought opportunities for made resources available for the needs defined. change, overcoming difficulties, and reinventRevenues from the Basic Network of the Existing System (RBSE), as of July, and dation in payment of some Special Purpose Entities (SPE), formed the main pillar for executing the plan. Tight expenditure control was also carried out in order to contribute the necessary resources. With this in mind, we implemented the Construction and Modernization Plan, an important initiative that mobilized all our staff and stakeholders to deliver the projects within the established deadlines or before the scheduled dates. It is important to highlight the annual record of deliveries of transmission projects and the inauguration of Chesf’s first wind farms, Casa Nova II and III (state of Bahia). These deliveries provided greater transformation capacity, allowing the transmission of more energy and with better quality for residential, commercial, and industrial consumers. The highlights in the Northeastern region include reinforced service to the metropolitan regions of Fortaleza, Teresina, Aracaju, and Salvador, as well better reliability for the entire system in the region. And this work on modernizing the electricity system and the constant search for improved performance have already yielded positive results, obtaining the best operational performance indexes in five years and achieving a significant reduction in the number of work-related accidents with lost time. Another noteworthy initiative focused on the future in 2017 was the launch of our Solar Energy Reference Center in Petrolina (Cresp) focused on developing scientific and technological knowledge on solar energy generation. With an ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 7 In addition to our internal issues, in 2017 We face the challenges we played a very important role in the face of with renewed spirit the greatest water shortage experienced by the and with the desire to São Francisco River Basin in 80 years. In its fifth consecutive year of rainfall scarcity, the river leave our mark again reached its minimum volume of water. In order in the Northeast to guarantee multiple use of water by the riverside populations and following the decisions of IBAMA and the National Water Agency (ANA), investment of BRL 54.3 million, we began building we have been managing, since 2013, the flow of a solar power plant to generate 3 MWp for generthe São Francisco River downstream from the ation research, considering that the center will be Sobradinho Reservoir. The reservoir has been located in the region with the greatest potential fundamental to water availability in the region, for solar energy in the country. especially for the more than three million inhabOur Research & Development area also itants of Middle and Lower São Francisco River. gained prominence during the year by obtainAt the same time, when integrating the Susing Chesf’s first patent, with the “Aplicativo para tainability area into the Planning and Innovation Regulação e Paralelismo de Transformadores de area, we will better address the issues related to Potência” (“Application for Regulation and Parallel this topic. I would like to reiterate that developing Operation of Transformers”). The technology regour business is only valid based on ethical values ulates the voltage level that Chesf delivers to powand principles, as well as full respect for all forms er utilities. Further proof of our strong capacity for of human rights. reinvention, creativity, and efficiency. We are aware that 2018 will continue to be a year of many challenges to be overcome. The CHANGE FOR GROWTH discussions that will take place during the year Every change process requires adaptation to a 2018, concerning the model for the Electricity new reality. Therefore, in 2017, we continued Sector, should result in the solution to Chesf’s with the Extraordinary Retirement Plan (PAE), biggest challenge: increasing its revenue. But towith the retirement of 464 employees from July day it is clearer to us what the obstacles are and to December. We also effectively implemented the best ways to face them in order to bring Chesf our Organizational Restructuring project, an imback to a scenario of growth and prominence in portant step towards modernizing Chesf, which the Northeast. We will continue to commit to integrates a series of measures to optimize costs the Principles of the Global Compact, the Womand resume business sustainability. This new oren’s Empowerment Principles, the Gender and ganization structure represented a reduction of Race Pro-Equity Program, and the Fight Against 42.5% in appointee job positions, with cost savSexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents. ings of around 30%. We will reach our 70-year mark with the energy Another initiative that will mean good reto change, grow, and reinvent. To this end, we sults for our operational efficiency, agility, and have an engaged team, which demonstrates, evsavings of resources is beginning the impleery day, its commitment to contributing to the mentation with all Eletrobras companies of a growth of Chesf, the Northeast region, and the Shared Services Center for common areas such as whole country. Procurement, Purchasing, Accounting, and Legal, which will avoid overlapping roles and will proEnjoy your reading! vide the potential for contracts that are more beneficial for the companies, following the example Sinval Zaidan Gama of the success of large corporations. CEO 8 MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT A SOLID, RENEWED COMPANY Chesf ended the year 2017 stronger, the result of and standardized processes, making information work with well-defined strategic guidelines. We more secure from a decision-making standpoint. worked hard on our 2017-2021 Business Plan and We reinforced our commitment to ethics achieved important results for the Company. and transparency in our actions by revising our Internally, we invested in organizational reby-laws so that we comply with Law 13,303/2016 structuring, which gained simpler and more agile (Law of State-owned companies), which governs processes, in addition to having recorded a signifiissues related to transparency and governance cant cost reduction. We also invested in technology. mechanisms, and launched our Consequences New management systems are being implemented Policy, which establishes corporate anti-corrupto ensure that the Company has in place integrated tion commitments. In the operation, not only have we managed to resume delayed and suspended projects, but also reduced operating costs, adjusting them to revenues without jeopardizing the growth of the business. The resumption of financial balance and commitment to delivering the projects attracted new investors, placing the Company on a new level in the financial market. For the coming year, the challenges continue. The year when we celebrate seventy years be decisive for the privatization process of the Eletrobras companies an initiative that will certainly contribute to our growth. It will also be a year for us to establish ourselves in the market as a benchmark in solar energy generation. Pilot projects were initiated, the Solar Petrolina and Solar Fotovoltaica Flutuante platforms on the Sobradinho reservoir (which together total 8 MW) and a solar thermal energy project, which will put us at the forefront of the market. We have already made great progress in contributing to the development of our country’s energy sector. And we need to advance even further! Wilson Ferreira Junior Chairman of the Board of Directors SOBRADINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT 2 CASA NOVA II WIND FARM ABOUT THE REPORT > 102-45 to 102-56, 103-1 > This report contains information on Chesf’s economic, financial, social, and environmental performance in fiscal year 2017, including all the company’s operations in Northeast Brazil: 12 hydroelectric plants, two wind farms and one biofuel thermal BONGI SUBSTATION plant. It also presents information on the 10 projects generation and transmission that Chesf has in Specific Purpose Entities (SPEs), although they were not included in the scope of analysis of GRI Standards indicators. The document follows the GRI Core Standards. In order to find the indicators more easily, the numbers appear in parentheses immediately after the topic to which they refer. Through a materiality process, 168 items were selected for disclosure, broken down into 40 organizational profiles, 31 management approaches, 72 on performance (13 economic, 2 environmental, and 30 social) and 25 from the sector supplement. The indicators pointed out in this process reflect the work of Chesf regarding its strategies and the challenges faced in 2017, based on the views of its main stakeholders. This publication, as well as all indicators considered material for the business, may be found at: www.chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade > Visão Geral > Relatórios de Sustentabilidade ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 13 MATERIALITY PROCESS > 102-42, 102-44 > The topics addressed in this report were defined ronment, Institutional Relations, and Communithrough a materiality process based on the specifties and Human Resources) and, in writing, with ic standards of GRI G4 and Standard. Tools such as the CEO of Eletrobras. RepRisk1, and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The criteria used for prioritization involved study “Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do issues important to Chesf’s business and strategy, stakeholders want to know?” were used to supin view of: financial implications of the impacts port the process. related to the topic, influence on long-term perThe Company opted to consult internal stakeformance, level of reputation risk involved, and holders (executives) to prioritize the topics identigrowth or gains in competitive advantage. fied during the last cycle (2016), in addition to conIn total, 16 topics considered essential to the sidering sector contents and interviews conducted business were identified. Based on these topics, a from December 4 7, 2017 with the Chairman, four form was applied that made it possible to classify directors (Engineering, Operation, Administrative, perceptions regarding the importance of each topand Financial), five leaders (in the areas of Goveric and its level of impact as “very important,” “imnance, Strategic Planning and Sustainability, Enviportant,” “of little importance” or “unimportant.” The result of prioritization signaled five topics as 1 Tool used to identify social and environmental risks. very important and 11 important topics. MATERIAL TOPICS 2017 >>> 1 Operational Performance very important 2 Water very important 3 Risk and Crisis Management very important 4 Innovation, Diversification, and R&D very important 5 Employees and Employment very important 6 Corruption, Ethics Management important 7 Health and Safety important 8 Specific Purpose Entity important 9 Compliance Issues important 10 Communities important 11 Energy Matrix important 12 Climate Change important 13 Supplier Management important 14 Satisfaction (Customer and Employees) important 15 Volume of Assets important 16 Biodiversity important > 102-44, 102-47 > 14 ABOUT THE REPORT With this result, it was possible to classify the level of importance of the topics for Chesf and its stakeholders, evaluating impacts (positive and negative) for both. Material topics, approved by the Executive Board, are correlated with the organization’s key sustainability and performance indicators, and flagged throughout the report, in the Attachments, and in the Index. > 102-44 > Risk and Crisis Operational Innovation, Employees and Management diversification Water Performance Employment (emergencies and and R&D calamities) P G C P G C P G C C P G C BRL D RR V BRL D RR V BRL D BRL D RR V BRL D RR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT IMPACTS TO THE BUSINESS It is reasonably likely to affect society, If affirmative, there will be fairly high P BRL surrounding communities, the environment financial implications or its life May influence Chesf’s The impact, in the case it occurs, D performance over the long term G will be relatively severe It has a certain degree of Chesf must communicate this issue RR reputation risk C to the general public It has the potential to grow or gain V competitive advantage, from a long-term perspective Economic Topic Environmental Topic Social Topic ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 15 TRANSMISSION LINE MAINTENANCE 16 ABOUT THE REPORT WHO ARE CHESF’S STAKEHOLDERS? > 102-42 > Chesf considers stakeholders to be all parties directly and indirectly impacted by its results and actions. The identification of these stakeholder groups follows the Business Planning guidelines. ENGAGEMENT PRACTICES > 102-40; 102-43 > The Company has in place a set of pre-defined practices to engage with its stakeholders throughout the year. The actions may vary from meetings, visits, telephone contacts, emails, information bulletins, contact by the suppliers’ service center, and client satisfaction surveys, depending on the need of each audience. There are also activities involving greater mobilization, such as: public hearings, campaigns carried out with government and society, actions for quality of life with employees and family, and sponsorships of social projects. These engagement practices help identify the perceptions, suggestions, and concerns of these groups, giving responses and the appropriate treatment for each situation. The dialogue with Chesf’s stakeholders is guided by the Stakeholder Communication and Engagement Policy of the Eletrobras Companies, whose principles are: > Agility and precision. > Training, creativity, and innovation. > Commitment and respect for human beings and the environment. > Legal compliance. > Business efficiency and effectiveness. > Equity and respect for diversity. > Ethics. > Sustainability. > Transparency. > Appreciation and motivation of work teams. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 17 GET TO KNOW CHESF’S MAIN STAKEHOLDERS AND HOW THEY RELATE: > 102-40 > SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Eletrobras: 99.5780% Chesf, as a publicly-held company, is subject to the rules of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM). The Company’s relationship policy is ruled by the disclosure of information with transparency, Ministry of Finance: 0.347% characterized by respect for legal and ethical principles, in line with the standards to which it is submitted as a public utility company. Light: 0.016% The Company has an information disclosure channel on its corporate portal on the Internet, www.chesf.gov.br, link “Investidores.” Communication with its shareholders is carried out through Others: 0.059% telephone service, face-to-face meetings, and email. CLIENTS >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Trading Segment Potentially free consumers: 12 Free consumers: 4 The relationship with customers is conducted through annual surveys, telephone contacts, meetings, direct mail, emails, publications on Chesf’s website, dissemination in newspapers and magazines, events such as congresses and Power Distributors: 49 lectures, websites specializing in the electricity sector, and energy sales auctions. Traders: 14 Transmission Segment Generators (self-producer, PIE and ICG): 401 Transmitters: 31 The relationship with customers is conducted through annual surveys, meetings, and direct contacts with their contract managers. Distributors: 11 Consumers: 21 18 ABOUT THE REPORT SUPPLIERS >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Suppliers registered in the database Materials: 16,710 suppliers With suppliers registered in its database, Chesf mainly maintains relationships through email, in order to Services: 11,683 suppliers encourage them to participate in their bids. Materials and Services: 3,622 suppliers With active suppliers and with bidders, Chesf relates more directly through the Supplier Service Center (CAF). With auctioneers, bidding Active suppliers in 2017 commission coordinators, and contract administrators/inspectors, the (with current contract): 1,090 Company interacts through formal communication, email, newsletters, meetings, assemblies and seminars, and publications on the website. EMPLOYEES, PARTNERS, INTERNS >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Employees (workforce): 4,122 Outsourced employees: 2,358 Meetings, assemblies of regulatory and operational bodies, email system, intranet, internal newsletters, bulletin boards, and climate research. Interns: 0 Apprentices: 114 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS >>> > 102-40 > > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Private banks; state and quasi-public banks; The relationship with financial institutions is carried out through telephone national and international contacts, audio and video conferences, message exchange apps, face-todevelopment banks; face meetings, emails, publications on Chesf’s website, dissemination in development institutions; newspapers and magazines, events such as congresses and lectures. and investment funds ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 19 PUBLIC AGENCIES AND PROGRAMS >>> > 102-40 > > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Implementation of generation and transmission Growth Acceleration Program (PAC) projects integrating the PAC. Pro-Gender Equity Program – Participation in implementing the Pro-Gender Equity Program at Chesf. Department of Policies for Women Municipal Environmental Company representative in the Council. Council – Paulo Afonso (BA) Municipal Civil Defense Council Company representative in the Council. Program Luz para Todos Coordination by the Director of Operations of the (Light for Everyone) – Light for Everyone Program in Northeast Brazil. Ministry of Mines and Energy National Program for the Conservation Operation in the Northeast, with Eletrobras, to of Electricity (PROCEL) – Ministry of implement projects (PROCEL in Schools, Municipal Mines and Energy and Eletrobras Energy Management, Public Buildings and Reluz). National Forum on Ethics Management of StateFinancial support and representation of the Company in the Forum. owned Companies Participation in meetings and public hearings, workshops, and National Electricity Agency (ANEEL) technical meetings, sending information by mail and email. Operational Relationship: Permanent contact between Chesf's Operation Centers and ONS's Operation Center based in Recife, aiming toward operating the National Interconnected System (SIN (Sistema Interligado Nacional). National Operator of the Technical-Normative Relationship: occurs between Chesf’s Electric System (ONS) operation, study, and maintenance bodies with the operation, studies and planning bodies of the ONS based in Recife and Rio de Janeiro, by mail, telephone calls, and meetings. Institutional relationship between the Boards of Chesf and ONS. Communication between Chesf and TCU is formal and follows protocol. The instrument used by this control body is the official letter, and by Federal Court of Accounts Chesf, external mail. Another form of communication established (TCU Tribunal de Contas da União) during the execution of fieldwork is the “Letter of Request” addressed to the Presidency of Chesf. Chesf’s response is usually by email or by mail. Communication between Chesf and CGU is formal and follows protocol. The instrument used by this control body is via official letter, and by Federal Comptroller General Chesf, external mail. Another form of communication established during (CGU Controladoria Geral da União) the execution of fieldwork is the “Request for Audit” addressed to the Presidency of Chesf. The response is usually by email or mail. Standing Committee on Gender Issues Company representative. of MME and Related Companies 20 ABOUT THE REPORT SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMUNITIES >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Abrigo Cristo Redentor (Christ the Redeemer Shelter) (Maintenance) Hospital Nair Alves de Souza (HNAS) Development actions for agricultural producers and Chesf maintained a formal partnership relationship with these fishermen in the territory organizations in order to carry out social and environmental projects surrounding the Sobradinho-BA through agreements, terms of cooperation, or terms of partnership. Dam (Semi-Arid Embrapa) Project Construindo Cidadãos do Amanhã (Building Citizens of Tomorrow) (Instituto D. Helder Câmara) UNIONS AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS >>> > 102-40 > > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Federação Regional dos Urbanitários do Nordeste (FRUNE Regional Federation of Urban Services Providers of the Northeast) Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Indústrias Urbanas no Estado de Alagoas (Urban Industries Workers Union in the State of Alagoas) Sindicato dos Eletricitários da Bahia (Bahia Electrical Workers Union) Chesf maintains relationships Sindicato dos Eletricitários do Ceará (Ceara Electrical Workers Union) with these trade union entities Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Empresas de Distribuição de Energia through periodic meetings and Elétrica no Estado da Paraíba (Electric Power Distribution Company formal contacts to develop a Workers Union of the State of Paraíba) Term of Commitment on Profit Sharing (PLR) and Collective Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Indústrias Urbanas da Paraíba Labor Agreement (ACT). (Urban Industries Workers Union of Paraíba) Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Indústrias Urbanas no Estado de Communication also takes Pernambuco (Urban Industries Workers Union of the State of Pernambuco) place through monitoring the pardon process regarding Law Sindicato dos Eletricitários de Sergipe (Electrical Workers Union of Sergipe) 8,878/1994 and participating Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Indústrias Urbanas do Estado do Piauí in Joint Committees. (Urban Industries Workers Union of the State of Piauí) Sindicato dos Engenheiros no Estado de Pernambuco (Engineers Union of the State of Pernambuco) Sindicato dos Trabalhadores nas Indústrias de Energia Elétrica do Rio Grande do Norte (Electric Power Industries Workers Union of Rio Grande do Norte) ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 21 UNIVERSITIES AND RESEARCH CENTERS >>> > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Federal University of Pernambuco Federal University of Campina Grande Fundação para Inovações Tecnológicas (FITec Foundation for Technological Innovations) University of Pernambuco (UPE) Federal University of Itajubá (UNIFEI) Research, development, and Federal Rural University of Pernambuco (UFRPE) innovation projects (R&D+I) and courses of different academic nature Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) (specialization, masters, and doctorate). Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento em Telecomunicações (CPQD Telecommunications Research and Development Center) Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE National Institute of Space Research) Centro de Pesquisas de Energia Elétrica (CEPEL Electricity Research Center) Sunlution Soluções de Geração Solar LTDA. PRESS/MEDIA >>> > 102-40 > > DETAILS > > COMMUNICATION CHANNELS > Actions that are part of the daily activities of the Special Coordination of Institutional Relations (REC): Sending releases with suggestions of positive articles about Chesf; Organizing exclusive and collective interviews; Major newspapers Courtesy visits to major newsrooms; Chesf actions and presence on social media (Twitter, Facebook and Youtube); News about the Company on the Chesf Portal; Assistance to requests for information and requests for interviews. 3 EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT SOBRADINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT 24 EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT RECOVERY OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION The year 2017 was marked by the recovery in conrestrictions to water flow in the Northeast region. sumption of electricity in the country. Data from Excess supply was also identified for the coming the Energy Sector Monitoring Committee (CMSE) years, but expansion of this supply will continue to show an annual growth of 0.8%, the highest in the be necessary, especially beginning 2022, and made last two years, but with a value still comparable to feasible with the new energy auctions2. consumption in 2014. According to data from the Energy Research Company (EPE), industrial conREGULATORY ENVIRONMENT > 103-2, 103-3 > sumers were responsible for the highest increase, The energy sector in Brazil is considered by the which meant 1.1% growth over the previous year. Federal Government to be instrumental for the Residential consumption expanded by 0.8%, and economic recovery of the country through three trade and services by 0.3%. For the period 2018major factors: potential attraction of invest2022, the projection of average annual growth of ments in electricity generation, transmission, energy consumption is 3.9%. and distribution; benefit for production chains; On the comparative study between supply and and the well-being associated with energy condemand in the period 2019 to 2022, the EPE presentsumption by families. ed the structural balance of the system considering In view of this relevance, in May 2017, the Minthe sensitivity analysis in key variables, including istry of Mines and Energy presented to the Brazil’s House of Representatives a review of the management model, considering a scenario where, among others, rainfall regimes are unfavorable and compromise the capability to generate electricity at low costs, electricity rates being pressured by secANGIQUINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT tor charges and indemnities. Principles of the new business model set out by the Ministry are to respect the contracts signed, improve management efficiency, economic rationality, isonomy between agents, dialogue, and transparency. This purpose of this new model is to: 2 Source: Ministry of Mines and Energy new energy auctions. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 25 adequately allocate risks among agents; improve The water shortage scenario, considered the the environment for investments by reducing leworst in 90 years, placed on the Company’s agengal uncertainty and regulatory instability; ensure da the need for alternatives in order to supply enenergy security at competitive prices; simplify adergy demand with shortand long-term solutions. ministrative procedures; promote productivity, effiThe release of Chesf’s resources allowed other ciency, and innovation; and reestablish prices as an lines of credit to be opened and the resumption economic signal that guides investment decisions. of investments brought new prospects and condiTo this end, the Government has taken some tions to safely carry out the activities and projects actions, such as enforcing Law 13,360/16, which reafto which the Company has committed. For the fufirms the role of efficiency and economic rationality ture, Chesf is structuring the implementation of in attracting investments for the electricity sector, the Zero Base Budget4 (ZBB). and Decree 8,828/16, which makes managing energy Chesf also revised its by-laws (in line with purchase contracts by distributors more flexible and Eletrobras’ guidelines) to comply with Law authorizes ANEEL to implement the binomial rate for 13,303/2016 (Law of State-owned companies), esconsumers of low voltage electricity, in line with best pecially regarding transparency and governance international practices. The Government also intends mechanisms, such as rules for disclosing informato hold a public consultation on the energy trading tion, managing risk management practices, codes model, in order to gain support for the debate on the of conduct, forms of supervision by the State and expansion of the free electric energy market. society, constitution and operation of the boards, In addition, in 2017 the Government predicted as well as minimum requirements for appointan expansion of 5,062 MW (3.3% of total capacity), ing directors. The Company has applied the new of which: 24.8% was wind power, 10.7% was solar, guidelines since June 2017, on an experimental baand 61% hydroelectric (Hydroelectric Power Plants sis, ahead of the two-year term, established for the HPP, Small Hydroelectric Power Plants SHEP, and companies to adapt to the Law. Hydroelectric Generating Complex HGC), and The Company’s activities were also focused already contracted the expansion, until 2022, by on the planning and preparation of a portfolio of 21,277 MW, in order to guarantee supply of energy new generation and transmission projects, based to resume economic growth3. > 103-2, 103-3 > on geoprocessing references. Integrating the environmental, geotechnology, and project areas was MARKET essential to evolving this process. The purpose of Although energy consumption in Brazil has the new projects is to produce renewable wind grown, the current scenario of the electricity secand solar energy (energy research benchmark tor is unstable due to the possibility of privatizing with sustainability index and social, environmenoperations involving the Eletrobras companies. tal, and economic project assessment), based on Chesf’s strategy in 2017, in this scenario, was to the premise of projects chosen with less social and structure a management model focused on finanenvironmental impact. cial balance, on the controls and monitoring of It is worth mentioning that the Company’s actions foreseen in the Business Plan, and on the strategy is to become a benchmark in solar energy. constant search for efficiency, becoming a more The creation of a Solar Energy Reference Center in synergistic and revitalized company. Petrolina (CRESP) will help achieve this goal. > 102-15 > 4 Methodology based on a projected budget forecast without taking into account what happened in previous years, with the goal of reviewing the whole process “from the start.” It analyzes 3 More information: Energia e Mineração: A visão do Governo the needs for expenditure of each individual process and Federal (Energy and Mining: The vision of the Federal Government) supports the financial management of organizations. 4 CHESF > 102-1 A 102-7, 102-13, 102-16, EU1, EU3, EU4 > PAULO AFONSO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT 28 CHESF A journey focused on developing the country Founded in 1948, Chesf (Companhia Hidro Elétrica In all, the Company has 12 hydroelectric do São Francisco) is consolidated as the concessionplants, with 10 reservoirs, which together store 55.8 aire of one of the largest generation and transmisbillion cubic meters of water, responsible for 99.8% sion systems in Brazil. Subsidiary of Eletrobras, the of its energy produced in 2017. It also has a biofuel Company a joint-stock corporation has headthermal plant and two wind farms, which, togethquarters in Recife (PE) and operates in the generaer with the hydroelectric plants, total 10,670.23 tion, transmission, and sale of electricity in Brazil. MW of installed capacity Chesf’s power generation process is concentrated > EU1 > in Northeast Brazil and is influenced by the region’s rainfall regime. CHESF INSTALLED CAPACITY >>> > PLANTS > > RIVER > > INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) > HYDROELECTRIC 10,262.33 Sobradinho São Francisco 1,050.30 Luiz Gonzaga (Itaparica) São Francisco 1,479.60 Apolônio Sales (Moxotó) São Francisco 400.00 Paulo Afonso I São Francisco 180.00 Paulo Afonso II São Francisco 443.00 Paulo Afonso III São Francisco 794.20 Paulo Afonso IV São Francisco 2,462.40 Xingó São Francisco 3,162.00 Funil Rio de Contas 30.00 Pedra Rio de Contas 20.01 Boa Esperança Parnaíba 237.30 Curemas Piancó 3.52 WIND 61.10 UEE Casa Nova II 32.90 UEE Casa Nova III (*) 28.20 THERMOELECTRIC 346.80 Camaçari (**) 346.80 TOTAL 10,670.23 * In operational test phase, commercial operation expected to begin in Feb/18. ** In process of termination of the concession. All units with commercial operations suspended. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 29 The Northern, Northeastern, and Southeastern/Midwestern regions receive energy produced by Chesf through a transmission system, consisting of 20,531.9 km of lines that operate with voltage levels ranging from 69 kV to 500 kV and supply the National Interconnected System (SIN). > EU4 > EXTENSION OF CHESF TRANSMISSION LINES BY VOLTAGE LEVEL > KV > > KM > 69 254.5 138 462.6 230 14,444.19 500 5,372.9 Total 20,531.9 The Transmission System is also composed of 119 substations5 (included in this total are the substations of other transmitters in which Chesf has assets)and another 14 step-up substations, which, together, total 57,321.50 MVA of transformation capacity. In 2017, the Company added 298 km of OPGW6 fiber optic cables, operating with 10,113 km. This technology is responsible for sending electricity XINGÓ HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT to end consumers in a stable manner, with high speed and reduced loss, offering reliable, quality service. > EU4 > In addition to its owned facilities, Chesf invests in other generation and transmission projects through Special Purpose Entities (SPEs), which add 10 wind farms and four other hydroelectric 5 Including the substations of other transmitters in which Chesf has assets. plants to the Company’s portfolio. See pages 49 6 Optical Ground Wire. and 50 for more information 30 CHESF PRINCIPLES AND VALUES > 102-16 > Chesf’s operation, in all instances, is in line with the values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior set out in the Code of Ethics, in the Resolution, in the Normative Instruction of Disciplinary Measures, and on the Company’s Strategic Map. MISSION To contribute to the well-being of society by generating and transmitting energy VISION To be corporately efficient and sustainable VALUES > Safety > Respect for People with fairness and equity > Ethics and Transparency > Innovation and Entrepreneurship > Commitment to Society > Environmental Preservation ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 31 VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS > 102-12 > Chesf’s strategic vision is to guarantee the company’s sustainable growth and, therefore, undertakes commitments with national and international initiatives toward the dissemination and development of the topic. COUNTRIES ENVIRONGROUP OF STAKEHOLDERS CHARTER, DATE OF COMPULSORY OR OPERAMENTAL, INVOLVED IN THE DEVELOPPRINCIPLE OR ADOPOR VOLUNTARY TIONS WHERE ECONOMIC, MENT AND GOVERNANCE OTHER INITIATIVE TION INITIATIVE? THEY ARE OR SOCIAL? OF THESE INITIATIVES APPLIED All three 1. Global Compact 2009 Voluntary Brazil All stakeholders dimensions 2. Declaration of Commitment to Fight Sexual 2014 Social Voluntary Brazil All stakeholders Exploitation of Children and Adolescents 3. Women's Empowerment 2011 Social Voluntary Brazil Workforce Principles (UN Women) 4. Pro-Equity Gender 2007 Social Voluntary Brazil Workforce and Race Program SOLIDARY EDUCATION PROGRAM 32 CHESF The Company also participates strategically in associations and committees that hold forums and discussions on sustainability, and promotes public policies related to the sector. > 102-13 > > SEAT ON THE > PARTICIPATION > FINANCIAL > AREA > NAME > GOVERNANCE IN PROJECTS OR CONTRIBUTION RESPONSIBLE > COMMITTEE > COMMISSIONS > > Associação Brasileira das Grandes General Empresas de Transmissão de Assembly and Energia Elétrica (ABRATE Brazilian Yes Yes DO Managing Association of Large Electric Power Council Transmission Companies) Associação Brasileira das Empresas General Geradoras de Energia Elétrica (ABRAGEMeeting and Yes Yes DO Brazilian Association of Electric Fiscal Council Power Generating Companies) Associação Brasileira de Normas Técnicas (ABNTBrazilian Association No Yes Yes DE of Technical Standards) Comitê Brasileiro de Barragens Yes Yes Yes DE (Brazilian Committee of Dams) Representative Comitê da Bacia Hidrográfica do of the São Francisco (CBHSFSão Francisco Yes Yes DO Hydroelectricity Water Basin Committee) Segment Comitê Nacional Brasileiro de Produção Executive Board e Transmissão de Energia Elétrica (CIGRÉ (Financial Yes Yes PR Brazilian Committee for Production Department) and Transmission of Electricity) Comitê de Patrocínio da Secretaria Especial de Comunicação Social da Secretaria Geral da Presidência da República (SECOM/PR Sponsorship Committee No Yes No PR of the Special Social Communication Department of the General Secretary of the Presidency of the Republic) Comissão de Ética Pública da Secretaria Executiva de Ética Pública da Presidência da República (Public Ethics Commission No Yes No PR of the Executive Department of Public Ethics of the Presidency of the Republic) National Forum of Ethics Management in State-owned companies, maintained through the Technical and Financial No Yes Yes PR Cooperation Agreement, currently signed by 20 participating companies Council Member for ConcessionaConselho Nacional de Recursos ries and CompaHídricos (CNRH National nies Authorized Yes Não DO Water Resources Council) to Generate Hydroelectric Power ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 33 > SEAT ON THE > PARTICIPATION > FINANCIAL > AREA > NAME > GOVERNANCE IN PROJECTS OR CONTRIBUTION RESPONSIBLE > COMMITTEE > COMMISSIONS > > COGE Foundation Yes Yes Yes DG Associação Brasileira de Energia Solar Fotovoltaica (ABSOLARBrazilian No No Yes PR Association of Photovoltaic Solar Energy) Memória da Eletricidade No No Yes PR (Memory of Electricity) American Chamber of No Yes Yes PR Commerce (AMCHAM) Associação Brasileira de Energia Eólica (ABEEÓLICABrazilian No No Yes PR Wind Power Association) AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS In 2017, Chesf received the following awards and > Seasonal Race Circuit Spring Heat: awarded recognitions: as the company with the largest number of participants. > Jorge Furtado Regional Development Award: > Patent: The United States, and subsequently, the social responsibility project “Development of China published the grant of the patent on techactions for agricultural producers and fishermen nological innovation being used in substations. in the territory surrounding the Sobradinho-BA The “Application for Regulation and Parallel Opreservoir,” developed in partnership with Embrapa eration of Transformers” was developed within Semiárido, was awarded in the category of Innovathe Company’s Research, Development, and Intive Projects for Implementation in the Region. novation Program. The technology performs an > IV Award for Best Companies for Workers with extremely important function for the electrical Disabilities: for the first year, the Company parsystem, as it regulates the level of voltage delivticipated in the award and was one of three shortered by Chesf to utility companies, which in turn listed in the “Best Practices” category, competing reaches end consumers. against another 52 institutions. > 15th Benchmarking Brazil: the Company was BUSINESS MODEL among the Top Ten with the Living and Learning Chesf’s business purpose is to generate and transmit Program, making Chesf a Citizen Company for reenergy, and the strategy of operation of the main arcovering the dignity of men and women through eas of the Company is focused on ensuring that this the command of the spoken and written language. increasingly more renewable production is market> XXIV National Seminar on the Production and ed and reaches end consumers. The challenge is to Transmission of Electric Power (SNPTEE): the continually improve operational efficiency by deCompany received an honorary award for the livering integrated, innovative solutions to people, work “Investment in Safety and Health at Work businesses, cities, and the country. The search for as a Business Strategy,” demonstrating the reducresults that create value for stakeholders, not only tion of costs associated with the occurrence of in the short term but also in the medium and long work accidents and occupational disease. term, drives the organization’s day to day activities. 34 CHESF OUR RESOURCES Financial Natural Human Social Infrastructure Investments* Water used to Development Investment in Total Investments BRL 5.439 generate Programs social projects BRL 1.4208 billion billion bioenergy 458 actions and BRL 35.2 million 105.2 billion m3 BRL 1.2 million Costs for energy generaRevenues invested Cultural tion BRL 3.42 million BRL 5.754 Biomass sponsorships 6 billion Recovery (ha) Number of ERP position of the pro110 Employees 4,122 ject on 12/31/2017 39.5% Net Debt BRL 2.0146 CSC position of the probillion ject on 12/31/2017 50% PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN OPERATION*** Hydroelectric Wind Farm Hydroelectric Wind Farm Power Plant 12 projects* Power Plant 2 plants 2 projects* 290 MW 12 plants 61,1 MW 11,633 MW 10,262.3 MW Photovoltaic Photovoltaic Plant Plant 1 projects* 1 plants ** 3 MW 5.1 MW Transmission 698km Transmission 20.531,9km Lines expansion Lines of lines 8 projects 119 substations MAIN IMPACTS MAIN IMPACTS Displacement Water Scarcity Conflicts Wind Shift/Intensity Labor Lease Agreements Social Regulation Maintenance * Up to 2021; ** PPilot project in Sobradinho (BA) and Balbino (AM), *** Exclusive Chesf Own ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 35 TRADING Potentially Free Free Consumers Distributors Traders Consumers 4 49 14 12 SHARED VALUE CREATION Investors / Customers Employees Civil Society Shareholders RESULTS Investors / Customers Employees Civil Society Shareholders Energy Generated Hours of Training Training of Labor Force EBITDA 15.209 MW 185,648 425 corporate BRL 589.9 hours education actions million Satisfaction 81% People Benefited by t Profit/Assets he Company’s Programs/ BRL 1.044 billion Projects 21,122 Hours per month donated by Chesf for volunteer work during office hours 300 UHE Hydroelectric Power Plant; UEE Wind Power Plant; UFV Photovoltaic Power Plant; PCH Small Hydroelectric Power Plants; LT Transmission Lines; UTE Thermoelectric Plant; * 36 CHESF OPERATIONAL 10,670.23 MW of installed capacity Completion of CHESF IN 25 transmission projects NUMBERS MANAGEMENT Organizational restructuring: 47.0% reduction in organizational units; 42.5% reduction in appointee positions; 27.4% reduction in cost of appointee positions; and a 4.0% reduction in the costing budget. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 37 SOCIAL 185,648 hours of training, exceeding the goal of 40 hours per employee BRL 35.2 million allocated to the areas of health, food safety, education, and creating jobs and income ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL Profits of Over 3,700 people , BRL 1 billion including adults and children, in environmental EBITDA of education activities BRL 589 million VAD of BRL 3.9 billion 38 CHESF CORPORATE STRATEGY In 2017, the Eletrobras companies began the challenge of implementing actions based on the Business and Management Master Plan (PDNG) for the period 2017-2021, which establishes a set of economic and financial guidelines, associated TRANSMISSION LINE with investment limits, indebtedness capacity, JARDIM-CAMAÇARI recommended expansion targets and cost of capital. The PDNG is composed of three strategies and 18 initiatives that aim to consolidate corporate sustainability. GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 1. Alignment of the by-laws and 11. Organizational Restructuring approval purviews 12. Incentivized Retirement Plan (PAI) 2. Implementation of the model 5 13. Implementation of PRO-ERP Dimensions of Compliance 14. S  hared Services Center 3. E liminate material weaknesses 15. Reduction of administrative costs 4. Implement actions toward listing in indexes 16. Reduction of overtime, hazard pay, and standby and obtaining Corporate Management seals 17. R egulatory Strategy for Generation and Transmission 18. Integrated energy trading FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE 5. R eduction of investments 6. Privatization of distributions 7. Sale of administrative real estate 8. Sale of stakes in non-strategic SPEs 9. Tax optimization Learn about how the strategy unfolded by 10. Corporate restructuring for visiting the Eletrobras Investor Relations website: better use of tax credits eletrobras.com > Financial Information ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 39 STABILIZATION AND GROWTH Based on Eletrobras’ PDNG, Chesf developed its Business Management Plan (PNG) for the same period, addressing issues related to the recent evolution of the generation and transmission businesses, the Company’s expansion prospects, the study of opportunities, and regulatory issues. Following the established goals, in 2017 PNG initiatives yielded the following results: Transmission Works Plan: The Engineering and Generation Works Plan: encompasses the Wind Construction Department prioritized 47 TransPower Complexes Casa Nova I, Casa Nova II, and mission projects, of which 24 are scheduled to be Casa Nova III. Regarding Casa Nova I, the budgeted completed in 2017, with a Permitted Annual Reveamounts refer to the completion of the Transmisnue (RAP Receita Anual Permitida) of BRL 65 milsion Line and Substation, which will allow the enlion, and 23 for 2018, with an expected RAP of BRL ergy to flow between Casa Nova II and III. In order 62 million. The direct investment required for 2017 to realize the planned investment of BRL 264 miltotals BRL 593 million, and for 2018, BRL 223 million. lion to implement this Work Plan, it was necessary In order to realize the investment foreseen in the to seek supplementation of the investment budget implementation of this Works Plan, it was necesof BRL 152 million for 2017. sary to seek a supplementary investment budget of BRL 277 million for 2017. 40 CHESF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT PLAN P A D H ENTRIES C E F G P B P ONGOING A Revenues (Generation and Transmission) Chesf Administration is guided by a Business Management B Plan (PNG) that defines the Company’s work plan for the subPeople, Services and Materials C sequent five years. In 2017, the PNG was revised based on the Depreciation political and economic scenarios and on Eletrobras’ Plan for D Compensation Business and Management Guidelines (PDNG); however, it re(Generation and Transmission); mains aligned with the Company’s Strategic Map, which has E Debt Service not changed. The topic was presented to the Executive Board F Investments at a workshop carried out by the Strategic Planning area. In accordance with the 2017-2021 planning, Chesf’s focus G Return of Advances for in 2017 was to increase efficiency, compliance, and risk manFuture Capital Increase (AFAC) agement. Throughout the year, Chesf also worked on an EfH Disposal of Assets ficiency Plan to adjust costs with Personnel, Materials, Third P Potential impacts Party Services and Other Expenses (PMSO), through restruc(Results and Performance) turing and increased efficiency of processes in the areas. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 41 STRATEGIC MAP 2017-2021 Mission Vision IDENTITY To contribute to the well-being of To be corporately efficient society by generating and and sustainable transmitting energy Respect for Innovation VALUES Preservation People with Ethics and and EntrepreCommitment Safety of the fairness and Transparency neurship to Society Environment equity RESULTS Shareholder Clients Society Employees Profitability, Energy Quality and Credibility and Social Sense of belonging Rate of Return Availability of the and Environmental and Satisfaction and Image Facilities Responsibility 1 2 3 STRATEGIC GOALS To apply Best Practices for To increase the Organization’s To implement New Expansion Managing Change, Profitability and Improvement Projects Knowledge and People Prioritizing Increased Profitability 4 5 To Perform Operation and To Improve Corporate Maintenance with Efficiency Governance and Quality 42 CHESF The Strategic Objectives are broken down into out through meetings with the Executive Board Strategies and Initiatives. Each strategy has an asand first-tier management, in order to track the sociated indicator and the initiatives are composed discrepancies between the goals and the results obof several projects, allowing all organizational levtained. In 2017, six monitoring meetings were held. els to get involved and participate in strategic planThe topics covered, and the main results achieved ning. Monitoring of strategic planning is carried are presented below: MONITORING OF THE BUSINESS PLAN AND MANAGEMENT >>> > TOPICS COVERED > > RELATED STRATEGIC GOAL > 1 To apply best practices for managing change, knowledge Operating Costs and Restructuring and people Economic and Financial Indices 2 To increase the organization’s profitability Performance in Expansion of Generation 3 To implement New Expansion and Improvement Projects and Transmission Prioritizing Increased Profitability Performance in O&M Improvements 4 To Perform Operation and Maintenance for Generation and Transmission with Efficiency and Quality Corporate Governance 5 To Improve Corporate Governance Disposal of Non-Operating Assets N/A = Not Applicable ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 43 In accordance to the 2017-2021 planning, Chesf’s focus in 2017 was the pursuit of increased efficiency, compliance and risk management >RESULTS ACHIEVED > 4% reduction compared with budgeting in 10 priority accounts: overtime; standby bonus; hazard pay; periodic examinations; transportation; construction work, maintenance and conservation; safety, travel and documentation. 42.5% reduction in the number of appointee job positions and 27.3% in costs for bonus. Restructuring in 47% of the organizational units, going from 301 units to 162. Profit of BRL 1.044 billion, 73.8% less * than the previous year Net operating income (NOI)** showed a decrease * of 61.3% compared with the previous year. EBITDA margin*** was 12% in 2017 and 6% in the previous year, an increase of 6 percentage points. BRL 3.4231 billion of Operating Costs and Expenses, a decrease**** of BRL 2.8136 billion (45.1%) compared with the previous year. Completion of Wind Power Plants (UEE) Casa Nova II and III. Implementation of 24 Transmission Projects, establishing the largest number of energized projects in Chesf’s history. A significant reduction in the number of disruptions from 205 in 2016 to 76 in 2017, contributing to the improvement of Chesf’s operational indicators. Improvements (62) in Transmission, of which 17 were in Transmission Lines, 10 in Substations, 25 in Protection and Automation and 10 in Telecommunications. Retrofitting of 17 Facilities for Telephone Support. Online training on Ethics and Integrity, promoted by Universidade das Empresas (UNISE), to disseminate ethical principles and concepts of corporate integrity in a comprehensive manner to all employees, with 97% employee participation. Launch of the Whistleblowing Channel of the Eletrobras Companies, which started to receive, in a centralized manner, all reports related to the Companies of the group. Disposal of 17 of the 22 non-operational real estate properties, planned for the period. Two other properties were included, not previously considered in the PNG, and which were also negotiated, thus contributing to the achievement of 98% of the target amount initially estimated. *This variation results from the recognition in 2016 of the amounts approved by ANEEL, related to the transmission assets of the facilities called Basic Network of the Existing System – RBSE. **Considers deductions of taxes and sector charges. ***Ratio between EBITDA and Net Operating Revenue (NOR). ****This reduction was mainly a result of the variation of BRL 3.1236 billion determined in the record of provision/reversal of impairment/ interest-bearing agreement, with a reversal of BRL 763.3 million in 2017 against the recording of provision of BRL 2.2321 billion in 2016. 44 CHESF Chesf seeks to invest in innovative projects to fulfill its commitment to society and the environment ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 45 The achievement of financial, operational, governance, social, and environmental goals established in the Corporate Contract for Goals and Performance (CMDE) was also monitored by the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. In most of the indicators monitored by Chesf related to economic, financial, operational, governance, social, and environmental performance the goals were reached during 2017. It is worth mentioning that efforts will continue to fully reach the goal (100%), for the next cycle. For 2018, the Company has acquired new Strategic Management software, which will allow for real-time evaluation of financial, operational, social, and environmental indicators, as well as monitoring of projects and improvements to be implemented, which will streamline management decision-making. NEW BUSINESS > 102-2, 102-6, 102-15, 102-29, 102-31, 103-2, 103-3 > Chesf values its commitment to society and the preservation of the environment and, therefore, seeks to invest in innovative projects that meet these goals. In view of the climate potential of the Northeastern region, in 2017, the Company invested in wind and solar power generation projects in various states in the region. Regarding the generation of thermoelectric power, Chesf has prioritized participation in projects with technology based on natural gas, which is environmentally more suitable, since it pollutes less than other fossil fuels. In 2017, the transmission segment did not participate in new auctions. The Company prioritized the implementation of contracted projects and strengthening of existing facilities. 5 SOBRADINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE > 102-45 to 102-56 and 103-1 > GLOBAL COMPACT SDG DECENT WORK INDUSTRY, PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS AND ECONOMIC INNOVATION AND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS GROWTH INFRAESTRUCTURE INSTITUTIONS 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chesf’s corporate governance structure translates into administrative processes guided by transparency and continuous value creation Chesf’s corporate governance practices aim to guarantee shareholder rights and business sustainability, aligned with accountability to investors and society, and ethical relationships with stakeholders. Focusing on transparency and maintaining an ethical relationship with all its stakeholders, Chesf’s Governance structure is composed of an Administrative Assembly and a Board of Directors, which, with the assistance of the Executive Board, Fiscal Council, Ombudsman’s Office, and Auditing, is responsible for the main decisions in business management. Administrative management actions are audited by Internal Audit, the Fiscal Council, and by the external control bodies of the Federal Comptroller General (CGU) and the Federal Court of Accounts (TCU). ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 49 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE General Assembly Fiscal Council Board of Directors Ombudsman Auditing Executive Presidency Board Economic and Financial Corporate Department Management Department Engineering and Operations Construction Department Department 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MAIN INITIATIVES In 2017, five General Assembly meetings were held, one ordinary and four extraordinary meetings, to discuss various initiatives related to the Company’s business plan. In addition, there were 21 meetings of the Board of Directors, 13 meetings of the Fiscal Council, and 67 meetings of the Executive Board. > 102-18 > THE MAIN TOPICS PRESENTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS WERE: • Chesf’s Business Plan PNG 2017-2021; • Cash Flow • Organizational Restructuring; • Cost of debt service; • Contributions to Special Purpose Entities (SPEs); • Auditing, Ombudsman, and Ethics Commission • Public Consultation 33; • Research, Development, and Innovation; • Shared Services Center; and • Nayr Alves de Souza Hospital (HNAS). The matters for discussion by the Board of Directors are based on a document “Forwarding Matters to the Board of Directors (EACA Encaminhamento de Assunto ao Conselho de Administração).” Strategic issues are addressed through presentations and additional documents made available to Board members. > 102-34 > HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 51 GOVERNANCE ACHIEVEMENTS (BOARD) IN 2017 AGENDA GOAL STATUS Streamline processes, reduce Updating of the operating costs and modernize Implemented Corporate identity its organizational structure. Updating of the Strategic Corporate Sustainability and Efficiency. Ongoing Map 2017-2021 Recovery of Cash Flow Balance Cash Flow by the end of 2017. Achieved Prioritization of Transmission Prioritize projects whose bidding Ongoing and Generation Projects processes have already been approved. Implementation of the Eletrobras Improve Integrity Practices in Ongoing 5 Dimensions Program the Corporate Environment. Integration and mutual use of Terms of Cooperation with telecommunications infrastructure Signed. Under the National Education between Chesf and the National implementation and Research Network Education and Research Network (RNP). Further details on Chesf’s Governance may be found at chesf.gov.br > A Empresa. SPOUT OF ITAPARICA 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY In Chesf’s organizational structure, environmental nancial Control, the Department of Economic and and social issues are the responsibility of the DeFinancial Execution, and the Department of Accoupartment of Expansion Planning and Environment nting, linked to the Economic and Financial Departand the Department of Institutional Relations, resment. > 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-31, 102-44 > pectively linked to the Engineering and ConstrucThe Company’s Strategic Sustainability tion Department and the Presidency. The other fiGuidelines are present in the Business Plan and nancial and economic topics are distributed among are considered in short-, medium-, and longthe Department of Planning and Economic and Fi-term decisions. Chesf’s Strategic Sustainability Guidelines > Prioritize the production of clean and renewable energy > Rational use of resources > Operate as an agent toward energy efficiency > Commitment to ethics and transparency > Respect for human rights > Add value to stakeholders > Ensure employees adequate working conditions and well-being Among the actions carried out by the Sustainability Committee in 2017, we have: > Execution of sustainability projects included in Chesf’s Business and Management Plan (PNG). > Standardization of water, energy and fuel consumption management, and of waste sorting. > Campaigns toward energy efficiency. > Participation in the definition and prioritization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), in order to integrate the 2030 UN Agenda into the strategies of the Eletrobras Companies’. Chesf’s strategic sustainability guidelines are present in its’ Business Plan ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 53 TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS > 102-17, 102-25, 103-2 > Throughout its history, Chesf has consolidated by representatives of Eletrobras and all companies ethics and excellence in conduct in its activities in the group. The Company also has an Ethics Comas organizational values. All employees receive mission, which may receive on its channel reports of the Code of Ethics and Conduct when they join violations of ethical conduct, and an Ombudsman’s the Company, which is constantly disseminated Office, to handle other types of reports received from by the Ethics Commission, managers, and the Huinternal and external audiences. man Resources area. In 2017, Eletrobras initiated a training cycle The Company also ensures that there is no titled “Governance, Integrity, and Capital Marconflict of interest, determining that members of kets,” in partnership with the Brazilian Institute the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council, as well of Corporate Management (IBGC), geared toward as the Directors, respond to questionnaires defined the board members and directors of the Eletrobras by the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commiscompanies. The training schedule will be completsion (CVM) and the Public Ethics Commission (CEP). ed in 2018. > 102-27, 103-3 > In addition, all employees have access, through The campaign called “Ética em Tudo para Chesf’s intranet or electronic portal, to the ElecTod@s” (“Ethics in Everything for Everyone”), tronic System to Prevent Conflict of Interest (SECI) which aims to strengthen the topic through inof the Federal Comptroller General (CGU). ternal newsletters, committee meetings, the OmIt is worth noting that, in addition to commitbudsman’s Office, CIPA events, and even digital ting to adhering to the Code of Ethics and Conduct signatures, also continued and was strengthened and to the Integrity Program by signing specific at the XIII Seminar of the National Forum on Ethics documents, members of the Governance structure Management in State-owned Companies, hosted sponsor and monitor the Program’s actions, created by Chesf. The event was broadcast to all regional by Eletrobras and conducted at Chesf by the Complioffices and was attended by the Company’s senior ance and Risk Management Advisory. Reports relatmanagement. Also related to Ethics, the Holding’s ed to the Anti-Corruption Law and other cases conCompliance Department organized an event in cerning violation of the Code of Ethics and Conduct 2017, at all Eletrobras companies, to highlight the are received through a single Whistleblowing Chanmain projects in progress under the Integrity Pronel for the Eletrobras companies and are handled gram (Compliance), as well as the actions required by the System Integrity Committee (CSI), formed for SOX Certification. (102-17) > 102-17 > MONITORING MEETING 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Eletrobras 5 Dimensions Program In 2017, Chesf continued the “Eletrobras 5 Dimensions Program,” created in 2016 aiming to improve the Integrity Program already in place at the Eletrobras companies. The Compliance and Risk Management Advisory implemented new procedures in order to strengthen corporate integrity practices, highlighting some actions, such as beginning the background checks of board members appointed by Chesf to join the Boards of Directors and Departments of SPEs (Special Purpose Entities). The Advisory also initiated a pilot Due Diligence project and critical supplier risk assessment, a process that will be consolidated in 2018. The program is based on the model proposed by the Federal Comptroller General (CGU) and the guidelines of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and foresees the implementation of actions and projects based on five dimensions, listed below: 1. Development of the management environment of the integrity program. 2. Periodic risk assessment. 3. Structuring and implementing policies and procedures of the integrity program. 4. Communication and training. 5. Monitoring the program, remediation measures, and application of penalties RISK MANAGEMENT Based on the Risk Management Policy of the Eletroupdating the Risk Policy and Matrix of the Eletrobras Companies, Chesf has a Risk Matrix, based on bras companies and defining the matters to be the Risk Matrix of the Eletrobras companies, which submitted for approval of the Executive Board and classifies and characterizes the risks associated with the Board of Directors. its business. The Matrix contains four pillars StraWith respect to internal controls, Chesf partegic, Financial, Operational, and Compliance that ticipates annually in the SOX Certification proinclude the following categories: Business Model, cess to ensure compliance with the requirements Market Strategy, Image and Reputation, Investof the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The certification inments, Liquidity, Generation and Marketing, Social cludes the stages of annual review of the docuand Environmental, People Management, Legislamentation related to business and governance tion and Standards, and others. These categories processes, previously defined in the scope, and are broken down into potential risk events, which tests the effectiveness of internal controls, carare analyzed according to probability and impacts, ried out by both the administration, under the based on the COSO ERM and COSO 2013 methodoloresponsibility of Chesf Internal Audit, and by an gy and on the ABNT NBR ISO 31000:2009 and ABNT independent auditor. All companies in the group ISO GUIA 73:2009 standards. > 102-11; 102-18 > participate in the certification process as EletroThe Risk Committee is responsible for pribras subsidiaries, in order for the Holding to conoritizing the risks that will be analyzed and for tinue trading its shares on the New York Stock monitoring the results, as well as contributing to Exchange (NYSE). ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 55 COMMITTEES > 102-18 > In 2017, Chesf had four committees to support busiresentatives from all Departments. Five meetings ness management and streamline analysis and dewere held in 2017. cision-making processes. Corporate Planning Committee: responsible for evalCorporate Sustainability Committee: responsible uating, monitoring, and updating the Company’s Strafor consolidating proposals for management imtegic Planning, proposing follow-up indicators aligned provement and monitoring the results of action with best practices in the market. It is also responsible plans. It also deliberates on the Company’s Sustainfor disseminating the planning and tracking the progability Policy, under the approval of the Executive ress of the goals. One meeting was held in 2017. Board, and coordinates the collection of information for Annual Reports. Twelve ordinary meetings Management Committee of the Chesf Research & were held in 2017. Development + Innovation Program: responsible for developing and managing the Chesf Research Risk Committee: responsible for defining, underProgram. This Committee is also responsible for esstanding, and monitoring the internal and extertablishing relationships with external entities and nal risks that may affect the Company’s business. It annually reviewing the activities of the program. is composed of a multidisciplinary team with repTwo meetings were held in 2017. COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS > 102-43, 103-2, 103-3 > One of Chesf’s principle is respect for people, and • Generation: free consumers, potentially free the company practices this through mechanisms consumers, traders, and distributors. that meet the expectations of stakeholders in • Transmission: distributors, free consumers, relation to the business. Thus, every two years, potentially free consumers, and generators. the Company conducts the Eletrobras IntegratThe result of the survey, based on the methoded Survey to measure customer satisfaction, and ology called “Janela do Cliente,” (“Client Window”), the most recent survey was conducted in the showed a good level of satisfaction with Chesf, with 2016/2017 biennium. The Survey was geared toa correlation between satisfaction and importance ward the following audiences, by business: levels. > 102-40; 102-43 > RESULTS OF CHESF IN THE 2ND ELETROBRAS INTEGRATED SURVEY 82% 83,9% Satisfaction of traders Satisfaction of regarding the generation distributors with business generation and transmission 80,6% business Satisfaction of the accessing parties with transmission services 77,2% 80,9% Satisfaction of Overall average industrial customers customer with the generation satisfaction business In 2017, Chesf also conducted a satisfaction survey tor) with the Distribution Agents. with Distribution Agents in order to evaluate the The Ombudsman’s Office is another manageoperation services provided by the Company. The rement mechanism used by the Company to become sult was an average of 8.2 points on a scale of 0 to 10. closer to its stakeholders. The most important isThe survey is part of the process of meeting sues mentioned in 2017 (about 80%) were: Human the Requirements of the System that Manages the Resources, Right of Way, Economic and Financial Quality of Chesf’s Operation, in which all bodies of Situation, Operation and Maintenance, General the Company’s System and Facilities Operation are Services, Corporate Communication, Environment, certified in Standard ISO 9001:2008. Among the esGeneration Expansion, and Senior Management. tablished procedures are the annual meetings with The Ethics Committee and the Contact Us chanClients (Energy Distributors). During the year, 10 nel (0800 9793 090) are other tools that facilitate face-to-face meetings were held (one per DistribuChesf’s relationship with its stakeholders. Actions implemented Based on reports received, Chesf implemented several actions, such as making information available on rainfall volume (in mm) in the Sobradinho reservoir area and hydrological data obtained at the Remanso hydrometric station average reservoir level (m) and precipitation (mm) on the Corporate Portal. This opportunity to improve the provision of information was identified by the Ombudsman, in conjunction with the Operations Department. In 2017, Chesf launched an independent whistlemitments to combating corruption, anticompeblowing channel. The process, which had been cartitive practices, conflicts of interest, and other inried out by the Ombudsman’s Office through an fractions. In addition, the Policy seeks to guide the internal system, is now carried out by an external application of consequences to actions and conduct company, emphasizing the commitment to secrecy that do not comply with the Code of Ethics and and impartiality when handling cases. When the Conduct of the Eletrobras companies, with the EleChannel was launched, the Integrity System Comtrobras Integrity Program, and with internal and mittee (CSI) was also created, formed by represenlegal standards. tatives of Eletrobras and its subsidiaries, to monitor The Ombudsman’s and other relationship and escalate reports in a standardized manner. channels may be contacted by email (ouvidoria@ In 2017, the Consequences Policy was also chesf.gov.br) or the Contact Us portal (www.chesf. launched, which aims to establish corporate comgov.br/page/faleconosco). Stakeholder Reports BREAKDOWN BY TYPE Chesf is committed to analyzing and responding to all reports obtained through its 1% formal relationship mechanisms. There are formal channels for the external audience 9% (email, Contact Us, Public Relations, Press, 2% 32% Innovation, and Ombudsman) and for the internal audience (Ethics Committee and internal newsletter “Chesf Hoje” [“Chesf Today”]). All information recorded is verified by Chesf. Demands specifically from the Press channel are sent to the news clipping, where they are 56% addressed and responded by the Department of Institutional Relations through the Company’s communication channels or releases. Requests Whistleblowing > 102-40, 102-41 > In 2017, the Company recorded 616 deSuggestions Grievances mands on its formal channels, 592 of which were posted in the Ombudsman’s Office and 24 on the Eletrobras Whistleblowing ChanCompliments nel. > 102-44 > Source: Sistema de Ouvidoria (SOU) and whistleblowing channel, access on Jan/2018 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMAND ROOM Chesf has as a principle respect for people and therefore works to meet the expectations of its stakeholders SEE THE TOPICS OF THE REPORTS RECORDED IN 2017: CONTACT US OMBUDSMAN’S (0800 979 3090 AND/ PUBLIC RELATIONS ETHICS COMMISSION CHANNEL OR MEIOAMBIENTE@ (RP@CHESF.GOV.BR) CHESF.GOV.BR) TOPICS RECORDED Technical Visits Issues related to item 2.2.3 of the Xingó Forest (lectures on Code of Ethics: Discrimination, Human Resources Nursery (request for Generation, Prejudice, Verbal Abuse, seedlings). Transmission and the Humiliation and Embarrassment. Environment). Request for Technical Right of Way Visits. Report of intrusion Economic and of Transmission Line Financial Right of Way. Request for Operation and information on Maintenance activities developed by Chesf. General Services Corporate Communication Environment Generation Expansion Senior Management Land Issues ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 59 INNOVATION PRESS TOPICS RECORDED Adaptive Reclosing of Single-Phase and Three-Phase External: Inauguration of Projects; Energization of Transmission Lines Substations; Water Shortage; Financial Balance Internal: Employee Health; Safety; Gender Development of Optical Multimeter Campaign; Compliance; Volunteering Distributed energy storage and its impacts on Report of intrusion of Transmission Line increasing safety and quality in the transmission Right of Way. system Wind turbines: improvements in the energy conversion process Water quality in the São Francisco River reservoir Biotechnology against golden mussel infestation Monitoring of HPP dams Integrated management of vegetation in Transmission Lines, Substations and HPP yards Identification of overhead power lines through image recognition Bathymetry of the bottom of the reservoirs and studies on their water flow IN 2017, THE COMPANY INCORPORATED TO ITS LINE OF RESEARCH NINE TOPICS SUGGESTED BY PEOPLE THROUGH THE RELATIONSHIP CHANNEL CALLED INNOVATION: 1. Development of an optical multimeter. 2. Distributed storage of energy and its impacts on increasing safety and quality in the transmission system. 3. Improvements in the wind turbine energy conversion process. 4. Water quality in the São Francisco river reservoir. 5. Biotechnology against golden mussel infestation.7 6. Monitoring of HPP dams. 7. Integrated management of vegetation in transmission lines, substations, and HPP yards. 8. Identification of overhead power lines through image recognition. 9. Bathymetry8 of the bottom of the reservoirs and studies on their water flow. 7  he golden mussel is a freshwater mollusk that lives naturally in the rivers of China and Southwest Asia. It was T accidentally introduced in South America over 10 years ago, through the ballast water of merchant ships released in the Argentine ports in the Prata River. It is an invasive species, with great incrustation capacity, with fast growth rate and large reproductive capacity. 8 Measurement of the depth of bodies of water (oceans, seas, lakes, etc.) to determine the topography of the botton. 6 PAULO AFONSO IV HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT SOBRADINHO ECLUSA ECONOMIC RESULTS > 103-2, 103-3 > ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 63 For Chesf, the year 2017 was marked by the resumppositively impacted the cash position, the results tion of the Company’s financial balance, which endof the Company in 2017 demonstrate the financial ed the year with a stable cash flow and debts paid. maturity achieved. This achievement, coupled with projects delivered The approval contributed to BRL 13.5 billions in and structured, transparent management, attractrevenue in 2016, reduced to BRL 5.7 billions in 2017. ed new investors, and regained the confidence of Nevertheless, the Company shows significant perthe financial market. formance in financial indicators, even with lower This balance is translated into numbers. Compercentages than in previous years. pared with 2016, an atypical year due to ANEEL apEBITDA, a financial performance indicator proval regarding the transmission assets of the fathat reflects the potential for generating resourccilities, called Basic Network of the Existing System es through the company’s operating activities, (RBSE Rede Básica do Sistema Existente) which reached BRL 589.9 million, 29% lower than 2016. EBITDA EBITDA BRL thousands EBITDA Margin (%) 7.889 192,5% BRL thousands 546 760 590 -2,0% 13,5% 6,0% 12,0% -72 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 64 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS The economic value generated is another indicator demonstrating Chesf’s positive performance. BRL 3.9 billions of economic value was created, 57% less than the previous year, which recorded BRL 9.9 billions, due to the approval. > 201-1 > ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED Value added by segment % Distribution 1.231 1.165 1.044 31,4% 29,8% 26,7% 472 BRL thousands 12,1% Shareholders Employees Third Parties Governments And, lastly, the Company recorded BRL 1.0 billion in profit, compared with BRL 4.0 billions in 2016, a 74% reduction. NET PROFIT (LOSS) 3.985 BRL millions 1.044 (466) (476) (1.118) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 65 IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS > VALUE ADDED STATEMENT > > 201-1 > > 2017 > > 2016 > > 2015 > 1Revenue 5,732,458.00 13,303,731.00 4,633,001.00 1.1) Sales of goods, products, and services 5,754,161.0 13,414,442.00 4,717,816.00 1.2) Other income 1.3) Revenue related to the construction of company assets 1.4) Allowance for doubtful accounts Reversal/(Constitution) -21,703.00 -110,711.00 -84,815.00 2Inputs Acquired from Third Parties (includes taxes ICMS, IPI, 1,892,705.00 -4,923,603.00 3,446,809.00 PIS, and COFINS) 2.1) Costs of products, goods, and services sold 1,566,553.00 -1,605,884.00 -2,196,676.00 2.2) Materials, energy, third party services, and other -243,195.00 -257,814.00 -244,261.00 2.3) Loss/Recovery of assets 609,982.00 -2,543,623.00 -509,803.00 2.4) Other 692,939.00 -516,282.00 -496,069.00 3Gross Value Added (1-2) 3,839,753.00 8,380,128.00 1,186,192.00 4Depreciation, Amortization, and Depletion -96,083.00 -101,753.00 -106,565.00 5Net Value Added Produced by the Entity (3-4) 3,743,670.00 8,278,375.00 1,079,627.00 6Value Added Received in Transfer 168,956.00 739.631.00 232,643.00 6.1) Equity accounting results -27,167.00 456,751.00 -16,566.00 6.2) Financial income 195.764,00 282.487,00 319.456,00 6.3) Other 359.00 426,702.00 -70,247.00 7Total Value Added for Distribution (5 + 6) 3,912,626.00 9,018,006.00 1,312,270.00 8Value Added Distribution 1,231,374.00 9,018,006.00 1,312,270.00 8.1) Personnel 1,231,374.00 867,732.00 776,999.00 8.1.1) Direct remuneration 986,375.00 644,040.00 583,639.00 8.1.2) Benefits 204,208.00 183,794.00 156,599.00 8.1.3) F.G.T.S. 40,791.00 39,898.00 36,761.00 8.2) Taxes, fees, and contributions 1,165,046.00 3,881,802.00 808,809.00 8.2.1) Federal 1,012,665.00 3,752,368.00 648,750.00 8.2.2) State 146,596.00 124,610.00 150,208.00 8.2.3) Municipalities 5,785.00 4,824.0 9,851.0 8.3) Remuneration of third-party capital 472,157.00 283,089.00 202,454.00 8.3.1) Interest 445,671.00 267,557.00 182,800.00 8.3.2) Rent 15,215.00 15,532.00 19,654.00 8.3.3) Other 11,271.00 8.4) Remuneration of own capital 1,044,049.00 3,985,383.00 -475,992.00 8.4.1) Interest on capital 8.4.2) Dividends 30,600.00 8.4.3) Retained profit/Loss in the period 1,013,567.00 3,985,275.00 -475,864.00 8.4.4) Non-controlling interest in retained profits -118.00 108.00 -128.00 (for consolidation only) More detailed financial information may be found at chesf.gov.br > Demonstrações Financeiras 66 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS In 2017, Chesf invested BRL 522.5 million in projINVESTMENT ects of Special Purpose Entities (SPEs), through Paid-in Capital and Advances for Future Capital THROUGH A Increase. The reduction of 41.7%, compared to the investments from the previous year, is due SPECIFIC PURPOSE to the start-up of most of the SPEs. From 2013 to 2017, the Compound Annual Growth Rate ENTITY (SPE) (CAGR) was – 18.5%. > 103-2, 103-3 > INVESTMENT THROUGH A SPECIFIC PURPOSE ENTITY (SPE) CAGR -18,5% 1.478 1.352 1.182 896 522 BRL millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Chesf’s investments in Generation through SPE CHAPADA DO PIAU SPE total 16,570.81 MW, corresponding to 3,074.54 MW equivalent, totaling BRL 522.5 million. Of this amount, BRL 434.3 million were invested in the Specific Purpose Entities (SPE) ESBR, Norte Energia, and Sinop (Hydroelectric Projects), and BRL 87.9 million in SPEs Baraúnas I, Morro Branco I, and Mussambê (Wind Energy Projects). ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 67 VAM CRUZ SPE > MW > START OF > SPES > > LOCATION > > MW > > INT. > EQUIV > OPERATION > Energética Águas da Pedra S.A. Aripuanã/MT 261.00 24.50% 63.95 Aug-11 Hydro ESBR Participações S.A. Porto Velho/RO 3,750.00 20.00% 750.00 Nov-16 Electric Generation Norte Energia S.A. (*) Altamira/PA 11,233.10 15.00% 1,684.97 Dec-15 Companhia Energética SINOP S.A. Sinop/MT 408.00 24.50% 99.96 Dec-18 Complexo Eólico Sento Sé I Sento Sé/BA 90.00 49.00% 44.10 Mar-13 Complexo Eólico Sento Sé II Sento Sé/BA 98.70 49.00% 48.36 Sept-15 Complexo Eólico Sento Sé III Sento Sé/BA 58.75 1.60% 0.94 Mar-16 Complexo Eólico Vamcruz Serra do Mel/RN 93.00 49.00% 45.57 Dec-15 Marcolândia, Complexo Eólico Caldeirão Grande 205.10 49.00% 100.50 Jul-15 Chapada do Piauí I and Simões/PI Wind Generation Marcolândia, Complexo Eólico Caldeirão Grande 172.40 49.00% 84.48 Jan-16 Chapada do Piauí II and Simões/PI Complexo Eólico Pindaí I Pindaí/BA 68.00 99.95% 67.97 May-18 Complexo Eólico Pindaí II Pindaí/BA 26.00 99.97% 25.99 Apr-18 Complexo Eólico Pindaí III Pindaí/BA 16.00 83.01% 13.28 Apr-18 Complexo Eólico Serra das Vacas Saloá/PE 90.76 49.00% 44.47 Nov-15 Chesf Total Power and Equivalent in SPEs 16,570.81 3,074.54 Total Capacity of hydroelectric projects in partnership 15,652.1 MW Total Capacity of wind farms in partnership 918.71 MW The Company has interest in transmission projects through SPEs, totaling 5,165 km of transmission lines, corresponding to 1,526.9 km equivalent to its interest in SPEs. In 2017, no transmission projects entered into operation through Chesf’s partnerships. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 69 > LOCA> KM > START OF > PROJECT > > KM > > INT. > TION > EQUIV. > OPERATION > Sistema de LT 500 KV Teresina II – Sobral III – Transmissão Fortaleza II, SE Teresina II, SE Sobral CE/PI 546.0 49.0% 267.5 Jan-06 Nordeste S.A. – III, SE Fortaleza II. STN LT 500 kV Colinas – Miracema, LT 500 Integração kV Miracema – Gurupi; Transmissora LT 500 kV Gurupi – Peixe II, LT 500 kV TO/GO 695,0 12,0% 83,4 May-08 de Energia S.A. Peixe II – Serra da Mesa II, SE Peixe II, – INTESA SE Serra da Mesa II. LT 500 KV Oriximaná – Itacoatiara; Manaus LT 500 kV Itacoatiara – Cariri; Transmissora SE Itacoatiara 500/138 kV, SE Cariri PA/AM 559.0 19.5% 109.0 Mar-13 de Energia S.A. 500/230 kV. LT 600kV Porto Velho – Araraquara II; Interligação Estação Retificadora – 500/600 kV – RO/MT/ Elétrica do 3150 MW; 2,375.0 24.5% 581.9 Aug-13 MS/SP Madeira S.A. Estação Inversora – 600/500kV – 2950 MW. Oct-13 Transmissora (LT 230 kV LT 230 kV São Luís II São Luís III; Delmiro São Luís II SE Aquiraz II and SE Pecém II (in MA/CE 39.0 49.0% 19.1 Gouveia S.A. – São Luís III operation). TDG – Scheduled for Jul/17) LT 500 KV Luis Gonzaga – Garanhuns, Interligação LT 500 KV Garanhuns – Campina Elétrica Grande III, LT 500 KV Garanhuns PE/PB 666.0 49.0% 326.3 Nov-15 Garanhuns S.A. – Pau Ferro, LT 230 KV Garanhuns – IEG – Angelim I, SE Garanhuns, SE Pau Ferro. LT 500kV Ceará Mirim – João Câmara II, LT 500kV Ceará Mirim – Campina Grande III, LT 230kV Ceará Mirim Extremoz – Extremoz II, LT 230kV Campina Transmissora Grande III – Campina Grande II, Secc. PB/RN 285.0 49.0% 139.7 Oct-14 do Nordeste LT 230kV J. Camara II – Extremoz – S.A. – ETN Ceará Mirim Secc. LT 230kV C. Grande II Extremoz II, SE João Câmara II, SE Campina Grande III, SE Ceará Mirim. Total Transmission Lines in operation – SPE 5,126.0 1,507.8 Total Transmission Lines under construction – SPE 39.0 19.1 GRAND TOTAL 5,165.0 1526.9 OPERATIONS > 103-2, 201-4, 203-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 306-2, 403-2, 403-3, 404-1, 412-1, 417-1, 419-1, EU6, EU7, EU10, EU11, EU12, EU22, EU23, EU25, EU30 > GLOBAL COMPACT SDG AFFORDABLE INDUSTRY, RESPONSIBLE AND CLEAN INNOVATION AND CONSUMPTION ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE AND PRODUCTION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 71 CASA NOVA II WIND FARM In 2017, Chesf made important achievements in its operations. The proposed goals were reached and the results contributed to further strengthening its assets Chesf followed the guidelines proposed in the 2017The projects of the Wind Generation Collec2021 Business Plan with investments in generation tor Systems (ICGs) and of the wind farms have also and in the Transmission Expansion Plan. This year, been completed, and large projects for generating the Company invested in its hydroelectric plants to solar and wind energy are being planned by the maintain levels of continuity and availability, and Company. An area was created in the Engineering completed two large generation projects: the Casa Department, especially to deal with investments in Nova II and III power plants. The first is already gendiversifying the energy matrix. There are three deerating revenue and the second will be in the implepartments focused on wind, solar, and hydroelecmentation phase until the beginning of 2018. These tric energy that advance beyond studies and begin projects marked the resumption of Chesf’s investprioritizing expansion projects for power generaments in developments that had been interrupted. tion using alternative sources. Another achievement this year was beginning to receive revenue corresponding to the Basic Network of the Existing System (RBSE), assets that began operations before May 2000 and were still pending. This revenue has allowed investments in the Improvement Plan of the Existing System, which began in 2017 and will continue throughout 2018. One of the actions defined in the Plan is replacing equipment for greater reliability in the substation, transmission line, and telecommunications system. In total, corporate investments to expand and modernize the Company’s production capacity totaled BRL 898.3 million in 2017. The amount was distributed as follows: GOIANINHA SUBSTATION 72 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS OPERATIONS GENERATION TRANSMISSION SYSTEM > EU11, EU30> SYSTEM > Hydroelectric: BRL 19.5 million was invested in Throughout 2017, a total of 25 projects were comhydroelectric plants under concession and under pleted, expanding Chesf’s Transmission System by a quota regime, in order to maintain operational energizing 275 km of lines, as well as six new Sublevels of continuity and availability to satisfactostations and reinforcements in facilities, which inrily meet demand. creased the transformation capacity by 3,135 MVA. Revenues from the transmission system reached > Wind energy: BRL 236.8 million was invested BRL 1.18 billion. Accordingly, the Company plans to to complete the implementation of compacomplete all transmission projects by 2019. ny-owned wind farms Casa Nova II (32.9 MW) Some highlighted projects were: and Casa Nova III (28.2 MW), located in the municipality of Casa Nova, Bahia, with energy sold > Completion of all projects associated with the in ANEEL Auction No. 10/2013 (A-5), with delivery Wind Generation Collector Systems (ICGs), which deadline May 2018. highlights the completion of ICGs Touros, Igaporã II, Morro do Chapéu II, and Mossoró IV; > Solar: In 2017, the Company continued developing the studies of two Solar Energy Projects, >  Implementation of SE Igaporã III 500/230 kV, totaling 230 MWp, to compete in future energy whose connection to the Interconnected Syssales auctions. In addition, Chesf has been cartem (SIN) was carried out through 230 kV lines, rying out measurements in 17 solar monitoring energized in 2015, which were incorporated into stations, installed in the northeastern semi-arid Chesf’s assets; region, in order to develop its own solar generation projects with photovoltaic and solar ther> Completion of two sections of 500 kV lines with mal technologies. 70 km (designed and built by Chesf), which were PAULO AFONSO II HYDROELETRIC POWER PLANT PAULO AFONSO I HYDROELETRIC POWER PLANT PAULO AFONSO III HYDROELETRIC POWER PLANT PAULO AFONSO III HYDROELETRIC POWER PLANT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 73 transferred to the TAESA Transmitter because > Completion of three reinforcement projects bethey were a result of sectioning LT 500 kV Bom fore the deadline defined by the Regulatory Jesus da Lapa II/Ibicoara; Agency: SE Fortaleza II (installation of 4th autotransformer bank 500/230 kV); SE Pici II (instal> Completion of reinforcements in service to the lation of transformer 230/69 kV 100 MVA on a metropolitan areas of Fortaleza, Teresina, Aracaprovisional basis); and SE Piripiri (replacement of ju, and Salvador, as well as improved reliability of TR 69/13.8 kV 5 MVA with 10 MVA); the region’s entire system; > Completion of transmission improvement events, > The Zebu/Xingó transmission line 69 kV (56.5 corresponding to six projects to replace groundkm) and the Xingó 69 kV (12.5 MVA) substation ing transformers and four 69-kV line entrances were transferred to Energisa-SE; for power utilities companies. The following chart shows the annual > The 230 kV Tabocas do Brejo Velho (BA) substaamounts invested by Chesf in its own assets over tion transferred from Enel Green Power to Chesf; the last five years. INVESTMENTS IN OWN ASSETS CAGR -9,9% 1.365 1.132 877 898 681 BRL millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Growth projection for the sector According to the ONS-EPE Technical Bulletin, the sector forecast for the years 2017 to 2021 is that consumption in the National Interconnected System (SIN) will increase at an average rate of 3.5% per year, beginning a turnaround in the crisis scenario in the electricity sector, even if the downward trend in prices is still unable to be reversed. 74 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS OPERATIONS OPERATING INVESTMENTS IN SHARED RESULTS GENERATION FACILITIES (ICGS) With the Programa de Obras (Construction ProIn recent years, results have been influenced by gram), launched in early 2017, Chesf completed all the adoption of new practices and management the electricity transmission projects necessary to tools to monitor and control operations. Still, the distribute the production of wind farms operating expectation of the Operations Department is that, in the Northeast. The investments amounted to BRL in 2018, the implementation of SAP interconnect636 million, adding to the National Interconnected ed to the Shared Service Center (SSC) will streamSystem (SIN) a total of 2,895 MW, an approximate line the operation. power to that of the Xingó Power Plant (SE/AL), the As a result of this efficiency work, in 2017, Company’s largest. Chesf achieved its best result in operational indicaCompletion of the transmission projects of the tors when compared to the last five years, and reShared Generation System (ICGs) include transmiscorded the lowest number of system interruptions sion lines and substations, which distribute enerin the Company’s history. gy supplying the consumer units connected to the Specifically for thermoelectric generation at National Interconnected System. Among the most the Camaçari thermal power plant, Chesf adopted significant are the complex ICG Pindaí II/Igaporã an average project efficiency of 30.50% for natural (1,163 MW) in Bahia; ICGs Lagoa Nova (398 MW) and gas or oil operations. Touros (158 MW), in Rio Grande do Norte; in addition to Ibiapina (153 MW), in Ceará. GENERATION SYSTEM Currently, wind power already meets a > EU11, EU30 > daily average of 45% of Northeastern demand, Chesf’s indicator of Operational Availability in which contributes significantly at this time Generation showed a significant improvement in when the conditions of the São Francisco Basin the last five years, as a result of the maintenance are unfavorable. actions adopted at the plants. OPERATIONAL AVAILABILITY IN GENERATION 94.32 89.4 85.04 84.15 78.08 BRL millions IMPROVED 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 75 TRANSMISSION SYSTEM In the year 2017, Chesf obtained the best historical result of Operational Availability of Transmission Lines, reflecting the quality of services provided. OPERATIONAL AVAILABILITY IN TRANSMISSION LINES 99.96 99.92 99.92 99.88 BRL millions 99.82 IMPROVED 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 VARIABLE PORTION (PV) This indicator shows the discount percentage of the Allowed Annual Revenue (RAP Receita Anual Permitida) of Transmission Functions, due to unavailability of the Basic Network equipment of Chesf’s concessions, according to ANEEL legislation. The result in 2017 was the second best in the last five years. As a relevant fact, there was a significant increase in the Allowed Annual Revenue (RAP) as of July, due to payment by ANEEL of the indemnification for unamortized cost of assets. In addition, there were discounts of the variable portion related to 2016, which had been suspended in July 2016 by the National Electric System Operator (ONS). VARIABLE PORTION 4.21 2.36 1.91 2.05 2.24 Percentage (%) IMPROVED 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 76 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS OPERATIONS SYSTEM ROBUSTNESS INDICATOR (IRS) This indicator assesses the capacity of Chesf’s Basic Network to support contingencies without disruption of electricity supply to consumers (loss of load). The chart below shows the continuous trend of improvement over the last five years, which indicates an evolution of the Chesf System (Basic Network), regarding occurrences involving interruption of the electricity supply. SYSTEM ROBUSTNESS INDICATOR IRS 90.00 91.00 91.88 91.50 Percentage (%) 85.10 IMPROVED 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NUMBER OF EVENTS WITH LOAD INTERRUPTION IN THE BASIC NETWORK (NEIC-RB) This indicator refers to the number of unplanned shutdowns originating from Chesf’s Basic Network that cause any load interruption in the Chesf System. In 2017, the NEIC-RB showed the best historical result, dropping 24.2% in disconnections compared with 2013. NEIC RB 42 31 33 25 25 Quantity IMPROVED 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 7777 IN 2017 CHESF ACHIEVED , THE BEST RESULTS OF OPERATIONAL INDICATORS IN THE LAST 5 YEARS. 500 KV TRANSMISSION LINE 78 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS OPERATIONS Chesf’s results also stand INTEGRATED out in the aspects involving VISION IN EXPANstrategy and management, safety, and relationship SION PROJECTS with the communities This year, a methodology was established for analysurrounding its projects. zing and selecting expansion projects, involving the areas of Planning, Environment, and Geotechnology Next, see how the Company integrated into the Projects area. This new approach seeks to achieve excellence was used in wind and solar energy projects, allowing for a clearer view of the risks and costs of projects in everything it does to mitigate their impacts. The basis of the processes is in line with Strategic Planning guidelines, which include the sustainability aspects of the business. ZERO DECENT WORK HUNGER AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Final approval of the projects is carried out by the Operations Department, which evaluates feasibility criteria from a risk and financial return standpoint. Restructuring the Engineering Department The restructuring of the planning strategy, with the It is important to note that, with the above creation of a project office, was essential to reachchanges, Chesf has sought to raise its efficiency ing the goal of completing 23 projects in 2017. In the standard in the completion of the projects. The new structure, the Department of Project Impleexpansion of the electro energy system is the rementation (SEE) was created, focused on managsponsibility of the Energy Research Company ing corporate Transmission and Generation proj(EPE), linked to the Ministry of Mines and Energy ects, as well as the Strategic Project Management (MME), in line with its Ten-Year Expansion Plan. Advisory (AEG), focused on the Governance of the Based on projections on energy demand, EPE plans Engineering and Construction Department. the expansion of electricity supply, according to All work integrated among the areas, develthe availability of new power plant projects and the oped since the beginning of the study phase, pritransmission network needed to distribute this enoritizes asset management, focusing on regulatory ergy, and guides the new auctions with the projects vision in a way that maximizes revenue. This way, needed to supply the market. Chesf is required by the main points addressed by management are: the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), in some increasing the Company’s competitiveness in the cases, to provide information that subsidizes the market; optimizing processes; agile decision makbidding processes for new projects. It is worth noting; integrating teams; process synergy; opportuing that the Company is not responsible for the nity for learning and professional growth; and redecision-making processes related to energy planducing direct and indirect costs. ning and infrastructure development. > EU19 > ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 79 SAFETY IN THE OPERATION Agricultural development in the Casa Nova region Chesf is attentive to the safety of people in its opWith the start-up of the Casa Nova wind farm, erations and, in addition to all the work done on the the social and environmental actions already in occupational safety of its employees, the company place during the construction process were exseeks to guarantee the same standards for its suptended to the surrounding area. In 2017, Chesf ply chain. In 2017, a total of 155 Safety Plans were signed a Cooperation Agreement with the Braanalyzed in contracts signed between Chesf and zilian agricultural research company, Empresa contractors. Also, 152 safety audits were carried out, Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (EMBRAPA) which verified about 30 cases of non-compliance to develop the project “Development actions for related to occupational health and safety training, agricultural workers around the Casa Nova (BA) culminating in corrective actions for all situations wind farm,” initiated in January 2018. encountered. It is important to clarify that not all The project will provide agricultural and contracts analyzed are audited, so a Safety Plan livestock knowledge and techniques to producmay contain more than one audit. ers around the Sobradinho reservoir, in terms of the use of the field, contributing to mitigating RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COMMUNITIES environmental impacts, and generating income. SURROUNDING THE PROJECTS All equipment and support structure comes Chesf seeks a broad understanding of the impacts from another project and will be reused at Casa of its business in the regions where it operates. The Nova, which demonstrates Chesf’s commitCompany follows the Social Responsibility Policy of ment to optimizing resources. the Eletrobras Companies and the Guidance ManuThe partnership foresees that EMBRAPA is al on Chesf’s Social Projects to guide its operations, responsible for training and implementing the planning actions to reduce social inequalities, inproject, while Chesf assumes the financing and volve employees in volunteer work, promote recogmonitoring. Through BNDES Social Sub-Credit, nition and loyalty in customers, and contribute to the Company will invest most of the financial the residents’ understanding of the importance of resources nearly BRL 1.1 million over a period the business and its presence in these regions. of three years, benefitting 82 producers directly Social Responsibility projects are analyzed and 1,850 producers indirectly. The project also and selected according to their relevance to the has partnerships with other private and pubcommunity, to society, and according to the impact lic institutions linked to the agricultural sector. of the business on the communities surrounding > 103-2, 103-3, 203-1 > its projects. Management continues to monitor and TAUÁ I SUBSTATION periodically audit all projects agreed upon through a terms of partnership and/or agreement. In 2017, community relations programs and projects in the states of Bahia, Alagoas, Pernambuco, and Sergipe were affected by budget constraints foreseen in the Company’s restructuring. Private social investment resources reached BRL 35.2 million, allocated to the areas of health, food safety, education, and creating jobs and income. Investments in cultural projects through incentive laws amounted to BRL 906,088. INNOVATION > 102-6, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 303-3, 305-5, EU6, EU8, EU19 > GLOBAL COMPACT SDG AFFORDABLE INDUSTRY, SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE AND CLEAN INNOVATION AND CITIES AND CONSUMPTION ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCTION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 81 Investments in projects toward generating renewable, alternative energy bring Chesf recognition in R&D+I Chesf defined, as one of the guidelines of the Strategic No. 02/2017, focused on developing Wind TechnoloMap for Corporate Planning 2017-2021, investment gy Innovation, along with the Distributed Solar Enin innovation projects with Research and Developergy Generation, which integrates the two energy ment institutions. To this end, the company defined sources envisioning joint efficiency of the systems a structured flow for Research, Development, and Inand their respective technologies. novation (R&D+I) Programs, which includes Internal In 2017, the total invested in R&D+I proRegulation (IN-AS 03.001), Research, Development, grams reached BRL 74.4 million, including the and Innovation Management, and a Research Manregulatory payment to the National Fund for agement and Development System (SGPPED). Scientific and Technological Development With this guidance, the Company has been (FNDCT) and to the Ministry of Mines and Enerdeveloping projects in solar energy focused on Phogy (MME), and the projects executed by CEPEL. tovoltaic and Solar Thermal technology, in order In order to invest in R&D projects under ANEEL to compete in ANEEL auctions. Three important regulations, BRL 44.4 million was allocated to projects are in progress: Petrolina Solar Platform 23 initiatives, focusing on renewable or alter(3 MW), Floating Solar Platform on the Sobradinnative sources, environment, planning and opho reservoir (5 MW) and, in its contracting phase, eration, supervision, control and protection, the Solar Thermal R&D Project via a Central Townew materials, and components, among others. er. Also this year, Chesf launched R&D+I Public Call > 302-5, EU8 > Generating solar energy in reservoirs The R&D and Environment areas have been carrying out the environmental impact study toward installing floating solar panels in the reservoirs. The Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) has already indicated possible impacts that are being monitored by the Environment area still in the study phase of the project. The project consists of installing and evaluating the performance of the Floating Photovoltaic Plant, which will be installed at the Reservoir of the Sobradinho Hydroelectric Plant (BA) and will have an initial capacity of 1 MW of power in an area of approximately 1 ha, which may be expanded up to 5 MW. The project is a partnership with Eletronorte. 82 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS INNOVATION International patent recognition for Chesf project The Engineering Department has developed the project “Application for Regulation and Parallel Operation of Transformers,” which performs an important function for the electrical system, as it regulates the voltage level delivered by Chesf to power utilities. Aware of the importance of this application for the sector, the process to apply for protection was initiated with the National Institute of Industrial Property (INPI) in 2011. After obtaining the nationwide patent in 2017, Chesf obtained international recognition. The United States and, subsequently, China issued the patent grant for this technological innovation being used in substations. ENERGY EFFICIENCY > 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 > Since 2013, Chesf has been setting goals to reduce riod 2013-2015) and considering the great effort alconsumption of natural resources, among which ready put forth by the company, new goals were we highlight increased efficiency and improved established in the Business and Management Masenvironmental management with the reduction of ter Plan of Eletrobras (PDNG) for the period 2017its GHG emissions. 2021: 0.2% per annum to reduce GHG emissions, Based on consumption in 2012, the comtotaling 1% by 2021. pany established its own goal for reducing conHowever, this year, in its GHG Inventory, the sumption of fossil fuels in the land vehicle fleet Company calculated the emission of 243,709.8 (scope 1) and for consumption of electricity from tons of CO2eq in scopes 1, 2, and 3. An increase the public distribution network (scope 2), with a of 2.4% compared with the previous year, significonsequent impact on the volume of GHG emiscantly associated with increased losses which sions. The equipment complex also undergoes may be justified by the expansion of Chesf’s constant improvements, either by preventive transmission network. maintenance actions, technological upgrading of The Company’s energy consumption reached existing equipment, or replacement of equipment 105,585.43 MWh and, although it does not manwith more efficient models that have lower levels age energy consumption information outside the of GHG emissions. Company, the consumption of third party fuel was After evaluating the first period of goals (perecorded at 61,150 GJ. > 302-1, 302-2, 302-4, 305-5 > 83 CHAPADA WIND FARM > EMISSIONS (tCO2eq) > > 2015 > > 2016 > > 2017 > Scope 1 (Direct GHG emissions) 191,084.55 16,170.69 10,796.80 Scope 2 (Indirect GHG and Energy Emissions) 277,861.85 220,693.80 231,712.50 Scope 3 (Other indirect GHG emissions) 2,815.12 1,060.35 1,200.50 Total Emissions 471,761.52 237,924.84 243,709.80 > 103-3 > Efficiency Projects In 2017, Chesf launched the Conta Zero program, which aims to generate sufficient energy, with photovoltaic technology, to supply demand of all substations and associated facilities. In all, seven photovoltaic minigeration projects will be implemented in the distributors Coelba, Anel, Celpe, Eletrobras Alagoas, Cosern, Energisa, and Cepisa. Two pilot projects have already yielded important results for the Company in 2017: one of them involves the 32 kW Solar Microgeneration system connected to the electric power grid in the warehouse of the Abreu e Lima unit. Composed of 252 photovoltaic modules, it occupies an area of approximately 700 sqm and is connected to the 13.8 kV internal distribution system of the warehouse and, consequently, to the concessionaire’s distribution system. The system added 24,092 MWh of electricity, saving 5.71% of electricity supplied by the concessionaire. The second was implemented at the Messias Substation (AL). The photovoltaic minigeneration system connected to the 115.2 kW grid will promote a savings in the electricity consumption of the substation to the order of 222 MWh per year, which should correspond to a 25% reduction in the consumption of the auxiliary services systems of that substation. The project has operations scheduled for March 2018. > 103-2, 103-3 > 84 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS INNOVATION CONTA ZERO PROGRAM PHASE 1 (PLANNED FOR 2018): > Activate 17,000 photovoltaic modules that total an installed power of 5.1 MW; > Avoid an annual energy consumption of 8,080 MWh, a savings of BRL 5.1 million, which accounts for 1.6% of Chesf Costing (without Remuneration and Benefits); > Investment of BRL 20.5 million in this phase. PHASE 2 (PLANNED 2019): > Complement phase 1 aiming at self-sufficiency of the Company’s total energy consumption. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 85 ACTIONS TAKEN ABREU E LIMA SOLAR CENTRAL > Piloto ProjectAbreu e Lima Warehouse > 32 kW in operation > 1 2% annual savings in local consumption >R  emote monitoring by cell phone >A  lagoas Condominium Messias Substation > 115.2 kW conc. > 1 4.3% of the goal for the condominium >B  RL 57,000 annual savings after payback MESSIAS SOLAR CENTRAL > Accounts for 25% of the consumption of SE Messias ENVIRONMENTAL > 103-2, 201-4, 203-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 306-2, 403-2, 403-3, 404-1, 412-1, 417-1, 419-1, EU6, EU7, EU10, EU11, EU12, EU22, EU23, EU25, EU30 > GLOBAL COMPACT SDG C LEAN AFFORDABLE RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE WATER AND AND CLEAN CONSUMPTION ACTION WATER ON LAND SANITATION ENERGY AND PRODUCTION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 87 SOBRADINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT Environmental risk management is on the radar of the Company, which has invested in initiatives to protect and recover the environment, mainly of the São Francisco River WATER > 103-2, 103-3, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-1, 306-5 > Almost all energy generated by Chesf comes from species in the São Francisco reservoirs, as well as hydroelectric plants, and management of water rein the Lower São Francisco region, carried out by sources follows the Eletrobras Policy, supported by the Paulo Afonso fishery. Law 9,433/97. In the hydroelectric generation proThe Company also monitors the rational use cess, there is no degradation of this resource, since of this resource in its facilities and operations, turbine water returns to the body of water without generating monthly information by regional changing its characteristics. However, the Compamanagement, which considers local particularny evaluates and monitors the water quality of the ities and establishes preliminary goals in areas reservoirs under its responsibility, in accordance where meters already exist. A project is still unwith legal parameters. der analysis to gradually increase the number of An important action is related to protectown meters in the facilities, especially to combat ing aquatic biodiversity, where Chesf develops waste and, with this, to promote the reduction of the Aquatic Ecosystems Monitoring Program, in consumption, effluent generation, and business the municipalities of Sobradinho (BA), Itaparica costs. During the year, 112,920 m3 from the public (PE/BA), Paulo Afonso Complex (BA), and Xingó supply network were used and another 82,427 m3 (AL/SE). Additionally, in compliance with the enfrom underground collection. vironmental conditions established by IBAMA, Regarding disposal of effluents from operaChesf carries out programs during the reduced tional and administrative areas, the Company has river flow, such as: Water Quality Monitoring, its own treatment plants in the projects, or, for units Monitoring of Saltwater Intrusion (mass of salt that do not have a treatment plant, domestic effluwater that forms at the mouth of the river), and ent is disposed of in the public sewage network. Rescue of Ictiofauna. Stocking with fish of native > 103-2, 103-3, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-1, 306-5 > TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE (M³) >>> > MUNICIPAL WATER > UNDERGROUND > TOTAL WATER > WATER CONSUMPTION SUPPLY> SOURCE > CONSUMPTION > PER EMPLOYEE> 2015 94,136 35,694 126,036 27.9 2016 209,963 * 19,221 ** 229,184 50.1 2017 173,456 21,891 195,347 *** 47.4 * In 2016, new measurements were included, which increased consumption compared with the previous year. ** Actually, the information in 2016 was not available and was verified and corrected in the 2017 report. *** The reduction of total consumption in 2017 occurred due to improvements in the process. 88 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS ENVIRONMENTAL XINGÓ HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 89 Main water resources management initiatives Chesf actively participates in discussion forums on the subject of water resources. Some of the main groups are: the National Council of Water Resources (CNRH), the São Francisco River Basin Committee, the Contas River Basin Committee, the Water Resources Council of the State of Alagoas (CERH-AL), the Water Resources Group of ABRAGE (Brazilian Association of Energy Generating Companies), and GTRH of the Eletrobras Companies. Many of the topics discussed in these forums subsidize the definition of actions and procedures for managing water resources, such as: > Specific procedures to control flooding through the issue of inflow volume forecasts to reservoirs and allocation of holding volume in the reservoirs during the wet season. > Communication procedures for local communities on river and reservoir conditions during critical events. > Monitoring, in real time, the information on levels upstream (reservoirs) and downstream of the projects operated by Chesf. > Georeferenced survey of areas subject to flooding for various levels and flows. > Compliance with the operating guidelines for the reservoirs that form the National Interconnected System (SIN). > Survey and monitoring of flow restrictions and levels in the river basins where there are projects in operation by the Company. > 103-2, 103-3 > CHESF AND THE SÃO FRANCISCO RIVER BASIN > 103-2, 103-3 > The year of 2017 was another period in which Today, the volume of the Sobradinho reservoir Chesf’s power generation was influenced by the is in the recovery phase. The Company intensified low rainfall volume in the São Francisco river baits relationship with nongovernmental entities, sin. The crisis, which had already been occurring communities, water supply companies, and the since 2013, reached its worst point this year, when Government of the four states involved (Pernamthe main reservoir in the Northeast region, Sobuco, Sergipe, Bahia, and Alagoas) to monitor and bradinho, reached the lowest flow volume at 550 reduce water withdrawal from the São Francisco m3 per second (normal volume 1,300 m3). This River. The partnership evaluated the possibilities stimulated the search to diversify the energy maof each party involved in re-adjusting its activities trix by increasing thermal and wind generation, and impacts in order to gradually contribute to the and receiving exchange from other regions of the recovery of the volume of the river. SIN, which, consequently, reduced dependence on Understand how Chesf operates in the São the São Francisco River. Francisco River basin: 90 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS ENVIRONMENTAL PI PE SE AL SAN FRANCISCO TO BA BASIN > 2,700 km, from its source in Serra da Canastra, in the state of Minas Gerais, to its mouth, between the States of Sergipe and Alagoas GO > It flows through 5 states (Minas Gerais, Bahia, Pernambuco, Alagoas and Sergipe) > Its Basin covers 504 municipalities > It receives water from 168 tributaries MG > More than 18 million people live in the San Francisco Basin area. ES SOBRADINHO HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT INSTALLED POWER: 1,050 MW SOBRADINHO RESERVOIR > Located  in the State of Bahia > Reservoir nearly 320 km long at the normal maximum level > Storage capacity of Solar energy exploitation 34.1 billion cubic meters project in the Sobradinho reservoir under implementation RELATÓRIO ANNUAL ANUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF E DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 91 Chesf has 7 additional plants along the São Francisco River: Luiz Gonzaga, Paulo Afonso I, II, III and IV, Apolônio Sales, and Xingó > Flood control Flows exceeding 3,000 m /s 3 > Regularization of downstream flows are informed to the entities > Riverside population occupying and users of the river the river bed need to adopt preventive measure ATLANTIC SÃO FRANCISCO RIVER OCEAN Due to rainfall adversities, Multiple uses need to adapt flows below 1,300 m3/s have to low flow conditions been adopted since 2013 92 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS OF THE SOCIAL ACTION PLAN (PAS) Among the initiatives that aim to mitigate the enand continuous action idealized by Chesf and convironmental impacts of Chesf’s projects, we highstructed in a participatory manner, from the expelight the Social Environmental Action Plan (PAS). rience with the communities of seven municipalThe Plan has been developed since 2008, in compliities of the area of influence of the Hydroelectric ance with the environmental requirements of the Complex of Paulo Afonso and Xingó. Brazilian Institute for the Environment and RenewIn 2017, actions were carried out in four categoable Natural Resources (IBAMA), for the renewal ries, involving over 3,700 people, adults and children, of the License to Operate (LO nº 509/2006) of the in educational activities in the areas of solid waste, Paulo Afonso Hydroelectric Complex and renewal preservation of natural resources, afforestation, and of the License to Operate (LO nº 147/2001) of the Hyothers. The participative social and environmental droelectric Plant HPP Xingó. diagnosis, which also marks the beginning of the The PAS is a shared environmental manageconstruction process of the Xingó PAS this year, inment process, with pillars in communication, edvolved social players from riverside communities ucation and environmental health, in permanent identified within the range of four to six kilometers. > EDUCATIONAL > COURSES/ > ACTIONS > > TALKS > > MOBILIZATION > CAMPAIGNS > WORKSHOPS > Number of participants Paulo Afonso 3,150 67 16 18 Hydroelectric Complex Number of participants 120 134 253 HPP Xingó TOTAL 3,150 187 150 271 In 2017, more than 3,700 people participated in educational activities at Paulo Afonso and Xingó Complex ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 93 XINGÓ HIDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT CLIMATE CHANGE Global climate change and possible changes in versifying the energy matrix, with generation environmental legislation are seen as threats to by wind source, and developing projects for solar Chesf’s activities, while at the same time an opphotovoltaic generation, guaranteeing energy seportunity to expand its generation from renewcurity when there is a low water level in reservoirs able sources. Thus, the Company specifies its stratat hydroelectric plants that are part of the Nationegies regarding climate change in its Declaration al Interconnected System. In addition, regarding of Commitment, which guides practices and planrisks, Chesf seeks to anticipate potential risks by ning for the future. applying preventive measures, such as recording All work is motivated by the Eletrobras Holdits Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions since 2003, ing, which has developed studies since 2015 on risks through energy efficiency programs and reduced and opportunities on this topic in order to assess consumption of fossil fuels by the land fleet. the impact on the business. The Climate Strategy The Company also develops Clean DevelopWorking Group (WG3) was created in the Environment Mechanism (CDM) projects to generate carment Committee, with representatives from all bon credits, in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol, Eletrobras companies, in order to discuss adapting and recognizes the opportunities arising from volto climate change as a result of the decrease in wauntary agreements with the emergence of alternater availability for generation of electricity and the tive markets for developing projects and marketing greater number of more severe weather events that carbon credits, when not eligible under the United have been affecting the country’s energy sector. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change In this sense, Chesf has been investing in di(UNFCCC) standards. > 103-2, 201-2 > 94 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS ENVIRONMENTAL RISK AND CRISIS > 103-2, 201-2, 201-4, 206-1, 419-1, EU21 > In its organizational structure, Chesf has the CompliThe Company also invests in technologies to ance and Risk Management Advisory (APC), which is improve environmental management processes in responsible, among others, for planning and coordiall operations, such as the Reservoir Edge System nating initiatives for internal controls and integrat(SISBORDAS), the Documentation System (SISDOC) ed risk management, in line with the Risk Manageand the System to Monitor the Right of Way of ment Policy of the Eletrobras Companies. Transmission Lines. > 102-11, 201-2 > As a result, the Company seeks to act preventatively regarding the various impacts on its business, including the environmental impacts on its COMPLIANCE projects. With respect to the management of environmental risks that may affect organizational Chesf operates in the market under the model of goals, the intention is to reinforce the responsibilpublic concessions or authorizations. Thus, there ity of the business areas to define and implement are no ongoing or concluded lawsuits regarding treatment actions in order to mitigate these risks. anti-competitive practices, antitrust violations, or For example, Chesf’s power generation capacmonopoly regulation. ity is still concentrated in the use of hydroelectric However, the fines generated were due to plants, directly affected by the increase in global non-compliance identified by the National Electrictemperature. The context of uncertainty regardity Agency (ANEEL), evidenced in the issuance of ing the availability of water resources exposes the Notices of Infraction (AI). Regulatory management Company to physical risks, so the topic of climate includes monitoring of changes to legislation by the change has been worked on internally. The impact legislative branch and by ANEEL, Chesf’s participaof climate change on the energy sector as well as tion in the Hearings and Public Consultations of its possible changes in environmental legislation are interest, coordinating the revision and tariff readamong the main threats to the Company’s activijustment processes of Transmission and Generation, ties, while at the same time, it has been an opportuproposing and monitoring the implementation of nity to expand generation from renewable sources. measures to promote improved processes in order to ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 95 APOLONIO SALES HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT comply with regulatory rules and the Company’s deEvery year, simulations are carried out with the fense with ANEEL, especially regarding the issuance participation of the local Fire Department. of Terms of Notification (TN) and Notices of InfracChesf also has in place an Annual Flood Pretion (AI) from this regulatory agency. vention Plan, approved by the National Water Fines recorded in fiscal year 2017, resulting Agency (ANA) and the National Electricity Agency from non-compliance with laws and regulations in (ANEEL). In addition, the Company has manuals the social and economic areas, were not significant, for Basin Flood Control at the locations where the based on the criteria established by Chesf (1% of main reservoirs operate. When there are significant NOR9). > 103-2, 103-3, 206-1, 419-1 > changes in the flows practiced from the plant reservoirs, Chesf informs the community in the area of influence of the river basins. This information is PLANNING OF defined by a System of Information Disclosure of Levels and Defluences, which establishes the conCONTINGENCY tents and recipients of the information so that the appropriate measures may be taken. MEASURES Substations and power plants in the National Interconnected System (SIN), under the responContingency measures are planned and revised ansibility of Chesf, also establish actions to preserve nually. Chesf constantly monitors its operations so the safety and integrity of people. Natural Disaster, that, in any occurrence, Contingency Plans are imOperational Safety, Digital Security, Environmenmediately implemented, which include Fire Safetal Disaster, Health and Safety, and Physical Safety ty Plans (PSCI) and an Emergency Assistance Plan plans were prepared. With these procedures, the (PAE) to assist victims at substations. At the plants, Company prepares to face serious contingency, the contingency guide specifies the procedures to through planned actions known to the employees be followed in case of flooding, fire, and invasion of directly affected and throughout the management facilities, as well as the Area Evacuation Plan (PAA). hierarchy of the facilities. > EU21 > 9 Net operating revenue SOCIAL GLOBAL COMPACT SDG GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER DECENT WORK AND WELLEDUCATION EQUALITY AND ECONOMIC BEING GROWTH ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 97 PA4 HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT Engaging those who are part of the Company’s history is essential to Chesf’s restructuring and strengthening process EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT > 102-8, 102-41, 103-2, 103-3, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 402-1, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1, 405-2, EU14, EU15, EU16, EU17, EU18 > Chesf has always sought for an ethical and transand qualification for transferring knowledge. parent relationship with its employees and, from The latter is an ongoing concern to maintain inthe beginning of its process of management retellectual capital developed over the years as a structuring, the theme was intensified in its daiCompany asset. ly agenda. In the Business and Management Plan Another action, which added to the results in (PNG), senior management established actions and 2017, was the joint initiative between the Human goals aiming to balance the Company’s results, and Resources and Legal areas to analyze labor lawsuits shared them with the leaders responsible for diaand identify their main causes, establishing action loguing and instructing their teams. plans to reduce the number of lawsuits. The results One of the actions defined in the PNG was of actions implemented in the Human Resources the creation of an Extraordinary Retirement Plan area impacted by 4% the expenses budget of the (PAE) to adjust the positions to their responsiManagement Department. bilities, which resulted in a reduction of workFor 2018, Chesf plans to implement a new volforce and costs on personnel. For the process to untary termination plan, which is already in the adhere to the PAE, actions were established for approval phase. So far, over 3,000 employees have the conscious decision of the employee, as well been mapped as eligible for the plan and the expecas retirement preparation programs, training tation of adherence is about 30%. 98 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS SOCIAL EMPLOYEE PROFILE Chesf ended the year with 4,122 employees (staff), tractors are hired for services, through bidding composed of 812 women and 3,310 men10. The turnfor activities of a continuous nature, provided over rate reached 5.39% at the end of the period, for by law, such as: maids, cleaning, surveilthe increase driven by the Extraordinary Retirelance, maintenance of assets and real estate, ment Plan (PAE), which reduced the number of staff maintenance of facilities, and others. For these by 10% compared with the previous year. A total contracts, it is required to comply with the Ocof 480 professionals were terminated and 7 were cupational Health and Safety Plan, training perhired pursuant to court order. sonnel based on Ordinance No. 3,214/78 by the Regarding third parties, the Company does MTE. In 2017, Chesf had 2,358 employees from not hire employees for services. Therefore, for outsourced companies on its premises. > 102-8, the activities allowed in the legislation, con103-2, 401-1, EU17, EU18 > > TURNOVER RATE (%) 2017 4.12 1.27 5.39 2016 0.54 0.05 0.59 2015 0.35 0.01 0.36 > NEW HIRES 2017 7 0 7 2016 28 3 31 2015 5 0 5 10 The maximum limit for Chesf’s staff is set by the Ministry of Planning, Development, and Management, through the Secretary of Coordination and Governance of State-owned Companies. Joining the Company’s staff occurs through civil servant exam, as established in the Federal Constitution of 1988. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 99 The average number of training hours per employee reached 45.04 exceeding the 40-hour goal stipulated by the Company DARDANELOS SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT > 103-2, 103-3 > Continued investment in employee training is a videoconferences, the increase in the number of premise for Chesf. When developing actions, Stratespots per educational action, partnerships with gic Planning is considered as the main guideline in other institutions for free in-person actions, and order to develop the technical and managerial skills the dissemination of free online actions. > 404-1, necessary to handle organizational challenges. EU14 > > The total value applied to Corporate EducaAmong the partnerships, we highlight the tion was BRL 1.156 million, and the average Getúlio Vargas Foundation (FGV) and the People investment per employee was BRL 280.48. Management Committee of the American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM), at in-person events. > 458 actions were registered during the year, As for online actions, we highlight the free course which totaled 185,648 hours and representoffered by the Unified Health System (SUS): “Pai ed 106.07%11 of the workforce. Presente: Cuidado e Compromisso” (“Present Father: Care and Commitment”), in order to fulfill the reThese results were possible due to the inquirements for obtaining extended paternity leave crease in the use of creative solutions, such as the or increase employee knowledge about Responsiincentives for the educator employee, the use of ble Paternity. > 404-2, EU14> 11 The rate of employees trained at the end of the year was over 100%, due to the reduction in the permanent staff in 2017. GREEN APRIL REMUNERATION > 103-2, 103-3 > Hiring at Chesf is carried out by civil servant exam and strictly follows the order of classification obtained by candidates, according to legal requirements, without gender distinction. However, the Company follows the remuneration policy established by the Holding, along with the 15 companies in the Eletrobras System. This policy considers market values and values of the national electricity sector, negotiated with the unions during the Collective Labor Agreement, in addition to considering the cost of living in different regions in the country. Entry remuneration is determined at the time of hiring, that is, when employees start at the Company, they already have their base salary defined, which varies according to the Multifunctional Position, according to the Career and Remuneration Plan. An exception occurs regarding the employees Living and Learning Program allocated to a Higher Level Professional Position, Developed in partnership with SESI, the prowhose profession is regulated by the Council of Engram offers elementary and high school courses gineering and Agronomy (CREA). Evolution of positaught on the Company’s premises, during worktion and salary takes place through administrative ing hours. In 2017, Chesf was awarded in the 15th policies in the Career and Compensation Plan (PCR) Benchmarking Brasil, and was among the Top Ten, and the Performance Management System (SGD), and seen as a Citizen Company, by protecting which considers assessment of skills and results the dignity of men and women through literacy. (goals), regardless of gender, race, color, religion, > 103-2, 103-3 > disability, marital status, sexual orientation, family status, age, or any other condition. > 405-2 >. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 101 The set of benefits offered by Chesf aims to ensure the quality of life and well-being of its employees BENEFITS > 103-2, 103-3 > Chesf offers a set of benefits aiming toward the that the benefits package offered by Chesf is the asquality of life and well-being of its employees. The pect favored the most by its employees. Emphasis conditions of these benefits are established in regis given to maternity and paternity leave, which is ulations and in collective bargaining agreements, guaranteed by normative instruments, and guarand are guaranteed to full-time and part-time anteed to all employees. The Company is a member workers, with the exception of apprentices, who of the Programa Empresa Cidadã (Citizen Company are hired under a legal obligation. At Chesf there Program), which allows for the extension of maare no temporary workers, all employees have an ternity leave and paternity leave. In 2017, a total of open-ended employment agreement. 16 employees took maternity leave (11 with return The benefits offered by the Company are: from leave in 2017 and another five with expected >M aternal and child care. return in 2018), and 103 employees took paternity >E ducational assistance. leave. > 401-20, 401-30 > >R eimbursement of expenses for uniform and school supplies. >E ducational aid, higher education for HEALTH AND employees. >M edical and nursing care at the Company’s SAFETY outpatient clinics. > 102-3, 103-3 > >E mployer assistance plan, covering medical, hospital, dental, and other health care Chesf has in place an Occupational Health and Safety services. Policy and other internal regulations to guarantee a >R eimbursement for medicines. safe environment for its employees and comply with >A ssistance for glasses and lenses. the Norms of the Ministry of Labor and Employment >A ssistance to people with disabilities. (MTE). In addition, the Company is certified by the >C omplement of illness assistance. Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS), in compliance with the requirements The result of the last Organizational Climate established in the Occupational Health and Safety Survey of the Eletrobras Companies demonstrated Assessment Services Standard (OHSAS 18001: 2007). 102 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS SOCIAL Periodic evaluations of hazards and risks of activIn 2017, the effort to maintain excellent perities are carried out, which consider the electric formance in health and safety indicators was shock and the thermal effects of electric arcs due to demonstrated in the results. The Work Accident their exposure to over 50% of the employees as the Frequency Rate (TFAT) had already reached in 2016 main risks. Other risks refer to noise in generation its best result in the last 10 years, and this year the operations, chemical risks in laboratories and print result was even better, reaching the unprecedentshops, as well as biological risks in outpatient clined rate of 1.49. This figure represents a decrease of ics and in the Paulo Afonso hospital. 36% compared with the result obtained in 2016 A number of procedures beyond legislation are and remains below the tolerable limit established also planned, such as the Environmental Risk Prevenby Chesf (3.02). The Aggregate Severity Rate of tion Program (PPRA) and the Medical Occupational Work-Related Accidents recorded in 2017 was 9, far Health Control Program (PCMSO), with occupational below the tolerable maximum limit of 138, and 95% medical examinations beyond what is required by lower than the value obtained in the previous year. NR 0712. On a day-to-day basis, employees use CollecThese values will contribute to the Reduction tive Protective Equipment (CPE) and Individual Proof the Accident Prevention Factor (FAP), implying tective Equipment (IPE) to perform certain activities. a reduction of tax collection as an Environmental Although the Company does not provide protective Labor Risk (RAT), levied upon payroll. The value of equipment for contractors and subcontractors, use the FAP is calculated annually by Social Security is required in the Occupational Health and Safety by company, depending on the frequency, severity, Plan and inspected in safety audits. and costs for work accidents and illnesses. > HEALTH AND SAFETY > > 2017 > > 2016 > > 2015 > Company Employees Work Accident Frequency Rate (TFAT) 1.49 2.33 3.00 Work Accident Severity Rate (TGAT) * 9.00 169.00 37.00 Number of fatalities (employees) 0 0 0 Third parties / contractors Work Accident Frequency Rate (TFAT) 3.48 2.21 NA** Work Accident Severity Rate (TGAT) 20 21 NA** Number of fatalities (employees) 0 0 0 Company employees + third parties / contractors Work Accident Frequency Rate (TFAT) 2.15 2.29 3.00 Work Accident Severity Rate (TGAT) 13 123 37.00 Rate of absenteeism due to illness 1.70 1.60 1.49 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 * The value of this indicator in 2017 was the lowest ever recorded at Chesf, since began to be used in the Company. Several measures have been taken to avoid recurrence of the aforementioned accident, such as safety training, protection from associated equipment, and improvement of safety procedures, as well as the creation of a work safety project for substation maintenance activities. ** Not available 12 This Regulatory Norm (NR) establishes the obligation for all employers and institutions that hire works as employees to prepare and implement the Medical Occupational Health Control Program (PCMSO), with the goal of promoting and preserving the health of the workers. LABOR GYMNASTICS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 103 Corporate Program Fique Alerta para Segurança Dez (Stay Alert for the Maximum Safety) Another cycle of the program was carried out, Quality of Life Programs aiming to disseminate health and safety cul> Retirement Preparation Program (PPA). ture at work. In this sense, Chesf’s III Challenge > 2nd group of the distance course on “Safe of Knowledge on Work Safety and Occupational and Healthy Behavior”. Health was held, conducting online tests on these > Influenza Vaccination Campaign against topics, in addition to a final dispute that brought H1N1, H3N2, and Influenza B viruses, with together the winning employees from the Head2,200 people vaccinated at Headquarters quarters and all Regional offices. > 103-3 > and Regional Offices. > Continuity of the activities at the Health Promotion Centers (CPS) in Recife, with an Programa Previna-se (Prevention agreement with SESI-PE and in Sobradinho. Program) > Organic Fair in Salvador and Recife. Carried out in partnership with the Department > III Chesf Anniversary Tournament at Headof Substation Maintenance (DMS), the program quarters and Regional Offices. aims to establish procedures, training, cam> Street Racing in Salvador, Fortaleza, and Recife. paigns, and other actions, aimed at strengthening the safety culture and improving the working > 103-3 > conditions of employees. > 103-3 > 104 MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS SOCIAL PREPARATION FOR RETIREMENT With the Retirement Preparation Program (PPA), Chesf curity) held courses and lectures in 2017 focused on preparencourages employees to plan for retirement, considing employees eligible for retirement for a new life scenarering economic, social, and psychological factors. In io. The program offered lectures on “Longevity and Physical partnership with the Department of Human Resources, Activity” and “Psychosocial Aspects from Retirement”, as FACHESF (Chesf Foundation of Assistance and Social Sewell as guidelines on Life Design. > 201-3, EU15 > > % EMPLOYEES FOR RETIREMENT > > NEXT 5 YEARS > > FROM 6 TO 10 YEARS> Positions that require higher education 12.3% 5.93% Positions that do not require higher education 43.77% 5.91% Management position 2.14% 1.09% Considers employees who may retire only through FACHESF, regardless of whether or not they are already retired by the INSS. Considering the headcount from 12/31/2017. Eligibility 5 years: until 12/31/2022; eligibility 10 years: from 01/01/2023 to 12/31/2027. ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 105 SOCIAL PROJECT EMBRAPA PARTNERSHIP RELATIONSHIP WITH TRADE UNIONS Chesf has an Advisory Committee on Trade Union Relations (ARS) and a Trade Union Committee with representatives from each department that deals with management with trade unions. The Company negotiates directly with the unions and the Regional Federation. The Collective Agreement guarantees union entities free access to the Company’s internal facilities and provides a permanent channel of dialogue with the Executive Board. About 12.9% of Chesf’s The right to strike is free at the Company, which employees are expected still has a Contingency Plan, a set of actions and procedures that create conditions for the company to reliably to retire in 6 to 10 continue providing essential services. All meetings and years. The Retirement the outcome of negotiations with unions are recorded in minutes and published on the website of the Advisory Program (PPA) exists Committee on Trade Union Relations (ARS). The Collective to encourage planning Bargaining Agreement does not specify a minimum notification period for operational changes to employees and for a new life scenario their representatives. > 102-41, 103-2, 103-3, 402-1 > for this professionals 7 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS FUNIL HYDROELECTRICPOWER PLANT 108 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization 28 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 28, 45 102-3 Location of headquarters 28, 126 102-4 Location of operations 28, 126 102-5 Ownership and legal form 28 102-6 Markets served 28, 45, 80, 81 102-7 Scale of the organization 28 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 5, 8 97, 98 other workers Attachment: Pages 31, 32 102-9 Supply chain Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 8 The indicator was not 102-10 Significant changes to the organization prioritized in the materiality and its supply chain process, 2017 scope. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 54, 94 102-12 External initiatives 31 102-13 Membership of associations 28, 32, 33 ESTRATEGY 102-14Statement from senior decision-maker 5, 6, 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-15Key impacts, risks and opportunities 5, 6, 7, 25, 45 ÉTHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Global Compact: 6, 10 | SDG: 16 28, 30 GRI 102: General of behavior Disclosures 2016 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Global Compact: 6, 10 | SDG: 16 53 about ethics ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 109 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Global Compact: 6, 10 | SDG: 16 50, 54, 55 102-19 Delegating authority Attachment: Page 7 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Attachment: Page 7 52 economic, environmental and social 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Attachment: Page 3 environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Attachment: Page 7 52 body and its committees Attachment: Page 8 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 52 Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Attachment: Page 8 governance body Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 53 102-26 Role of highest governance body in Attachment: Page 10 setting purpose, values ,and strategy Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 102-27 Collective Knowledge of highest Attachment: Page 10 53 governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Attachment: Pages 10, 11 GRI 102: General body's performance Disclosures 2016 102-29 Indentifying and managing economic, Attachment: Page 11 45 environmental and social impacts Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 8, 16 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Attachment: Page 12 processes Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 8, 16 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and Global Compact: 6, 8, 10 | 45, 52 social topics SDG: 8, 16 102-32 Highest governance body's role in The Report is approved by sustainability reporting the Executive Board 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Attachment: Page 12 102-34 Nature and total number of 50 critical concerns 102-35Remuneration policies Attachment: Pages 12, 13 Attachment: Pages 14, 15 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 5, 10 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement Attachment: Page 15 in remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Attachment: Page 16 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Attachment: Pages 16, 17 compensation ratio 110 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT 16 to 21, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Attachment: Page 2 56, 57 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 57, 97, 105 GRI 102: General 102-42 Indentifyin and selection stakeholders 13, 16 Disclosures 2016 102-43 Aproach to stakeholder engagement 16, 56 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13, 14, 52, 57 REPORTING PRACTICES 102-45 Entities includes in the consolidated 12, 48 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 12, 48 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 13, 14 102-48 Restatements of information Attachment: Page 5 102-49 Changes in reporting Attachment: Page 6 102-50 Reporting period 12 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report July/2017 12 102-52 Reporting cicle Annual 12 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 127 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Pursuant (Essential option). 12 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 108, 125 This report did not undergo 102-56 External assurance 12 external assurance. MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1Explanation of the material topic and its Attachment: Pages 4, 5 11, 12 Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and its 62, 63, 64, Management Attachment: Page 28 components 65, 66 Approach 2016 62, 63, 64, 103-3Evaluation of the management approach 65, 66 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 111 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE 201-1 Direct economic value generated 64, 65 and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and SDG: 9, 13 93, 94 opportunities due to climate 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and SDG: 8 104 other retirement plans Chesf retains the right to reduct 75% of the income tax and nonrefundable additional, calculated on the basis of GRI 201: operational profit, recorded Economic in income for the period as Performance income tax reduction, in 2016 accordance with technical 201-4 Financial assistance received from statement CPC 07 (R1) (IAS 20). 70, 71, 86, government 87, 94 The portion of income resulting from tax incentives is aimed to the Profit Reserve called Tax Incentives Reserve, according to article 195-A of the Law number 6.404/1976, which can only be used to the share capital increase or loss absorption. MARKET PRESENCE 103-1Explanation of the material topic and its Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and its Management Attachment: Pages 17, 48 97, 98 components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 17, 48 97, 98 That is no specifc politic to salary proportionality by gender. Men: Lower wage: R$ 1.810,74 Minimum wage/2017: R$ 937,00 GRI 202:Market 202-1Ratios of standard entry level wage by Proportion: R$ 1.810,74/ presence 2016 gender compared to local minimum wage R$ 937,00 = 1,93 Women: Lower wage: R$ 2.194,42 Minimum wage/2017: R$ 937,00 Proportion: R$ 2.194,42/ R$ 937,00= 2,34 112 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE GRI 202:Market 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Attachment: Pages 17, 48 presence 2016 from the local community SDG: 17 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach Management 79 and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluating the management approach 79, 80 203-1 Infrastructure investments 770, 71, 79, 80, GRI 203: Indirect and services supported 86, 87, 88, 89 Economic Attachment: Pages 48, 49 Impacts 2016 203-2Significant indirect economic impacts SDG: 8 PURCHASING PRACTICES 103-1 Explanation of the material Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 topic and is Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach Management Attachment: Pages 32, 33 and its components approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 32, 33 GRI 204: Attachment: Pages 30, 31 Purchasing 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SDG: 8 Practices 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1Explanation of the material topic Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach Management Attachment: Pages 18, 24 and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 18, 24 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Attachment: Pages 21, 22 to corruption Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 205-2 Communication and training about Attachment: Pages 22, 23 GRI 205: Antianti-corruption policies and procedures Global Compact: 10 | SDG: 16 corruption 2016 There were no cases of 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and corruption in 2017. actions taken Global Compact: 10 UNFAIR TRADE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 24, 25 24, 25, 45 its components approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approuch Attachment: Pages 24, 25 24, 25, 45 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 113 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 94, 95 GRI 206: Unfair behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Trade 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 94, 95 regulations in the social and economic area ENVIRONMENT MATERIALS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and its Management Attachment: Pages 75, 76, 77, 78 components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 4, 5 Attachment: Pages 74, 75 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Attachment: Pages 75, 76 301-2 Recycled input materials used GRI 301: Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Materials 2016 The indicator was not 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging prioritized in the materiality materials process, 2017 scope. Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 GRI 103: and its Boundary Management 103-2 The management approach 82, 83 Approach 2016 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82, 83 302-1 Energy consumption within Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 80, 81, 82 the organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside of Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 80, 81, 82 the organization GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 82 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 82 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Attachment: Pages 64, 65 82 products and services WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management 87, 89 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87, 89 114 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 6 87 GRI 303: 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 6 87 Water 2016 withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 6 87 BIODIVERSITY 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 55 to 61 89, 90, 91 its components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the materilal topic Attachment: Pages 55 to 61 89, 90, 91 304-1Operational sites owned, leased, managed Attachment: Page 55 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | high biodiversity value outside protected areas SDG: 13 Attachment: Pages 56, 57 304-2Reduction of energy consumption Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | GRI 304: SDG: 13 Biodiversity 2016 Attachment: Pages 58, 59 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 14 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Attachment: Pages 59, 60 conservation list species with habitats in areas Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 affected by operations EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 68 to 75 93 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 68 to 75 82, 83 Attachment: Pages 68, 69 305-1Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 13 Attachment: Pages 70, 71 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | GRI 305: SDG: 13 Emissions 2016 Attachment: Pages 71, 72, 73 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 13 Attachment: Pages 73, 74 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 13 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 80, 82 SDG: 13 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 115 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE There was no record of the leakage in the period coverage by this Report, considering that the only source of emission of ozone-depleting substances 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting existing on Chesf is the GRI 305: substances (SDG) firefighting system installed on Emissions 2016 the System Operation Center building that uses the halon gas as fire-extinguishing medium, which is disabled. Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 13 Attachment: Page 74 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | (SOX), and other significant air emissions SDG: 13 EFFLUENTS AND WASTES 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach Management Attachment: Pages 77, 78, 79 86, 87, 89 its components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 77, 78, 79 86, 87 ,89 306-1Water discharge by quality and Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 6 87 destination Attachment: Pages 77, 78 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | 70, 86 SDG: 12 Attachment: Page 78 GRI 306: Effluents 306-3 Significant spills Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | and Wastes 2016 SDG: 12 Attachment: Pages 78, 79 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | SDG: 12 306-5 Water bodies affected by water Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | 87 discharges and/or runoff SDG: 12 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 25, 26 56, 95 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 25, 26 56, 95 116 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Attachment: Pages 25, 26 Environmental laws and regulations Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Compliance 2016 SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 33, 34 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 33, 34 Attachment: Pages 33, 34 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308: Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | environmental criteria Suppliers SDG: 17 Environmental Attachment: Page 34 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Assessment 2016 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | supply chain and actions taken SDG: 17 EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: page 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 1032 The management approach and Management 97, 100, 101 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 97, 100, 101 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 5 97, 98 GRI 401: 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employment that are not provided to temporary or part-time Global Compact: 6 97 2016 employees 401-3 Parental leave Global Compact: 6 97 LABOR RELATIONS 1031Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management 100 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 100 GRI 402: Labor 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Global Compact: 6 97, 105 Relations 2016 operational changes OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 11 it Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 42 to 47 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 42 to 47 101, 103 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 117 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE 403-1Workers representation in formal joint Attachment: Pages 41, 42 management–worker health and safety Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 3 committees GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Attachment: Pages 42, 43, 44, 45 Occupational occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 70, 86 Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 3 Health and and number of work-related fatalities Safety 2016 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk Attachment: Pages 45, 46 70, 86 of diseases related to their occupation Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 3 403-4Health and safety topics covered in Attachment: Pages 46, 47 formal agreements with trade unions Global Compact: 6 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and Management Attachment: Page 6 98, 99, 100 its components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Page 6 98, 99, 100 404-1Average hours of training per year Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 4 70, 86, 97, 99 per employee GRI 404: 404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills Training and Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 4 97, 99 and transition assistance programs Education 2016 404-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk Global Compact: 6 97 of diseases related to their occupation DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 103-1Explanation of the material topic and its Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its 97, 98, 99, Management Attachment: Pages 17, 18 components 100 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 4, 5 100 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Attachment: Pages 17, 18 97 Diversity employees Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 5 and Equal 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Opportunities Global Compact: 6 97, 100 women to men 2016 NON DISCRIMINATION 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 83, 84 its components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 83, 84 GRI 406: NonAttachment: Pages 83, 84 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and discrimination Global Compact: 1, 2, 3, 6 | corrective actions taken 2016 SDG: 16 118 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2The management approach and Management Attachment: Page 84 105 its components Approach 2016 103-3Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Page 84 105 GRI 407: Freedom 407-1Operations and suppliers in which the Attachment: Page 84 of Association right to freedom of association and collective Global Compact: 1, 2, 3,6 | and Collective bargaining may be at risk SDG: 16 Bargaining 2016 CHILD LABOUR 103-1 Explanation of the material approach and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 85, 86 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 85, 86 GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Attachment: Pages 85, 86 Labour 2016 risk for incidents of child labor Global Compact: 1, 2, 5 | SDG: 8 FORCED LABOR OR EQUIVALENT TO SLAVERY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 11 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Page 86 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Page 86 GRI 409: Forced Labor or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant Attachment: Page 86 Equivalent to risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Global Compact: 1, 2, 4 | SDG: 8 Slavery 2016 SECURITY PRACTICES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 87, 88 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 87, 88 GRI 410: Security 410-1Security personnel trained in human Attachment: Pages 87, 88 Practices 2016 rights policies or procedures Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 8 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 119 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE INDIGENOUS AND TRADITIONAL PEOPLE’S RIGHTS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 87, 89 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 87, 89 GRI 411: Indigenous 411-1Incidents of violations involving rights of Attachment: Pages 88, 89 and Traditional indigenous peoples Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 8 People's Rights 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 89 to 93 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 89 to 93 412-1 Operations that have been subject to Global Compact: 1, 2 | 70, 86 human rights reviews or impact assessments SDG: 5, 8, 10 GRI 412: 412-2 Employee training on human rights Attachment: Pages 90, 91 Human Rights policies or procedures Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 8 Assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and 2016 Attachment: Pages 92, 93 contracts that include human rights clauses or Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 8 that underwent human rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its Attachment: Pages 50, 51, Management components 52, 53 Approach 2016 Attachment: Pages 50, 51, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52, 53 413-1 Operations with local community Attachment: Pages 50, 51 engagement, impact assessments, and GRI 413: Local Global Compact: 7 development programs Communities 413-2Operations with significant actual 2016 and potential negative impacts on local Attachment: Pages 52, 53 communities 120 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE SUPPLIERS SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach ant its Management Attachment: Pages 34, 35 components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 34, 35 414-1New suppliers that were screened using Attachment: Page 35 GRI 414: social criteria Global Compact: 1, 2 | SDG: 17 Suppliers Social 414-2Negative social impacts in the supply Assessment 2016 Attachment: Page 34 chain and actions taken PUBLIC POLICIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Page 79 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the material approach Attachment: Page 79 GRI 415: Public Attachment: Page 79 415-1 Political contributions Policies 2016 Global Compact: 10 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 its Boundary GRI 103: 1032 The management approach and Management its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach The indicator was not 416-1Assessment of the health and safety prioritized in the materiality GRI 416: impacts of product and service categories process, 2017 scope. Customer Health 416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning The indicator was not and Safety 2016 the health and safety impacts of products prioritized in the materiality and services process, 2017 scope. MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material approach and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 26 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Attachment: Pages 26 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 121 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE The indicator was not 417-1 Requirements for product and service prioritized in the materiality information and labeling GRI process, 2017 scope. 417:Marketing The indicator was not 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning and Labeling prioritized in the materiality product and service information and labeling 2016 process, 2017 scope. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Attachment: Page 26 marketing communications CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Pages 26, 27 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the material approach Attachment: Pages 26, 27 GRI 400: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Customer Privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of Attachment: Pages 26, 27 2016 customer data SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topics and Attachment: Pages 4, 5 13 its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and Management Attachment: Page 27 its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the material approach Attachment: Page 27 GRI 400: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Socioeconomic Attachment: Page 27 regulations in the social and economic area Compliance 2016 GRI STANDARDS – SECTOR SUPPLEMENT ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI-EU1 Installed capacity , broken Attachment: Pages 63, 64 down by primary energy source 27 SDG 7 and by regulatory regime GRI-EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source Attachment: Page 61 and by regulatory regime GRI-EU3 Number of residential, industrial, 27 institutional and commercial customer accounts GRI-EU4Lenght of above and underground transmission and 27, 29 distribution lines by regulatory regime GRI-EU5Allocation of CO2 Emissions Attachment: Pages 74, 75 allowances or equivalent, broken down SDG: 13 by carbon trading framework 122 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE ECONOMIC CATEGORY RELIABILITY AND AVAILABILITY Management approach GRI-DMA EUSD EC Management approach to ensure short 70, 80, 86 and long-term electricity availability and reliability (former EU6) Chesf, as a National Interconnected System (SIN) generating company, does not have the attribution to ensure reliability to the system. The responsability to ensure that GRI-EU10 Planned capacity against projected demand will be met with electricity demand over the long term, broken quality and continuity it’s from 70, 86 down by energy source and regulatory regime the National System Operator (ONS), for which the company provides its production. Ensuring supply and demand balance is assignment of the Grantor through the Energetic Research Company (EPE/MME). DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT Chesf, as a National Interconnected System (SIN) generating company, does not have the attribution to ensure reliability to the system. The responsability Management Approach to ensure that demand will GRI-DMA EUSD EC be met with quality and Demand-side management programs including continuity it’s from the 70, 86 residential, commercial, institutional and National System Operator industrial programs (former EU7) (ONS), for which the company provides its production. Ensuring supply and demand balance is assignment of the Grantor through the Energetic Research Company (EPE/MME). ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 123 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD EC Research and development activity and SDG: 7, 12 80, 81 expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity promoting sustainable development (former 8) DECOMMISSIONING PLAN Management Approach The indicator was not GRI-DMA EUSD EC prioritized in the materiality Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear process, 2017 scope. power sites (former EU9) EFFICIENCY OF THE SYSTEM GRI-EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by 70, 72, 74, 86 regulatory regime GRI-EU12 Transmissions and distribution losses 70, 86 as a percentage of total energy ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY BIODIVERSITY GRI-EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats Attachment: Pages 60, 61 compared to the biodiversity of the Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 | affected areas SDG: 14 SOCIAL CATEGORY – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD LA SDG: 4 97, 99 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce (former EU14) GRI-EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 to 10 years broken down by SDG: 8 97, 104 job category and by region Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD LA Policies and requirements regarding health SDG: 3 97 and safety of employees and contractors and subcontractors (former EU16) 124 GRI TABLE OF CONTENTS STANDARDS STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE GRI-EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees 97, 98 involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities GRI-EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone 97, 98 relevant health and safety training SOCIAL CATEGORY – SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD SO Stakeholder participation in decision making 78, 80 processes related to energy planning and infrastructure development (former EU19) Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD SO Attachment: page 53 Approach to managing the impacts of SDG: 8 displacement (former EU20) In 2017, Chesf has two wind ventures undergoing implementation, CGE Casa Nova II e CGE Casa Nova III, located in rural area, for which the population GRI-EU22 Number of people physically or displacement was not economically displaced and compensation, necessary. It should be noted, 70, 86 broken down by type of project for example, that the impacts on these ventures are positive, such as the remuneration of the owner of the land where the towers of the wind generators are installed. SDG: 8 EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD SO Contingency planning measures, disaster/ Attachment: page 54, 55 94, 95 emergency management plan and training SDG: 9, 13 programs, and recovery/restoration plans (former EU21) ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 125 STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE COMMENT PAGE SOCIAL CATEGORY – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI-EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including Attachment: page 47, 48 70, 86 legal judgments, settlements and pending legal Global Compact: 6 | SDG: 3 cases of diseases ACESS Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD PR The indicator was not Programs, including those in partnership with prioritized in the materiality 70, 86 government, to improve or maintain access process, 2017 scope. to electricity and customer support services (former EU23) The indicator was not GRI-EU26Percentage of population unserved in prioritized in the materiality licensed distribution or service areas process, 2017 scope. GRI-EU27 Number of residential disconnections The indicator was not for non-payment, broken down by duration of prioritized in the materiality disconnection and by regulatory regime process, 2017 scope. The indicator was not GRI-EU28 Power outage frequency prioritized in the materiality process, 2017 scope. The indicator was not GRI-EU29 Average power outage duration prioritized in the materiality process, 2017 scope. GRI-EU30 Average plant availability factor by 70, 72, 74, 86 energy source and by regulatory regime PROVISION OF INFORMATION Management Approach GRI-DMA EUSD PR The indicator was not Practices to address language, cultural, low prioritized in the materiality literacy and disability related barriers to process, 2017 scope. accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services (former EU24) 126 CORPORATE INFORMATION CORPORATE INFORMATION > 102-3, 102-4 > > Headquarters > Brasília (DF) Rua Delmiro Gouveia, 333 SCN Quadra 6 Bloco A Sala 611 San Martin Recife Pernambuco Edifício Venâncio 3000 (Shopping ID) ZIP CODE: 50761-901 ZIP CODE: 70716-901 Tel: see Contact Us Tel: (+5561) 3329-7447/7315/7312 > Salvador (BA) > Aracaju (SE) Av. São Rafael, s/n Rodovia BR 235 km 10 São Marcos ZIP CODE: 41253-190 Nossa Senhora do Socorro Tel: (+5571) 3281-2200 ZIP CODE: 49160-000 Fax: (+5571) 3281-2204 Tel: (+5579) 3114-2060/2061 > Paulo Afonso (BA) > Rio Largo (AL) Rua do Triunfo, 170 Rodovia AL 20 km 4,5 Alves de Souza ZIP CODE: 48607-020 Gustavo Paiva Tel: (+5575) 3282-2202 ZIP CODE: 57100-000 Fax: (+5575) 3282-2276 Tel: (+5582) 3262-3339/3320 > Sobradinho (BA) > Natal (RN) Av. Paulo Afonso, s/n Av. Amintas Barros, 160 Vila São Francisco ZIP CODE: 48905-000 Bom Pastor Tel: (+5574) 3612-2222 ZIP CODE: 59060-250 Fax: (+5574) 3612-2351 Tel: (+5584) 3653-6606 > Fortaleza (CE) > Campina Grande (PB) Av. Pres. Costa e Silva, 4677 Rua Grisbert de Oliveira Gonzaga, s/n Pref. José Walter ZIP CODE: 60750-022 Velame ZIP CODE: 58418-105 Tel: (+5585) 3499-2833 Tel: (+5583) 2101-2440/2442 Fax: (+5585) 3499-2370 Fax: (+5583) 2101-2315 > Teresina (PI) Av. Henry Wall de Carvalho, 4282 Parque São João ZIP CODE: 64020-720 Tel: (+5586) 3087-2715 Fax: (+5586) 3087-2624 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT › 2017 › CHESF 127 CREDITS The publication of this report was only possible as a result of the effort and commitment of the employees of various areas, providing information and accompanying the development of the content to provide transparent accountability of the activities and performance of the Company. We are grateful to all who participated in this process. EDITING AND GENERAL COORDINATION > 102-53 > Corporate Planning, Innovation and Sustainability Office (APP) Av. Delmiro Gouveia, 333 – San Martin Recife (PE) – Brazil ZIP CODE: 50761-901 E-mail: sustentabilidade@chesf.gov.br Phone: (+55 81) 3229-2229/3254 Fax: (+55 81) 3229-2030 INDICATORS COMPILATION AND EDITORIAL PRODUCTION COORDINATION Keyassociados GRAPHIC DESIGN, LAYOUT AND INFOGRAPHICS Magenta Lab HOTSITE W3TOOLS Soluções de Web PHOTOS Cover: PA IV Chesf Archives, Pexel, Unsplash Stock Photos Photographer: Severino Antonio da Silva PRINT RUN 50 copies This report is available for download at: www.chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade > Visão Geral > Relatórios de Sustentabilidade
