Campbell Soup Company 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Where We’re Headed table of contents CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY pg. 03 SHARED Employees pg. 36 GROWN pg. 15 SHARED Consumers pg. 44 SOURCED pg. 21 SHARED Communities pg. 54 PRODUCED pg. 29 About This Report The 2018 Campbell Corporate Responsibility Report marks a decade of providing our stakeholders with a balanced view of our corporate responsibility strategy and performance across our global operations. This report covers initiatives and performance metrics associated with our material corporate responsibility issues during the fiscal year 2017, which ended July 30, 2017. We have prepared the report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and its Food Processing Sector Supplement at the Core application level. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1 Where We’re Headed From providing consumers with a growing portfolio of packaged fresh, convenient and nutritious food to expanding our business in sustainable ways, to increasing the well-being of the communities in which we live and work, we’re helping our world grow healthier. It’s an inherent part of becoming the leading health and well-being food company. In this year’s report, we invite you to explore our business initiatives and corporate responsibility commitments that are advancing this goal. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CEO MESSAGE “We’ve made an unwavering commitment to move Campbell in the direction of the consumer’s definition of health and well-being.” Denise M. Morrison President and Chief Executive Officer Dear Campbell Stakeholders, For the last two years, I began my • Rapidly evolving retailer and comments to you by sharing our foodservice landscapes; and, Purpose—Real food that matters for • Navigating today’s socio-economic life’s moments. This year is no different, forces. because, at Campbell, living our Purpose is so integral to everything we do. It has Health and well-being means different fundamentally altered the way we think, things to different people. Many talk and act about our food, and has led Millennials, and now Generation Z us to take principled position on the most consumers, are focused on health and pressing issues facing the food industry. well-being; and it’s where many aging Baby Boomers are headed as they, too, Each day, the food industry is challenged seek a better quality of life. In the last by seismic shifts that are changing our six years, we’ve made an unwavering consumer food and retail landscapes. commitment to move Campbell in the These changes include: direction of the consumer’s definition • Shifting demographics on an of health and well-being. unprecedented scale; • Evolving consumer preferences In 2017, we declared our goal: to be toward health, fresh and “real food”; the leading health and well-being food • Cutting-edge technologies that company. It is an ambitious goal— are reshaping customer shopping one that not only includes the foods, experiences; beverages and snacks we make, but 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CEO Message, cont. also embraces the well-being of our local communities and our planet. 2017 Calendar Year Recognition To strengthen our commitment to corporate responsibility, we are launching an expanded set of measurable goals. • 100 BEST These goals will help us drive continual CORPORATE CITIZENS improvement as we grow, source, (ranked #5 in 2017) produce and share our food into the Corporate Responsibility Magazine 8th consecutive year future. By 2025, we are committing to responsibly source 100 percent of • COMMUNITY CHAMPION AWARD our priority raw materials and establish United Way of Greater Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey traceability to the country of origin; source 50 percent (by volume) of plant• CONSCIOUS CAPITALISM based priority ingredients from suppliers Campbell’s CEO, Denise Morrison, was recognized as a Hero of Conscious engaged in an approved sustainable Capitalism for her dedication to purpose; agriculture program; and reduce culture; stakeholder engagement; and greenhouse gas emissions in our own the creation of ecological, social and financial wealth operations by 25 percent. management. In fact, through the • DOW JONES Our corporate responsibility Consumer Goods Forum, we are SUSTAINABILITY INDICES 9 consecutive years on the North commitments hold us accountable committed to halving our food waste American Index and 8 consecutive to a sustainable environment, to by 2030. years on the World Index quality food and, ultimately, to you. • Real food should be accessible to all. Scored 100% in health and nutrition At Campbell, the most important Food should always be delicious, safe • DRUCKER INSTITUTE— ingredient in our foods—your trust— and available at a fair price—all three, WALL STREET 2017 JOURNAL Calendar Year can’t Recognitions be found on a label. We make without compromise. That’s why Top 50–America’s Top Managed Companies; Social Responsibility was food that we are proud to serve in our we’re thinking and acting differently highest-scoring category own homes, and we work hard every about our food and helping restore day to earn trust. We believe that: consumers’ connection to food. • EURONEXT VIGEO US 50 AND VIGEO WORLD 120 INDICES • Transparency builds trust. Consumers NYSE Euronext Socially Responsible have a right to know what is in their We strive to meet a higher standard, and Investing indices food. Campbell is setting the standard we want you to expect that from us. We • FTSE4GOOD INDEX for transparency in the food industry. are committed to earning and keeping 3rd consecutive year We are leading the industry in GMO your trust, but we can only accomplish labeling and have created resources that by doing business in a way that is • HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX like www.whatsinmyfood.com transparent, authentic and meaningful 100% Score—for the 8th time where consumers can find detailed to you. information on our leading products. • JUST CAPITAL Recognized on the JUST 100 list as one • Real food has roots. Consumers Best, of the most JUST companies in America; should know that we strive to use 5th among food and beverage recognizable, desirable ingredients companies to make our food. • MSCI GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY • Real food is prepared with care. INDEX SERIES Consumers should feel confident that Included as a constituent of the MSCI Denise M. Morrison their food is responsibly crafted using Global Sustainability Index Series President and Chief Executive Officer ethical sourcing and sustainable • PRODUCE FOR BETTER HEALTH practices that safeguard our natural FOUNDATION resources. We are leading the food Fruits & Veggies—More Matters® P.S.: Let us know what you think. Industry Role Model industry on sustainable agriculture, Share your thoughts at 4th consecutive year clean water and responsible waste csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CORPORATE PROFILE Campbell is driven and inspired by our Purpose: Real food that matters for life’s moments. Founded in 1869, our 18,000 employees remain true to our founders’ values as we provide authentic, flavorful and readily available foods and beverages that connect our consumers to each other and what’s important to them. In FY2017, our products were sold in more than 100 countries around the world and generated sales of $7.89 billion. Real Food Philosophy Guided by our Purpose, focused on the future and inspired by the proud legacy of Dr. John Dorrance, we carefully crafted our Real Food Philosophy to further define real food at Campbell. ® 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Corporate Profile, cont. Our Values The food industry is changing, characterized by a new generation of consumers who want to buy from brands that share their values. This shift has encouraged us to look inward to consider what Campbell values most today. Put simply, we are proud of our rich heritage but focused on the future. The new Campbell Values and behaviors establish a challenger mindset inspired by the integrity and innovation of our founders. They inform how we recruit and develop our people and how we conduct ourselves in the marketplace. Do Right Seek Dare Own it and the Power of to like a Be Real Different Disrupt Founder Our Business Americas Simple Meals and Beverages Global Biscuits and Snacks Campbell Fresh Includes the retail and food service Includes Pepperidge Farm cookies, Includes Bolthouse Farms fresh businesses in the U.S. and Canada. crackers, bakery and frozen products in carrots, carrot ingredients, refrigerated The segment includes the following U.S. retail, Arnott’s biscuits in Australia beverages and refrigerated salad products: Campbell’s condensed and and Asia Pacific, and Kelsen cookies dressings, Garden Fresh Gourmet salsa, ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broths globally. The segment also includes the hummus, dips and tortilla chips, and the and stocks; Prego pasta sauces; Pace simple meals and shelf-stable beverages U.S. refrigerated soup business. Mexican sauces; Campbell’s gravies, business in Australia and Asia Pacific, pasta, beans and dinner sauces; and beginning in 2018, the business in Swanson canned poultry; Plum food Latin America. and snacks; V8 juices and beverages; and Campbell’s tomato juice. $4.3 Billion Annual Sales $2.6 Billion Annual Sales $1 Billion Annual Sales Worldwide Locations NORTH AMERICA Manufacturing Illinois Pennsylvania AUSTRALIA AND Indonesia World Headquarters Facilities Downers Grove (GBS) Denver (GBS) ASIA PACIFIC Jawa Barat (GBS) Camden, New Jersey California Michigan Downingtown (GBS) Administrative Office Malaysia Bakersfield (CF) Ferndale (CF) Texas North Strathfield, Selangor Darul Ehsan Administrative Dixon (ASMB) Grand Rapids (CF) Paris (ASMB) Australia (GBS) Offices Stockton (ASMB) New Jersey Utah Norwalk, Connecticut Manufacturing Connecticut East Brunswick (GBS) Richmond (GBS) EUROPE Emeryville, California Facilities Bloomfield (GBS) North Carolina Washington Administrative Office Santa Monica, Australia Florida Maxton (ASMB) Everett (CF) Nørre Snede, Denmark California Huntingwood (GBS) Lakeland (GBS) Ohio Prosser (CF) Toronto, Canada Marleston (GBS) Manufacturing Napoleon (ASMB) Wisconsin Shepparton (GBS) Facilities Willard (GBS) Milwaukee (ASMB) Virginia (GBS) Denmark Canada Nørre Snede (GBS) Toronto (ASMB)* Ribe (GBS) *Expected to close by the end of FY2019 ASMB–Americas Simple Meals and Beverages, GBS–Global Biscuits and Snacks, CF–Campbell Fresh 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL STRATEGY Our sustainability strategy reflects our Purpose to provide Real food that matters for life’s moments and our strong commitment to transparency in the decisions we make and the actions we take. During our annual formal strategic planning process in FY2017, we revised our sustainability strategy to more closely align with our value chain and to support our business intent to be the leading health and well-being food company. This new framework reflects how we grow, source, produce and share our food. We developed this strategy with major food industry trends in mind. Global population growth, water scarcity, climate change and constraints on agricultural land are placing massive strain on the food system. A growing number of people lack ready access to good, affordable food, while food-related health issues such as obesity and diabetes continue to rise. At the same time, demographic shifts are producing a base of aging consumers interested in foods that can help them manage chronic diseases, and a younger generation that craves food that suits their active, wellness-focused lifestyles. Both changes add up to an increased focus on health and well-being, and Campbell is rising to meet this demand. We are not only developing healthier products—we’re being more transparent about how our food is grown and produced and where we stand on issues that matter, like animal welfare and mandatory labeling of GMOs. Our Vision Our Mission We strive to build a more resilient To lead the food industry in food food system, making real food that that is ethically and sustainably grown, improves the health and well-being sourced, produced and shared. of the world we all share, for generations to come. Sourced Ensure ethical and sustainable practices in our supply chain • Responsible sourcing • Traceability • Supplier diversity Grown • Human rights Produced Protect natural resources Promote stewardship of natural and livelihoods on farms resources in our operations • Resource conservation • Climate • Farmer livelihoods • Water • Pesticide and fertilizer use • Waste • Agricultural innovations Shared Improve stakeholder and shareholder value through transparency and our Real Food Philosophy • Employees • Customers • Consumers • Communities 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Strategy, cont. Strategic Foresight Into the Future Throughout the year, we maintain dialogue with our suppliers, customers, NGOs and investors to monitor and assess emerging issues and the evolution of the topics in Campbell’s materiality assessment. Over the past year, we engaged a broad cross-section of Campbell leaders in developing an actionable, enterprise-wide view of the future of food. More specifically, we sought to define disruptions and opportunities in the fiveto seven-year horizon within the areas of real food and food and technology. We gathered and synthesized marketplace, consumer, culinary and technology trends, and conducted extensive interviews with futurists, academics, chefs, designers, nutritionists and anthropologists. The themes identified represent an emerging pattern of change that combines and categorizes internal stakeholder perspectives, external influences and broader strategic drivers. These platforms cut across real food, technology and sustainability and are informing our decision making. The platforms, which include Future Commerce, My.Moments (snacking), Limitless Local, Better.Me (personalized nutrition), Bio(Diverse) Sources, Connected Culinary Experiences, Clean AgTech and Purposeful Regeneration, bring together the disruptors, drivers, trends and signals existing across social, technological, economic, environmental, political and valuesdriven contexts. To build and extend organizational competency for strategic foresight, we have developed a curriculum and an active learning model for Campbell employees, which we call our Sparkplug training program. The program equips employees to spark the adoption of a future focus into our strategies for the coming years. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENTS CATEGORY TARGET SCOPE PROGRESS GROWN Reduce GHGs per tonne of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes Achieved compared to 2012 Reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes Achieved compared to 2012 Reduce nitrogen applied per tonne of tomatoes by 10% by the end of 2020, as U.S. tomatoes 4% compared to 2012 Agriculture Enroll 70,000 acres of wheat in a fertilizer optimization plan by the end of 2020 U.S. 0 acres Source 50% (by volume) of plant-based priority ingredients from suppliers Global Just launched engaged in an approved sustainable agriculture program by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 SOURCED Transition steel cans to non-BPA linings in the U.S. and Canada by U.S. and Achieved the end of 2017 Canada Packaging Source 100% cage-free eggs by the end of 2025 Global 12% Source 100% “No Antibiotic Ever” (NAE) chicken for diced and canned chicken U.S. and 97% products by the end of 2017 Canada Source 100% crate-free pork by the end of 2022 Global 34% Source 100% U.S. chicken meat that complies with higher broiler chicken welfare U.S. Just launched standards by the end of 2024 Responsible Purchase 100% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO) by the end of 2016 Global Achieved Sourcing By FY2025, responsibly source 100% of priority raw materials Global Just launched By FY2025, 100% of priority raw materials are traceable to country of origin Global Just launched By FY2020, measurably advance Campbell’s Supplier Diversity Program Global Just launched By FY2020, proactively assess 100% of Campbell-owned facilities for compliance Global Just launched with Human Rights Principles PRODUCED Reduce Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 25% on an absolute Global Just launched basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Source 40% of our electricity from renewable or alternative energy sources Global 4%–power Climate by FY2020 sold to others Reduce water use by 20% on an absolute basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Global Just launched Water Reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills by 25% on an absolute basis by Global Just launched FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Waste Cut food waste in half by FY2030, as compared to FY2017 Global plants Just launched SHARED Achieve 3% decrease in recordable and lost time incidents per year with long-term Global Annual goal goal of 0 incidents achieved Safety 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL GOVERNANCE Sustainability is now prominently declared in our overarching corporate strategy, what we call Campbell’s Growth Agenda, as a path forward to strengthen the core of our business. Because of this, our formalized governance structure ensures that sustainability, and more broadly corporate responsibility, is integrated into our daily operations and aligned with our long-term business strategy. Additionally, we include greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water and waste performance metrics in our Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) Scorecard linked to incentive compensation to further embed sustainability into the organization. To learn more about Corporate Governance at Campbell, visit our 2017 Proxy Statement. How Sustainability Governance Permeates Our Business BOARD OF DIRECTORS • Provides oversight • Audit Committee receives annual sustainability updates CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER • Provides executive support VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER • Reports to the CEO and leads global strategy SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE • Senior leaders from operating divisions, global engineering, corporate responsibility, global procurement, research and development, and manufacturing • Oversees leadership network SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP NETWORK • Cross-functional team that includes sustainable agriculture, environmental engineering, packaging, procurement and manufacturing • Responsible for development of shortand long-term goals and performance metrics • Reports quarterly to steering committee 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL Governance, cont. Ethics Everything we do at Campbell reflects our strong foundation of ethical business practices. This foundation allows us to attract and retain talented people who share our values, and also reduces the potential for risk or reputational damage. We pride ourselves on having built an ethical company where employees are proud to work. Campbell’s compliance and ethics program, Winning With Integrity, reflects our conviction that conducting business in compliance with the law and the highest standards of business ethics is essential to our success. As reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, employees share responsibility for ensuring that the Winning With Integrity principles are fulfilled every day, through each and every action taken—whether in the marketplace, the workplace or the community. The Code outlines our company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important policies and summarizes certain fundamental legal requirements that employees must follow. Each employee receives a copy of the Code, which is available in multiple languages, and participates in training annually. We review the Code on an annual basis. The most recently updated version was approved by the CEO and the Board of Directors, announced and distributed to employees in their language of choice and posted on the company’s internal and external websites. Campbell’s Legal Department is responsible for maintaining and administering the Winning With Integrity program. The Vice President–Corporate Compliance/Deputy General Counsel has overall responsibility for the direction and administration of the program and has direct access to the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for all compliance-related matters. A full report on the program is presented to the Audit Committee on an annual basis. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL MATERIALITY Material corporate responsibility issues are those topics that influence the judgment and decisions of our external and internal stakeholders, as well as having an impact on them and our business. We identify and prioritize material corporate responsibility issues through the four-step assessment process below. Step 1: Identify Issues–We review the priorities publicly reported by our peers, conduct a media audit of trending issues and discuss issues with NGOs and investors. Step 2: Survey Stakeholders–We send the survey to employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, community partners, government or regulatory agencies, investors, trade organizations and consumers, and post it publicly on social media. More than 1,250 participants responded to our most recent survey. Step 3: Interview Stakeholders–We conduct interviews internally with global employees and external stakeholders. In addition, as part of our most recent assessment, Sustainable Brands interviewed five internal stakeholders, and Business for Social Responsibility interviewed five external stakeholders. Step 4: Validate–Campbell’s Sustainability Steering Committee and various leaders around the organization provide feedback on the issues and validate the results of the research, survey and interview process. The results are shared below, and are reevaluated and revalidated throughout the year to allow for the inclusion of major or minor shifts in issues of priority. For a complete description of our Materiality Assessment, please see the Appendix. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Responsible Transparency Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Health, Nutrition & Wellness Food Safety & Quality IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Community Involvement & Food Access Water Sustainable Stewardship Business Models Climate Change Energy Business Management Ethics Responsible Labeling Human Rights in the Supply Chain Occupational Health & Safety Packaging Culture & Talent Deforestation Footprint Management Food Waste Responsible Waste Marketing Diversity Reduction & Inclusion Animal Welfare Human Rights in the Workplace Logistics & Public Policy Transportation & Engagement Issues of importance to certain stakeholder groups Issues actively managed & addressed in the report but as Key Material Issues addressed through business monitored & addressed as necessary part of one of the 11 key material issues strategies & in the report IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESS 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2015, world leaders at the General Assembly of the United Nations (UN) adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Making up the foundation of this 2030 Agenda are 17 Sustainable Development Goals that are meant to transform our world in the areas of people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. Here’s how Campbell’s material corporate responsibility issues intersect with each of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Transparency Health, Nutrition Food Safety Responsible & Wellness & Quality Sourcing Sustainable Sustainable Business Occupational Health Business Models Agriculture Ethics & Safety Culture & Talent Diversity Community Involvment Management & Inclusion and Food Access 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Proactive and consistent engagement with both internal and external stakeholders is critical to effectively executing our corporate responsibility strategy. Our approach to stakeholder engagement includes: • Identification of issues that are most important to stakeholders • Establishment of processes for meaningful and effective engagement • Benchmarking for leadership performance within and outside our sector The following table summarizes our engagement with major stakeholder groups: STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT ISSUES Advocacy Groups/Non• Organizational Memberships • Health, Wellness & Nutrition Governmental Organizations • Direct Engagement • Nutrition & Labeling Standards (NGOs) • Strategic Issue Partnerships • Animal Welfare • Professional Conferences • Deforestation • Roundtable Events • Climate Change • Social Media • Human Rights • Sustainable Agriculture Communities • Direct, On-the-Ground Relationships • Critical Local Needs (such as food access • Corporate & Employee Giving and nutrition education) • Networking Events • Disaster Relief • Surveys • Environmental Initiatives • Signature Partnerships • Health, Wellness & Nutrition • Regional Priority Plans • Strategic Partnership Priorities • Employee Volunteerism (such as health and well-being) Consumers • Dedicated 24-Hour Toll-Free Hotline • Food Safety & Quality • Consumer Insights • Transparency • Branded Websites • Packaging Information • Campbell’s Kitchen® Website • Health, Wellness & Nutrition • Campbell’s Nutrition Website • Affordability • What’s in My Food Website • Food Waste • Social Media • GMOs • Uncanned™ by Campbell’s Website • Environmental Practices Customers • Dedicated Customer Teams • Product Innovation • Top-to-Top Customer Meetings • Trade Practices • Customer Surveys • Social Accountability • Industry Trade Groups (such as FMI and • Environmental Practices Consumer Goods Forum) • Transparency • Sales Support & Service • Health, Wellness & Nutrition Employees • Quarterly Employee Forums • Diversity & Inclusion • Town Hall Meetings • Occupational Health & Safety • Campbell id Networks • Recognition • Interactive Workplace by Facebook Site • Equitable Compensation & Benefits • Anonymous Hotline • Talent Management • Business Trends • Health, Wellness & Nutrition Investors • Meetings with Institutional and Socially Responsible • Business Performance Investors • Governance Practices • Direct Engagement on Specific Topics of Interest • Sustainability Strategies • Ratings/Rankings & Indices • Health and Well-Being Strategies • Annual Report • Ethical Business Practices • Annual Shareholder Meetings • Human Rights • Investor Calls and Forums • Nutrition Regulators & Policymakers • Campbell Political Action Committee • Food Safety & Quality • Direct Engagement on Issues Important to Campbell • Product Labeling • Advocacy • Trade Policy Implications • Significant Monitoring and Communication • Health, Wellness & Nutrition Policy of Regulatory Activities • Environmental Policy • Industry Trade Associations • Sustainable Agriculture Suppliers • Collaborative Partnerships • Product Safety & Quality • Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code • Human Rights • Strategic Relationship Management Program • Ethical Sourcing • Face-to-Face Meetings • Sustainable Packaging • Supplier Diversity Program • Ingredient Traceability • Surveys • Cost-Savings Opportunities • Assessments & Audits • Supply Chain Risk Mitigation • Sustainable Agriculture 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14 Report Cards Extend All Tradition Meets the Way to the Farm Technology PAGE 19 at Bolthouse Farms PAGE 17 GROWN 2020 Tomato Goals: Where We Stand PAGE 19 Growing Tomatoes Is a Family Affair PAGE 20 Making Sustainable Agriculture the Norm PAGE 20 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15 Metrics That Matter1 How We Manage NITROGEN USE (lb N/tonne tomato) We believe that real food has roots. It should be made with 4.284.28 4.28 recognizable, desirable ingredients from plants or animals. 4.22 4.22 4.22 4.044.04 4.04 Real food is also prepared with care, which includes how our ↓4% 4.12 4.12 4.12 ingredients are grown. These beliefs are nothing new; our 4.12 4.12 4.12 3.853.85 3.85 company has worked closely with local and regional farmers since 2012 since our earliest days. Today, as the world’s population grows—and along with it, the ■ baseline demand for land, water and food—we’re increasingly aware that ■ goal ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 the capacity of our current agricultural system is finite. Adding ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 to this uncertainty are the potential risks to the food system ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 posed by a changing climate. For these reasons and more, we WATER USE (gal/lb tomato) are working to optimize agricultural supply chains to ensure their 9.659.65 9.65 9.049.04 resilience in an increasingly volatile and changing environment. 9.04 8.488.48 8.48 7.53 7.53 7.53 Farming itself is responsible for significant environmental 7.53 7.53 7.53 impacts. Crop irrigation is often the largest contributor to a ↓22% 7.72 7.72 7.72 food product’s water footprint, and fertilizer production and use is often the largest contributor to its GHG footprint. Today’s since 2012 consumers understand these issues and have demonstrated that they will consider how a product was grown when they choose what foods to eat. ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 ■ baseline ■ goal That’s why Campbell is driving responsible and resilient ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 agriculture to protect the long-term viability of the farms and ecosystems from which we source our ingredients. To better GHG EMISSIONS FROM achieve these goals, we appointed a Director of Sustainable NITROGEN USE (kg CO2e/tonne tomato) Agriculture and a Sustainable Agriculture Analyst in FY2017. Leveraging this new team, we are helping secure natural resources and livelihoods on farms by sharing the latest 0.0073 0.0073 0.0073 knowledge on sustainable and precision agriculture, promoting 0.0067 0.0067 0.0067 adoption of more efficient practices industry-wide, and investing 0.0060 0.0060 0.0060 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 0.0057 ↓22% since 2012 in agricultural innovations and data analytics. This helps our farmers make better-informed decisions about how to manage their land and helps Campbell be more transparent with 0.0058 0.0058 0.0058 consumers about the full scope of our impacts. Real food begins on the farm. We’re doing our part to ensure ■ baseline that growers can keep growing, so we can continue sharing real ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 ■ goal food for generations to come. ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 ‘12 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 1 To drive consistency in our reporting metrics, sustainable agriculture data will be reported over fiscal year (FY) instead of calendar year (CY), moving forward. This means that the FY2017 tomato data under “Grown” in this Report is a restatement of CY2017 tomato data from last year’s Report. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16 GROWN Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms Farming has always required a precise information more easily. This helps them understanding of many variables: water provide exactly what their crops need and nutrient levels, soil quality and when they need it. sunlight. Farmers judged when to plant and how to care for their crops, using With a farming history dating back knowledge passed down by generations more than 100 years, Bolthouse Farms before them and intuition refined by understands the traditional ways of years of experience. tending to a field, but is also embracing new technologies through investment Now, the tools at farmers’ disposal are in precision agriculture tools that are significantly more advanced. Sensors, delivering higher yields and more drones, data analytics software and efficient use of natural resources. other technologies allow for precision agriculture, giving farmers more detailed 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17 GROWN Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms, cont. We evaluate our seed choices every year, testing By removing more dirt new varieties to see what Planting seeds varying from carrots during works best. distances apart yields harvest, we leave differently shaped carrots. more soil in the field We sell thick carrots whole and limit the weight of and slice narrow ones into carrot loads trucked baby-cut size. from the fields—which in turn reduces fuel consumption, water needed to clean the carrots and waste at the plant. A fleet of GPSA specialized driven tractors, machine uses planters, harvesters electroconductivity and accompanying to map soil types equipment ensures How Bolthouse Farms so we can optimize planting and that carrots are Grows Better Carrots apply variable and planted in straight rows, allowing More Sustainably accurate levels nearly every carrot of crop nutrients to be harvested. across a field. This not only reduces waste but makes more efficient use of our resources. Newer, more efficient Carrot tissue samples irrigation pipes take allow us to monitor less power and water to nutrient levels and make irrigate the fields with science-based decisions less leakage. about the optimal amount of inputs, like nitrogen, to apply throughout the Pest control advisors visit fields season to avoid waste frequently to assess what pests and nutrient runoff. are present and how to address them in a responsible manner to avoid unnecessary pesticide applications. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18 GROWN Report Cards Extend All the Way to the Farm As part of our effort to support our the latest research, including information growers like them. This transparency farmers in developing sustainable on how to use fertilizer more efficiently provides invaluable insight and growing practices and drive environand how to apply for grants to fund drip encourages strong collaborations mental improvement, Campbell collects irrigation systems that conserve water. between Campbell and our farmers— data from our tomato growers and prowhich leads to more sustainable vides report cards back to them that While our tomato growers use growing practices and financial benchmark their resource use compared sophisticated technology to collect data benefits for farmers. to their peers within Campbell’s family about their own operations, Campbell’s of growers. We also connect tomato report cards allow them to see how farmers to educational materials and their efforts stack up against other 2020 Tomato Goals: Where We Stand In 2012, we set a goal to reduce GHG emissions from Over 90 percent of nitrogen use per tonne of tomatoes by 20 percent and our tomatoes come reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20 percent by the end of 2020. We’re proud to share that we met both of from family farms these goals ahead of schedule and are setting additional in California sustainable agriculture goals in FY2018. Our farmers continue to invest in drip irrigation technologies to meet our third goal of reducing nitrogen applied per pound of tomatoes by 10 percent. Drip irrigation can more precisely deliver nitrogen to the plant, reducing the risk of nutrient runoff that can pollute waterways. In FY2017, 69 percent of acres farmed for Campbell tomatoes used drip irrigation systems. In FY2015, we extended these commitments to include additional priority ingredients, and continue to work toward improving data tracking capabilities for those ingredients. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19 GROWN Growing Tomatoes Is a Family Affair For the Yeung family, farming roots— and connections to Campbell Soup Company—run deep. Joe Yeung emigrated from China in 1948 and began Reviving the Soup farming. Over time, Joe’s son Richard That Started It All began farming with his dad, and in 2000 they began growing tomatoes To celebrate our Real Food for Campbell. As he transitioned into heritage, a team of Campbell retirement, Joe assumed that Richard’s employees brought a 100-yearown son would one day continue old tomato soup recipe back the tradition. to life. Following instructions handwritten by John Dorrance, Richard did have a son, but he also had who invented condensed soup two daughters, Melissa and Becky. As luck would have it, Melissa worked in Hear more about the Yeung sisters in this podcast. and is responsible for making soup our middle name, we the agriculture department of Campbell sourced local New Jersey Soup Company, and Becky worked for farm. For example, they initiated drip beefsteak tomatoes and cooked a company growing tomato seedlings irrigation to reduce water use and up a batch in our pilot plant. used by Campbell tomato farmers. Both purchased advanced tillage equipment The result was delicious. The women had insights into innovations to reduce the number of tractor trips limited edition jars have been in agriculture, and five years ago, they through the field (and associated fuel sold at Cracker Barrel stores in decided to leave their jobs to farm fulluse and carbon emissions). Taking New Jersey and Pennsylvania, time. Now, they manage the Campbell the best of both past knowledge and continue to sell in limited tomato contract with Joe Yeung Farms. and present technology, the women quantities in local stores are ensuring that their family farm is throughout the same region. The sisters rely on the knowledge of sustained for the next generation. And their father and grandfather, but have that next generation might just turn out also made significant changes on the to be their own daughters. Making Sustainable Agriculture the Norm With Goldfish® crackers, Milano® cookies available to farmers through Land and many other baked goods in our O’Lakes’ network of agricultural Our Wheat Goal: portfolio, Campbell has identified wheat retailers. Agricultural retailers serve Enroll as a priority ingredient to source more as trusted advisors to farmers, and sustainably. We have partnered with the SUSTAIN trains them on ways to Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and improve air, water and soil quality, Land O’Lakes’ SUSTAIN program to do while increasing yields, improving acres of wheat our part to make fertilizer efficiency soil health and building resilience to in a fertilizer and soil health the norm in U.S. grain unpredictable climate conditions. Using optimization plan by 2020 production, not only because of the the power of this network, SUSTAIN environmental benefits, but also to help hopes to eventually reach thousands of improve farmers’ bottom lines. U.S. farmers working millions of acres optimizing fertilizer use on 70,000 acres of crops, tipping the balance in favor of wheat and is deploying SUSTAIN in SUSTAIN provides practical tools, of more sustainable growing practices our Pepperidge Farm sourcing regions products and practices that are nationwide. Campbell is committed to to help achieve this goal. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20 A More Transparent PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN PAGE 25 Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals PAGE 23 SOURCED A Triple Win for Arnott’s PAGE 27 Making Progress on A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics and Animal Welfare Pepperidge Farm PAGE 26 PAGE 28 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21 Metrics That Matter How We Manage CAMPBELL’S GLOBAL CERTIFIED Transparency builds trust. That’s why we’re working to set SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL VOLUME the standard for transparency, with the goal of becoming the (Certified Sustainable % vs. Volume) world’s most trusted food company. By improving transparency 100% from farm to fork, we can ensure that ethical and sustainable practices are used across our entire supply chain. Knowing how 2016 & 2017 our ingredients are produced and where they come from has become more important than ever as we expand our product portfolio to meet the needs of our diverse consumer base. This includes adding unique ingredients from new places, like CRATE-FREE PORK AS A PERCENTAGE cinnamon from Asia and quinoa from South America. As our OF TOTAL PORK PURCHASES supply chain grows more complex, it is important for us to build 34% 2017 mechanisms for transparency to understand and minimize risks related to human rights, animal welfare, climate change and unsustainable resource consumption. To help build this transparency, Campbell’s Procurement team has revamped its Strategic Relationship Management (SRM) PERCENTAGE OF CANS TRANSITIONED TO NON-BPA LINING program. This program will focus on Campbell’s key suppliers, and social and environmental responsibility are included as 100% 2017 elements of the program. We will engage with these suppliers through top-to-top meetings, in-person workshops and surveys, and suppliers will be rated on their performance against several key elements, one of which is sustainability. To live into our Real Food Philosophy and our commitment CAGE-FREE EGGS AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EGG PURCHASES to build trust through transparency, we created the role of Director of Responsible Sourcing in 2016. This individual reports 12% 2017 to Campbell’s Chief Procurement Officer and is part of the Procurement Leadership Team and the extended Supply Chain Leadership Team. Along with a Responsible Sourcing Lead, our new Responsible Sourcing team is focused on building a holistic strategy for managing social issues such as human rights and “NO ANTIBIOTIC EVER” CHICKEN animal welfare along the supply chain. 97% 2017 In FY2017, we identified four strategic focus areas that will align with our Real Food Philosophy and help pave the way for us to become a leader in ethical and sustainable sourcing. In addition, we set forth a new set of goals and will begin reporting progress in the next fiscal year. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22 SOURCED PRODUCED Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals FOCUS AREA: Responsibly source is currently being rolled out to our on our pledges regarding cage-free ingredients, packaging and services suppliers. The Program incorporates eggs and gestation crates for hogs. for our products and operations a holistic approach of education Campbell is also working to address and compliance, such as training for ingredients whose sourcing may have We strive to procure ingredients, Campbell’s buyers globally, supplier unintended social or environmental packaging and services from suppliers training and supplier audits. impacts, such as deforestation resulting who share our commitment to from palm oil cultivation. environmental stewardship, ethical Responsible sourcing extends to the business practices and diversity. animal products used in our food, Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier including eggs, chicken, pork and beef. GOAL: By 2025: Responsibly Code, published in May 2017, is This year, we rolled out new Animal source 100% of priority raw materials applicable to all suppliers globally. Welfare Guidelines, which include a The Code is the foundation of our new commitment to broiler chicken Responsible Sourcing Program, which welfare. We are making progress Priority Raw Materials AGRICULTURE Tomatoes Carrots Jalapeños Potatoes ANIMAL WELFARE Chicken Seafood Pork Eggs COMMODITIES Wheat Chocolate Dairy Sweeteners DEFORESTATION Paper Packaging Beef Palm Oil Soy Priority raw materials were identified using information including: social and environmental risk, volumes, annual spend, existing commitments and importance to key products. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23 SOURCED PRODUCED Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals, cont. FOCUS AREA: Improve capabilities more widespread, we are exploring for farm to fork traceability ways to build full traceability in our supply chain from farm to fork. We know that today’s consumers want to know exactly what’s in the food they are feeding their families, down GOAL: By 2025: 100% of priority to where the ingredients in those raw materials are traceable to country foods come from. We are committed to of origin traceability of the priority raw materials that go into our products, and as technologies like blockchain become FOCUS AREA: Develop a diverse suppliers equal access to potential supply base that reflects the business opportunities. Diverse Suppliers demographics of our consumers for a Diverse Supplier diversity adds value to our GOAL: By 2020: Measurably Consumer Base long-term growth, strengthens our advance Campbell’s Supplier Diversity competitive advantage and can Program Through support of minorityincrease market share and shareholder and women-owned businesses, return. Our supplier diversity program Campbell has increased is focused on strengthening our our social impact on local U.S. supply base by offering diverse communities by offering employment opportunities, modeling behavior for younger generations and encouraging FOCUS AREA: Advance respect Principles in 2017 to include and purchases from other diverse for human rights in our operations and codify our long-standing policy for businesses. We’ve also across our supply chain ensuring no forced labor exists in witnessed competitive cost our own operations. These Principles and quality improvements, Our commitment to health and wellare the foundation of a new internal responsiveness and agility to being extends to protecting the Social Accountability Program which adapt to changing business human rights of the people along our is under development and will include needs, dedicated and enhanced supply chain, but it starts with our own employee training, proactive internal customer service, and fresh employees. In our own operations, we facility audits, and alignment between perspectives that promote hold ourselves accountable to a set of our internal Code of Conduct and innovation. In FY2017, we Human Rights Principles to ensure we Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code. updated our Supplier Diversity are treating our own employees with Commitment and joined respect and are compliant with industry Walmart and other consumer standards. As part of our engagement GOAL: By 2020: Proactively assess goods companies in collectively with the Consumer Goods Forum’s 100% of Campbell-owned facilities reporting our annual spend with Social Sustainability Committee, we for compliance with Human Rights women-owned businesses. updated Campbell’s Human Rights Principles 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 SOURCED PRODUCED A More Transparent Palm Oil Supply Chain Palm oil is the most widely consumed vulnerable communities. For these vegetable oil around the world and reasons, Campbell is working to ensure is used as an ingredient in some of responsible sourcing and traceability Campbell’s snacking products, such of palm oil used in our products. as cookies and crackers. It requires less land to grow than soya, rapeseed In 2016, Campbell achieved its goal of and sunflower, the other three major using 100 percent Certified Sustainable oil-producing crops, and can also Palm Oil (CSPO) in our global operations, support jobs in emerging economies. and we have committed to providing However, improper sourcing of palm full plantation-level traceability by oil can contribute to deforestation, 2020. To date, we have achieved which can increase global GHG 98 percent traceability to the mill and emissions, harm wildlife and impact 58 percent traceability to the plantation. We updated our Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Guidelines in 2017 to reflect this progress. In our Arnott’s and Kelsen businesses, we have taken it a step further and use 100 percent to Indonesia and Malaysia, the source segregated palm oil, ensuring that of roughly 85 percent of global palm oil. all palm oil originates from CSPO Engagement with consumers and NGOs plantations and is fully traceable. near Arnott’s Australian headquarters has helped the brand emerge as a Sustainably sourced palm oil has been leader on this issue and earn a perfect a priority at Arnott’s for years, due in score on the World Wildlife Fund’s 2016 Where Does part to the Australian market’s proximity Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard. Arnott’s Chocolate Come From? Cocoa liquor is what gives Arnott’s biscuits their distinctive taste. Our cocoa liquor comes from beans grown in Southeast Asia and Ghana, and our biscuits contain blends of chocolate from both regions. Because ethical production issues, such as forced labor and child labor, exist for cocoa grown in West Africa, all of our chocolate from that region is certified Fair Trade. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25 SOURCED PRODUCED Making Progress on Animal Welfare The humane treatment of animals In addition, we committed to working is an important part of our vision for with our suppliers to improve the a responsible supply chain. NGOs, treatment of broiler chickens while consumers and other outside experts thoughtfully addressing the impact of have shared concerns about the these standards on the farmers from welfare of animals whose meat and whom we source. We aim to move our eggs are present in our food, as well U.S. chicken meat supply to a higher as the negative environmental, health standard of animal welfare by 2024 and social consequences of certain that includes: practices. We’re listening and moving • Transitioning to breeds of birds to address concerns. approved by Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Changes such as these are complicated (RSPCA) or the Global Animal and require time, investment and Partnership (GAP), which are partnership to succeed. They must also scientifically recognized as having align with our commitment to ensuring higher welfare outcomes access to good, affordable food for our • Providing more space for chickens Our Animal Welfare consumers. We will continue to work by reducing stocking density to a Commitments with NGOs, growers, suppliers, peers maximum of six pounds per square foot and other industry stakeholders to • Offering improved environments identify cost-effective solutions for including litter, lighting and enrichment our industry. that meet GAP’s new standards • Processing chickens in a manner Cage-Free Eggs that avoids pre-stun handling and We have committed to sourcing instead uses multistep, controlled Cage-free eggs exclusively cage-free eggs globally by atmospheric stunning 2025. As of September 2017, 12 percent • Using third-party auditing to ensure by 2025 of Campbell’s egg supply was cagecompliance free. Kelsen and Arnott’s are leading the way in this effort, as both have already Pork transitioned to cage-free eggs. In 2012, we made a commitment to eliminate gestation crates from our Broiler Chickens pork supply chain. With our suppliers’ Higher animal In 2017, Campbell implemented a Whole engagement, we intend to reach that welfare standards Bird Model for sourcing our chicken goal no later than 2022. We have made meat in the U.S. and Canada. In addition progress on this commitment, due to for broiler chickens to the economic benefits, this model both favoring suppliers that raise hogs by 2024 gives us visibility into the entire life cycle in a gestation crate-free environment of the chicken, from egg incubation and and continuing to work with suppliers hatching to growth and processing. This who have transitioned from crates to will be instrumental in ensuring that all group housing. We also favor suppliers chicken meat in our North American that can provide audit and tracking product portfolio is raised with No reports for sourcing of crate-free pork. Antibiotics Ever (NAE) by FY2018. As of September 2017, 34 percent of Crate-free pork Campbell’s pork supply is crate-free. by 2022 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26 SOURCED PRODUCED A Triple Win for Arnott’s Campbell has made a $40 million Once they arrive at supermarkets, investment in new packaging capabilproducts from the Multi-Pack Centre ities to help Arnott’s address environshould also please consumers. The mental, consumer and economic needs. new corrugated packaging protects Much of this investment is centered at biscuits from breaking, is easier to Arnott’s Huntingwood bakery in Western navigate on store shelves and fits more Sydney, where a new Multi-Pack Centre neatly in a pantry. The Huntingwood equipped with state-of-the-art equipment facility employs more than 500 people, and technology was opened to support and is the latest recipient of Arnott’s product and packaging innovations. investments in Australian manufacturing, Biscuits produced in the facility are now which total more than a quarter of a packed into recyclable corrugated boxes, billion dollars over the past five years. rather than the nonrecyclable plastic bags Through this project, Arnott’s managed that once held multiple single-serving to score a win for the environment, its packs. The boxes are also more efficient consumers and its community. to ship, which means fewer delivery trucks on the road. The Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) A sustainable packaging initiative changing the culture of business by improving recycling and recovery of product packaging. Here are some of our 2017 achievements. 4 out of 5 stars 100% Campbell Arnott’s is a Corrugate from top-tier APC signatory sustainably managed forests 73 tonnes 94% 223 tonnes Can material reduced Waste diverted from landfills Tray and shipper savings 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27 PRODUCED SOURCED A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics and Pepperidge Farm Responsible sourcing extends beyond the ingredients in our food. It also includes a focus on the packaging in which we deliver our products. Plum Organics, a Public Benefit Corporation and certified B Corp, along with Pepperidge Farm are making progress on packaging sustainability in ways both big and small. 1. Improved retail cartons. In FY2017, Plum Organics also remains a Plum Organics transitioned 100 percent member of How2Recycle, a labeling of its pouch portfolio to a six-pouch, system that makes it easier for 100-percent recyclable corrugated consumers to recycle. carton and eliminated the need for an additional corrugated shipping box. 4. Consumer engagement. Plum This reduced our total corrugated Organics pouch caps, which are 11x Less packaging by weight by 40 percent. made of #5 plastic, are too small to We eliminated this extra layer of go through the standard recycling packaging by upgrading the cartons system. Plum Organics and other packaging per gram of to “ship to sell” status, adding shelfparticipants in the Preserve “Gimme ready graphics and perforation to 5” program encourage consumers to food in a Plum Organics® each box. save up these plastics and dispose pouch vs. glass of them in Preserve’s designated baby food jar 2. New products. In 2017, Plum Organics bins inside Whole Foods Markets and launched Baby Bowls designed for other stores. Once collected, they spoon-feeding. They join baby formula are transformed into products like tubs and containers of Super Puffs® toothbrushes and razors. snacks in the Plum Organics® lineup of fully recyclable product packages. 5. Updated materials. Pepperidge Farm transitioned from polyethylene3. Strong partnerships. Plum Organics coated paperboard to an aqueous partners with industry leaders, such coating called Enshield for its layer as Materials Recovery for the Future cake cartons. The cartons require and One Step Closer to an Organic 1.3 million pounds of paperboard and Sustainable Community (OSC2), annually, and now that amount is to actively seek out new, more fully recyclable, without increasing sustainable materials and end-of-life cost for the company. solutions for packaging waste. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28 Making Our Refrigeration Systems Shipping More Efficient Smarter With PAGE 31 SmartWay® PAGE 32 Solar Energy Is Heating Up in Camden PAGE 31 PRODUCED Capturing Real Food Every Drop Shouldn’t PAGE 32 Go to Waste PAGE 33 Making the Most of Every Vegetable PAGE 34 How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are Doing Working Together for More for the Planet Improved Food Safety PAGE 35 PAGE 35 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 761.2 751.9 725.0 751.3 563.5 Metrics That Matter How We Manage 761.2 34.1 GOALS 761.2 761.2 751.3 751.9 725.0 34.1 32.25 32.0 31.9 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 32.0 751.9751.9 563.5 24.4 Real food is prepared with care. It should be crafted using sustainable 725.0725.0 practices that safeguard the natural resources we all share. That means 31.9 producing our food with minimal impact on the environment, ensuring the Reduce GHG 31.9 751.3 751.3 emissions by safety and quality of every product we sell, and developing employees 25%‘17by 2025 with the knowledge and tools they need to do their best work. 25.5 563.5563.5 ‘25 ‘17 ‘25 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 A rising global population and accelerated resource use make a ■ baseline ■ goal sustainable business model more important than ever. We have set ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 aggressive targets to reduce our footprint, and our environmental (tonnes CO2e, in thousands) management system helps us to better manage compliance, reduce costs and increase efficiencies. The risk of operating unsustainably is 34.1 34.1 detrimental to long-term success and impacts profitability and reputation. 32.0 32.0 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 51.9 49.0 31.9 31.9 44.2 418,185 Reduce water 40.0 In 2017, we reaffirmed our commitment to climate action by signing 31.9 31.9 use by 20% the “We Are Still In” declaration. Our commitment to addressing the 25.5 25.5 30.0 by 2025 risks of climate change and reducing our environmental impact is unwavering. We continue to promote stewardship of natural resources 209,093 in our operations by investing in efficient and low-carbon technologies ■ baseline ■ goal ‘17 ‘25 and practices. ‘17 Starting with our own operations, we are using our role ‘30 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 as a leading food company to help tackle the global challenge of waste, (cubic meters, in millions) especially food waste. We also continue to invest in energyand water‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 51.9 saving opportunities. 48.9 44.2 The global engineering team, in conjunction with the local facility 40.1 engineers and Campbell’s sustainability team, transform these 30.0 Reduce waste to resource-reduction opportunities into actionable projects that bring landfills by 25% about real change. Since global data tracking began in FY2008, by 2025 we have reduced GHG emissions intensity by 39 percent, energy intensity by 25 percent and water intensity by 36 percent. In FY2016, 51.9 51.9 ■ baseline reflecting significant changes in our operations due to acquisitions 48.9 48.9 and divestitures, we set new environmental targets for our operations. ■ goal ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 44.2 44.2 (tonnes, in thousands) These targets use FY2017 as the base year and are more aggressive in that they require absolute reductions. 40.1 40.1 FOOD WASTE GENERATED 30.0 30.0 (tonnes) Food safety and quality are implicit requirements for any major food company. We dedicate all resources at our disposal to ensure that consumers are protected from foodborne illnesses, allergens or other health and safety concerns, and are transparent about what ingredients ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 are present in our food. Campbell has a long history of regulatory ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 ‘20 compliance and is in compliance with all applicable regulations, including Animal Feed: 327,484 the provisions of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA). Land Application: 31,998 Anaerobic Digestion: 24,016 Aerobic Digestion: 14,722 Landfill: 13,838 Biomaterial Processing: 5,824 Controlled Combustion: 303 Total: 418,185 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30 PRODUCED Campbell’s world headquarters in Camden, New Jersey Solar Energy Is Heating Up in Camden We continue to expand our contribution headquarters’ electricity demand and Napoleon, Ohio; a 1 MW solar array in to the clean energy economy through making use of an otherwise unusable Bloomfield, Connecticut; and 1.2 MW renewable energy investments. In brownfield. The project also features and 1.4 MW fuel cells in Bloomfield, 2017, a 4.4 MW solar array was installed electric vehicle (EV) charging stations Connecticut. In total, Campbell contributes at Campbell’s world headquarters in for Campbell employees, encouraging 27,670 MWh of renewable energy to Camden, New Jersey, making it the the use of EVs. the grid annually. largest solar array in the city. Through carport, rooftop and ground-mount This project joins four other existing solar solutions, we are generating the renewable energy projects at Campbell equivalent of 20 percent of our world facilities, a 9.8 MW solar array in Making Our Refrigeration Systems More Efficient In alignment with the Montreal Protocol, natural refrigerants. The use of natural corporate R&D pilot plant. In addition, Campbell has made a commitment to refrigerants significantly improves energy we installed a CO2 system for a new reduce the use of hydrochlorofluoroefficiency, lowers energy costs and frozen bread line in Downingtown, carbon (HCFC) refrigerants, specifically reduces GHG emissions, which contribute Pennsylvania, which was commissioned R22, at our facilities. HCFCs, such as to climate change. in January 2018. R22, are known to deplete the ozone layer. At our Pepperidge Farm facilCampbell has also commissioned a By transitioning to best-in-class ities in Downingtown, Pennsylvania; new CO2 refrigeration system at its refrigeration technology, Campbell is Lakeland, Florida; Richmond, Utah; corporate headquarters in Camden, also aligned with the Consumer Goods and Willard, Ohio, we phased out our New Jersey. The CO2 system will Forum’s commitment to phase out R22 refrigerants by converting to lowsupport a new centralized storage hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) refrigerants. charge ammonia and CO2, which are cooler and freezer facility in the 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31 PRODUCED Shipping Smarter With SmartWay® Campbell participates in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay® program, a voluntary system for tracking, documenting and sharing information about fuel use and GHG emissions across supply chains. As of FY2017, 80 percent of Campbell’s carriers were SmartWay® partners, actively working toward improving their 85 fuel efficiency to reduce transportationFewer Trucks on the Road = related emissions. Because we move the majority of product using 944 tonnes SmartWay® carriers, Campbell has been CO2e Emissions recognized as a SmartWay® Shipper Partner. Campbell also uses intermodal transportation, which combines rail and truck transport, to increase efficiency and lower emissions. We increased our intermodal transportation for shipments shipments were consolidated with Customer Logistics teams plan to between plants in FY2017, and plan other Campbell shipments, removing collaborate to find ways to take even to increase use of this approach for 85 trucks from the road and avoiding more trucks off the road in FY2018. inbound shipments and customer 944 tonnes CO2e emissions. Our deliveries. This past year, Plum’s Transportation, Supply Planning and Capturing Every Drop Campbell’s Bolthouse Farms business less incoming water and 80 percent less 90 percent, with an expected savings of has made significant strides in tackling blowdown water. This will save the facility over 40 million gallons of water per year. water efficiency at our carrot packing more than 25 million gallons of water per Finally, new ultra-low pressure membranes and juicing facility, thanks to two recent year. By retrofitting our reverse osmosis will last 20 percent longer than other equipment updates. After implementing technology and improving monitoring, membranes and reduce energy use cleaning and refurbishment pilot projects, we will be able to increase the reverse and costs, delivering both a financial our cooling towers now require 27 percent osmosis recovery rate from 72 percent to and environmental win for the facility. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32 PRODUCED Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste The statistics on food waste are hard Campbell participated in the Call to Action on food date labeling. to believe—but impossible to ignore. development of the Food Loss and We believe that simplifying and Across the world, roughly one-third of Waste Accounting and Reporting harmonizing labels and establishing all food produced intended for human Standard with the World Resources federal standards for “best if used by” consumption is lost or wasted. At the Institute. This Standard, which we and “use by” language will reduce same time, one in nine people remains implemented in FY2017, provides consumer confusion and limit waste. undernourished. This inefficiency guidance to more precisely measure amounts to economic losses of close the types of food waste generated in A Closer Look at Our Operations to $1 trillion per year. Campbell is an organization’s operations and the We’re making progress against our committed to doing our part to address destinations of those waste streams. 2030 goal to reduce food waste by this challenge and has set a goal to This Standard has helped Campbell 50 percent. For example, we’ve cut our food waste in half by 2030. establish a baseline by which to reconfigured production equipment measure and report on efforts to to decrease ingredient waste during Engaging With Our Peers achieve our food waste reduction goal. processing. Lost ingredients are This effort starts at the top. Campbell’s Campbell is also a member of The diverted to feed animals. CEO, Denise Morrison, is a Champion in Consumer Goods Forum Food Waste Champions 12.3, a group of executives working group and was among the In Canada, we recently tackled food from government, business and civil first companies to be a U.S. Food loss and waste at our Toronto facility, society committed to accelerating progLoss and Waste 2030 Champion. partnering with Provision Coalition, ress on UN Sustainable Development Canada’s food and beverage manuGoal 12.3 to cut food waste in half Consistent with our commitment facturing sustainability organization. worldwide by 2030. Denise’s leaderto transparency in all facets of our We piloted Provision Coalition’s online ship has expanded Campbell’s visibusiness, Campbell supports a Food Waste Reduction Toolkit and bility regarding food waste globally. product labeling framework that engaged Enviro-Stewards to conduct Internally, it has increased our focus on clearly communicates food quality a food waste prevention assessment. building transparency into sources of and food safety. This stance aligns Enviro-Stewards evaluated the entire food waste and strategies for reduction. with the Consumer Goods Forum’s operation, from raw vegetable receiving to final product packaging and canning, and identified measures that could increase the amount of food produced by the facility by 938 tonnes per year. Campbell has set a goal to cut our food waste in half by 2030. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33 PRODUCED Making the Most of Every Vegetable Carrot processing at Bolthouse Farms is designed to make In Campbell’s tomato operations, everything has a use of the entire carrot from tip to greens. Take a look: purpose, and nothing is wasted—practices that we think would make our company’s farming founders proud. Unripe tomatoes, stems Carrot tops are left behind and other plant material in our fields to improve soil are returned to the ground health. at harvest to improve soil health. Long narrow carrots bred for their sweet taste and small At our facilities, stems and core are cut and peeled into damaged fruit are sorted and baby carrots or chopped into sent to nearby cattle farms for time-saving products like animal feed or to compost. Chips and Matchstix. Thicker whole carrots are Tomato peels and seeds bagged unpeeled for fresh become ingredients for animal produce sales. feed and pet food. Fruit that doesn’t match the Other whole carrots and size needed to make diced broken pieces are juiced into tomatoes is rerouted to fresh beverages, like our another production line to Mango Ginger + Carrot juice. make tomato paste. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34 PRODUCED Working Together for Improved Food Safety How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are Preparing safe, high-quality food has always been one of Campbell’s Doing More for the Planet fundamental strengths. We assess food safety risk in our operations in compliance with the current requirements In FY2017, operations in our Asia-Pacific region reduced energy use by of the Food Safety Modernization Act 4 percent and water use by 11 percent across the region. Operations in (FSMA) of 2011, and are always working to Denmark were able to expand production while managing energy usage. continually improve ahead of emerging Here are some of the projects that are contributing to our success. requirements. FSMA aims to help food manufacturers shift their focus from resolving issues to preventing them from Australia Denmark happening in the first place and is the most significant legislation passed on Huntingwood Nørre Snede food safety in the last 30 years. We replaced all fluorescent office We installed a new ventilation system, lighting with LEDs and added motion which will improve air quality in the As we begin to offer more packaged sensors, reducing our electricity usage plant and save over 440,000 kWh per fresh products and new ingredients, for office lighting by 40 percent. year. In addition, by optimizing our Campbell’s portfolio is becoming more compressed air supply lines, we were complex, making this a perfect time to Shepparton able to meet increased production enhance our quality controls. We have After implementing the second phase demands while saving more than incorporated additional controls and of a new water sterilization process, 240,000 kWh per year. prevention steps to mitigate food safety we’re saving more than 80,000 liters risks within our processes. In addition, all of water per year. In addition, using Ribe of our manufacturing facilities worldwide only behavior-based initiatives, we’ve When installing our new Pepperidge are audited and certified to the Global reduced waste to landfill by 17 percent. Farm production line, we needed to Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standard. increase our cooling capacity and Virginia were able to optimize our energy The rollout of FSMA has also been an New semi-automated ovens will offer consumption while meeting the cooling opportunity for closer collaboration with more fine-tuned controls and optimized capacity demand. This reduced the our suppliers and across our industry. start-up times, giving us better control plant’s energy use by over 470,000 Members of Campbell’s food safety over natural gas usage. kWh per year. and quality team have participated in industry events to share expertise and set Malaysia benchmarks. Over 100 of our employees We invested $350,000 USD to upgrade have received FSMA-related training our wastewater treatment plant to and certification. In addition, we’re comply with new local regulations. working with our suppliers, particularly those with smaller operations, to help Indonesia them provide the documentation that Our facilities passed audits from the the law now requires. Thanks to FSMA, provincial government and Ministry of food is becoming safer worldwide, and Environment & Forestry. Campbell is proud to help raise the bar. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35 Recognizing Those Who Live Our Purpose How We’re Living PAGE 39 Our Values PAGE 38 SHARED Employees Benefits That Matter Using for Life’s Moments Transparency to Transform PAGE 39 Careers PAGE 40 Safety for Everyone, Every Day PAGE 41 Helping Campbell Women Lift Each Other Up PAGE 42 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36 Metrics That Matter How We Manage EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHY Americas: 71% Europe: Americas: 2% 71% Asia-Pacific: Americas: Europe: 27% 71% 2% Europe: Asia-Pacific: 2% 27% Asia-Pacific: 27% EMPLOYEES BY AGE DEMOGRAPHICS (Global) The strength of our products depends on the strength of our workforce. We believe that creating a high-performance culture 30 and under: 23% 31-50: 47% rooted in integrity, accountable for results and committed to 30 and under: 23% 51 and 30 and over: 31-50: under: 30% 23% 47% bringing our Purpose to life is essential to the sustainability of 31-50: 51 and over: 47% 30% our company. This requires the interplay of many elements, 51 and over: 30% including talent management, business ethics, workplace safety and wellness, employee engagement and diversity EMPLOYEES BY ETHNICITY (U.S. only) and inclusion. Attracting, developing, engaging and retaining a diverse and high-performing workforce reflective of our consumer base is crucial to achieving our business objectives. To this end, Campbell’s CEO, Denise Morrison, has joined the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ and has committed to advancing diversity and inclusion throughout the organization through the hiring of a Chief Diversity Officer, the sharing of best White: 52% and unsuccessful practices, the expansion of unconscious bias White: or Latino: Hispanic 24% 52% African HispanicAmerican: White: or Latino: 11% 52% 24% education and the fostering of a safe work environment for all Asian: American: Hispanic African or Latino: 5% 24% 11% employees to have challenging conversations. Other: Asian: American: African 3% 11% 5% Did not Disclose: Asian: Other: 5% 3% Other: Did not Disclose: 3% 5% In February 2017, Campbell launched a new communication Did not Disclose: 5% and information-sharing platform to global salaried employees, Workplace by Facebook, which has transformed how employees 43% connect and engage. The platform has facilitated cross-functional visibility, collaboration and recognition. In just nine months, we Women as a percentage of saw a significant increase in engagement metrics compared to our global workforce previous internal communications platform, including an increase of 121 percent in readership, a 201 percent increase in reactions 43% Women in global and a 234 percent increase in commenting. It has also opened up new opportunities for employee engagement in sustainability through storytelling and competitions, which have encouraged management position positive behaviors like recycling and using reusable mugs. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37 SHARED How We’re Living Our Values Since 2014, we’ve been on a the philosophy and become a purposethe behaviors and culture we need to journey to become a purpose-driven driven organization with innovation at live into our Purpose. We believe in organization. We began by defining the helm, we needed to reinvent our these Values and the accompanying our Purpose, Real food that matters culture, and that started with answering behaviors they put forth. Our Values are for life’s moments, which helped us a simple question–What do we value? a representation of what our company capture who we are, what we believe, and our people have always stood for, and the company we want to be. We’ve In 2016, the Campbell Leadership while inspiring us to embrace change made great progress on our journey, Team set out to answer that question. to compete effectively in a dynamic including our work to define what real Each word was meticulously and marketplace. food means to us through our Real purposefully chosen with the goal of Food Philosophy. But to truly activate redefining Campbell’s Values to create Do Right Seek Dare Own it and the Power of to like a Be Real Different Disrupt Founder Always Act Use Your Voice Build it Bold Act like Your with Integrity Name is on it Be Open, Risk Together, Be Authentic Be Curious Reward Together See the Big Picture Build Trust through Listen for Experiment Fast Make it Happen Transparency the Unexpected to Learn Sooner Fast Keep Be Different, Get Wear Your Passion Your Word Go Together Uncomfortable on Your Sleeve More than a year after introducing • In our talent development efforts. how well their own behaviors align these Values, we’re seeing them Our Values are being embedded with company standards. come to life in a variety of ways across into performance management Campbell: internally and behavioral interviewing • From our leaders. Our C100, or the externally, allowing us to attract top 100 leaders within Campbell, are • On our social network. Campbell and retain individuals who share key to transforming our culture to employees interact on Workplace, Campbell’s ideals. reflect our Values. Leaders recorded an internal social media platform a series of videos discussing what powered by Facebook. Our people • In our training. We introduced new Campbell’s Values mean to them. have gotten creative and made the Campbell University training through site their own, using the hashtag which employees can learn how to function to tag corporate Values in apply the Values to their own work. their posts. Values 360 helps employees assess 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38 SHARED Recognizing Those Who Live Our Purpose make progress toward inclusion across a range of corporate and business issues. Dare to Disrupt Campbell is committed to expanding our e-commerce offerings, and the Pepperidge Farm® Goldfish® Cracker team is making important strides. The team made Goldfish the #1 cracker on Amazon and figured out how to sell Fresh Bakery on Amazon Prime Pantry, becoming the first manufacturer to sell Black Resource Group fresh products on Amazon’s highestvolume grocery platform. Each year, Campbell recognizes teams giving to the United Way; has achieved across the organization who are living $1.1 million in giving over 14 years of Own It Like a Founder our Purpose, Real food that matters hosting the Campbell’s Kids for a Cure Our North American Food Service team for life’s moments. These employees Golf Tournament benefiting the American redesigned more than 120 products to exemplify our core Values and are Cancer Society’s Relay for Life; and create the cleanest-label products in recognized for their contributions to our expanded sustainability programming. Campbell’s portfolio. They made sure success. Read the stories of a few Living that each ingredient earned its place in Our Purpose award winners for FY2017. Seek the Power of Different every recipe, just as our founders did. Our Black Resource Group leverages For their efforts, they were recognized Do Right and Be Real the power of different in workforce with the Dr. John T. Dorrance Award, Our Maxton, North Carolina, Community diversity. They are committed to driving the most coveted of the Living Our Team has made significant improvedevelopment, affinity and retention Purpose awards. ments to its already strong community for their members. In FY2017, they engagement efforts. The team tripled its engaged leaders and influencers to Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments Campbell’s Purpose–Real food that parental leave. Campbell parents are coverage through a private exchange. matters for life’s moments–serves as a also looking foward to our new Family This change gives our post-65 retirees filter for decision-making in all aspects Center, located on the campus of our greater choice and advocacy support of our business, from the ingredients in world headquarters in Camden, to meet their individual needs. In line our products to the ways we engage New Jersey. The center will provide with our companywide commitment to with consumers. Our choices about care for children from infancy through well-being and health, we are in the employee benefits are no exception. kindergarten and focus on health and process of revamping our employee well-being, with nutritious food choices well-being offerings and have formed In 2016, we began offering 10 weeks of and optional activities like karate a work group that will determine what fully paid leave to primary caregivers and dance. benefits are most needed at each of and two weeks of fully paid leave to our facilities. Our Purpose will continue non-primary caregivers in the U.S. We’re continuing to engage with our to guide us as we explore additional following the birth or adoption of a child. employees on other benefits that matter benefits for Campbell employees and We’re proud of this decision, which to them. Beginning in 2017, Campbell their families. puts Campbell in a leading position in began offering a majority of Medicarethe U.S. food industry with respect to eligible retirees access to health care 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39 SHARED Using Transparency to Transform Careers The makeup of Campbell’s workforce The survey also revealed high levels is changing, and with it, the resources of employee engagement. Employees our employees need to find meaning in reported pride in Campbell’s history and their work and chart their career paths. iconic brands and optimism about our We began to respond to this changing company’s future. dynamic in 2016, when we conducted our most recent Drive Survey of salaried At the same time, our employees and hourly employees globally. were telling us they wanted more meaningful and personal career The survey measured “performance conversations, more transparent access confidence,” which research shows is a to opportunities and a more personal strong predictor of an organization’s connection to their work. The Drive success. Performance confidence Survey identified gaps in resources for is defined as the extent to which career development and in managers’ employees believe that Campbell has ability to help employees clarify and an outstanding competitive future, based pursue their career goals. That’s why on innovative, high-quality products and over the past year, Campbell has been services that are highly regarded by the hard at work transforming the way that marketplace. We were pleased to see we help employees think about growth An important part of this new framework strong scores against this measure. and development. is Campbell Gigs, a pilot program initially undertaken by our HR and Our Career Commitment Finance organizations. Gigs are The result is Our Career Commitment, voluntary side projects that employees a new talent development strategy can use to learn and support their rooted in transparency and intentionally career journeys with on-the-job skills. designed to reflect our new way For example, an HR professional of looking at talent practices. The interested in communications could Commitment encourages employees voluntarily work on a communication to practice three habits: get to know the plan for the rollout of a new process, We believe great real you, explore real options and take or an employee who wants to gain careers are: real action. financial experience could participate in an audit process. SELF-DRIVEN Our Career Commitment formally Discover your personal purpose launched in 2017 with a career day at our Employees can explore, apply for and let it shape your path. We’ll global headquarters and subsequent and provide feedback on their Gig help guide you. events at facilities worldwide. An internal experiences using our Workday website, launched at the same time, gives platform. We are expanding Gigs to MULTIFACETED employees resources to assist them in other Campbell functions and will roll Seek new opportunities that reflecting on their personal values and out additional career development offer the greatest learning. goals, learning about colleagues’ career tools, such as a talent marketplace and Have courage to experiment paths and tuition assistance for continuing coaching resources, to the myCareer and explore. education, and applying for open roles platform over the coming year. As we within Campbell. do so, we will assess our progress LIMITLESS using Drive Surveys and stay/exit Push yourself beyond your interviews to refine our offerings and boundaries. The more you stretch, continue to meet the needs of our the greater your potential. evolving talent base. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40 SHARED Safety for Everyone, Every Day Campbell’s relentless focus on For example, new Daily Direction These tactics are paying off: Campbell employee safety has continually Setting meetings provide routine, saw a 13 percent reduction in its Lost produced results that exceed industry consistent communication on common Time Incident Rate (0.23 to 0.20) benchmarks. In FY2017, we updated the safety hazards. Site Improvement Plans between FY2016 and FY2017 and tactics outlined in our Environmental help individual plants identify unique a 30 percent reduction in its Total Health & Safety strategy in the areas ways to address concerns. And new Recordable Incident Rate (1.96 to of leadership, employee engagement training on ergonomics and slips, trips 1.37). Though these are best-in-class and safety systems. Underlying all and falls is getting more employees achievements, we will continue to new tactics is a deliberate focus on engaged and thinking proactively about strive for zero injuries by focusing on communication, transparency and reducing risk. the small, day-to-day actions that reporting of results. make everyone safer. We’re especially proud of these Campbell teams: INDONESIA Our Indonesia team achieved 10 million hours without a Lost Time Incident (LTI), making them Campbell’s leading LTI-free site globally. The team celebrated this milestone with a meal served by the Indonesian leadership team. MAXTON, NORTH CAROLINA The North Carolina Department of Labor honored our Maxton team with the Gold Award for safety for the 20th year in a row. To qualify for the annual safety award, a firm must have no fatalities during the calendar year at the site for which the award was given and maintain an incident rate at least 50 percent below average for its industry group. RICHMOND, UTAH Our Richmond plant has achieved a Total Recordable Incident Rate of 1.0 for seven years in a row, which is significantly below our sector’s industry standard, and has gone more than 440 days without a recordable incident. This success is thanks, in large part, to the “Red Belt” safety team’s relentless efforts to drive safety engagement and shift culture to a zeroaccident mindset. The Plant Management team also played a critical role in achieving 100 percent participation in the facility’s 90-day safety blitz. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41 SHARED Helping Campbell Campbell’s Affinity Groups Women Lift Each Our affinity groups, also known as id Networks, are employee-led, Other Up company-supported volunteer organizations that help us focus and connect with our increasingly diverse employee and consumer bases. We rely heavily on them as pathways to leverage talent and increase cultural How can a company make more room curiosity, sensitivity and connection. Our groups currently include: for women in top leadership positions? One way is to ensure that women are • Asian Network of Campbell • Maxton American Indian empowered and included at every (ANC): Focuses on Asian Network (MAIN): Empowers step in the career pipeline. This was employee and professional and engages American Indian the thinking behind Be Real Circles, an development employees at our Maxton opportunity for leading Campbell women • Black Resource Group (BRG): manufacturing facility to “pay it forward” to other women on Works to attract, retain and • Our Pride Employees Network their way up. empower top black talent (OPEN): Aims to add value • Bridge Network: Fosters through LGBT initiatives The idea originated with a group of trust and collaboration across • Roots: Inspires employees the company’s top female leaders who generations to bring our Purpose to life were being mentored by Campbell CEO • Campbell Administrative by engaging the Campbell Denise Morrison. In 2017, these women Professionals (CAPs): Enhances community around real food decided to share what they’d learned organizations’ vitality and and sustainability with a wider audience. The Be Real promotes excellence among • Women of Campbell (WoC): Circles were launched as a pilot program administrative employees Strives to help Campbell women by Women of Campbell (WOC) during • Latino Network: Creates an achieve and demonstrate their Women’s History Month in March. Each environment of inclusion and full potential Circle is facilitated by one of the female provides consumer insights leaders, who mentors a group of no related to Hispanic employees more than eight Campbell women. Circle and consumers leaders use a toolkit and discussion 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42 SHARED Helping Campbell Women Lift Each Other Up, cont. guides to help direct conversations— but the most valuable lessons may come in the form of advice on things Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste they’ve learned firsthand. Through this program, WOC hopes to help more women at every level of the company build connections that broaden their networks, promote experiences that help women learn and grow, and build confidence in women’s leadership capabilities. Out and Proud Bethmara Kessler SVP, Integrated Global Services our marketing, such as My career journey has led me to many crossroads—am our Made for Real, Real I in the closet, or am I out? For most of my career I was Life campaign features in—a very difficult place to be. I had to compartmentalize modern American myself into two separate people; Work Me and Real Me. families, including gay Integrity prevented me from lying about who I was, so and lesbian couples. I built a wall of privacy around my life outside of work. Making authentic connections with people was never Our differences make truly possible. us awesome. That’s why I tell Campbell employees to show their pride and be themselves. There’s no one This story is not unique. It applies to all of us. It’s familiar else you can be. to kids who grew up feeling different, who played on the perimeter of the playground but never got picked for a team. It’s familiar to the mom or dad who leaves work at 5 p.m. to pick up a child from daycare and detects a side-eye glance from colleagues. It’s familiar to anyone Recognitions trying to be someone they are not. NJBIZ Magazine Best Fifty Women in Business As I considered the opportunity to join Campbell 2017 three years ago, being fully out was non-negotiable. Now, three years later, being out has never been an Philadelphia Diversity issue—Campbell not only encourages, but embraces and Leadership Conference, the real me. I’m proud to be part of an organization Most Powerful and Influential Women that has scored 100 percent on the Human Rights 2017 Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index not once, but OUTstanding and the Financial Times eight times. I am proud that this company embraces Named #25 on the list of employee diversity with affinity networks, which I have 100 top LGBT+ executives dedicated my time to as the executive sponsor of Our 2017 Pride Employee Network (OPEN). And I’m proud that 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43 What’s New in Real Food PAGE 46 A Better Soup What We’re Taking From the Can Up Out of Our Food PAGE 47 PAGE 48 SHARED Consumers Inside the Personalized Nutrition Revolution with Habit’s CEO PAGE 51 Putting Transparency on the Menu PAGE 49 Investing in the Future of Food PAGE 52 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44 $4,475 $5,372 $5,691 $6,11 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Metrics Metrics That That Matter Matter1 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 How We Manage SALES FROM PRODUCTS WITH REDUCED $4,475$2,666 57% NEGATIVE NUTRIENTS2 Campbell’s Real Food Philosophy has revolutionized the way 59% (revenue, in millions) we think, talk and act about our food. We’re staying abreast of $5,372 53% $3,200 changes in food and nutrition to better understand how we can $5,691 55% $3,297 2017 provide consumers with the healthy foods they desire and thus Increased over 4 percentage identify opportunities for growth. If Campbell doesn’t evolve with $6,115 59% $3,344 points compared to FY2016, driven by the inclusion these changes, we risk being left behind. of V8® 100% Vegetable ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Juice and the launch of One important trend we’re addressing is consumer demand Well Yes!® soups. for greater transparency. Campbell is committed to setting ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 the standard for transparency in the food industry, sharing more information about what goes into our food and listening more closely to consumers about what matters to them. These SALES FROM PRODUCTS conversations have led us to add positive ingredients, like WITH INCREASED vegetables and whole grains, and minimize negative nutrients, 32% POSITIVE NUTRIENTS2 (revenue, in millions) like sodium and sugar; expand our organic offerings; and remove $2,66657% 34% substances of concern, like artificial colors and flavors, antibiotics 53% $3,200 32% 2017 in chicken meat and BPA linings in steel cans. Increased 1.5 percentage 55% $3,297 32% points compared to FY2016, This mindset has inspired brand-new products that deliver whole $3,344 59%32% again driven by a change in our criteria to include V8® grains, vegetables, lean protein and plant-based options for 100% Vegetable Juice and consumers. These new products have required us to identify Well Yes!® soups. new suppliers, production methods and packaging alternatives, ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 and, as we make progress, we’re sharing what we learn at every ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 step. On the public policy front, we’re a leading advocate for ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 guidelines that tell consumers more about what’s in their food, including mandatory labeling of GMOs. We believe that people SALES FROM have a right to know what they’re eating and feeding their HEALTHY PRODUCTS 29% (revenue, in millions) families, and we will continue to push for greater transparency throughout our supply chain and across our industry. $2,666 $2,508 34% 2017 In response to global increases in chronic diseases and greater 32% $3,200 $2,929 Increased compared to FY2016, primarily driven by gains in understanding of the links between food and health, we are also 32% $3,297 $2,898 Prego® sauces and Campbell’s® observing heightened consumer interest in fresh and healthy 32% $3,344 $2,998 pasta, despite a drop in overall foods. Consumers are seeking out more nutritious, personalized sales. This performance supports our new strategy to food that suits their lifestyles and values. We’re seeing the drive growth in health and emergence of an age in which shoppers purchase food online well-being categories. ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 and use technology to track and monitor their personal health. ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 As this new food future evolves, Campbell is committed to being ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Delivered the leading health and well-being food company. >15.7 Billion Servings of 1 B  eginning in FY2015, we began reporting on our global data to include Latin America, Canada and AsiaPacific regions. For definitions of these three reporting categories, please see page 66 in the Appendix. 2 For FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and Reduction of Vegetables to the Global Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is less than US FDA’s Voluntary Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category. Marketplace in 2017 0832% 34% 29% $2,929 32% 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45 $2,898 8%32% 29% $2,998 32% SHARED What’s New in Real Food Campbell is on a mission to be the leading health and well-being food company with new products that bring our Real Food Philosophy to life, one delicious bite or slurp at a time. CAMPBELL CANADA BOLTHOUSE FARMS® NO SALT ADDED PACE® ORGANIC PLANT PROTEIN MILK CONDENSED SOUPS SALSA With more calcium than dairy milk and Campbell Canada launched condensed Pace expanded their line of salsas with 10 grams of protein per serving, this pea Cream of Mushroom and Cream of the introduction of organic varieties. Pace protein milk contains nutrients many Chicken soups with no salt added. These Organic salsa uses the finest organic consumers want—without the dairy and soups help consumers make delicious tomatoes, jalapeño peppers and onions other ingredients they don’t. meals that meet their dietary needs. to deliver consistent crisp texture with just the right amount of kick. PEPPERIDGE FARM PLUM ORGANICS® PREGO FARMERS’ FARMHOUSE® COOKIES EAT YOUR COLORS® POUCHES MARKET® SAUCES Made with simple ingredients like Plum understands the importance of These new sauces are made with rich chocolate, creamery butter, building healthy habits from the start. ingredients you’d find at your local cage-free eggs and vanilla extract, The Eat Your Colors clear pouches were farmers’ market, like vine-ripened Farmhouse cookies make for a developed to engage babies’ senses, tomatoes and fresh oregano. wholesome indulgence. and introduces them to a range of exciting, healthy new ingredients such as red bell pepper, turmeric, sorghum and cauliflower. WELL YES!® SOUPS VITA-WEAT® CRACKER CHIPS GOLDFISH® COLORS Deliciously crafted with real ingredients A healthier option for satisfying savory BAKED WITH WHOLE GRAIN you know and understand, but with cravings, new Vita-Weat Cracker Chips Newly launched as part of the whole unexpected flavors you’ll love. Our combine the goodness of at least 60 grain Goldfish line, these new crackers ingredients are chosen purposefully percent whole grain brown rice from offer the Goldfish taste consumers to make you feel good about what Australia with corn and seeds, oven know and love with 12 grams of whole you’re eating in every bite. baked with no artificial colors, flavors grains per serving and colors sourced or preservatives. from plants. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46 SHARED What We’re Taking Out of Our Food We are working hard to deliver real food with recognizable ingredients. We make decisions about what ingredients to use in our recipes based on the best health and nutrition science, and we’re learning more every day. We also improve with feedback from our consumers, who know best what’s right for them and their families. WHAT WE’RE REMOVING WHAT WE’VE ACHIEVED* WHY IT MATTERS Transitioned to 100% of Consumers shared health concerns regarding the steel can linings in U.S. presence of bisphenol A (BPA) in steel cans. We BPA linings in soup cans and Canada listened, and have transitioned to linings made from acrylic and polyester. 97% of our chicken meat We will no longer allow antibiotics to be added to the is antibiotic free feed, water or any commercial vaccines used by our chicken suppliers. That’s a big step: We source about Antibiotics in chicken 40 million pounds of chicken every year. meat Removed in 98% of We know that many people, and parents in particular, products are keen to avoid artificial colors and flavors. We have been working to remove these ingredients and have Artificial colors and flavors made substantial progress. *All achievements apply only to products sold in North America. Well Yes!®, Campbell’s new line of soups launched in 2017, met all three of these standards from the start. Learn more about this delicious new product inspired by the power of Real Food. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47 SHARED Well Yes!®: A Better Soup From the Can Up What happens when you put nutritionists began talking to consumers for the company. The process transparency, health and well-being and discovered a similar need. People forced us to think differently—not first when crafting a new product? Look craved delicious meals with clean labels just about ingredients, but also flavor no further than Well Yes!, a new line of and purposeful ingredients, like kale, combinations and even package soups launched in early 2017. quinoa and lean protein. But they didn’t design. The team also managed to want to compromise on affordability. iterate rapidly, entering the market The idea began with a group of six months ahead of schedule. Campbell employees who started With these desires in mind, we looked thinking about their own cooking—and back into our supply chain. We leveraged The result is Well Yes!, a line of soups realized there was something missing relationships with existing suppliers to that meet consumer demands for from the soup aisle at supermarkets. source classic ingredients like tomatoes cleaner ingredients and provide an These employees wanted a soup that and celery, and built new relationships incredibly strong nutritional profile. contained real, nutritious ingredients with small-scale suppliers for ingredients Each Well Yes! variety uses real food they could feel good about serving their that are firsts for Campbell, such as black ingredients to deliver at least two families. They also wanted something barley, fennel, farro and jicama. positive nutrients like iron, potassium, quick and easy to prepare: food that fit calcium, vitamin A, protein or fiber into their busy lives. The cross-functional team that and most also deliver a serving of undertook this project co-created the vegetables. Take a closer look: They suspected others felt the same product with a group of consumers, way. Our chefs, product developers and which was an entirely new approach WHAT’S THERE Kale • Barley • Beans • Lentils • Sweet Potatoes • Whole Grains • Fiber • Antibiotic-Free Chicken Meat WHAT’S NOT Well Yes! is one of the most successful Campbell soup launches of the past 10 years, Artificial Colors • achieving $28 million in retail sales in just six months. Since the brand launched, we’ve Artificial Flavors • introduced five new varieties and made our Artificial Ingredients • way into 6 million households—allowing more people than ever to say yes to real food. Modified Starches • MSG • BPA in Cans 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48 SHARED Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste Putting Transparency on the Menu Since the days of our founder, who exploring new ways to tell consumers insisted on using only Jersey beefsteak more about what’s in their food. tomatoes in our cans of soup, openness about our ingredients has been part WhatsInMyFood.com of Campbell’s consumer promise. With Consumers asked, “What’s in my food?” the launch of our Purpose and Real and we’re answering. This website Food Philosophy, we’ve rededicated dives deep into the choices behind ourselves to serving real food to our the ingredients in Campbell’s brands, consumers and sharing more about including where they come from and what’s in our products. how they’re prepared. It also addresses less common ingredients and explains Our Real Food Philosophy combines their purposes, such as to improve color the wisdom of our heritage with insights or texture. Arnott’s, Campbell Canada, about what matters to consumers today. Pepperidge Farm and Plum Organics Transparency is the foundation of this introduced similar transparency philosophy. We believe that transparency webpages in 2016 and 2017. builds trust, and we strive to be open about our ingredients, processes and The Sage Project decisions regarding our food. While we’re proud to offer brand-level transparency on WhatsInMyFood.com, This isn’t just theoretical. Transparency we wanted to go deeper and share touches every aspect of our business, what’s inside individual Campbell from supplier engagement and products. To determine what and how talent development to our annual to share, we talked with consumers to incentive program. Nowhere is this better understand their expectations. commitment clearer than in how We learned that about one in three The Sage Project presents product-level we’re communicating with consumers. consumers is actively seeking product data in a user-friendly way. Across our products and brands, we’re information beyond what’s available 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49 SHARED Putting Transparency on the Menu, cont. on a label, including nutrition profiles, nutrients of public health concern, such definitions of unfamiliar ingredients and as potassium and Vitamin D. Campbell ingredient origins. became one of the first food companies to use these new standards, and These insights led us to The Sage although the FDA has delayed the date Project, a nutrition technology startup at which it will require full compliance, that is helping us present product-level we’re continuing to strive to meet the data in a compelling, user-friendly way. original deadline of July 2018. We began with a pilot with our new Well Yes!® soups. When a user visits a Campbell also continues to participate product page on the Well Yes! website, in the Facts Up Front program, printing they can view a product’s nutritional calories per serving and nutrients to content, ingredient descriptions, a limit on the front of product packages. list of potential allergens and other As new issues rise to the forefront important information, like whether it’s of consumers’ minds, Campbell will sold in recyclable packaging. Campbell find new ways to deliver our Purpose will expand this information to more and give people the information they U.S. SKUs over the next two years, deserve about the food they eat. and consumers can easily access this information on brand websites. The Australian government has introduced new Country of Origin food Campbell Leads on Pushing for Nationwide Progress labeling. Arnott’s has started applying GMO Transparency We believe that knowing what’s these easy-to-understand labels across in your food should be a right for Campbell’s® soups, simple meals, stocks In 2016, Campbell became the all consumers—not just those who and V8® juices. The new labels tell first major food company to purchase our products. That’s why we’re consumers at a glance where their food support a mandatory national advocating for smart national policies is grown, produced, made or packed labeling standard for products regarding food labeling and staying on and also shows what percentage of the that contain genetically modified the leading edge of compliance with ingredients come from Australia. organisms (GMOs). We’ve new requirements. The Food and Drug put that stance into action by Administration’s (FDA) new Nutrition Our Arnott’s business also continues labeling all U.S. products that Facts panel is designed to be easier to roll out Health Star Ratings across the contain ingredients derived to interpret, with calories more visible entire portfolio. This front-of-pack labeling from GMO crops. The decisions and both per-serving and per-container system provides a quick, standard way to we have made with regard to nutrition information for certain package compare similar packaged foods, helping GMOs have not been because sizes. The new panels also calculate consumers to easily make informed we dispute the science behind added sugars as a percentage of decisions about the foods they buy. GMOs or their safety. The total sugars and require reporting of overwhelming weight of scientific evidence indicates that GMOs are safe and that foods derived from crops using genetically modified seeds OLD NEW are not nutritionally different from other foods. Instead, the decision was guided by our Purpose and our commitment to be open and honest about our food. GMO labeling is a practice that the majority of Americans support, and we believe it is the right thing to do for consumers and for our business. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 50 SHARED Inside the Personalized Nutrition Revolution with Habit’s CEO Imagine if people could leave behind and is now available nationally. The the trial and error of fad diets, and pilot yielded valuable insights for Habit instead gain their own “nutrition and Campbell as we continue to serve intuition.” That idea was the inspiration consumers seeking to lead healthier for Habit, a new company in which lives. Neil Grimmer, Habit CEO and Campbell is the sole investor. Think co-founder of Plum Organics, shares of Habit as a personal nutritionist and the personal journey that changed his eating coach. The company began outlook on food. with a pilot in San Francisco, California, Neil Grimmer I’ve always wanted to get more from my food. In my early 30s, I helped start and run Plum Organics and was so focused on bringing the best, healthy food to kids that I lost sight of my own health. Too much work, too much food and mega-dosing of caffeine, combined with not enough sleep, healthy food or exercise was a damaging, but all too common, lifestyle. One day, I looked in the mirror and saw a stranger. I was 50 pounds heavier than my weight 10 years prior, and my unhealthy startup lifestyle was leading me to some serious health issues. With guidance from physicians and nutritionists, I learned that much of what I was battling could be resolved—not with pharmaceuticals or fad diets—but with real, healthy, whole food, in amounts and ratios that were optimized specifically for me. I wanted this type of health transformation to be available to anyone. That’s how Habit was born. Habit brings together a brilliant team of scientists, registered dietitians, nutritionists, technologists, food scientists, health coaches, designers and business leaders. We’re on a mission to feed human potential through the power of personalized nutrition, and through Habit, we believe food can transform lives, one plate at a time. How It Works 1 Test. Use an at-home test kit to measure more than 60 nutritional biomarkers, then mail samples to a certified lab. 2 Learn. Habit analyzes your data to determine your body’s unique response to different nutrients, then designs an eating plan just for you. 3 Transform. A nutrition coach helps you define your goals, and can recommend nutritious meals and hero foods with your needs in mind. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51 SHARED Investing in the Future of Food Consumer desires are changing, Real Food Innovation Challenge shifting toward ingredients and Campbell is now working with products that promote health and wellPilotworks, a kitchen incubator being. And technology is transforming dedicated to growing early-stage the way we learn about, purchase retail and wholesale food businesses. and prepare what we eat. That’s why Through this relationship, we’ll help Campbell is developing an ecosystem support up-and-coming innovators of innovative partners who are defining with a passion for real food. We the future of food. Explore the many kicked off in summer 2017 with the ways we’re bringing about a new kind Real Food Innovation Challenge at of food system. their commercial kitchens in Brooklyn, New York. Campbell invited Pilotworks In early 2016, we announced the members to participate in an idea pitch formation of a venture capital fund that session, and out of nearly 40 entries, will invest $125 million in innovative Campbell selected seven finalists to companies across the food system. To present their ideas to judges in front date, this fund has made commitments of a live audience. to companies like Farmers Business Network, Back to the Roots and To choose the winners, the judges Pilotworks (formerly Foodworks). used criteria influenced by Campbell’s Purpose and Real Food Philosophy. Another investment includes Spoiler The three winners—Red Velvet NYC, Alert, whose technology platform helps Better Almond Butter and Watermelon food businesses manage their unsold Road—received credits to apply to their inventory and increase food access Pilotworks memberships. As a second nationwide. Through this investment, part of the partnership, these winners Spoiler Alert will begin tackling the and other Pilotworks members will have food waste problem in the U.S., which access to professional advice on topics amounts to $220 billion in wasted food such as branding, marketing, product every year. development and packaging—in the form of nearly 20 Campbell experts. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52 SHARED Investing in the Future of Food, cont. “In the future, Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste shopping for and preparing meals will be flexible, fully automated and even anticipatory. Chef’d will help Campbell connect with our consumers where they are today and, more importantly, where they’re headed.” Denise Morrison CEO, Campbell Soup Company MassChallenge • Technologies that can help people are already cracking the e-commerce MassChallenge calls itself “the prepare foods that are tastier, more code, like online meal kit company most startup-friendly accelerator nutritious and more affordable Chef’d. Chef’d enables people to on the planet.” With the PULSE@ choose and reorder from hundreds of MassChallenge program, a component Funders and startups were matched meals at any given time, without the of the Mass Digital Health Initiative, the at the end of 2017, and the accelerator hassle and cost of subscriptions or accelerator plays matchmaker between began in early 2018. At the end of the membership fees. Chef’d partners with promising digital health companies and program, $200,000 will be distributed notable chefs, culinary personalities business and health care experts. An to program winners to scale their ideas. and over 125 trusted brands to offer important component of the program more than 1,000 meal solutions. is the “reverse pitch” process, in which Chef’d® potential investors tell entrepreneurs Campbell believes that the future of With our $10 million investment and what sorts of initiatives they’d like to grocery shopping is digital. Today, only strategic partnership with the company, fund. In its first year as a Champion a small percentage of our food is sold Chef’d will help us with infrastructure partner, Campbell paired with AARP online, but we believe that our industry and distribution of meal solutions to encourage entrepreneurs to submit is headed for a disruption like the ones through Campbell’s Kitchen™. We’ll also ideas related to: that transformed how we buy music, benefit from insights on e-commerce clothing and other goods. By 2021, business models, data analytics and • Food that enhances sustained mental Campbell expects e-commerce sales of shopper behaviors. Over the next three and physical energy food and beverages to reach $66 billion, years, we will work together to test new • Food that helps prevent chronic growing at a compound annual rate of capabilities related to product innovation disease, like obesity, diabetes and 38 percent. and fulfillment. As our grocery shopping cardiovascular disease carts become increasingly virtual, we One way we’ll leverage this opportunity look forward to seeing where this is by partnering with companies that partnership leads. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53 Our Community Affairs Strategy Building a PAGE 56 Network of Real Solutions PAGE 58 Lasting Solutions for Our Hometowns PAGE 57 SHARED Communities Eat Your Soulfull Make a PAGE 59 Difference Giving That Matters Week 2017 in Detroit PAGE 60 PAGE 58 Arnott’s Employees Make a Difference Feeding People, in Southeast Ending Food Waste: Healthy Eating Asia That’s Just From the Very Start PAGE 62 Peachy PAGE 61 PAGE 61 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54 Metrics That Matter How We Manage CHARITABLE GIVING, Campbell’s commitment to being the leading health and well$70.4 INCLUDING IN-KIND being food company includes helping to ensure that real food $59.2 (in millions) $65.1 remains accessible to all. As a food company, we are uniquely $61.9 $70.4 $70.4 positioned to leverage our capabilities and expertise to increase food access across the world, and we center our volunteerism $59.2 $59.2 and philanthropic investments on this issue. We also have $65.1 $65.1 a commitment to strengthen and empower communities, $61.9 $61.9 specifically within Campbell’s hometowns. Campbell has long been committed to supporting and empowering ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 people in our hometown communities. We’ve made important strides through the Campbell Healthy Communities program, ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 the Campbell Soup Foundation, cash and in-kind support and employee volunteerism. With the launch of our new company 15,000 ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Purpose and Values, we have taken a fresh look at our community 14,100 12,000 EMPLOYEE strategy to ensure it is aligned with Campbell’s priorities and our VOLUNTEER HOURS 12,200 15,000 15,000 communities’ needs today. 14,100 14,100 Our new Community Affairs platform is “Giving that matters,” and 12,000 12,000 our aim is to strengthen and empower healthy communities in 12,200 12,200 Campbell’s hometowns. With this new focus comes a new way to think about our role. No longer are we exclusively a grant maker that executes individual programs and events; we are becoming a change maker that invests in long-term, sustainable impact. ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 Our change philosophy is simple–we are working to create local impact through bold solutions and systematic interventions in ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 partnership with community members. ‘14 ‘15 ‘16 ‘17 GLOBAL GIVING In-kind: $53.2M Cause Marketing: $3.5M Foundation: $2.2M Corporate Contributions: $2M In-kind: $53.2M Employee Giving: $1M Cause Marketing: $3.5M Total: $61,948,821 In-kind: $53.2M Foundation: $2.2M Cause Marketing: Corporate Contributions: $3.5M $2M Foundation: Employee Giving: $2.2M $1M Corporate Total: Contributions: $2M $61,948,821 Employee Giving: $1M Total: $61,948,821 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55 SHARED Our Community Affairs Strategy NURTURE CAMPBELL INCREASE HEALTHY FOOD ACCESS ENCOURAGE HEALTHY LIVING NEIGHBORHOODS Increase availability of and Expand nutrition education and Transform the physical spaces where accessibility to real, fresh foods active lifestyle programs people live, learn and play How We’re Making Change • Establishing fresh food access • Improving nutrition education • Providing safe places to play points such as corner stores, and awareness in schools and • Restoring parks and trails farmer’s markets and grocery stores alternative settings, like doctor’s offices • Promoting active transportation • Creating voucher programs for infrastructure, such as bike lanes healthy food • Offering cooking classes • Repurposing of vacant lots for safe • Developing innovative solutions • Creating city-wide initiatives for resident use for food waste structured play • Addressing barriers to healthy, • Launching healthy school food safe communities programs • Supporting local agriculture 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 56 SHARED Lasting Solutions for Our Hometowns Our signature community affairs program, includes a common agenda among network of partner organizations, rather Campbell Healthy Communities, is partners, shared measurement systems, than belonging to any one individually. a 10-year, $10 million commitment to continuous communications, mutually While the initial focus of this program measurably improve the health of young reinforcing activities and a backbone was on our community in Camden, New people in our hometown communities. leadership organization, which for Jersey, the initiative has expanded to Launched in 2010, Campbell Healthy Camden is Get Healthy Camden. The four additional Campbell communities. Communities uses a differentiated goal is for this work to live sustainably collective impact approach which in the Camden community through a How We’re Making Change in Camden Heart Bucks Coupons for heart-healthy food for participants in in-store nutrition education 95% $5,288 Heart Bucks Spent on heart-healthy redeemed food Soccer for Success Structured after-school activity for students 17 956 10,538 Sites Participants Hours of soccer played Healthy Corner Stores Increasing fresh food availability in local stores 50 90% Stores Store owners report participating increased healthy product sales 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 57 SHARED Building a Network of Real Solutions Campbell Healthy Communities The impact has been widespread. Take established the Healthy Corner Edward, a local Camden resident. In Store Network, which is designed to early 2015, Edward would visit a local increase access to affordable, healthy corner store every day to purchase food in low-income neighborhoods lottery tickets. After being convinced by providing technical assistance to to try an in-store nutrition education store owners. In Camden, a city of lesson, he liked it so much that he 77,000 residents with no full-service returned for 10 more lessons and was grocery store, corner stores are a an active participant in health screenings key to healthy food access in the and Heart Bucks redemption. Edward, city. Of 50 participating corner stores, who had uncontrolled Type 2 diabetes, 90 percent reported increases in not only lost 40 pounds over the course sales of healthy foods at their of the year, but also decreased his A1C locations after the program began. levels from 12.7 percent to 5.2 percent. Corner stores are The program has expanded to include “The program changed my life a key to healthy Heart Smarts, a supplementary program completely,” Edward said. “It’s all that provides onsite health screenings, because of the nutrition education food access in in-store nutrition education and cooking lessons in the store, the Heart Bucks Camden and other lessons as well as distribution of Heart coupons and help from my doctor that communities Bucks, coupons that are redeemed for I’ve been able to make such a drastic healthy food. change in my life.” Giving That Matters in Detroit In December of 2016, Campbell’s Metro for daily meal preparation. The local Detroit Healthy Communities program Garden Fresh Gourmet team used a held a Special Pantry with Forgotten Ferndale community Facebook site Harvest and Gleaners Community to ask neighbors to donate grocery Food Bank, along with our school site, store gift cards for each family, and, Ferndale Lower Elementary. Families in with the community’s help, every need were invited to our Special Pantry family also received a $25 gift card to receive food to help them prepare a to a neighborhood grocery store. worry-free holiday dinner and more. Through the collaboration of a few local organizations and the Ferndale, More than 100 local families attended Michigan, community, we ensured that the event on a snowy afternoon. more than 100 families were foodEvery participating family received a secure during the holiday season. ham or turkey, bread, fresh seasonal fruits and vegetables, dairy products, fresh pies and other items needed 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 58 SHARED In a single year, The Soulfull Project delivered: 100,000 servings of cereal to people at 57 food banks across the mid-Atlantic and is now in the process of expanding nationally Eat Your Soulfull® What you have for breakfast can set give back in their own communities. the tone for the rest of your day. Eating To celebrate local communities and whole grains can lead to healthier inspire action, Soulfull kicked off its choices—and knowing your meal is first product launch in 2016 with “The helping another person can jumpstart Soulfull 100.” The campaign consisted a day of doing good. of 100 volunteer events held over 100 days. The events, which were That was the driving force for four chronicled on social media, drove Campbell employees—a marketing brand recognition and served as a manager, a design manager, an R&D daily reminder of Soulfull’s mission. scientist and a chef—who founded The patrons, many of whom live with chronic The stories struck a chord: over Soulfull Project, a “buy one, give one” health issues like diabetes. the three-month period, Soulfull’s Public Benefit Corporation and certified Facebook followers grew from 300 B Corp. For each serving of hot cereal A Delicious Difference to more than 19,000, and the company the company sells, another serving Since its inception, Campbell Soup gained more than 200 nonprofit is donated to a food bank to feed Company has funded The Soulfull giving partners nationwide. someone in need. Project. The founders pitched their idea to the company’s senior leaders, The Soulfull Project has inspired many The team developed their cereals in and Campbell responded with funding, across the nation and within our own collaboration with the Food Bank of resources—including the use of the pilot walls. The startup has introduced us South Jersey, who helped the team plant at Campbell’s world headquarters— to new business models and ways identify breakfast as the meal during and connections to suppliers. The newly to engage consumers. Recently, the which it is hardest for their patrons to certified B Corp is now in the process of Soulfull team was asked to speak to make healthy choices. Partnering with expanding nationally, adding capacity in participants in an internal “Shark Tank”– the food bank, Soulfull developed its R&D and sales. inspired employee competition, one of first product, Four Grain Hot Cereal, a many efforts helping employees live combination of rye, oats, barley and More Than Just Breakfast into one of Campbell’s core Values, red quinoa with no added sugar, a Donating food has never been “Own It Like a Founder.” rare quality for breakfast foods. It was The Soulfull Project’s only goal. The a welcome alternative for food bank company’s founders also wanted to 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 59 SHARED Make a Difference Week 2017 During Make a Difference Week, our annual week of service, Campbell employees from across the company come together to help our local communities thrive. See what our people accomplished during our biggest year yet. 3,800 Campbell employees 4,000 Volunteer Hours 20+ Organizations Served 18 Locations 10,000 Backpacks Full of Food Donated Through Feeding America’s Backpack Program $60,000 Awarded to Nonprofits Through the Campbell Soup Foundation 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 60 SHARED Feeding People, Ending Food Waste: That’s Just Peachy® Five years ago, a team of Campbell employees put their heads together with the Food Bank of South Jersey to address a major food waste dilemma: supermarkets often won’t accept undersized or misshapen produce, despite its being perfectly safe and nutritious to eat. This leads to millions of pounds of fresh, nourishing fruits and Since 2012, Just Peachy salsa has vegetables being wasted every year, rescued some of the 800,000 pounds even while many communities, like of peaches thrown away each year our New Jersey hometown, face food by just one farmer’s cooperative in insecurity. We thought there must be a southern New Jersey. We make the way to address both of these challenges salsa in our pilot plant in Camden, at once—and Just Peachy was born. New Jersey, and employees volunteer to package each new batch. Just Impact Since 2012: Peachy salsa is sold at more than 100 New Jersey retailers, including farmer’s markets, restaurants and select 200,000 600,000 ShopRite stores, and all profits support Jars of salsa produced Meals funded by program hunger relief programs at the Food Bank of South Jersey. It’s a peachy deal for the planet and everyone involved: $300,000 $500,000 growers, Campbell employees, the Revenue generated for the In dumping fees saved by Food Bank and salsa lovers alike. Food Bank of South Jersey area farmers Healthy Eating From the Very Start In FY2017 Plum Organics is rooted in its mission to provide the Plum Organics Funded: very best food from the very first bite and, as a Public Benefit Corporation (PBC), is committed to advancing 2 Private nursing areas solutions for childhood hunger and malnutrition in the U.S. Since the 2013 inception of The Full Effect®, their 25 Breast give-back program, Plum Organics has donated over pumps 15,000,0001 meals and snacks to little ones in need. 30 Bed top 5 Lactation In FY2017, Plum Organics accelerated their ongoing co-sleepers educators commitment to the Homeless Prenatal Program (HPP) in San Francisco, California. HPP works to break the cycle 200 Nursing 57 Staff trained of childhood poverty by helping families become more covers on breastfeeding healthy and economically stable. A $50,000 grant from Plum Organics helped HPP expand its breastfeeding 233 Baby 3 Healthy carriers feeding classes resources, increasing the number of mothers and babies HPP can help start life off right. Plum Organics will continue its support of HPP in FY2018. 1 Please note that 15M is based on FY2017 numbers, and more has been donated since then. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 61 SHARED Arnott’s Employees Make a Difference in Southeast Asia At Arnott’s offices and manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Malaysia, our employees are taking time outside of work to improve their communities and help children in need. Here are just a few ways we’re bringing our Purpose to life. Supporting Healthy Communities a classroom on wheels, carrying in Campbell’s enough laptops for 10 students and Hometowns a teacher. The program will operate for one year, during which Arnott’s will Founded in 1953, the Campbell help educate more than 200 children. Soup Foundation provides financial support to local organizations Arnott’s Malaysia that inspire positive change in • Children everywhere need the right communities where Campbell tools to succeed in school. For its employees live and work. The “Bag to School” initiative, Arnott’s Foundation’s grantmaking Arnott’s Indonesia identified 188 primary school students focuses on strategic giving to • The Indonesian government has in need across three schools in the strengthen and empower healthy made a pledge to clean up garbage Klang Valley. Employees sponsored communities in Campbell’s homeacross the country by 2020. An children by donating school bags, towns. The Foundation is entirely Arnott’s team, along with local supplies and water bottles, with employee-run, governed by a community leaders, participated in Arnott’s matching their donations. Board of Trustees comprised of a cleanup day on Kenjeran Beach senior executives, and advised in Surabaya. To help with ongoing • The Lighthouse Children’s Welfare by an employee-led Executive efforts, Arnott’s donated mountain Home in Bangsar got a surprise Committee. In FY2017, the bikes that will help sanitation teams when Arnott’s delivered lunchboxes Foundation provided $1.7 million clean up the country even faster. packed with healthy foods—plus in grants, including a youth urban a few treats to enjoy. Employees farming program and mobile • Partnering with YCAB, a local packed 100 lunchboxes with fruits, teaching kitchen in Camden, youth development organization, vegetables and Campbell’s® soup, New Jersey, as well as a food Arnott’s will offer computer lessons and “party packs” with Tim Tam®, waste and recovery program in to underprivileged children. An Shapes® and Good Time® cookies. Bloomfield, Connecticut. Arnott’s-branded van will serve as A Record Year for The Arnott’s Foundation In FY2017, The Arnott’s Foundation had a record year of giving, granting more than $517,000 USD to deserving nonprofits across Australia. Of the total amount donated, $461,000 was donated to Camp Quality and $56,000 was donated to Fairy Sparkle. On top of this, over $1.5 million of product was donated to Foodbank and $39,000 was donated to Driver Reviver. What makes The Arnott’s Foundation unique is that the majority of funds are raised by employees and the Arnott’s community. Through direct giving and fundraising events, the Foundation was able to further its mission to create positive environments that allow families to build, maintain and enjoy a better quality of life. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 62 FY2017 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD Campbell’s FY2017 Performance Scorecard BUSINESS OVERVIEW (USD in millions) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Net Sales $8,268 $8,082 $7,961 $7,890 EBIT $1,267 $1,054 $960 $1,400 Taxes on Earnings $374 $283 $286 $406 Dividends Paid $391 $394 $390 $420 Capital Expenditures $347 $380 $341 $338 R&D $122 $117 $124 $111 GROWN1 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 GHG Emissions (kg CO2e/tonne of tomato) 0.007 0.006 0.006 0.006 Water Use (gallons/pound of tomato) 9.04 8.48 7.53 7.53 Nitrogen Use (pounds Nitrogen/tonne of tomato) 4.22 4.04 4.12 4.12 SOURCED FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Cage-Free Eggs N/A N/A N/A 12% “No Antibiotic Ever” Chicken N/A N/A N/A 97% Crate-Free Pork N/A N/A N/A 34% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO) N/A N/A 100% 100% PRODUCED2 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Energy Use Total Electricity Use (mmbtu) 2,427,704 2,401,815 2,337,129 2,488,054 Total Fuel Use (mmbtu) 7,796,569 7,691,784 7,249,795 7,932,234 Total Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,224,272 10,093,599 9,586,924 10,420,288 U.S. 8,325,676 8,113,734 7,569,380 8,039,806 Outside of U.S. 1,898,596 1,979,865 2,017,544 2,380,482 Energy Intensity (mmbtu/tonne of food produced) 2.43 2.54 2.58 2.77 Renewable Energy Generated (kWh) for the Grid3 20,574,861 20,903,897 22,116,941 27,670,475 Percent of Total Electricity Use 3% 3% 3% 4% Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 761,203 751,924 724,996 751,340 GHG Intensity (tonnes CO2e/tonne of food produced) 0.18 0.19 0.19 0.20 Direct (Scope 1) Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 432,900 427,731 403,057 416,838 U.S. 356,206 346,894 316,265 332,822 Outside of U.S. 76,694 80,837 86,792 84,016 Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 328,293 324,203 321,939 334,502 U.S. 248,309 242,872 245,801 258,397 Outside of U.S. 79,985 81,331 76,138 76,105 Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions (tonnes CO2e)4 10,314 7,366 8,443 9,742 Carbon Offsets Purchased (tonnes CO2e)5 33 23 51 77 Water Use Water Use (m3) 34,068,190 32,033,574 31,858,298 31,916,514 Water Intensity (m3/tonne of food produced) 8.09 8.07 8.56 8.53 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 63 FY2017 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD Campbell’s FY2017 Performance Scorecard, cont. PRODUCED2 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Waste Generation Total Waste Generated (tonnes) 485,296 479,408 450,814 445,237 Total Waste to Landfill (tonnes) 51,900 48,900 44,161 40,059 Total Waste to Incineration/Controlled Combustion (tonnes) 1,573 1,587 2,231 2,099 Total Recycled (tonnes) 22,668 47,255 43,343 36,535 Total Other Diverted Waste (tonnes) 409,155 381,666 361,079 366,544 Total Waste Diverted from Landfill (tonnes) 433,396 430,508 406,653 405,178 Landfill Diversion Rate 89% 90% 90% 91% Total Waste Intensity (tonnes/tonne of food produced) 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.12 Hazardous Waste Generated (tonnes) 6 45 38 50 55 SHARED FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)/200,000 hours 1.91 1.99 1.96 1.37 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)/200,000 hours 0.34 0.29 0.23 0.20 Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs) 1 1 1 5 Environmental Fines (USD) $27,000 $500 $1,500 $7,100 Women in Global Workforce 44% 44% 43% 43% Women in Management 36% 38% 41% 43% Women on the Board of Directors 31% 31% 31% 33% Charitable Giving, including In-Kind (USD in millions) $70.4 $59.2 $65.1 $61.9 Employee Volunteer Hours 15,000 14,100 12,000 12,200 Tuition Assistance Paid $0.82 $0.81 $0.79 $0.80 U.S. Health Care Expense $106 $100 $115 $121 Pension Income/Expense $35 $96 $279 $(230) Post-Retirement Medical & Life Expense $23 $29 $38 $(28) 401(k) Retirement Plan Contributions $29 $31 $33 $34 Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue in millions) 7 $4,475 $5,372 $5,691 $6,115 Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 57% 53% 55% 59% Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue in millions) 7 $2,666 $3,200 $3,297 $3,344 Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 34% 32% 32% 32% Healthy Products (revenue in millions) 7 $2,508 $2,929 $2,898 $2,998 Healthy Products (revenue/total revenue) 32% 29% 28% 29% 1 To drive consistency in our reporting metrics, sustainable agriculture data will be reported over fiscal year (FY) instead of calendar year (CY) moving forward. This means that the FY2017 tomato data under “Grown” in this Report is a restatement of CY2017 tomato data from last year’s Report. 2 We are restating our historic data because of improved data completeness and quality and full integration of data from our three most recent acquisitions completed through FY2017. Total waste has increased significantly compared to prior reports because we added animal feed waste for one of our acquistions, which previously we were not able to obtain data on. 3 Campbell generates renewable energy through onsite solar and fuel cell installations, but sells all of it to others. 4 Scope 3 emissions includes employee business travel by cars, planes and trains. Campbell is working to capture more emissions categories in FY2018. 5 Plum purchases carbon offsets in the amount of the GHG emissions from the energy used in its headquarters building in Emeryville, California. 6 We corrected a data collection error in our FY2016 data for hazardous waste. 7 For FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and Reduction of Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is less than US FDA’s Voluntary Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 64 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Public-Private Partnerships Health and Nutrition Stakeholder • Working collaboratively across USDA Engagement & Research and FDA agencies on implementation Many of Campbell’s business leaders of the new Nutrition Facts panels and serve as trustees or members of advisory Many of today’s complex nutrition GMO labeling. boards of organizations working to further issues require a collaborative and • Collaborating with retailer health corporate responsibility, including the multidisciplinary approach to solutions and wellness programs through the following: that span the public and private sectors. development of nutrition education • Advisory Committee on Supply Chain As an industry leader, Campbell resources, including recipes that aligned Competitiveness established a legacy in performing and with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, • American College of Nutrition supporting health and nutrition research, coupon and recipe booklets, nutrition • American Council for Fitness and education and consumer programs articles and more, to educate consumers Nutrition to improve consumer diets through about healthy eating. • American Physiological Society innovative partnerships with stakeholders • Providing continuing education credits to • American Society for Nutrition that in 2017 included: over 200 dietitians on culinary trends and • Boston College Center for Corporate • Participation in the Academy of Nutrition nutrition communications. Citizenship and Dietetics Nutrition Impact Summit. • Collaborating with global industry on • Center for Food Safety at The University The invitation-only event was convened the Consumer Goods Forum to develop of Georgia by the Academy and its Foundation to programs and share best practices in • Center for Research on Ingredient Safety explore collaborative opportunities to health and wellness promotion. at Michigan State University accelerate progress toward good health • Conducting an annual survey of dietitians • Congressional Management Foundation and well-being for all people. to collect feedback on our products, • Convergence Center for Policy • Participation in the American Heart clients’ consumption and referral habits, Resolution Association Healthier Food Leadership nutritional characteristics of products and • Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network Summit to discuss creating a healthier resources they seek for consumers. • Food Allergy Research and Resource future through collaboration, innovation • Continued engagement with the Interfaith Program (FARRP) at University of and development of guiding principles Center on Corporate Responsibility on Nebraska for change. public health issues, including obesity, • Food Bank of South Jersey • Membership, sponsorship and exhibition undernutrition and access to nutrition. • Foundation for Food and Agriculture at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics’ • Participation in the Access to Nutrition Research annual Food and Nutrition Conference Index assessment, which ranks the • Foundation for Strategic Sourcing & Expo (FNCE), where our corporate world’s largest food companies on their • Habitat for Humanity nutritionists get feedback on our products efforts in tackling nutrition challenges. • International Life Science Institute from health professionals. Campbell uses the report to help inform • Net Impact • Supporting the Produce for Better Health nutrition strategy and best practices in • New Jersey Agricultural Society Foundation, as a donor, on the Board policy development, transparency and • New Jersey Food Council of Trustees, through participation in the communication on nutrition issues. • Produce for Better Health Foundation marketing and communications and • Partnership and engagement with • Stewardship Index for Specialty Crops research subcommittees and through numerous academic institutions including • Sustainable Brands sponsorship of their annual meeting. the Pennsylvania State University, Tufts • The Consumer Goods Forum These efforts support Campbell’s University, Purdue University, University • The Sustainability Consortium Nutrition strategy (specific to fruits and of California at Davis, West Chester • United Way local chapters vegetables) and Real Food Philosophy University and others, on academic • University of Illinois Advisory Board, and help educate key stakeholders on curriculum, internships and research. Division of Nutritional Sciences and Campbell’s nutrition initiatives. • Participation in the Forum for the Department of Food Science and Human • Involvement in planning symposia for Future’s Protein Challenge 2040 Nutrition the American Society for Nutrition and U.S. Advisory Group. • USDA-USTR Agricultural Technical engaging the organization to stay upAdvisory Committee for Trade in to-date on research from top nutrition Processed Foods scientists in industry and academia. • World Economic Forum 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 65 APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement, cont. • Sustaining Arnott’s partnership with Scientific Advisors metrics are strong measurements of our the Dietitians Association of Australia commitment to health, but encouraged (DAA), the governing body of dietetic Our panel of Scientific Advisors is made up more transparency about the criteria. The and nutrition professionals in Australia, of respected food and nutrition scientists panel recommended we create policies through which Arnott’s supports from leading universities and private on our stance around food science and professional development. organizations. In December 2016, they controversies. In FY2018, the panel will • Developed a partnership with Dietitian reviewed our nutrition strategy and health work with us to develop position statements Connection, an online network of and wellness reporting as benchmarked on sensitive issues available for consumers dietitians in Australia. Through this against key competitors. They commended and investors. This will be our first step to partnership, Arnott’s engages with our efforts to provide fact-based information meet the panel’s recommendations to be nutrition professionals and encourages with websites like www.whatsinmyfood.com even more transparent about our stance on dialogue on the latest nutrition science and our dedication to transparency. The important nutrition and health issues. and trends. panel believes our criteria and reporting Nutrition Data Definitions Healthy: Products that meet the FDA and vegetable servings. These products products must also meet upper limits for all criteria for healthy, a Health Star Rating must also meet upper limits for negative negative nutrients in order to be classified of 3.5 or higher, comply with Health nutrients such as sodium, sugar, and under this category. Canada, or Mexico Dietary Guidelines. saturated fat. Presence of Positives: Products that Absence of Negatives: Products that have increased positive nutrients or are reduced in negative nutrients like food groups such as potassium, fiber, sodium, saturated fat, and sugar. These Corporate Responsibility Materiality In order to help Campbell identify and environmental, social and governance corporate responsibility organizations to prioritize our most relevant issues related topics. Our goal in this process is to help confirm our findings. to corporate responsibility, we conducted inform our overall corporate responsibility an in-depth materiality assessment in strategies, set priorities and ensure that Step 2: Stakeholder Survey FY2016. This process allowed us to our annual Corporate Responsibility Report We organized a widespread survey of better understand how the priorities communicates how we are managing global employees, customers (retailers), and concerns of external stakeholders those material issues. suppliers, NGOs, community partners, align with our business priorities and government or regulatory agencies, corporate responsibility objectives. The Our assessment adhered to the investors, trade organizations and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards following steps: consumers. The survey was not only sent mandate that organizations do a materiality directly to targeted external stakeholders, assessment as part of their reporting Step 1: Identification of Issues but was also posted publicly on Twitter process to inform what are the most We reviewed publicly available corporate and LinkedIn to gather input from as critical—or “material”—issues to report. responsibility communications of our peer varied an audience as possible. In total, set, including corporate responsibility we received responses from more than Campbell defines material corporate reports, press releases and corporate 1,250 survey participants. responsibility issues as those that websites, to analyze what issues and influence the judgment and decisions of initiatives currently are of priority across Step 3: Stakeholder Interviews our external and internal stakeholders our industry. We then conducted a To further vet the issues and rankings and have an impact on our stakeholders thorough media audit of trade, corporate as identified by the survey results, we and business today and in the future. responsibility and mainstream media conducted detailed stakeholder interviews. In order to identify the key issues of outlets to understand what issues are Sustainable Brands interviewed five importance, we seek the input of a variety trending and of the highest concern in internal stakeholders, while Business for of stakeholder groups and measure the the news. We also had conversations Social Responsibility interviewed five risks and opportunities for all relevant with various NGOs, investors and external stakeholders. In addition, we 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 66 APPENDIX Materiality, cont. conducted post-survey interviews • Community Involvement: Improving Environment internally with more than 60 employees the communities in which we live and • Water Stewardship: Managing water globally and 12 external stakeholders. work through philanthropic efforts, resources strategically throughout the including donations, volunteerism and value chain. Our stakeholders were asked to rate other community programming. • Packaging Footprint: Reducing the the importance of each of the following • Human Rights in the Supply Chain: environmental impact of our packaging. issues identified in our initial materiality Combatting child labor and forced labor • Food Waste: Addressing food waste research, including: in the supply chain and evaluating our and loss from farm to table. suppliers in the area of human rights. • Energy Management: Managing Responsible Business Practices energy usage and costs throughout • Transparency: Communicating openly Product Responsibility the value chain, including agriculture, with stakeholders on material issues • Food Safety and Quality: Setting and production, transportation and and being clear with customers and maintaining high standards for food distribution. consumers about what is in our food safety and quality, including programs, • Waste Reduction: Ensuring as little and where it comes from. policies and procedures that ensure waste as possible goes to landfill. • Responsible Sourcing Practices: safety of materials, manufacturing • Climate Change: Reducing GHG Addressing issues in the supply chain, environment and processes, and emissions and contributing to the including human rights, workplace finished products. mitigation of and adaptation to safety, being capable of fully tracing • Responsible Marketing: Adhering the effects of climate change, and product inputs to their supply source, to internal and industry guidelines understanding climate change risks. and full traceability of product inputs regarding consumer communications. • Deforestation: Understanding the in our supply chain. • Responsible Labeling: Providing impacts of deforestation in the value • Sustainable Business Models: Doing consumers with information through chain and making commitments to business in a way that increases the size labeling or other communications. mitigate the impacts. of the business while simultaneously • Sustainable Agriculture: Addressing reducing our environmental footprint Labor Practices issues related to farming, such as soil and increasing positive social impact. • Talent Management: Creating a health, pesticide use, deforestation, • Business Ethics: Upholding ethical workplace that attracts and retains biodiversity and water use. principles in the business and employees and includes professional • Logistics and Transportation: workplace, including consumer privacy, development, succession planning, Addressing the environmental impacts fraud, bribery, corruption and corporate training and education. from the transportation of our products. governance. • Diversity and Inclusion: Ensuring a • Public Policy and Engagement: diverse workplace. Step 4: Validation Actively engaging in public policy on • Occupational Health and Safety: Campbell’s Sustainability Steering issues affecting our industry. Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace. Committee met to review the findings • Workplace Culture: Ensuring and validate the issues. These issues Society employees have an inclusive and were then presented to various company • Health, Nutrition and Wellness: supportive workplace environment that leaders who also provided their input Improving the health profile of our includes a variety of benefits such as on the importance of these issues to products and engaging in public health care programs, paid time off and Campbell’s overall company strategies. discussions on healthy and nutritious work-life balance. lifestyles. • Human Rights in the Workplace: Based on the results of these steps, we • Animal Welfare: Ensuring the ethical Providing a workplace that respects created a materiality grid, which maps treatment of animals in our value chain. the basic human rights and freedoms of where our long-term business success • Food Access: Ensuring wholesome, all workers, including eliminating child aligns with marketplace and stakeholder nutritional food is available to as many labor, discrimination and forced labor. priorities. We will utilize these findings people as possible in an affordable to identify and validate opportunities for manner. strengthening our corporate responsibility strategies and reporting in the future. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 67 APPENDIX GRI Content Index DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 RESPONSE GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization The Campbell Soup Company 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Profile (5-6) 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile (6) 102-4 Location of operations Corporate Profile (6) 102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company 102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile (6) 102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile (6); 10-K p.13 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employees by Region and Type, Salary, and Gender Total Region Employees Full Time Part Time Hourly Salaried Male Female Americas 12,871 12,271 600 8,986 3,885 7,598 5,273 Europe 417 363 54 342 75 190 227 Asia-Pac 4,935 4,336 599 3,484 1,451 2,541 2,394 Total 18,223 16,970 1,253 12,812 5,411 10,329 7,894 Employees by Contract and Gender Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total Permanent 12,871 417 4,935 18,223 Female 5,273 227 2,394 7,894 Male 7,598 190 2,541 10,329 Contractors 3,398 0 175 3,573 Female 1 0 1 2 Male 1 0 0 1 Unidentified 3,396 0 174 3,570 Total 16,269 417 5,110 21,796 Employees by Type and Region Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total Full Time 12,271 363 4,336 16,970 Female 4,979 198 1,920 7,097 Male 7,292 165 2,416 9,873 Part Time 600 54 599 1,253 Female 294 29 474 797 Male 306 25 125 456 Total 12,871 417 4,935 18,223 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 68 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Organizational Profile (cont.) 102-9 Supply chain Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Strategy (7); Grown (15-20); Sourced (21-28); 10-K p.3-4, 6-7 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 10-K p.3, Campbell has an internal process through which it supply chain conducts comprehensive due diligence when considering joint ventures or prospective suppliers. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to apply processes or practices with less environmental impact when possible. Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive report on current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This report assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies in which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance. See also Produced – How We Manage (30). 102-12 External initiatives Appendix – Stakeholder Engagement (65) 102-13 Membership of associations Appendix – Stakeholder Engagement (65) Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Message (3-4) Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Corporate Profile (5-6); Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Ethics (11) Revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year. Existing policy statements that are regularly reviewed and revised as needed include: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Anti-Bribery Policy • Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children • Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children • Environmental Sustainability Policy • Human Rights Principles • Political Accountability Guidelines • Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual • Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 24 percent of our workforce is unionized or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 69 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Reporting Practices 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10-K p.3; Corporate Profile (5-6) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Materiality This report includes content on our key material corporate responsibility issues and an update to key performance metrics, including progress against our new 2025 goals. Significant policy or program advances and recognition occurring before or after FY2017 may also be included. This Report covers our owned and leased facilities on a global basis where we have operational control. Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to locations operated worldwide, and to all employees of Campbell Soup Company. Bolthouse Farms was acquired in August 2012. Plum Organics was acquired in June 2013, and Campbell worked with Plum to incorporate it as a Public Benefit Corporation (PBC) under Delaware law in August 2013 and gain B Corp certification. Kelsen was acquired in August 2013 and Garden Fresh Gourmet was acquired in June 2015. 102-47 List of material topics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Materiality (12) 102-48 Restatements of information Our environmental data has been restated back to the base year of 2008 to include the Bolthouse Farms, Plum Organics, Kelsen and Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisitions. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal Year 2017 (August 1, 2016 – July 30, 2017). 102-51 Date of most recent report June 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Biennial, with updates annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We value and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders. Contact Megan Maltenfort, Senior Manager — Corporate Social Responsibility, One Campbell Place, MS131, Camden, NJ 08103. You may also contact us via our dedicated CSR Feedback Email Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI In preparing this report, we used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Standards, including the GRI-G4 Food Processing Sector Supplement. This report exceeds the disclosures necessary to meet the core-level reporting requirements, including some content that addresses comprehensive-level disclosures. Please see our GRI Content Index for more details and www.globalreporting.org to learn more about the GRI framework. 102-55 GRI content index We provide a complete GRI Standards content index in the Appendix, beginning on page 68. 102-56 External assurance In 2016, we successfully completed a third-party limited assurance review consistent with guidance provided by ISO 14064-3 of our GHG emissions inventory. This assurance process was under the supervision of the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. In 2017, we completed a similar third-party limited assurance review consistent with guidance provided by ISAE 3000 of our FY2016 nutrition and related sales data. Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K, CDP, Performance Scorecard (64) 103-2 The management approach and its components 10-K 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10-K 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10-K, Performance Scorecard (63-64) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 10-K, CDP opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 10-K, Performance Scorecard (64) retirement plans 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 70 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Shared: Communities (54-62) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Shared: Communities (54-62) GRI 204: Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced – How We Manage (22) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We do not currently track this data, but are determining the feasibility of tracking it in the future. FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers While Campbell maintains policies on supplier standards, we do not compliant with company’s sourcing policy currently track the total volume of ingredients that are compliant with our policies. We do, however, audit our suppliers against our Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual and will work towards being able to provide this information in the future. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified While Campbell maintains policies on supplier standards, we do not as being in accordance with credible, internationally currently track the total volume of ingredients that are compliant recognized responsible production standards, broken with industry standards. We do, however, audit our suppliers against down by standard our Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual and will work towards being able to provide this information in the future. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive report on current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This report assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies in which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance. In addition, an annual Conflicts Certification is sent to midand upper-level management to assess conflicts of interest. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Each year, Campbell provides comprehensive online and in-person policies and procedures training for employees on core ethics and compliance issues and risk-based training tailored to the issues associated with employees’ specific job responsibilities. As part of the Winning With Integrity program, all employees are required to complete annual training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This training, offered in multiple languages, is available online for most employees, but also offered in DVD format for employees in our manufacturing facilities. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There have been no confirmed incidents of corruption. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 71 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); 10-K p.4-5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); 10-K p.5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10); 10-K p.5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, There were no legal actions during the reporting period regarding and monopoly practices anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which Campbell's has been identified as a participant. Environmental GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 302-3 Energy intensity Performance Scorecard (63); CDP Campbell defines intensity as Energy Use/ Tonne of Food Produced. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Performance Scorecard (63); CDP and services GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) In FY2017, Campbell went through a more in-depth water risk assessment using the WRI Aqueduct tool to assess current and future water risk at our facilities globally. Our highest overall water risk currently is at our Bekasi, Indonesia, facility. Water quality risks exist at our sites in California, Connecticut, Illinois, Michigan, Utah and in Marleston, Australia. Risks related to water quantity are of highest priority for our facilities in Australia, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Utah. Our facilities in Australia, California, Connecticut, Indonesia, Michigan and Utah are at high risk of baseline water stress. The risk of flooding is extremely high at our Downers Grove, Illinois, facility. Finally, upstream storage, which impacts water supply, is extremely low around our facilities in Indonesia, Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. This indicates that these locations could have trouble buffering variations in water supply from events such as droughts and floods. Campbell has also analyzed future water risk projections for 2020, 2030 and 2040 for facilities located in Australia, California, Connecticut, Indonesia, Malaysia, Michigan, New Jersey and Utah. This is consistent with the current geographic water risk across our portfolio with two additions, Malaysia and New Jersey. While we have water reduction goals at our global manufacturing sites, we will be using this data to expand our risk management considerations for facilities with high water quantity and quality risks to ensure that Campbell can positively impact water supply, access to safe and clean water, and biodiversity that can be impacted by changes in water quantity and quality. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 72 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 304: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown – How We Manage (16); Produced – How We Manage (30) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (63); CDP 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance Scorecard (63); CDP Campbell defines intensity as Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions/ Tonne of Food Produced. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (63); CDP GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced – How We Manage (30) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance Scorecard (63), CDP Water 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Scorecard (64) 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills in FY2017. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Performance Scorecard (64) No transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The primary hazardous materials include waste chemicals, used/waste oil, paint and medical waste. Please note that for some international sites, plant trash is also considered a hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is disposed by incineration, treatment/neutralization and fuel programs. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K p.5; Produced – How We Manage (30) 103-2 The management approach and its components Campbell Soup Company has an Environmental Management System with one of the key aspects being an electronic system, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach the Campbell’s Environmental Management & Metrics System (CEMMS). The CEMMS system is used globally at our facilities and is the backbone of our overall Environmental Management System. The CEMMS system addresses our document management, permit tracking, monitoring and measurement, tasks and calendar management, waste and recycling tracking/reporting, inspection notifications, incidents of notice of violations management, audits management, energy tracking/reporting and refrigerant tracking/ reporting. While this system is auditable and supports ISO 14001, our Environmental Management System is not ISO 14001 certified, and we currently do not have any facilities that are ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 certified. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Campbell incurred $7,100 in environmental fines in FY2017. regulations GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown – How We Manage (16); Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-2 The management approach and its components Grown – How We Manage (16); Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown – How We Manage (16); Sourced – How We Manage (22) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sourced – Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24) environmental criteria Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code, which must be signed by all suppliers, holds our suppliers accountable to environmental standards. Screening will begin in FY2018. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain There were no negative environmental impacts identified in the and actions taken supply chain in FY2017. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 73 APPENDIX GRI Content Index Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover are listed below. Voluntary turnover for FY2017 was 12 percent and involuntary turnover was 6 percent. New Hires vs. Turnover by Age, Gender, and Region Age Range New Hires Turnover 30 and under 1,580 1,334 31-50 1,266 1,239 51 and over 344 703 Total 3,190 3,276 Gender New Hires Turnover Female 1,314 1,359 Male 1,875 1,916 Undeclared 1 1 Total 3,190 3,276 Region New Hires Turnover Americas 2,713 2,813 Europe 12 1 Asia-Pacific 465 462 Total 3,190 3,276 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not While employee benefits may vary for global locations, Campbell provided to temporary or part-time employees offers a robust employee benefits package that may include paid sick days, paid vacation, bereavement leave, education benefits, relocation assistance, health insurance (individual and family), dental insurance (individual and family), vision insurance, domestic partner benefits, life insurance, disability insurance (including long-term), flexible spending accounts (health care and child care), stock options, bonus plans, 401(k) savings plans, an onsite daycare center (WHQ), onsite fitness center (WHQ), paid maternity and paternity leave, adoption assistance, and retiree health care. Campbell Soup Company also offers corporate benefits to both sameand oppositesex couples and has a workplace flexibility policy. 401-3 Parental leave Shared: Employees – Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments (39) FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial There was no lost time due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country. lock-outs in FY2017. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management – 100 percent of Campbell’s workforce is represented in formal worker health and safety committees joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. All of our locations have some form of health and safety committee with representation from all employee levels. In some countries the composition of those committees is legislated. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Shared: Employees – Safety for Everyone, Every Day (41); diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Performance Scorecard (64) of work-related fatalities 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 74 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee We track the following metrics related to training & development: – Average amount spent on training an employee annually: $411 – Average number of hours of training per employee annually: 10 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Shared: Employees – Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40) assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 100 percent of employees receive an annual performance evaluation. performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Age Group (Global) <31 31-50 >50 Total Board of 0 1 11 12 Directors Global 4,219 8,501 5,503 18,223 Employees Gender (Global) Female Male Total Board of 4 8 12 Directors Top 15 48 63 Management Management 715 960 1,675 Non7,164 9,321 16,485 Management Ethnicity (United States) Hispanic/ Black/ African Did not Latino American White Asian Other disclose Total Top 4 0 50 3 0 2 59 Management Management 68 50 946 113 25 9 1,211 Non2,804 1,255 5,405 455 465 542 10,926 Management Total 2,876 1,305 6,401 571 490 553 12,196 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 75 APPENDIX GRI Content Index 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Average of Annual Base Pay (USD) Management Level* U.S. Outside U.S. Average female salary $143,288 $115,932 Average male salary $152,522 $128,200 Non-Management Level U.S. Outside U.S. Average female salary $46,610 $41,284 Average male salary $49,789 $46,846 *Does not include executives at the two highest levels. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken The company has not been fined or disciplined by the EEOC in the last five years. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced – How We Manage (22); Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced – How We Manage (22); Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced – How We Manage (22); Shared: Employees – How We Manage (37) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights As part of our customers’ social accountability programs, three of reviews or impact assessments our facilities participated in social responsibility audits in FY2017. The company has not been involved in any human rights controversies, has not incurred any fines by governmental organizations related to human rights issues, and has not been subject to any human rights litigation in the last five years. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and Human rights training occurs in operations located in high-risk procedures countries. We are working to expand employee training on our Human Rights Principles in FY2018. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights that include human rights clauses or that underwent outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions. human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities – How We Manage (55) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact We have community engagement programs in all of the locations assessments and development programs in which we operate. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 76 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced – How We Manage (22) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced – How We Manage (22) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sourced – Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24) 100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions and our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code. Also, our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code, which must be signed by all suppliers, holds our suppliers accountable to labor standards. Screening will begin in FY2018. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and There were no negative social impacts identified in the supply actions taken chain in FY2017. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 103-2 The management approach and its components Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Produced – Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); product and service categories Performance Scorecard (64) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health In FY2017, Campbell had no Class I recalls and one Class II recall and safety impacts of products and services related to Campbell’s® Homestyle Healthy Request® Chicken with Whole Grain Pasta soup which has been resolved through corrective actions. FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in Produced – Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35) sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer Performance Scorecard (64) products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, Performance Scorecard (64) by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced – How We Manage (22); Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced – How We Manage (22); Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced – How We Manage (22); Produced – How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers – How We Manage (45) 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Sourced: A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics and Pepperidge and labeling Farm (28); Produced – Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); Shared: Consumers (44-58); whatsinmyfood.com; Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children; Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children (U.S.) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning service information and labeling product and service information and labeling in FY2017. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing There have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning communications marketing communications in FY2017. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 77 APPENDIX GRI Content Index GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10-11); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10-11); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10-11); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the There were zero incidents of non-compliance with laws and social and economic area regulations in the social and economic area in FY2017. Animal Welfare FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. processed, by species and breed type FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. related to physical alterations and the use of anesthetic FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. by species and breed type, per housing type FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type FP13 Total number of incidents of significant non-compliance We do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable. with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards related to transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 78 APPENDIX UN Global Compact Index The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Campbell committed to the principles of the UNGC in 2009. Below is an index of our reporting against the UNGC principles within the content of this 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report. PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REPORT SECTION/LINKS NUMBER 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) Sourced (21) Shared: Employees (36) 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) Sourced (21) Shared: Employees (36) 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Human Rights Principles to collective bargaining Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Stakeholder Engagement (14) Sourced (21) Shared: Employees (36) GRI Content Index – 102-41 (69) 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Sourced (21) 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Principles Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Sourced (21) 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Principles Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Shared: Employees (36) 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Grown (15) Sourced (21) Produced (29) GRI Content Index – 102-11 (69) 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Grown (15) Sourced (21) Produced (29) 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Code of Business Conduct and Ethics friendly technologies Grown (15) Sourced (21) Produced (29) 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 10-K p.4-5 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell – Governance (10) Anti-Bribery Policy GRI Content Index – GRI 205: Anti-corruption (71) GRI Content Index – GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior (72) 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 79
