March, 2017 LETTER FROM FBNHOLDINGS GROUP MD We are delighted to present our communication on progress report for 2017 to reaﬃrm our support for, and continued commitment to, the UN Global Compact. Since 1894, our ability to manage relationships with our stakeholders remains the bedrock of our commitment to nation building. These include meeting our obligations to our over 10,000 employees through constant engagement and empowerment; putting our customers' needs ﬁrst and enriching the lives of the communities where we live and work. As an institution, our contribution to overall sustainable growth and development ensures we enhance the quality of life and ﬁnancial security of our customers and their families whilst also ensuring that we manage our environmental, social and governance impacts in the process........................................................................ Our commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact (UNGC) is demonstrated through the alignment of our sustainability objectives with the principles structured along four key priorities, namely Sustainable Finance and Investment, Community Support, Environmental Sustainability and People Empowerment. We have updated each reporting section (Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption) with additional information on our activities in 2017. Through our FutureFirst and Youth Leadership the tree planting and students' conservation clubs as programmes, we have reached out to an vehicles to drive environmental protection and approximate 70,000 students with knowledge of conservation. (The 2017 report would shed more light ﬁnancial literacy and career counseling in selected on this).......................................................... locations in Nigeria. We also initiated the FirstBank Conservation Programme, part of our long-term We again restate our commitment to upholding the approach to promoting environmental sustainability principles of the UNGC and our commitment to which involves minimizing our direct and indirect accountability and innovation in the eﬀort to improve impacts on the environment. The conservation conditions among all Nigerians and the world at large. initiative employs Urum Kalu Eke GMD, FBNHoldings March, 2017 We are dedicated towards providing product and services tailored to meet the needs of its stakeholders. We demonstrate our commitment towards protecting, respecting, upholding their rights and code of ethics amongst youths. Also, ensuring businesses are sustainable and overcome major physical and environmental challenges, through the following initiatives:............................................... In keeping with our aim to promote ﬁnancial inclusion, we developed the FutureFirst initiative. FutureFirst is a ﬁnancial literacy and career counselling programme designed to empower secondary school students to build fulﬁlling careers and be ﬁnancially aware. Key objectives include helping students to:................... Gain the tools and knowledge to make eﬀective and informed ﬁnancial management decisions and achieve long-term ﬁnancial independence; · better understand how businesses are organized and operated;............................................................ · develop critical thinking, speaking and leadership skills and be able to demonstrate the rewards of the free enterprise system; and............................................. · Make the right career choices. The Financial Literacy Day is one of the activities commemorating the Global Money Week; the Group was mandated by the Central Bank of Nigeria to adopt 30 schools across six geo-political zones. We have reached out to over 70,000 students thereby imbibing the importance of saving culture, learn about The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article money, creating livelihoods, gaining employment and 26 underlines the signiﬁcance of education in the becoming an entrepreneur. A total of 90 secondary development of human personality. It also, underlines school students have been reached so far, with over the signiﬁcance in the improvement of human rights 38,000 staﬀ volunteering hours expended. and fundamental human freedom. In line with this To actualize these objectives, we partnered with Junior fact, we have prioritized ﬁnancial education equipped Achievement Nigeria, an NGO whose programme is in the direction of personal growth. designed to provide an experiential supplement to the business and economics education of senior secondary school students to help them better understand how businesses are organized and operated............................. March, 2017 The Ethics Challenge took place at FirstAcademy, FirstBank's strategic platform for competence development, knowledge management and workplace culture change, on November 9 and 10, 2017; and the ﬁnal results of the Ethic Challenge was announced during the CFA Society Nigeria's 2017 Charter Award Dinner scheduled for November 12, 2017 at the Grand Banquet Hall, Civic Centre, Lagos. Beneﬁciaries of FirstBank's Financial Literacy Exercise for Financial Literacy and World Saving’s Day. One of the Beneﬁciary of FirstBank's CFA ethics challenge receiving an award Participant of the Career Counselling session during the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability week CFA UNIVERSITIES ETHICS CHALLENGE AND SAMUEL ASABIA CHAIR ON BUSINESS ETHICS Winner of the FirstBank CFA ethics challenge competition receiving an award To demonstrate the Organsation's commitment to ethics, professional excellence; capacity building and inclusive growth of Nigerians; and support for youth education and the drive for nation building, we partnered with CFA Society in its yearly Universities Ethics Challenge. CFA Institute is a global, not-forArguably ﬁrst of its kind in Nigeria, the Centre was proﬁt association of investment professionals with a designed to refocus the relationship between mission to lead the investment profession globally by businessand its stakeholders by ensuring a consistent promoting the highest standards of ethics, education development of ethical business leaders, working with and professional excellence for the ultimate beneﬁt organizations on becoming positive change agents of society. that incorporate responsible practices in their operations, develop innovative products and services The Ethics Challenge aligns with the CRS strategic that transform their communities while at the same approach and the objective of FirstBank's Endowment time generate economic value. This focus enables programme – the Samuel Asabia Chair for Business businesses sustain livelihoods, reduce poverty and Ethics at the University of Lagos. We believe that contribute to national development. In addition, the promoting ethics in business is not only important for Centre provides veritable platforms for businesses to the reputation of our brand, but also one of the solid discuss and collaborate on mainstreaming the pillars that eﬀectively support sustainable ﬁnancial sustainability agenda in their organizations, based on institutions. cutting-edge research dovetailing sustainability practices and implementation.............................................. March, 2017 The Centre's mission has remained equipping of Cape Town (South Africa); and University of decision-makers and managers with the relevant Grand-Bassam (Cote d'Ivoire), with the University skills to deliver corporate value through sustainable of Edinburgh (UK) overseeing the entire project. business strategies, while operating in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. The · The Centre has played host to many business Centre has consistently achieved its mission through: owners, notable amongst them is the women's group of the Lagos State Chamber of Commerce · Research that is academically rigorous and policy who attended the sustainability workshop relevant;........................................... organized for women-led SMEs in September 2015. · Capacity-building seminars on sustainability and · The Centre also enhanced its outreach by engaging management development; and stakeholders on sustainability issues through monthly newsletters and speciﬁc issues-based · Stakeholder engagements enabling constructive newsletters focused on topical and socio-economic dialogue and collaboration between business, concerns. government, civil society and academics to ﬁnd solutions to critical sustainability challenges. · Overall, more than ﬁve million people have been impacted by the Centre's activities both directly The achievements of the Centre are highlighted in the and indirectly. image below Panelists at the FirstBank’s International Sustainability Conference in partnership with Lagos Business School In carrying out our day-to-day operations, we are committed to protecting, valuing and supporting the rights of our people and stakeholders. We believe our responsibilities go beyond legal compliance to moral obligations. We ensure human rights are not abused and make it our responsibility In addition to the achievements highlighted above, not to get involved in the violations of human rights. several milestones were reached: We are committed to dealing fairly with all our · One of the Centre case studies: “Social stakeholders which includes our staﬀ, customers, Entrepreneurship: Answering the Call of Nature” shareholders, government agencies amongst others. won the second prize for the Emerald and We do not encourage staﬀ to take advantage of Association of African Business Schools (AABS) each other or manipulate one another based on Case Study Competition. The case was also superiority rather respect for each other's dignity is accepted for publication in the Emerald Emerging encouraged. Gender discrimination and discrimination Markets Case Studies Collection. of minority group is not allowed. Harassment of staﬀ in any form is toughly discouraged and culprits The centre was nominated by Lagos Business School are usually handed over to the Bank's disciplinary as the driver of the Africapitalism Research Projectcommittee for sanctioning. a research project of international collaboration involving nine universitiesPan Atlantic UniversityFurthermore, the Group maintains an organizational Lagos Business School (Nigeria); Strathmore culture that encourages an open line of communication B u s i n e s s S c h o o l ( Ke n y a ) ; U n i v e r s i t y o f between superiors and subordinates. The Group carries Loughborough; University of Nottingham; University out induction for new staﬀ to acquaint them with of Durham (UK); York University (Canada); University values and vision of the organisation so as to understand how to behave with other staﬀ in the course of their stay in the Group. March, 2017 These meetings provide a platform for management and union to discuss on all aspects of employees' employment relationship and Empowering People and also serve as collective bargaining mechanism to resolve issues. FirstBank also practices a Pay for Performance Principle where bonuses are tied directly to staﬀ performance. The Bank encourages staﬀ to hold regular meetings, engage in open discussions and consultations so as to engender ﬂow of information. Across the Group, all employees get same remuneration regardless of gender or region. In carrying out our day-to-day operations, we have a framework designed to have the right people with the right skills doing the right job at the right time. We understand the importance of not only having the right talents at the right places, but also an environment where people are willing to work without coercion. Staﬀ of the Group are hired based on their free will and there is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. Staﬀ are allowed to resign based on the terms in their contracts. We have been able to achieve this by developing the right policies and frameworks, which have helped ensure that our recruitment process is carried out in line with global best practice. This is devoid of all forms of bias such that potential employees make recruitment-based decision without At FBN Holdings, we ensure that in everything we do, fear. In the case of conﬂict amongst staﬀ, inquiries are our people feel a genuine sense of fairness, equality, made regarding the dispute or conﬂict. The outcome freedom and participation. The Group creates and of this investigation is the basis in which disciplinary sustains an environment that supports and committees of the diﬀerent companies within the encourages human rights/freedom of association as Group resolves such issues. Through this, the rights of well as collective bargaining. For instance, at staﬀ are upheld and no single individual is treated FirstBank, employees have the opportunities to u n f a i r l y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . belong to unions such as (ASSBIFI; NUBIFE) and the employees are at liberty to either become members or not. Management of the Bank hold quarterly meetings with the executives of these unions who are also representatives of staﬀ. March, 2017 For existing employees, we have established a clear Through our Employee Giving & Volunteering framework for escalation. Our people can freely relate Programme, the Bank's staﬀs are provided with a with their Human Resource (HR) business partners on platform that creates an enabling environment for team any issue around supervisor-subordinate relationship. building and leadership activities and opportunities, as We have also reinforced acceptable workplace well as alleviating community development challenges. behaviours through a series of campaigns (Jerk This involves employees volunteering their time and behavior campaign, etc). All these initiatives are skills to support philanthropic activities. These strategically aimed at ensuring that we have a activities provide them with opportunities to use their workforce that is not only emotionally connected to capabilities in varied contexts, develop new skills, our brand but also willing to eﬀortlessly champion the partner with people within and outside the Bank, and cause of the brand. expand their horizons. We are also committed to fostering a safe work environment where the safety, Also, as a matter of principle, the Group does not security and wellbeing of our workers are protected. maintain partnerships with any organization or group Part of this includes the operation of a clinic where that uses forced or compulsory labour. We carry out ailing staﬀ can have access to ﬁrst aid and preliminary intensive due diligence checks on our partners' medical treatments before visiting the hospital. Our employment policies before building relationships with commitment to enshrining human rights guides the way them.............................................................................. we treat our employees; hence we ensure fair working conditions, improve employee engagement and eliminate discrimination......................................................... Hope Rising Initiative is one of the key programmes of the Group designed to empower people living with disabilities. Its key objective is engendering inclusivity and diversity through education, advocacy and enlightenment; skills acquisition training; as well as inclusive events. Our main focus is creating awareness on Down syndrome and how to live with Down syndrome. This is enhanced by the Hope Rising drama series which focuses on highlighting the challenges of Down syndrome and exploring eﬀorts at combating the disorder whilst providing the platform for advocacy We pride ourselves in being an equal opportunities and public enlightenment. employer, and have integrated diversity and inclusion policies and awareness into our practices. Our eﬀorts Asides from airing the Hope Rising Drama Series on at engendering diversity in the workplace include Down Syndrome, the Bank has maintained an existing having in place a diversity policy that encourages partnership relationship with the Down Syndrome inclusion. The Bank's diversity and inclusion objective Foundation Nigeria. The Bank supports its annual Inter is to be a recognized industry leader in workforce House Sports competition designed to improve the diversity and leverage diversity for the growth of the physical and mental wellbeing of children living with Bank and the success of the customers and Down Syndrome. The Bank also supports its annual communities we serve. awareness week with the goal of increasing advocacy and public enlightenment on the Down Syndrome Our board composition consists of 21% female, the disorder. In 2017, through the Volunteering highest in any holdings company in Nigeria. We have a programme, staﬀ visited the Down Syndrome female to male gender population at 44.4% to 55.6% Foundation Resource Centre in Lagos Nigeria. This saw male. Our workforce comprises of persons of every employees from FirstBank visiting the resource centre. tribe and culture in Nigeria including expatriates from It provided an opportunity for staﬀ to demonstrate other countries. We also employ persons with their care and support for children with Down disabilities; one of them is the President of the Nigeria Syndrome. Donations were made to the Down Association of the Blind (NAB). We support the NAB's Syndrome Centre in the form of food, toiletries, annual white cane and safety day where we donate clothing and other household materials. white canes for the visually impaired and also participate in the Charity Walk through the Group's Employee Giving Volunteering Scheme. March, 2017 Other initiatives supported by the Group in 2017 as part of the Hope Rising programme include: Support to Down Syndrome Foundation Inter House Sports and donation to Down Syndrome Foundation from Proceeds of Gift Policy Support to Benola First Annual Symposium Support to Folawiyo Adisa Physically challenged parabadminton champion. Sickle Cell Foundation: Commemoration of World Sickle Cell Day. Support to Grace Eniekebi Foundation in Trilogy event for Visit to Old people’s Home uring seniors the Corporate and Sustainability Week Support to National Association of the Blind's Braille Reading and Writing Competition Partnership with Nigeria Red Cross Society in commemorating World Red Cross Day Support to the Nigeria Society for the Blind for its 2017 May Ball Partnership with Bunmi Adedayo Foundation in implementing Children's Day Event Partnership with DUSUSU Foundation: Zuriel Oduwole's Screening of Follow the Ball for Education Support for Benola: A Cerebral Palsy Initiative Chinwe Bode-Akinwande Foundation (CBA): Fundraising Charity Walk Tagged Walk4Hope to Support Underprivileged Visit to Down-Syndrome Foundation during the Corporate and Sustainability Week Widows & their Children Support for Hope 4 Sure Foundation Pacelli School for Blind and Partially Sighted Children Support for Patrick Speech and Languages Centre on their Talent in Autism Concert.......................................................... March, 2017 considering funding include adequate provision for actions necessary to prevent, control and mitigate negative impacts on the environment and communities, and to improve environmental quality. For eﬃciency, FirstBank is aligning the ESGMS process with its new credit workﬂow. The relevant implementation documents such as the environmental, social and governance risks screening checklist (which is to be completed by a relationship manager and veriﬁed by analyst against the EIA report are currently in use which is in compliance with the local & international regulation and best practices. We adhere to international guidelines for engaging in the three priority sectors, Agriculture, Power and Oil & Gas. The Bank through the FirstBank Sustainability Centre organizes seminars and workshop for stakeholders. Some of these seminars and workshops are targeted towards minimizing negative impact on the environment. One of such is an international conference tagged: 'Implementing Sustainable Strategies in the Energy and Extractive industries.' The Embedding Environmental Sustainability conference sought to empower ﬁrms in the energy and through Responsible Lending extractive industries on how to competitively minimize The indirect impact of our activities focuses largely their negative impacts and enhance their positive on responsible lending. Responsible lending is about impact on the environment by embedding sustainability holding our customers to account by ensuring that thinking and paradigm in their strategies. This is the customers we lend to minimize their because research and experience have shown that a environmental impacts in their business operations well-articulated and engrained sustainability strategy through our environmental, social and governance enhances organizational adaptability and survival in management frameworks. complex environments. To enable the Group drive responsible lending, we have put in place an environmental, social and governance management system (ESGMS). This guide ensures that all transactions that FirstBank is March, 2017 Part of the Group's long-term approach to As part of our eﬀorts to encourage environmentally sustainability is minimising its direct and indirect friendly technologies, we have been investing in impact on the environment. This has informed our Green IT initiatives. FirstBank has actively reduced eﬀorts at conserving energy to reduce global warming the size of its data centre using rationalisation and by reducing its CO2 emissions; as well as conserving virtualisation techniques. The Bank also has an onresources – a key aspect being through reduction in going partnership with the Nigeria Conservation the use of paper in our business operations, anchored Foundation, Nigeria's premier non-governmental environment conservation foundation dedicated to on our print optimisation programme. nature conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria and actively supports its activities annually. We are constantly seeking opportunities to manage environmental and social footprints through the use of alternative energy sources and the reduction of energy consumption for and from business activities and operations. These have included solar powered ATM machines. Staﬀ of the Bank are also encouraged to engage in teleconferencing in order to minimize traveling and carbon emission from vehicles. The Bank also invests in innovative technologies that lead to higher carbon eﬃciencies and ﬁnancial savings. The FirstBank Conservation initiative is one of the key programmes of the Group and is part of our long-term approach to promoting sustainability which involves minimizing our direct and indirect impacts on the environment. The conservation initiative employs the tree planting and students' conservation clubs as vehicles to drive environmental protection and conservation. The key objectives are: To minimize carbon footprint through planting of trees To create awareness of the need to preserve wild life and biodiversity among school children. To educate and build environmental-conscious students through partnerships with reputable NGOs and institutions. FirstBank Conservation Initiative is implemented in partnership with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation. March, 2017 At FirstBank, our approach to conducting business is premised on high ethical standards and strict adherence to all provisions of the code of conduct guidelines. With an enviable corporate governance framework, the Bank has experienced continued growth in its various business operations in line with its strategic priority, which is 'to increase its share of the customer's wallet in the chosen market'. March, 2017 We also ensure customers are aware of our complaints channels by displaying information about them in all our branches. These include escalation channels for complaints that are not adequately resolved. We put structures in place to ensure that we have a holistic view of all complaints received. The use of the complaints dashboard has helped to identify recurring complaints, seasonal complaints and the source of these complaints, resulting in quick resolution while outstanding issues receive the required attention. At FirstBank, to ensure customers' complaints are properly handled, every customer on the bank's book has a relationship manager (RM). The RM is the main point of contact for the customer and ensures each account is functioning in accordance with the customer's expectations. As part of Know Your Customer, currently on an annual basis. The process is overseen by the Bank's Compliance department as part of its compliance monitoring programme. Complaints are tracked from initial receipt through the entire process until the complainant is satisﬁed or the ﬁnal decision is made. An up-to-date status is made available to the complainant upon request and at regular intervals, via any of our channels. The decision or any action taken regarding the complaint, which is FirstBank have designed programmes to optimise relevant to the complainant, would be communicated eﬃciencies in our business operations, in particular, to them as soon as the decision or action is taken via to strengthen service delivery excellence across our email and SMS. If the complainant accepts the businesses' value chains. We have eﬀectively ensured proposed decision or action, then the decision or that quality service delivery and the satisfaction of action would be carried out and recorded. If the our customers and other stakeholders are priorities in complainant rejects the proposed decision or action, our business dynamics. then the complaint would remain open. This would be recorded and escalated to the Complaints We respond to requests and enquires, and resolve Management Team. The complainant would be complaints 24hours a day, seven days a week through our contact centre and various channels available to informed of alternative forms of internal and external customers, such as emails via online platform, SMS recourse available. text alerts through the relationship managers, and direct contact with customer service oﬃcers in The organization would continue to monitor the branches. progress of the complaint until all reasonable internal and external options of recourse are exhausted or the complainant is satisﬁed. March, 2017 Complaints can be lodged to the Bank in one of the · By writing to us: Complaints Management Unit following ways: First Bank of Nigeria Limited 35 Marina · By completing a Complaints form on our website P.O. Box 5216 www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com Lagos, Nigeria · SMS: Send an SMS to 30012 · By calling First Contact on 0700FIRSTCONTACT · S o c i a l M e d i a : F a c e b o o k : (0700-34778-2668228), 01-4485500, https://www.facebook.com/ﬁrstbankofnigeria 0708-062-5000 Twitter: @ﬁrstbankngr March, 2017 professional integrity. In addition, it reinforces the value it places on staﬀ to be honest and respected members of their individual professions. It provides a method of properly addressing bona ﬁde concerns that individuals within the organization might have, while also oﬀering whistleblowers protection from victimisation, harassment or disciplinary proceedings. The Bank's whistle-blowing policy spans both internal whistle blowers (staﬀ, contract employees, management or directors) and external whistle blowers (customers, service providers, applicants, auditors, consultants, regulators and other stakeholders). Whilst the Bank encourages disclosure of identity by the whistle-blower, where possible, it also appreciates disclosure under anonymity with re-assurance that such identity would be protected at all stages in any internal matter, except with the consent of the individual or in circumstances where the Bank is unable to resolve the concern without revealing such an identity; for instance, if external legal action ﬂows from the disclosure and the employee's evidence is required in court. Concerns are taken seriously and investigated and the outcome communicated. The phone lines are 01-9054583, 01-9054543 & 01-6054525 and the email address for the public is ﬁrstcontact@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. Members of staﬀ The Group has in place whistle-blowing policies and procedures may contact......................................................... to avoid corrupt practices. For example, the FirstBank's Adeyemi.O.Ogunmoyela@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com or whistle-blowing policy is intended to encourage staﬀ and other Internalaudit.Head @ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. relevant stakeholders to report unethical or illegal conduct or conduct of employees, management, directors and other In addition, whistle-blowers can also log onto stakeholders to appropriate authorities in a conﬁdential www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com and click on the whistle manner without any fear of harassment, intimidation, blowing portal to report misconduct. Other avenues victimization or reprisal of anyone for raising a concern under open to whistle-blowers are through a letter to the this policy. Group Managing Director/Chief Executive or directly to the Chief Internal Auditor. Therefore, employees, stakeholders, and members of the public can raise legitimate concerns, without fear and are given assurance that such concerns would be adequately addressed. Our whistle-blowing policy is thus fundamental to the Bank's March, 2017 W W W . f b n h o l d i n g s . c o m
