Global Citizenship Report 2017 A firm of our size and scale achieves great and big things when we put our mind to it — but my colleagues also positively impact the lives of many in small but meaningful ways each day. The ways we help make our communities stronger, provide opportunities to those who need support, protect our environment and celebrate diversity are the truest reflection of our values and the progress we enable around the world. Michael L. Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc. About This Report This report illustrates how we bring our mission to life through In this report, for the first time, we have included an index our business; it covers our corporate citizenship activities and showing where report content is specifically aligned to the performance for calendar year 2017. We have focused our recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s reporting on issues we determined to be of greatest imporTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). tance through a materiality assessment completed in 2017. Finally, this report supplements information published in our This report has been prepared in accordance with the 2017 Annual Report. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. In addition, we used the United Nations (UN) Global Compact All reporting and performance data are limited to information for and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights the owned and operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidframeworks to guide our reporting. (See related indexes). iaries, unless stated otherwise. Additional information about Citi can be found on our website. For more information on Citi’s Building on our 2016 reporting approach, this year we citizenship initiatives, please visit citi.com/citizenship or contact: continue to embed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into relevant sections of the report. Our SDG-related GLOBAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS reporting is further supplemented by a summary report, CITIGROUP INC. Banking on 2030: Citi and the Sustainable Development 388 GREENWICH STREET Goals, released in 2017. NEW YORK, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com Table of Contents Introduction 2 Letter from Our CEO 3 Citi at a Glance 5 Citizenship Approach How We Citi Bike Expands in New York Affinities in Action, p. 33 Do Business City and Beyond, p. 96 16 Conduct and Culture 24 Digital Innovation 32 Talent and Diversity 46 Human Rights 54 Environmental and Social Risk Management Working Toward a More 62 Operations and Supply Chain Sustainable, Transparent Palm Oil Industry, p. 57 Pathways to Progress, p. 110 Solutions Appendices For Impact 116 Sustainable Progress 78 Environmental Finance Scorecard 88 Inclusive and Resilient 118 Global Reporting Initiative Communities Content Index 131 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index 2020 Operational Footprint Goals, p. 63 132 UN Global Compact Index 133 UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index 136 Assurance Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 1 Letter from Our CEO Every day at Citi, we try to demonstrate the value we contribute All those efforts and activities reflect the commitments we’ve to the communities we serve and the values we have made to further embed our holistic approach to citizenship committed to uphold around the world. In some cases, we across the breadth and depth of our global franchise. But may decide to publicly affirm those core values. But I’m we also spoke out on several occasions about issues that just as proud of the quieter, often local ways our company directly affect our people, our clients and our communities. and colleagues take tangible steps to fulfill our mission of We voiced our concerns about U.S. immigration policies that enabling growth and progress. discriminate against certain groups, reiterated our support for the Paris Agreement and other policies that address Just a few miles from our global headquarters, in the Queens climate change, condemned racist acts in Charlottesville, neighborhood of Far Rockaway, an oceanfront community signed on to the UK Modern Slavery Act and signed an amicus devastated by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, we helped rebuild the brief in the Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Ocean Bay apartment complex, home to 4,000 residents left Commission case to show our support for the rights of the without heat or water in the wake of that storm. Together with LGBTQ community. our community partners, we didn’t just provide a patchwork fix, but thoroughly rebuilt homes that residents can take pride in In January 2018, we were the first bank to release the results while creating a safer, more resilient and sustainable community of a pay equity analysis, which compared our compensation of they can enjoy for decades to come. The project incorporated women to men and U.S. minorities to U.S. non-minorities, and a number of elements that make the apartments more energy we took steps to close the 1 percent gap we found. In March, efficient, including the third-largest solar panel installation at we announced a new Commercial Firearms policy in the U.S. an affordable housing development in New York. and shared our view that, as a company that has openly committed to enabling growth and progress, we need to do And in response to one of a series of extreme weather events our part to help combat gun violence. that impacted our communities in 2017, my colleagues in Citi Community Development worked directly with four leading While not everyone has agreed with what we’ve said or done, housing organizations in the U.S. Commonwealth of Puerto I’m proud of the actions we’ve taken to define who we are and Rico to help thousands of families across the island recover what we stand for as a company. A firm of our size and scale from the devastating impact of Hurricane Maria by providing achieves great and big things when we put our mind to it — but free essential housing services. my colleagues also positively impact the lives of many in small but meaningful ways each day. The ways we help make our As our company and colleagues continue to change for the communities stronger, provide opportunities to those who better the life trajectories of people who participate in the need support, protect our environment and celebrate diverprograms we support, we discovered that the social impact sity are the truest reflection of our values and the progress of those programs is amplified by the participants who go on we enable around the world. to create new jobs and opportunities for others. In Greece, for example, a young man left homeless after the financial crisis that engulfed his country in 2012 participated in entrepreneurial training as part of the Citi Foundation’s Pathways to Progress initiative, which helped him establish an organic olive oil cosmetics company, for which he’s since hired eight Michael L. Corbat people. In Pakistan, a Pathways participant who opened a Chief Executive Officer school for girls learned to operate it more efficiently. As Citigroup Inc. a result, she hired another six teachers and expanded the student population from 25 to 100. In Uganda, Citi volunteers worked with a hair salon owner and jewelry maker to establish a formal bookkeeping system and create a business plan and marketing materials that enabled her to grow her business. 2 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Citi at a Glance Responsibly provide Serve as a Create financial services trusted partner economic value Supporting clients in more than Digital and mobile at the core of 160 countries and jurisdictions a simpler, better client experience Diverse workforce of 209,000 to Leading bank with serve our customers and clients 200+ years of experience Institutional Global Consumer Clients Group Banking Largest proprietary global network Growing Commercial Bank that serves with a client base of 14,000 midsized clients with cross-border needs and a presence in 98 countries Facilitates ~$4 trillion of transaction Serving over 100 million customers flows daily Serves more than 80% of global A lean, urban retail bank footprint across Fortune 500 companies 19 markets in the U.S., Mexico and Asia Citizenship Approach A business model that adds ! Taking a stand on issues that matter value to society ? and driving solutions A focus on ethical decision-making An enhanced focus on transparency and responsible business practices and knowledge building Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 3 CITI’S VALUE PROPOSITION A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress What You Can Expect from Us & What We Expect from Ourselves Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our We provide financing and support to governments at clients by responsibly providing financial services that all levels, so they can build sustainable infrastructure, enable growth and economic progress. Our core activsuch as housing, transportation, schools and other vital ities are safeguarding assets, lending money, making public works. payments and accessing the capital markets on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of experience helping our These capabilities create an obligation to act responsibly, clients meet the world’s toughest challenges and embrace do everything possible to create the best outcomes, and its greatest opportunities. We are Citi, the global bank prudently manage risk. If we fall short, we will take deci— an institution connecting millions of people across sive action and learn from our experience. hundreds of countries and cities. We strive to earn and maintain the public’s trust by We protect people’s savings and help them make the constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. purchases — from everyday transactions to buying a We ask our colleagues to ensure that their decisions home — that improve the quality of their lives. We advise pass three tests: they are in our clients’ interests, create people on how to invest for future needs, such as their economic value, and are always systemically responsible. children’s education and their own retirement, and help When we do these things well, we make a positive finanthem buy securities such as stocks and bonds. cial and social impact in the communities we serve and show what a global bank can do. We work with companies to optimize their daily operations, whether they need working capital, to make payroll or to export their goods overseas. By lending to companies large and small, we help them grow, creating jobs and real economic value at home and in communities around the world. 4 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Citizenship Approach A Business Model that Adds Value to Society Our Citizenship Report is designed to provide the Citi’s opportunity to scale solutions and increase impact is driven by the products and services we bring to market. Our details that stakeholders core businesses, and the financial innovation that is inspired by our drive to serve clients and solve society’s greatest chalexpect, including numerous lenges, is fundamental to our mission to enable growth and examples of innovative ways progress. This work is complemented by our focus on operating our facilities sustainably and our philanthropic activity, which we are stepping up to tackle are also important aspects of our citizenship efforts. some of the world’s toughest Despite our progress to date, we know that we have a great challenges. But if there is one deal more work to do, and the leadership of our company will need to continually raise the bar. thing we hope readers will take away, it is that while 2017 A Focus on Ethical Decisionwas a year of rapid change in Making and Responsible Business Practices the world, we remain steadfast and committed to fulfilling Ethical business practices are central to the success of the our mission. As a global bank entire financial services sector. We place significant emphasis on understanding, improving and fully integrating ethical and there are many ways that we responsible practices in everything we do. can impact the communities The Conduct and Culture section provides more detail on how we do this — both our successes and where we see need for around the world and here we continued attention and improvement. This will continue to be outline our approach to ensurthe foundation of all our citizenship efforts at Citi. ing that our activities enable ! Taking a Stand on Issues that growth and progress. Matter and Driving Solutions ? We continue to leverage our corporate voice for good, and we have taken a stand on a number of issues that matter to our employees, clients, investors and communities. For example, we issued statements indicating our continued commitment to pursuing sustainable solutions as outlined in the Paris Agreement, our support of immigrants from around the world Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 5 in the workforce and in our communities, our commitment to doing our part to help combat gun violence in ALL CITI EMPLOYEES HELD ACCOUNTABLE the U.S., the importance of pay equity across genders TO LEADERSHIP STANDARDS and ethnicities, and our commitment to tolerance and racial and ethnic inclusion at a time when basic rights Beginning in 2017, as part of the employee evaluation and freedoms are being called into question. Speaking process, and in addition to being assessed based on their out, however, is often just the first step. Where we can, individual goals, Citi employees also receive feedback and we actively work to be part of the solutions to very a rating specifically aligned with our Leadership Standards. complex and pressing issues such as global warming and The Standards, which we first established in 2015, are social inequality. Through our engagement efforts with the measurable skills, abilities and knowledge that all Citi a wide range of stakeholders, as well as through our employees should demonstrate to be successful leaders business-led solutions and our philanthropic activities, at Citi, and each is aligned with our Mission and Value we aim to make a positive and meaningful contribution Proposition and reinforces our approach to citizenship. This to the problems at hand. approach to employee performance assessment — looking at both individual goals and leadership — elevates our focus on leadership across all levels of the company and sets the An Enhanced Focus stage for more focused and honest conversations on both on Transparency and the “what” and the “how” of an employee’s contributions. Knowledge Building The following offers a high-level look at our Leadership Standards: To successfully meet the expectations of our internal and external stakeholders as the scope and pace of what Develops Our People merits effective disclosure continues to evolve, we need Builds talent and teams for Citi by creating a culture of to both communicate what we are already doing and meritocracy and transparency and by celebrating excelengage in active dialogue to learn and understand what lence, initiative and courage. more can be done. We are committed to increasing not only our reporting efforts, but also the way in which we engage stakeholders in all of our activities. Drive Value for Clients Enables economic value and positive social impact for We continue to actively increase our involvement in clients, companies, governments and communities. creating solutions to some of the world’s most complex and pressing challenges. This report is only a snapshot Works as a Partner of our efforts to increase transparency and knowledge Works collaboratively across the firm and encourages building, and we supplement our annual reporting with others to achieve the best results for Citi and our clients. articles, reports, convenings and other thought leadership activities throughout the year. Champions Progress Champions a culture of high standards, pushes for progress, embraces change and challenges the status quo in support of Citi’s vision and global strategy. Lives Our Values Ensures systemically responsible outcomes while driving performance and balancing shortand long-term risk. Delivers Results Sets high standards and achieves performance objectives by creating a clear path toward ethical and sustainable results. 6 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures Climate change is one of the most critical issues of our time. It is already affecting many industries and regions globally, and the related impacts are only expected to increase. In order to increase the amount of reliable information about financial institutions’ exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities, the G20 Financial Stability Board (FSB) formed a Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in December 2015. Chaired by Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England, and Michael Bloomberg, Founder of Bloomberg L.P. and Bloomberg Philanthropies and former mayor of New York City, the TCFD developed recommendations for voluntary climate-related financial disclosures that are consistent, comparable, reliable, clear and efficient, and that provide useful information to lenders, insurers and investors to support good decision-making. Citi was an early supporter of the TCFD recommendations, and when the group issued its Final Recommendations Report in June 2017, Citi CEO Michael Corbat, along with over 100 other company heads, signed a statement of support for the recommendations. TCFD in This Report Following the publication of the TCFD recommendations, which Citi is committed to transparency and reporting on our included disclosure requirements for the financial industry and sustainability and citizenship efforts. We have a long history other sectors, 16 leading global and regional banks — including of reporting on climate-related issues, including in a number Citi — announced that they will work together with the United of the areas recommended by the TCFD, and have expanded Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) upon relevant information in this report. In the TCFD index, on a pilot project to implement the TCFD recommendations we have highlighted where content that directly relates to the related to scenario analysis and strengthen their disclosure of recommendations can be found throughout the report. climate-related risks and opportunities. There are areas of the TCFD recommendations that Citi is This collaborative, UNEP FI-led pilot project is in progress still actively working to address, including the use of climate and will enable banks to work together toward TCFD-aligned scenario analysis. Assessing climate-related risks is an climate-related disclosures in a credible, timely and costarea where Citi has been increasingly focused. Through the effective manner. The pilot will look at both the transition risks UNEP FI pilot project, we are expanding upon our climate (e.g., due to changes in policies and adoption of new technolrisk assessment efforts by using climate scenario analysis, ogies such as electric vehicles) and physical risks (e.g., from a key part of the TCFD recommendations, as a tool to drought or more frequent extreme weather events) of climate measure climate-related risks and opportunities and their change, and how those risks could impact our business under potential business implications under a range of different three global warming scenarios: 1.5oC, 2oC, and a business-asfuture climate conditions. Early results of the pilot project usual scenario of 4oC. are expected in spring 2018, after which Citi will expand our reporting on climate-related disclosures as appropriate The pilot project is just the beginning of our journey to incorpobased on the outcomes of the pilot. rate climate scenario analysis into our strategy and reporting. Through this pilot, we hope to learn and iterate over time to improve upon the methodologies and metrics that we use to measure and report on climate risks and opportunities. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 7 Citi and the Sustainable SDGs are on the order of $5 trillion to $7 trillion per year.1 Because access to financing will be key, we recognize that Citi Development Goals has an important role to play in helping to finance the SDGs. We released a report in 2017 outlining how Citi’s activities In our 2016 Global Citizenship Report, we began connecting relate to our priority SDGs, and will continue to report on our our reporting to the UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment with the SDGs in our annual Global Citizenship Report. (SDGs), a core part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Throughout this report, we have made an effort to indicate Development adopted by the 193 Member States of the where information is relevant to action on the SDGs. While our UN in September 2015. The UN Conference on Trade and work and the content of this report cover many SDGs, we directly Development estimates that global investment needs for the reference only those where we can describe specific impacts. 5 Gender Equality PAGES 25 | 34 | 104 7 Affordable and Clean Energy PAGE 79 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth These 17 interrelated PAGES 25 | 53 | 68 | 105 | 109 goals represent an ambitious 9 Industry, Innovation agenda to achieve a sustainable and Infrastructure future by 2030. Citi has a role PAGES 26 | 28 | 92 | 95 | 105 to play in all 17, yet our business most directly impacts the seven 11 Sustainable Cities highlighted here. and Communities PAGES 79 | 95 | 99 13 Climate Action PAGE 79 17 Partnerships for the Goals PAGE 89 1 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, World Investment Report 2014: Investing in the SDGs — An Action Plan (April 2014), page xi, http://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/wir2014_en.pdf. 8 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Citizenship Governance is a non-executive independent director. The standing committees of our Board of Directors are: at Citi • Audit • Operations and Technology • Ethics and Culture Good governance is a fundamental principle at Citi, and we • Executive • Personnel and Compensation work to ensure that we are at the leading edge of best prac• Nomination, Governance tices. We strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical and Public Affairs • Risk Management conduct: reporting results with accuracy and transparency and maintaining full compliance with the laws, rules and All Board committees play a role in providing oversight regulations that govern Citi’s businesses. for our efforts to ensure responsible business practices. For example, the Personnel and Compensation Committee reviews all compensation programs, including incentive Corporate Governance compensation, to ensure that they do not, among other Our governance structures, policies and processes serve things, encourage imprudent risk-taking. The Nomination, employee, client and community needs and promote a Governance and Public Affairs Committee oversees Citi’s culture of accountability and ethical conduct across our firm. global citizenship and sustainability activities and perforInformation about Citi’s corporate governance is publicly mance. Our Ethics and Culture Committee reflects our available on our website. commitment to promote a strong culture of ethical conduct. To review the responsibilities of each of the committees of Our Board of Directors aims to have at least two-thirds of its our Board of Directors, see our Board charters. members as independent directors. Currently, 88 percent of the Board is independent. Additionally, the Chairman of the Board CITIZENSHIP GOVERNANCE Citi Board of Directors Committees Audit Ethics and Executive Nomination, Operations Personnel and Risk Committee Culture Committee Governance and and Compensation Management Committee Public Affairs Technology Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate Citizenship Environmental and and Sustainability Social Advisory Council Material Citizenship Issues Addressed Addressing Talent For additional Climate Diversity/Equal Human Rights Ethics Attraction/ material issues, Change Risk/ Opportunity Development see page 11 Opportunity Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 9 Citizenship and Sustainability Governance As noted on the previous page, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our citizenship activities. This committee’s responsibilities include reviewing our policies and programs for sustainability, climate change, human rights and other material citizenship issues, as well as advising on engagement with external stakeholders. For more information on the roles and responsibilities of the committee, download the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee charter. At the senior executive level, corporate citizenship at Citi is led by the Director of Corporate Citizenship and President of the Citi Foundation. The Director provides progress reports to the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee at least Youth participants from the Youth Co:Lab program, implemented annually on issues, trends and results pertaining to some of the in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme company’s most important citizenship and sustainability issues. The Director also collaborates with a range of senior leaders to enable the development and implementation of goals and CHARITABLE GIVING programs that generate a positive impact on society. The Citi Foundation provides grants — totaling $79 million in 2017 — to organizations aligned with the Foundation’s Citi’s Corporate Sustainability team, which reports to the focus areas: youth economic opportunities, sustainable Director of Corporate Citizenship, works in partnership with our cities and financial inclusion. We highlight the work of businesses to lead and implement our ambitious Sustainable Citi Foundation programs, such as Pathways to Progress, Progress Strategy globally. Citi has an Environmental and Social City Accelerator and Community Progress Makers, Advisory Council that provides guidance on environmental throughout this report. To learn more about the Citi and social issues related to global business activities, including Foundation, visit citifoundation.com. advising on the Sustainable Progress Strategy. The council is chaired by senior executives in our Institutional Clients Group Citi provides considerable charitable contributions from and includes executives from Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, our various businesses — totaling $68 million in 2017 — Operations, Corporate Sustainability, and Environmental and which support a range of charitable causes aligned with Social Risk Management (ESRM). Council meetings are held Citi’s mission of enabling growth and progress. approximately three times annually. Citi also has a crossfunctional Climate and Sustainability Council, based in London, focused specifically on our sustainability performance in the Ethics and Business Practices Europe, Middle East and Africa region. Ethics and responsible business practices are among the Citi’s ESRM Policy is managed by the ESRM team, which works most material citizenship issues for our stakeholders and closely with ESRM specialists in the business and regional our employees. The Ethics and Culture Committee of the ESRM Champions. Our Corporate Realty Services group Board oversees efforts to foster a culture of ethics within the also has a specialized sustainability team that manages our company and receives regular reports from senior manageenvironmental footprint and green building goals, and our ment on the progress of those efforts. To learn more about Enterprise Supply Chain team oversees supply chain sustainthe responsibilities of the committee, download the Ethics and ability. These specialized teams sit within their respective Culture Committee charter. You can also learn more about business units, ensuring ownership of sustainability goals efforts to encourage a culture of ethics in the Conduct and throughout the company. Culture section of this report. 10 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context Our citizenship efforts and priorities across the company are • A long-term lens to 2030, leveraging the expertise of Citi’s informed by the wider societal context around us. We use a Citizenship team through a short online survey comprehensive materiality assessment process to identify our • A review of ESG attributes used by rating and ranking agenmost relevant (or “material”) reporting topics from a corporate cies such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, RepRisk citizenship perspective — which is a broader standard than and Sustainalytics those used in our financial disclosures. These citizenship • The impact the issues have on Citi’s business and citizentopics, which we refer to as “material issues” throughout ship performance from an external stakeholder perspective this report, help inform which issues we communicate here and also what we consider raising to our Board and how we establish our citizenship priorities. Building on a materiality While our 2017 materiality assessment revealed relatively assessment conducted in 2015, we undertook a new assesssimilar issues and priorities compared to 2015, a key insight ment in late 2017 in collaboration with a leading stakeholder underscored by this process is the interconnectedness among intelligence and engagement firm. The assessment included material issues, such as acting in our clients’ best interest, an online quantitative survey of global external stakeholders, systemic risk, climate change and talent attraction and develwho provided more than 200 individual responses, as well as opment (see graphic below). Our core business must address of more than 500 Citi managing directors. these issues holistically, and our citizenship approach must enable the business to address the risks and opportunities We considered the following factors when weighting issues in presented by the material issues. A key next step coming out terms of their impact on our business: of this analysis will be additional goal-setting to ensure that we are effectively aligning our priorities to our material issues. • The inputs from the 2017 quantitative survey of managing directors from across the company GRI INDICATORS: 102-43, 102-46, 102-47 CITI’S MATERIAL ISSUES Addressing Data Climate Change Transparency Security/ Ethics Risk/Opportunity Privacy Financial Products/Services Acting in Human Systemic Inclusion/ with Environmental/ Clients’ Rights Risk IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Access Social Benefit Best Interest Health/ Environmental Corporate Employee Customer Well-Being of Footprint Governance Risk Behavior Satisfaction Employees Responsible Partnerships Talent Diversity/ Innovation/ Supply Chain/ with Civil Society/ Attraction/ Equal Digitization Operations Government Development Opportunity Preparing Youth for Strategic Regulatory the Future Philanthropy Reform Economy INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 11 Stakeholder Engagement This analysis happens across various functions; the Citizenship and Sustainability teams, Citi Community Development (CCD), at Citi Public Affairs, Government Affairs, Investor Relations and other teams across the business review their stakeholder partnerships regularly, as does the Citi Foundation. Sometimes this One of the most important ways we fulfill our mission to be a involves collaboration across business functions. For example, trusted partner to our clients is by engaging with a wide array the Citizenship team works closely with Diversity, Recruiting of stakeholders to gain their input and insights and share our and CCD to look at partnerships across our functions that expertise and perspectives. Our 2017 materiality assessment relate to Citi’s diversity priorities. was an important step to identify and address the most relevant issues, but we undertake many more forms of stakeGRI INDICATORS: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 holder engagement throughout the year across our business. For more information on our recent stakeholder engagement Annually, we review our relationships to identify any gaps and efforts, please see the table below and on the next page. consider potential new partners that would be valuable stakeholders for the company and inform our citizenship approach. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE EXAMPLES FROM 2017 GROUP Investors • Group Calls and Meetings • Hosted our first Investor Day in nine years to share the (Quarterly earnings, investor progress we’ve made as a firm and objectives going forward conferences and Citi-hosted • Citi senior executives presented at a number of industry group meetings) conferences for investors and peers • One-on-one visits to discuss • Members of the Board and senior management conducted financial performance and ESG calls with investors for input on a variety of governance and issues compensation matters • Communications through Investor Relations and Corporate Governance teams Government • In-person meetings, conference • Citi’s CEO participated in 47 meetings with regulators, and Regulators calls, lobbying activities, industry central bankers and government officials associations, public policy forums, • Participated on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s press conferences, conferences Advisory Board and convenings • Hosted forums with mayors around the world to discuss • Membership on government development, inclusion and climate change issues councils and committees • Participated in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s workshop on culture and behavior in the financial services industry Suppliers • In-person meetings, calls, • Co-hosted events with NGOs and industry organizations and conferences and workshops participated on panels to provide educational content to • Corporate Responsibility diverse suppliers Questionnaire • Hosted multiple events to create opportunities to engage with diverse suppliers, including the Supplier Expo, Chief Procurement Officer Summit and the National Minority Supplier Development Council Corporate Plus Summit 12 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citizenship Approach Our Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE EXAMPLES FROM 2017 GROUP Community • In-person meetings, calls, • Served on the Board of the UN Global Compact’s U.S. Leaders and conference calls, emails, social Network Nongovernmental media and events • Engaged community leaders and NGOs at Citi Foundation Organizations • Citizenship, Citi Community events, including our Pathways to Progress, City Accelera(NGOs) Development and Citi Foundation tor and Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative gatherings websites • Collaboration with NGOs on issues relevant to their organizations and our business Employees • Company intranet, email, mail • 100,000+ employees, friends and families participated in and in-person meetings events held in more than 500 cities across 91 countries • Voice of the Employee surveys • Approximately 16,000 employees participated in more than • Employee Networks, volunteer 150 Employee Networks, and 1,300 participated in 20 Green councils and Green Teams Teams globally • Volunteer events • 194,000 employees completed compliance training, including on anti-money laundering, sanctions and • In-person and online trainings anti-bribery topics • Performance reviews • Featured stories from Citi senior executives, employees and • Citi Blog partners highlighting how we enable growth and progress Clients and • Meetings to share Citi’s • Engaged 21,000+ Citi mobile customers in a co-creation Customers environmental and social effort to identify digital banking challenges that our mobile performance, and to understand app could potentially help solve our clients’ approach to managing • Citi’s CEO held an average of 40 client meetings per month environmental and social risks in cities around the world • Social media, including Customer Service Twitter handle (@AskCiti) • Customer satisfaction surveys • Citi Blog Other Financial • Working groups • Working on implementing the Financial Stability Board’s Institutions • Joint projects TCFD recommendations with the UNEP FI and 15 other global banks • In-person meetings, conference calls • Served on the Steering Committee of the Natural Capital Finance Alliance • Industry groups, roundtables, workshops and events • Member of the Equator Principles Association since 2004, along with 91 other financial institutions in 37 countries Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 13 HOW WE DO BUSINESS Responsible business practices are not only the backbone of our company’s success, they are also imperative to protecting the broader financial system and the communities in which we live and work. It starts with a culture of ethics and integrity delivered by a diverse, skilled workforce committed to being the best for our clients. Whether we are protecting our customers’ privacy, advancing transparency, respecting human rights, engaging with our suppliers or assessing and addressing the environmental and social risks of the projects we finance, our goal is always to earn our customers’ trust through responsible, ethical activities and outcomes that serve their interests. 14 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 15 Conduct and Conduct and Culture at Citi Culture Acting with integrity and responsibly providing financial services are critical parts of Citi’s commitment to serve as a trusted partner to our clients. In addition to complying with all applicable laws, regulations, Citi policies, and our Code of Conduct, through our Mission and Value Proposition, we ask our employees globally to ensure that their decisions pass For nearly a decade, we’ve three tests: They are in our clients’ interests, they create economic value, and they are always systemically responsible. strived to reinforce a culture These three tests help our employees to deliver on our core based on ethics and execution activities of safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and accessing capital markets on behalf of our across our businesses. We have clients — each of which creates an obligation to act responsiinvested in improving controls, bly, do everything possible to create the best outcomes and prudently manage risk. including those related to risk, We establish and communicate Citi’s ethical principles and compliance and audit, and values through our publicly available Code of Conduct, our publicly available Leadership Standards, various trainings our progress in these areas is and development opportunities, employee engagement enabling us to safely run and initiatives and communications from our senior leaders. In doing so, we reinforce that our employees must apply grow our business. In order to our principles and values every day, to everything they do, everywhere Citi operates. become an indisputably strong and stable company, we must WE ASK OUR COLLEAGUES TO ENSURE THAT THEIR DECISIONS PASS THREE TESTS ensure that all our employees, at all levels, are held accountable to They are in our clients’ interests the highest standards of ethics and professional behavior. Only then can we deliver the best They create economic value possible results for our clients and communities. They are always systemically responsible 16 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Ethics Program including intentional or negligent actions of employees or agents that may harm customers, clients and markets. In Citi’s Ethics Office is responsible for our Ethics Program, 2017, we expanded the initial implementation of this program including communicating Citi’s values through the Code of to include businesses in 84 countries, up from 44 countries Conduct, Code of Conduct training, and employee outreach the previous year. Beginning in 2018, an enhanced conduct efforts such as the Ethics Office Awareness Program and risk assessment will be conducted annually using a risk-based Spotlight on Ethics. The Ethics Program also includes Citi’s approach for those countries that have already performed an Ethics Hotline, work with our business and control functions initial conduct risk assessment. to identify control enhancements, and reporting on significant matters to Citi’s internal and external stakeholders. The Ethics and Culture Committee of the Citi Board of Directors oversees Citi’s efforts to reinforce and enhance a culture of ethics throughout the firm. The Ethics Office Awareness Program is an employee engagement initiative in which Ethics Officers meet with employees across different businesses and countries. Through town halls and small group discussions, Ethics Officers aim to increase awareness of and confidence in Citi’s ethics process, address questions and obtain direct feedback on our Ethics Program. Since the inception of the Awareness Program, Ethics Officers have visited 20 countries and reached over 16,400 employees. Our Ethics Office monitors internal compliance with our Code of Conduct by investigating concerns raised to the Ethics Office and also provides an annual report to employees citing the number SPOTLIGHT ON ETHICS and results of concerns raised through the Ethics Program. Citi shares the results of actual ethics investigations with employees through a quarterly communication Separately, we also perform an annual Voice of the Employee called Spotlight on Ethics that helps show employees survey to gather feedback from our employees. Part of this how their concerns are investigated and highlights survey is our Ethical Culture Index, which measures three commonplace areas where ethical lapses can occur. items — comfort with reporting unethical practices without fear Spotlight on Ethics also includes corrective actions, to of reprisal, a feeling of accountability to identify and escalate demonstrate to employees that raising concerns leads issues, and manager encouragement of ethical conduct even to meaningful action. Topics covered in 2017 included in the face of pressure. In 2017, Index results remained steady, conflicts of interest in hiring, the importance of mainwith 89 percent responding positively to Index items, compared taining professional skills, employees’ responsibilities to 88 percent in 2016. to safeguard Citi assets and equipment, and the appropriate use of Citi systems. Conduct Risk Management Program In 2017, the Ethics Office also publicized an internal social Our global Conduct Risk Program is a key part of the effort media page that allows for collaborative discussion. This to embed and embody Citi’s core values and high standards social media presence complements the existing Ethics of ethical behavior into our business strategy. We continue to Office internal website, which also provides employees implement this global program across businesses and control with updates on Citi’s Ethics Program and initiatives. functions to manage and mitigate instances of conduct risk, Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 17 Code of Conduct These principles include employees’ obligation to escalate violations or potential violations of law, regulation, Citi policy Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the standards of ethics and or the Code of Conduct. The multiple avenues through which professional behavior expected of employees and represenemployees can raise issues include, among others, their tatives of Citi when dealing with clients, business colleagues, manager or other members of management, their Human shareholders, communities and each other. It also provides Resources or labor relations representatives, internal legal an overview of key legal and regulatory requirements and counsel, a designated compliance officer and the Ethics Hotline. select global policies. Individuals performing services for Citi may also be subject to the Code by contract or agreement. The Ethics Hotline provides five channels for employees and The Code is publicly available in 26 languages at our Investor any third party, including members of the general public, Relations website. to report concerns about unethical behavior to Citi’s Ethics Office. A telephone line is available 24 hours a day, seven days In October 2017, we issued a new Code of Conduct. The a week, with live operators who can connect to translators 2017 Code illustrates how our employees can make ethical in multiple languages. Other reporting channels include a decisions, using a decision-making guide that identifies key dedicated email address, fax line, website (both internal and criteria through which a proposed choice or course of action public-facing), and physical mailing address. should pass in order to align with the tests contained in our Mission and Value Proposition and our Leadership Standards. All concerns are treated as confidentially as possible, consisThe 2017 Code also provides guidance on how employees can tent with the need to investigate and address the matter. lead by example and emphasizes that all employees share a Concerns may be raised either anonymously or with attriburesponsibility to promptly report and escalate actual or potention, subject to applicable laws and regulations. Further, Citi tial misconduct, whether their own or that of others. prohibits any form of retaliation against anyone who raises a concern or question in good faith, or who participates in a The 2017 Code was approved by our Board of Directors. Upon subsequent investigation. joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that they have read and will comply with the Code, and we ask employees to periodically reaffirm this commitment through Code of Conduct Industry Collaboration training. Violations of the Code can result in disciplinary action We have made a concerted effort to partner with key stakeup to and including termination of employment. holders on ways that we can collectively improve the culture Citi employees are required to complete Code of Conduct of the banking industry. In June 2017 for example, Citi, along training biennially following the issuance of an updated Code with industry leaders and regulators, participated in the of Conduct. The training serves as an essential means to Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s workshop on culture connect Citi’s values and principles to expected employee and behavior in the financial services industry. The workshop behaviors and conduct. Through the use of hypothetical focused on measuring and assessing culture and behavior work-related ethical scenarios, the training enables employwithin and across financial firms and explored benchmarking, ees to better recognize when to seek guidance or report the need for outside perspectives and opportunities for estabconcerns about their conduct or that of others, and provides lishing and sharing best practices. information about the various avenues through which they Citi is also a member firm of the Banking Standards Board (BSB) can do both. Code of Conduct training is offered to new hires in the UK. Together with over 30 member firms, we support the globally on a rolling basis as well as to non-employee continBSB’s independent role to help rebuild trust and confidence gent workers who are performing services for Citi. across the UK banking industry by promoting high ethical and professional standards for behavior and competence. We Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns remain engaged with the BSB directly through our UK senior management. James Bardrick, our Chief Country Officer for Throughout 2017, we continued to emphasize to our employees the UK, has been a BSB board member since its inception. globally the importance of escalating issues and to reinforce the principles embedded in Citi’s global Escalation Policy. GRI INDICATORS: 102-42, 102-44 18 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Anti-Bribery Program We continually enhance our Anti-Bribery Program with respect to the areas outlined in the Citi Anti-Bribery Program Statement — which is updated at least annually — and in our Code of Conduct, which summarizes our Anti-Bribery Policy. Citi complies with all applicable anti-bribery laws and regulations, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and the applicable local anti-bribery laws of the countries in which we operate. Our Anti-Bribery Program Statement expressly prohibits bribery in any form for our employees as well as our suppliers. We have written policies, procedures and internal controls Managing Compliance Risk designed to comply with anti-bribery laws. We conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global business lines. The Independent Compliance Risk Management team is The risk assessment addresses many areas of risk, including responsible for helping to drive a culture of ethical conduct gifts and entertainment, hiring practices and third-party at Citi by establishing policies, programs and procedures that relationships. The Anti-Bribery Program is overseen by the guide and support our employees in making ethical decisions Chief Compliance Officer, and information on anti-bribery and adhering to appropriate standards of conduct. Through compliance is disseminated to senior management at both the an integrated compliance risk management framework, this regional and enterprise levels and with the Board of Directors group protects Citi by setting standards; providing guidance, or a committee of the Board, as appropriate. training and advice to our businesses regarding compliance risk; and driving ownership and accountability for managing We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and compliance risk in accordance with Citi standards across the supplement it with targeted training and communications firm. Managing compliance risk is the responsibility of all of as needed. We give staff multiple ways, including the Ethics our employees and requires not only adherence to applicable Hotline, to escalate bribery-related concerns and to prompt laws, regulations, policies and relevant standards of conduct, investigations, where necessary. but also the promotion of business behavior and activity that is consistent with the values and conduct expectations outlined by our Mission and Value Proposition, Leadership We have been rebuilding our Standards and Code of Conduct. Citi’s global Compliance organization is headed by our Chief Compliance Officer, who credibility, our relationships reports directly to our CEO and provides regular reports on with our regulators and, very the performance of the compliance program to our Board of Directors, as well as its Audit, Risk Management and Ethics importantly, a culture that’s and Culture Committees. based on ethics and execution. – Michael Corbat, CEO at 2017 Citi Investor Day Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 19 Sanctions Program Our AML Program includes over 6,800 employees globally, including over 450 designated AML Officers covering every Citi conducts business and operations in compliance with Citi business, function and geographic area. These specialapplicable sanctions, laws and regulations, including those of ists partner with various functions, including Compliance, the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. We maintain Audit, Technology and the business, to ensure that we are a robust, risk-based Sanctions Compliance Program that able to effectively assess enterprise AML risk and meet our applies globally and is commensurate with our global footAML-related requirements at both the global and local level. print. As a financial institution organized in the U.S., Citi and In 2017, building on our centralization efforts in 2016, we its subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. sanctions continued to drive effective AML risk management across the requirements, among other requirements. firm and in all the businesses and geographies we support, working to meet our regulatory requirements on time and Our enterprisewide Sanctions Compliance Program promotes with the highest quality. For more information on Citi’s AML compliance with increasingly dynamic sanctions requirements. Program, visit our website. The program includes policies and procedures, enterprisewide screening, annual risk assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world. Citi’s NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO COMPLETED Sanctions Compliance Program and the associated policy is owned by the Chief Sanctions Officer, and the policy is CITI’S 2017 ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. SANCTIONS AND ANTI-BRIBERY TRAINING (BY REGION)* Anti-Money Laundering Program Citi’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Program works to protect our clients, our franchise and the global financial system from 59,806 24,374 the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA The program centers on: • Prevention: Citi’s Global Know Your Customer Program is the cornerstone of our AML Program, enabling us to effectively evaluate the potential risks associated with each client relationship and ensure that we adhere to globally 194,430 consistent policies and standards, customer risk scoring TOTAL EMPLOYEES and onboarding. • Detection: We monitor transactions to identify unusual or suspicious transactions, behaviors or patterns of activity across our global footprint. Our AML investigations unit reviews transactions of new and existing clients across businesses and regions. 65,596 • Reporting: We create, track and file Suspicious Activity Reports, Suspicious Transaction Reports and Currency 44,654 ASIA PACIFIC LATIN AMERICA Transaction Reports, as required in many countries. (including Mexico) • Governance: Our enterprisewide controls govern the overall program, including global AML policies, processes, testing and training. Citi’s Global AML Program Head and *  AML, sanctions and anti-bribery training is a combined online training. Numbers Bank Secrecy Act Officer is responsible for overseeing include all Citi staff who completed the 2017 training as of November 28, 2017. the program, including apprising the Board of Directors (Employees and non-employee workers have 30 days to complete.) and senior management of AML initiatives, any significant deficiencies and the reporting of suspicious activity. 20 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Serving Our Customers These initiatives are just some examples of our firmwide commitment to ensuring that our activities are in the best interest and Clients Responsibly of our clients. More broadly, new products are approved by cross-functional committees that include senior executives from Risk, Legal, Compliance and other relevant units, supported by Next-generation customer and client service is a key part of specialists from Fair Lending, as needed. Citi marketing materials Citi’s future growth as a trusted banking partner for people are reviewed by our Compliance and Legal departments to and institutions around the world. We have policies and ensure that we communicate clearly and fairly and comply with systems in place to make sure we are always treating customapplicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. ers responsibly and fairly, as reflected in our Code of Conduct and our internal checks-and-balances processes when creating new products. Treating Customers Fairly Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly Program (TCF), launched in Responsible Marketing the U.S. in 2013 and globally in 2015, aligns with Citi’s Value Proposition and our Mission to serve as a trusted partner to At Citi, we are committed to providing clients with the right our clients by responsibly providing financial services that products and services based on their needs, wants and prefenable growth and economic progress. erences, while adhering to all internal policies and procedures as well as all banking laws and regulations. We take the time to Citi’s U.S. and Global Consumer Fairness Policies and the TCF understand the unique financial needs of each client and offer Program demonstrate that our culture focuses on the fair only products and services that meet those needs. We work treatment of customers and encourages employees to view hard to clearly disclose all the features and terms and condifairness as a key element of delivering a remarkable experitions, including applicable fees and charges, for the products ence. The aim of the TCF Program is to deliver products and and services offered, so that clients can select and use the services that provide value, clarity and dependability, guided product or service best suited for their financial needs. by the Fairness Principles that define our standards for our products and services. For example, as part of our customer-centric approach to communicating with customers in a simple and easy-toThe program serves as a platform to facilitate conversation, understand manner, our Global Consumer Banking’s U.S. awareness and action among Citi colleagues to materialize Branded Cards business continued to deliver targeted video our commitment to the Fairness Principles. The TCF Program messages in 2017. This content has been well received by provides a framework for analysis of consumer fairness customers, who indicate through customer surveys that it concerns and a sustainable model for managing emerging has led to increased understanding of key topics. For U.S. risks. Citi’s Business Practices teams have established credit card customers, we introduced these personalized formalized escalation processes to facilitate consistent, videos to further educate them regarding the Citi Mobile App, timely and appropriate identification, analysis and escalation Citi Online, and Fraud Early Warning features. These videos of potential consumer fairness, reputational and franchise provide straightforward information to cardmembers about risk issues. how they can more seamlessly manage their account and make payments online, as well as the importance of up-to-date As part of the program, Global Consumer Banking employees contact information in addressing unusual card activity quickly. are required to complete annual fairness training to ensure they Of those customers who watched the digital features video understand how to identify issues of fairness and how fairness and responded to a survey, 89 percent said that they better influences real world results. In 2017, approximately 100,000 Citi understood how to access their account information. In addiemployees around the world completed the course. tion, after watching the Fraud Early Warning video, 61 percent of survey respondents said they were not previously aware of the Fraud Early Warning feature before watching the video and 85 percent said they would very likely update their contact information after watching the video. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 21 CITI’S FAIRNESS PRINCIPLES Taxation Policies and Standards 1. WORKS AS DESCRIBED Citi operates in nearly 100 countries and strictly abides by Customers can predict how the product all tax laws in the U.S. and throughout the world. We are a or service will work current income tax payer, both within and outside the U.S. Our tax profile is consistent with the locations of our business operations, and our review and escalation processes enable us to adhere to high standards of compliance with 2. APPROPRIATE applicable tax laws. Global Consumer Banking provides products and services that are appropriate for its We emphasize strong internal controls and transparency with customers, and customers can rely on the bank global tax authorities and share information relevant to our to offer products that match their needs tax profile. We supplement this transparency with additional country-by-country reporting, which is required under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) action plan to address base erosion and profit shifting. 3. VALUE Citi complies with reporting and withholding requirements Customers receive value that is reasonably imposed globally on financial institutions in connection with related to the cost of the product or service customer transactions they intermediate. We have implemented systems and processes to comply with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act and are phasing in compliance with the Common Reporting Standard as it becomes 4. EASE OF UNDERSTANDING law in approximately 90 countries. Citi has implemented Customers understand the terms and conditions the Common Reporting Standard in all applicable 2016 of the product or services (particularly any early-adopting countries where local implementing guidlimitations or exclusions) ance has been issued. Similarly, we have a firmwide policy applicable to customer transactions under which Citi will only engage in a transaction where there is a high degree Fair lending practices are a key component of our commitment of certainty that any tax aspects will be accepted by the to treating customers fairly, and in 2017 we updated our respective taxing authorities. U.S. Fair Lending Policy to provide clearer and more specific guidance on consumer protection. The U.S. Fair Lending Policy In December 2017, the U.S. President signed into law the Tax establishes the guiding principles and minimum standards Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which fundamentally changes the for fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory access to credit. It method of taxation of international income earned by Citi prohibits discrimination against actual or prospective clients on beginning in 2018. We have studied the provisions of the new the basis of race, sex, religion or other “nonrisk” factors. Our tax rules and how they apply to Citi, and will continue to apply 2017 update to the policy clarifies that the prohibition against the same consistent, transparent and responsible approach discrimination based on “sex” includes sexual orientation and to tax compliance and governance discussed above. For gender identity, in addition to gender. Trainings related to the more information on the impact of tax reform on Citi, see our policy were updated to reflect this clarification. Fourth Quarter 2017 Results and Key Metrics. 22 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Public Policy We engage directly, and indirectly through trade associations, with governments and elected officials around the world to advocate public policies that support the interests of our company, clients and employees in the countries and regions where we operate. In 2017, guided by our Political Activities Statement, which ensures compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we promoted policies and positions on issues such as trade, cyber security, data localization, tax and financial reforms. Our Government Affairs team members complete annual compliance training, conducted by outside experts, on campaign finance, lobbying and gifts/entertainment rules. Under U.S. Federal Election Commission rules, Citi’s Political Action Committee pools the voluntary contributions of eligible employees to support U.S. political candidates and campaigns that support the financial industry and compleWHAT’S AHEAD mentary pro-business policies. This support allows us to take an active role in our country’s political process, promote our business goals and strengthen relationships with U.S. policyWe recognize that we must continually work to reinmakers. Annually, we disclose our U.S. political contributions force ethical practices across our culture. Our focus online. We also provide extensive disclosure about our on ethical decision-making is not the responsibility practices pertaining to political contributions and lobbying of just one division or team, but rather is embedded activities, as well as a regularly updated list of our signifinto everyday business activities. As we grow our icant trade and business associations, on our Corporate business, we will continue to evaluate our practices, Governance webpage. Our disclosures and contributions are ensuring that policies and actions drive our mission overseen by the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs forward, and identify areas where we can improve. Committee of our Board of Directors. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 23 Digital Fostering Innovation Innovation Increasing competition from tech startups and customer expectations for access, simplicity and connectivity require that established companies become more partnership-focused, agile and innovative. We have drastically changed our approach to innovation and product development in recent years to meet this challenge. In order to stay relevant, banks Citi has developed a model that fosters innovation by need to embrace the same encouraging new ideas across our businesses. Through this model, created by our Citi Ventures team, we engage our factors that define the 21st employees and partner with our clients to develop, validate, test and deploy innovations quickly and effectively. We call century world we live in — we this approach D10XSM , and its intent is to discover and deliver must be faster, smarter and solutions that are exponentially better for clients. Through direct contact with clients, employees test their hypotheses more efficient. Getting there and refine their approaches. Sometimes we find that an idea does not solve a legitimate pain point. But, similar to venture will require rapid and secure advancements that meet CUPID MATCHES TALENT WITH consumers’ top expectations of INNOVATION AT CITI convenience and simplicity. We An important part of our innovation strategy is interacting with a wide array of diverse and emergsee digital innovation as the key ing talent. To further this effort, Citi Ventures to opening up greater access to launched Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID). Through CUPID, students from financial tools, while also fighting leading universities participate in semester-long Citi projects focused on emerging technologies, such as corruption and advancing machine learning, natural language processing and integrity and transparency big data analytics. CUPID seeks out talent beyond business graduate programs to include individuals around the world. As we embrace studying design, engineering and public policy. Since we established this program in early 2017, more than the business opportunities that 200 university students from 16 different universidigital solutions provide, we bear ties in the U.S., UK and Canada have participated in cutting-edge innovation work at Citi. in mind the great responsibility we have to ensure our customers’ privacy and safeguard their data. 200+ university students 16 universities in have participated the U.S., UK in cutting-edge and Canada innovation work at Citi 24 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain capital, when an idea is validated, employees pitch to senior cross-border global payments on NASDAQ’s Linq platform, executives to receive support for their startup, including and increases efficiency and ease of reconciliation with realfunding at various stages, guidance from a team of in-house time visibility to transactions on the blockchain ledger. coaches and access to the expertise of Citi’s businesses and network of global innovation labs. This approach allows We announced a second successful D10X pilot in November us to “fail fast” in order to accelerate learning and bring 2017. This solution — Proxymity SM — has the potential to more certainty to where we should — or should not — invest transform the proxy voting process through a digital platresources. As of 2017, more than 200 employees were form, eliminating intermediaries and directly connecting working on nearly 100 internal startup ideas, with more than and authenticating issuers with investors while making the 1,500 employees involved in D10X since the internal growth voting process more efficient, accurate and transparent. model was introduced by Citi Ventures in 2015. The platform aims to give investors the maximum amount of time to research and cast their votes and enables issuers In early 2017, we announced our first D10X startup — to receive votes in real time. It also offers confirmation to CitiConnect® for Blockchain — in partnership with NASDAQ the investor that the vote was received and counted at the and Chain, a Citi Ventures portfolio company. By partnering meeting, providing certainty that their fundamental sharewith others to test and validate the idea, we were able to holder right has been upheld. 1 CitiConnect for Blockchain bring a solution to market that provides a bridge between and Proxymity are just two examples of the disruptive, blockchain platforms and Citi’s global financial network. This high-potential innovations and ideas emerging right now integration provides a seamless end-to-end transactional from our D10X work. process for private company securities, facilitates access to TECH TALENT: CLOSING THE GENDER GAP, EMPOWERING THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY During 2017, Citi partnered with the nonprofit StartOut Opening up opportunities for women in the tech field is to launch its Global LGBTQ Entrepreneur Network. The one way Citi addresses SDG 5, which aims to achieve Network empowers the LGBTQ community by connecting gender equality and empower all women and girls. Citi’s entrepreneurs and their business partners with investors work in this regard contributes directly to target 5A which and mentors. Citi employees who participate receive includes helping helping to give women equal rights to access to StartOut’s private global directory, online economic resources. These activities also support SDG 8: forums, mentorship program and investor portal. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work Citi is also working to help close the gender gap in tech. In for all, specifically target 8.5, which includes the promothe Talent and Diversity section of this report, we highlight tion of full and productive employment and decent work some of our efforts to encourage women in their pursuit for all women and men. of professional development and technology-related jobs within our company as well as develop future talent for the industry as a whole. The Citi Foundation also promotes activities that encourSDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 5 age women to enter tech fields. For instance, it supports a Cornell Tech initiative that focuses on recruiting and Gender Equality retaining young women and connecting them with professional opportunities. The Citi Foundation also supports SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 8 Laboratoria, an organization in Peru that identifies young women with high potential to participate in a program that Decent Work and Economic Growth rapidly teaches and prepares them for careers in the tech industry and then connects them with potential employers. 1 “Turning How We Innovate Inside Out,” Citi (website), accessed January 2018, https://blog.citigroup.com/2017/11/turning-how-we-innovate-inside-out/. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 25 CASE STUDY Tech for Integrity Corruption is a global problem that plagues the private and Initiatives such as T4I contribute directly to SDG 9, which aims public sectors, inflating the cost of doing business and taking to build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive sustainunfair advantage of people around the world. According to able industrialization and foster innovation. In particular, a World Economic Forum survey, 67 out of 144 economies target 9.5 includes a mandate to enhance scientific research, consider corruption to be one of the top three challenges to upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors conducting business in their country. 2 The cost to individuals in all countries and encourage innovation in particular in is great, and the world’s poor are often the hardest hit, with developing countries, which aligns with the objectives and survey data indicating that 1.6 billion people annually have outcomes of T4I. In addition to encouraging innovation, T4I to pay a bribe to get public services. 3 Though technology is seeks to use that innovation to bolster integrity, which also not the only answer, it can be a powerful force in addressing directly contributes to SDG 16, promoting peaceful and areas of corruption and providing systems that support and inclusive societies which includes effective, accountable and encourage integrity and transparency. inclusive institutions. Target 16.5, which aims to substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms and In 2017, Citi launched the Citi Tech for Integrity Challenge target 16.6, which encourages the development of effective, (T4I), a collaboration among partners in the public and private accountable and transparent institutions at all levels, are sectors to encourage technology innovators from around the closely aligned with the outcomes of T4I. world to create cutting-edge solutions that promote integrity, accountability and transparency in the public sector and beyond. To kick off the challenge, Citi released the results of a Finalists that exhibited at regional Demo Days included: crowdsourced survey of more than 150 individuals, spanning A machine-learning startup based in India public, private and nongovernmental organizations around that can provide analytics and visualization to the world, to identify integrity pain points on which developaddress the challenges of financial crimes and ers should focus their efforts. lack of transparency A video reporting app that crowdsources Selected participants joined a virtual accelerator program, information about infrastructure and public which provided mentoring, curriculum and infrastructure service issues in Mexico, to enhance government support to help them enhance their submissions. Challenge services and promote ethics and engagement finalists then showcased their solutions at one of six Demo A cashless solution for public transit in Nigeria Days in cities around the world. Those chosen to receive awards that will improve the efficiency of government have the opportunity to work with any business, organization transactions and reduce the risks associated with the use of cash or government interested in exploring innovative integrity tools. In addition to the awards presented at the Demo Days, T4I presented the James Wolfensohn Game Changer Award to T4I participants targeted eight areas of AID:Tech for its solution to bring social and financial inclusion to government integrity: the world’s undocumented and underserved populations using digital identity based on blockchain technology. These digital • Government • Crisis Management identities cut down on fraud and enable the efficient distribution Transactions & Aid of aid and other government benefits to communities. • Culture, Ethics • Paper, Cash & Manual & Engagement • Analytics, Reporting • Information, & Transparency Security & Identity • Financial Crimes SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 9 • Procurement & Illicit Activities Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 2 Center for Strategic and International Studies, The Costs of Corruption (February 2014), page 1, https://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/legacy_files/files/publication/140204_Hameed_CostsOfCorruption_Web.pdf. 3 U4 Brief, Reducing Bribery for Public Services Delivered to Citizens (October 2015), page 1, https://www.cmi.no/publications/file/5663-reducing-bribery-for-public-services-delivered-to.pdf. 26 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Customer-Centric As we look to empower our customers, increase their satisfaction and enhance their access to financial information, we are Solutions expanding beyond individual apps, to integrate our services in digital ecosystems where our customers are already engaged. To do so, we are forming strategic partnerships Citi continues to work on digital solutions that are aimed at with the digital platforms our customers already use, such securely meeting and exceeding customer expectations for as established social media and payment solutions, to make service and simplicity while moving our industry forward. our services available securely, quickly and seamlessly. The Technology also has great potential to empower customers following are just a few examples: with financial information and open up access to financial tools for vulnerable and underserved populations. • Through our partnership with WeChat — a Chinese mobile app that provides instant messaging and payment services for approximately 900 million users monthly — Citi cusEmpowering and Engaging Customers tomers in China can apply for credit cards, access account balances, request credit line increases and redeem bonus Through Digital Platforms points, among other capabilities. A recent survey Citi conducted found that mobile banking • Using AliPay, one of the world’s largest payment platforms with provides customers with important information that makes about half a billion users, customers can make a payment to them more aware of, and secure in, their financial standing their Citi credit card or use a Pay with Points option linked (see data in graphic below). To make our Citi mobile banking to their Citi accounts. app as useful as possible, we turn to our customers to help us identify real-world problems our app can help solve. We then • In Singapore, Citi Bot — a chatbot on Facebook Messenger — engage with them virtually while they are in their own enviprovides account information and answers customer quesronments to gather quick, authentic feedback about whether tions. Using our iterative approach to digital innovation, we new functionality is effectively solving those problems. Using rejected two earlier potential solutions, one due to security this approach, we engaged more than 21,000 customers in requirements and another because customers didn’t respond co-creation during 2017 and added 32 core features and more well to it during testing. In response to customer feedback than 60 sub-features to the Citi mobile banking app based on that they don’t like talking aloud about their finances and customer requests. account balances, we continued searching for just the right solution, which ultimately led us to this secure and intuitive chatbot platform. MOBILE BANKING EMPOWERS CUSTOMERS HIGHLIGHTS FROM CITI’S 2017 INAUGURAL MOBILE BANKING STUDY* As a result of mobile banking, Americans say: 71% of Americans who 43% “I worry less 36% “I am more confident 26% “I save more money.” mobile bank once about managing in my abilities to a week or more are my finances.” make sound financial more aware of their decisions.” financial standing *  “Citi Launches Findings of New Mobile Banking Study at The Economist’s 2017 Finance Disrupted Conference,”​C ​ iti (website), accessed January 2018, h ​ ttps://www.multivu.com/players/English/8178051-citi-mobile-banking-study/. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 27 Encouraging Financial Inclusion Through Digital Solutions Although the traditional banking infrastructure in many developing countries is limited, mobile phone use is often high. As a result, digital solutions such as mobile payments are growing in popularity. This technology increases transparency and efficiency, which can aid in humanitarian relief efforts and encourage financial inclusion by increasing access to loans and other financial products. In addition, mobile technology can help bolster financial inclusion because it is often more affordable and widely available in rural areas where people might not have convenient access to a traditional bank. Citi supports this kind of technology through a range of efforts. One example is our engagement with One Acre Fund, a nonprofit organization that offers microloans to smallholder farmers in East Africa. The loans give farmers access to financing for farm Through the use of digital solutions to increase financial access inputs — primarily seeds and fertilizer — plus training in agriculin underserved areas, Citi is working to support SDG 9, which ture techniques and ways to better market their products and aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and maximize their profits. In 2014, in partnership with Citi through sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Our work our Citi Kenya and Citi Inclusive Finance units, One Acre Fund to help One Acre Fund transition to its current digital payment introduced the use of the digital mobile money service M-Pesa system demonstrates our ability to contribute effectively to for loan repayments, replacing the previous cash-based target 9.3, which aims to increase the access of small-scale system. In the cash-based system, farmers would make weekly industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing microloan repayments to their One Acre Fund field officer, who countries, to financial services including affordable credit, would transport and deposit the collected cash. It would take and their integration into value chains and markets, and up to two weeks to update loan balances and reconcile bank to target 9.A, which focuses on facilitating sustainable and statements, in a process prone to uncertainty, inefficiency resilient infrastructure development in developing countries and insecurity. After the transition, farmers using the digital through enhanced financial, technological and technical mobile money service instead of cash to make loan repayments support to African countries among others. reported a unanimous preference for the digital payments, due to their convenience, transparency and safety. In addition, farmers and One Acre Fund were freed from the burden of a SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 9 long process with higher costs and a system that was much more prone to fraud. The platform is now being rolled out to Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure additional countries. In 2017, the Better than Cash Alliance, which is based at the UN, published a case study on the Citi solution for One Acre Fund. BENEFITS OF ONE ACRE FUND’S TRANSITION FROM PHYSICAL CASH TO DIGITAL REPAYMENT 100% 85% 2-4 preference for decrease in losses DAYS 80% 46% decrease in decrease in the mobile repayment from repayment total repayment repayment time field officers over cash, according fraud (dropping from processing time, collection costs spend on collection to a 2015 survey of $17,500 to less than down from 16 days activities 250 farmers $3,000 in one year) 28 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Designing for Accessibility new survey platform and reporting tool, through which we measure our NPS. We use standard metrics and processes Citi works to ensure that our products and services are across our company to compare regional performance and to designed for and accessible to our clients’ varied needs and surface best practices and problem areas from which we can preferences. Citi offers braille and talking ATMs, large print learn. We are continuing to build and roll out dashboards that and braille statements and raised line checks for the visually enable us to review survey results and customer feedback in impaired. We also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing near real time in order to act upon customers’ feedback more impaired. Recognizing that we serve diverse populations, many quickly. For example, in 2017, we launched a new NPS survey of our services are provided in multiple languages. Citi prodon @AskCiti to capture customer feedback immediately ucts are also tailored to meet the needs of the individuals in the following a social service interaction. In addition, we rolled countries where we do business. For example, in South Korea out a new ATM survey program in the U.S. and Mexico through the Human Rights Forum rated the Citi Mobile app, launched in which, following an ATM transaction, customers receive an December 2016, as No. 1 for accessibility for vulnerable popuemail survey asking for feedback regarding their experience. lations due to the way information is presented on the pages throughout the app, the inclusion of alternatives to text, its brightness and use of tabs, and its scrolling feature. Customer Satisfaction and Feedback At Citi, we have leading-edge tools and resources to systematically capture customer feedback and satisfaction and develop processes to quickly monitor, diagnose and act upon customer experience issues. Our customer service team uses a closedloop feedback process to follow up and resolve any issues reported by our customers through surveys. In addition to responding to specific customer concerns, we’ve established a “listening command center” that proactively identifies emerging issues that arise through multiple channels, including social media, phone, chat and email. Using data analytics, we work to understand the root causes of the problems so we NO. 1 IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION can take corrective actions to avoid them in the future. These In 2017, for the second-straight year, Citibank corrective actions can range from policy changes to improvewas ranked No. 1 for customer satisfaction among ments in particular customer touch points, such as websites national U.S. banks in a report released by the or call centers. American Customer Satisfaction Index. The report also ranked Citibank No. 1 among national banks We also track customer satisfaction through the Net Promoter for customer loyalty, customer retention, website Score (NPS) system, which measures customers’ willingness satisfaction, call center satisfaction, ease of adding/ to recommend Citi to others. Our goal is to be No. 1 in the changing accounts, competitiveness of rates and industry in NPS ratings. In recent years, we’ve enhanced speed of transactions in branches. our approach for capturing customer feedback through a Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 29 Safeguarding Data and Operations and Technology Officer and the Chief Information Protecting Customer Information Digital solutions are an integral part of our daily lives, and as consumers, corporations and governments turn to technological solutions, the opportunity to leverage the benefits of big data grows. But with this significant opportunity comes increased concerns related to privacy and security breaches. Data security and privacy are top priorities for Citi and for our stakeholders and are among our most material citizenship issues. Information Security Security Officer on a global, enterprise basis; the Chief Citi’s Global Information Security Program couples information Executives of each business sector and region are responsible gathering and data analysis with forensics to inform strategic for implementation and compliance with program procedures decisions. Our approach rests on having the right technology, and requirements. Annually, we provide our employees with systems, policies, processes and talent in place to prevent, training on how to properly handle personal information and detect, respond to and recover from cyber threats quickly. how to maintain the security and privacy of information when working with companies that provide services to us. Citi conducts regular information security risk assessments and trainings and has internal controls to prevent inforAs part of our approach to safeguarding information, we mation security breaches. We have developed stringent invest in, develop and use advanced technology. For example: policies, employ robust technologies to protect our data • Pindrop Security, a Citi Ventures portfolio company, comand systems, and have built a strong, well-trained team. Our bines authentication and anti-fraud technology to analyze Global Information Security team protects information from phone calls within 30 seconds, helping customer service data breaches and misuse by maintaining strong networks to representatives confirm whether callers are who they protect our systems and databases, but we remain vigilant as say they are. Citi helped to shape the company’s product such threats persist. Our program is accredited by the British roadmap through testing, fine-tuning and adapting to fit Standards Institution, and Citi is the first major financial Citi’s infrastructure needs. Using Pindrop technology, more institution to have its Global Information Security Program than half of all phone-based fraud attempts have been ISO 27001 certified. The program is also regularly examined detected as the calls are taking place, and we have seen by regulators as well as by internal and external auditors. a reduction in fraud loss with lower operational costs and Citi also collaborates with external stakeholders to raise improved customer experience. the security of the industry. We work with our clients, • Our SmartPass Touch ID technology — a collaboration competitors, governments, law enforcement and intelligence between the Citi Ventures portfolio company Unbound and agencies to share best practices and conduct joint cyber Citi’s Innovation Lab — allows CitiVelocity clients to use resilience exercises. Our security teams also study informafingerprint identification to log in to their accounts via their tion security challenges across industries to learn how to mobile devices. The fingerprint is tied to a password, which strengthen our internal practices and respond to problems is randomly split between the mobile device and a server. quickly. Reinforcing our culture of ethics and responsibility, This means the password is never stored on the device, the Audit Committee of our Board oversees the development, which makes it more secure. implementation and maintenance of our Global Information Security Program. The program is managed by the Chief 30 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Privacy In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) goes into effect in May 2018. This regulation is significant not The fair, ethical and lawful collection, use and processing of only for its scope and ambition but also for the weighty penalcustomers’ personal information is essential to build trust, ties for noncompliance. The GDPR places greater emphasis provide best-in-class services and achieve our corporate on individual rights than previous requirements and will objectives. To help meet this goal, Citi has established a have a broader impact, affecting any entity established in or dedicated Chief Privacy Office team led by a Chief Privacy proactively offering goods and services within the European Off﻿icer. The Chief Privacy Office team leads the Citi Global Economic Area. Citi is committed to complying with the GDPR Privacy Program, which is overseen by the Citi Global Privacy and is working to ensure that we are well prepared for any Committee. The program provides a framework for effectively required notifications. and efficiently overseeing and coordinating the management of privacy and confidentiality risks. For information about what we expect of our employees regarding the handling of personal, proprietary and confiOur Privacy and Confidentiality Policy articulates principles dential information (including customer information) see our for the collection, use, sharing and disposal of personally Code of Conduct. identifiable information (PII) and customer data in accordance with its disclosures and applicable laws and regulations. Our policies prohibit the collection of PII that is not necessary for the performance of the services offered or for the purposes disclosed in our privacy notice. Citi provides transparency WHAT’S AHEAD on our practices and offers customers choices with respect to how their personal information may be shared. We also As more devices are able to transact payments, ensure that customers participate in the management of their banking infrastructure, rules and policies will have to PII where legally required, such as confirming their preferred change in response. Banks will have to make sure that method of communication, reviewing and correcting informathey have the processing capabilities to keep up with tion and opting out of marketing solicitations. the demand for payments increasing from billions to trillions per year. Security and authentication will Citi employees take required privacy and information complialso need to happen in real time and on an even more ance training, which covers privacy concepts; the importance massive scale than today. We will approach solutions of transparency in the collection, use and sharing of personal to these issues with our clients’ needs in focus, and information; requirements related to PII collection, information design the products and services that make their protection and compliance with restrictions on data transfers; financial lives easier and more manageable. and expectations for enabling and honoring customer choices. More than 200,000 employees completed this training in 2017. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 31 Talent and Research by Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (GPS) estimates that reducing gender inequality, for example, could add 6 percent GDP growth to advanced economies over Diversity 20 years. 4 At Citi, our employees reflect the remarkable range of cultures and perspectives of our clients across the more than 160 countries and jurisdictions where we do business — a powerful advantage that combines global insights with deep local knowledge and helps us drive growth and progress. At Citi, we continually enhance We know we have more to do to become as diverse at all levels as we aspire to be, and we are committed to making specific the professional development changes where needed. For example, in January 2018, we announced new efforts to support pay equity. Based on an programs and resources analysis of compensation in the U.S., the UK and Germany, offered globally to support we found that women at Citi are paid on average 99 percent of what men are paid, and U.S. minorities are paid 99 percent the career progress and work/ of what non-minorities are paid. This analysis incorporated a number of factors accounting for differences in pay, such as life balance of our employees. job function, seniority and geography. As part of this year’s We’re also committed to being compensation cycle, we made adjustments to help close these gaps and further our goal to become an employer of choice a truly diverse company where for employees of diverse backgrounds. We are committed to continuing to review compensation for pay equity and will employees come to work every continue this analysis in all other countries where we work. day at a place that recognizes and celebrates our diverse Managing Diversity backgrounds and experiences. A diverse workforce that represents a wide range of backTo this end, we are setting grounds, perspectives and experiences is an important part of Citi’s mission and is directly related to our ability to innovate representation goals around and deliver results for our clients. Our diversity strategy, which diversity, and our leaders are we refreshed in January 2017, emphasizes a culture of embracing diversity that is embedded across all levels, from junior being held accountable for employees to the C-suite. As part of our Diversity Strategy, we are working to set additional representation goals to drive the continued progress towards hiring, promotion and retention of women and U.S. minorities. these goals. Senior leaders across the company — including our Affinity Leaders and our Human Resources (HR) Operating Committee, among others — ensure that our programs and policies advance our culture of inclusion, and our Board of Directors reviews our progress and objectives annually. We engage with employees at all levels to encourage a diverse and inclusive workplace. As such, we have structured our Affinity model to be more closely connected to our business strategy and to promote individual leadership and employee development. 4 Citigroup, Inc., Women in the Economy II (November 2017), page 3, https://ir.citi.com/rxehymXStWqV7Y6S58ExJLPdJPjqZicwdoxqT%2Fc0qDsBMFxbL%2FzcJiG%2FgKE%2BRxwHcad8oQrgD1w%3D. 32 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Bringing Our Affinities to Life In 2017, we identified senior leaders and developed priorities for five of these Affinities and plan to do the same for the Our Affinity model, built on the foundation of our global remaining five Affinities in 2018. grassroots Employee Network program that has existed for many years, is our approach to disseminating the company’s diversity priorities and goals. The work of our senior leaders Employee Network Chapters to bring our Affinities to life across Citi has been an important Employee Network chapters serve as local branches of our signal to our employees worldwide. Members of our CEO’s Affinities and are an important part of the implementation leadership team, along with other senior leaders across of our diversity strategy. These grassroots organizations are the company, co-chair each of our Affinities to help provide initiated and led by employees and offer professional develaccountability for increasing diversity at Citi. The Affinity opment, mentoring, networking and community engagement leaders act as public champions for the priorities and needs opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our of that demographic, both within the company and externally. inclusive culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Our 10 Affinities — Asian Heritage, Black Heritage, Citi Women, Citi employees, whether or not they identify with a particular disABILITY, Generations, Hispanic/Latino Heritage, Citi affinity. In 2017, we exceeded 150 Employee Network chapters Salutes, Multicultural, Parents, and Pride — each represent globally, and anticipate more growth in the number of chapters different demographics and are designed to ensure that we as employee interest continues to increase. understand, appreciate and leverage the uniqueness of our entire employee base. AFFINITIES IN ACTION Our Affinities are an important part of our approach to diversity and, through our new model led by senior leaders, we had some notable accomplishments in 2017: Citi Women supported International Women’s Day with over 238 events in 75 countries. Black Heritage formed five new Employee Network chapters in the U.S., helping us reach 150 chapters across all Affinities. Citi Women and Black Heritage rolled out a new initiative through which Citi senior leaders are mentored by diverse colleagues, to foster open dialogue and build understanding among executives of diverse employees’ experiences Citi employees at the Hong Kong Pride Parade in the workplace. Across Affinities, we piloted a mentoring program in which Pride was active in public advocacy efforts by the managing directors and directors mentor high-performing company, including signing the Masterpiece Cakeshop v. female and U.S. minority senior vice presidents and vice Colorado Civil Rights Commission amicus brief in support presidents over a four-month period, to facilitate personof LGBTQ equality in a Supreme Court case involving alized learning and development. freedom of religion and LGBTQ rights. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 33 Representation Goals We are also working toward meeting other important metrics across other underrepresented populations. For example, In 2017, our CEO’s leadership team agreed on an approach to the representation of employees of Asian heritage in the U.S. implement firmwide representation goals. Throughout 2018, within Citi exceeds available candidate levels, so we are working the team will work to set specific goals for representation of to expand employee engagement and increase opportunities women (globally) and black employees (in the U.S.), working for advancement. For LGBTQ employees, we are working to at the vice president level and above. We believe that setting enlist more allies and expand employee data collection to goals will help accelerate our progress with respect to both of better capture employee self-identification of sexual orientathese groups. tion and gender identity. The representation goals are being developed based on an analysis of representation and engagement data for each CITI SIGNS THE WOMEN IN Affinity demographic, and will be set annually by senior leaders with the support of historical representation data, future FINANCE CHARTER growth plans, market availability and benchmarking data. In July, Citi joined a growing list of financial services firms in the UK in signing the UK Treasury’s Women These representation goals, as well as other work we are in Finance Charter, a voluntary agreement that doing around gender equality in the workplace, directly companies will take key actions toward permanent contribute to SDG 5 in support of gender equality and and sustainable change for gender diversity at empowering all women and girls. Specifically, we are senior levels in the industry. Signatories to the enabling progress toward target 5.5, which aims to ensure charter pledge to have a designated senior executive women’s full and effective participation and equal opporaccountable for gender diversity, set internal gender tunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in diversity targets for senior management, publish political, economic and public life. annual progress against those targets and also have an intention to link compensation of the senior executive team to the targets. SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 5 We have set an initial goal to have 30 percent of our Gender Equality senior management roles in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region held by women by 2025. We are also working to create better gender balance by recruiting equal numbers of men and women into our graduate programs. More information about our Women in Finance Charter targets is available online. EMPLOYEE NETWORK PROGRAM 89 15 North America Latin America 9 9 7 Hispanic/Latino Black Heritage disABILITY Heritage 35 19 Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific 5 Asian Heritage 9 Generations 34 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Unconscious Bias Training online training available to all employees in 2017. Over 80 percent of our employees have completed this training to We expanded our Building an Inclusive Culture training, which date, and the senior leadership team, including the CEO and aims to help colleagues recognize unconscious bias and take HR, have also completed a separate in-person unconscious actions to improve on-the-job decision-making that supports bias training, which we plan to expand virtually to all employCiti’s culture of leadership, ethics and inclusion. After reachees throughout 2018. ing 54,000 employees during the pilot phase, we made the WOMEN IN TECH The technology industry is among the many that exhibit a large gender gap in their employee base. Citi is working to increase female participation in technology and fintech by creating opportunities along the entire talent pipeline. In 2017, nearly 100 Citi employees attended the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference, which drew more than 18,000 female technologists to learn from and inspire each other. Citi also had a prominent recruitment presence, to engage potential candidates at all career levels. Head of Citi FinTech Yolande Piazza joined the UN Women’s Global Innovation Coalition for Change, a group whose mission is to drive industrywide action to accelerate the achievement of gender equality and women’s empowerment. Citi volunteers in Toronto serve as guest judges at Our Jacksonville, Florida, Citi campus held its fourth Canada Learning Code’s entrepreneurship camp for girls annual Women in I.T. internship program, which aims to empower girls to learn about careers in technology. We For more information about Citi’s work in technology, invited 18 girls on the one-week experience to explore the including how we create opportunities for women in tech, technology industry in a hands-on learning environment. see the Digital Innovation section. 17 14 24 158 Citi Salutes Parents Pride Total Employee Network Chapters 6 Multicultural 58 Citi Women Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 35 CASE STUDY Communicating the Importance of Diversity #TogetheratCiti In mid-2017, our two-month-long #TogetheratCiti global campaign engaged hundreds of employees across Citi to share their experiences to strengthen our culture of inclusion and start a candid conversation about diversity. We received hundreds of responses from employees around the world, including the following: An all-employee Q&A session with Citi’s Affinity Leaders Diversity is a melding of differences, ideas and cultures. It represents a coming together of people from all different backgrounds, socioeconomic statuses, sexual orientations and political preferences. It’s a learning experience where everyone is challenged Employees in Taiwan celebrate Pride Week with a panel to check their privilege at the door, step outside discussion about creating an LGBT-friendly workplace of themselves and see things from a perspective other than their own. – Leah, North America Together we can build a more Put simply, our teams I pledge to support diversity inclusive culture by accepting our must be as diverse as the by understanding others’ differences and by using those clients we serve and the customs, beliefs, ideas and differences to drive change and communities where we creativity. Together we are progress, thereby making Citi a live and work. not only stronger, but also truly global bank and giving the — G avin, North America more effective. best service to our clients. —E  wa, Europe, Middle East and Africa — J uliana, Latin America 36 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Recruiting for Diversity and accelerated interviews. Through the Early ID Program, the Citi Diversity Campus Recruiting team is able to focus on the best diverse talent for our Summer Analyst Program. For We are working to ensure that diversity is embraced throughthe 2017 analyst class, Citi hosted on-campus events in spring out the hiring process at all levels of the organization. For 2016 and began providing interview preparation and support managing director and director level hires, we are committed in June. Thirty-seven students will be joining Citi in 2018 as to diverse slates and aim to include at least one woman in our summer analysts from that process. interviews and at least one woman or racial/ethnic minority in our interviews for U.S. hires. In 2017, 71 percent of interview We increased female representation in our campus programs to slates for managing director and director roles included at least 40 percent in 2017. This representation rate beat our four-year one diverse candidate. We have also continued to use diverse average of 29 percent. We are also beginning to leverage new interview panels to promote a broader perspective on hiring diversity sourcing platforms so that underrepresented minoridecisions. In 2017, 72 percent of managing director level hires ties are more likely to be included in our talent recruitment were interviewed by a panel with at least one diverse member. process in the U.S. In the U.S., to further drive pay equity, several states have enacted laws prohibiting employers from asking prospective employees for their salary history as part of the recruiting Client and Supplier Diversity process. Citi has not only met those requirements, but also no longer asks any prospective employees across all U.S. The value of diversity to our business extends throughout states and Puerto Rico for their salary history (including the value chain, from our employees to our clients and our their bonus history). suppliers. Our workforce reflects the diverse clients and communities we serve. Our clients are deeply engaged in issues related to diversity, and we invite them to participate Recruiting Technology and Innovation in activities related to our shared interest. For example, our The Citi Talent and Diversity, Human Capital Reporting and annual International Women’s Day events celebrate women Analytics and Productivity teams worked together to create a and promote gender equality. In 2017, we hosted 238 related holistic data dashboard that allows hiring teams and business internal employee events in 100 cities across 75 countries. leaders to take a data-driven, quantitative approach to hiring, Additionally, we hosted a number of external events that drew retaining and promoting high performers from underrepreover 1,500 clients. sented groups at all levels. Whereas much of our diversity We have targeted increased participation of women-owned efforts were focused on director and managing director levels businesses in the supply chain as a goal in the coming years. in the past, the new dashboard allows us to look at diversity In 2017, we partnered with WEConnect International, a global gaps across the entire organization. organization dedicated to the advancement of women-owned businesses and a Citi partner since 2016, to procure an additional Campus Recruiting and the Next Generation $100 million from women-owned businesses over the next three years, especially from firms located in developing markets. Campus recruiting is an important entry point into Citi for underrepresented groups. We continue to use an Early The Citi Supplier Diversity Program was created to give Identification Program for outstanding female and U.S. maximum opportunity to diverse partners who meet our minority group talent through pre-interview mentor programs purchasing and contractual standards. The program works to 2017 WORKFORCE DIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS 51% 45% of our U.S. workforce 24% of our managing 27% of our U.S. managing of our total employees globally are female are minorities directors and directors directors and directors (30,250 people) globally are female are minorities (106,003 people) (2,325 people) (1,330 people) Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 37 CITI’S GLOBAL WORKFORCE EMPLOYEES BY REGION 69,249 28,138 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 12,361 9,513 4,770 3,316 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (17.9% RATE) (13.7% RATE) (17.0% RATE) (11.8% RATE) 48,623 63,193 LATIN AMERICA ASIA PACIFIC 11,481 6,696 12,430 8,970 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (23.6% RATE) (13.8% RATE) (19.7% RATE) (14.2% RATE) Data as of December 31, 2017. 38 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE 209,203 TOTAL WORKFORCE 205,961 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES 3,242 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES TOTAL BY GENDER 209,203 106,003 103,200 TOTAL EMPLOYEES FEMALE MALE 41,042 28,585 20,308 14,772 20,681 13,792 NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE NEW EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE HIRES TURNOVER HIRES TURNOVER HIRES TURNOVER (19.6% RATE) (13.7% RATE) (19.2% RATE) (13.9% RATE) (20.0% RATE) (13.4% RATE) Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 39 create mutually beneficial business relationships with diverse suppliers that strengthen the communities we serve and Fair Employment Practices create value for our shareholders. For more information on One of our most important strategic advantages at Citi is the our Supplier Diversity Program, see the Responsible Sourcing wide range of cultures, backgrounds and perspectives that section of this report. being in 160 countries brings to our work. Our global workIn 2017, we also received the New York Law Journal’s In-House force is our greatest asset, and we strive to maintain an enviDepartment of the Year Award for Diversity for the work Citi ronment where opportunities to develop are widely available, Legal has been doing to promote the diversity and inclusion where people are hired and advanced on their merits and agenda both at Citi and in the wider legal community, including where our employees treat each other with respect. We are our inaugural law firm Diversity and Inclusion Award. Through fully committed to equal employment opportunity and comply this award Citi recognizes one of our external law firm partners with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding fair employment that demonstrates excellence among its peers through its practices and nondiscrimination. efforts and achievements in furthering diversity and inclusion. For more information on fair employment practices, see the Human Rights section of this report as well as our Code of Conduct. CITI’S COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY Compensation Align compensation programs, structures and decisions with stockholder and other stakeholder interests Citi takes pride in offering competitive salaries across the regions in which we operate. We design our compensation Reinforce a business culture based on the highest program based on our Compensation Philosophy, which ethical standards outlines the five primary objectives that our program and structures aim to achieve. Our approach to compensation also Manage risks to Citi by encouraging prudent includes ensuring that entry-level employees receive competdecision-making itive wages within the industry. We also offer employees the opportunity to take advantage of formal or informal flexible Reflect regulatory guidance in compensation programs work arrangements, including part-time work and job sharing. We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, which Attract and retain the best talent to lead Citi to success includes multiple layers of reviews of compensation recommendations and pay equity analysis. 2017 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)* American Native Black or Indian or Hawaiian Two or African Hispanic Alaskan or Pacific More Job Categories White American or Latino Asian Native Islander Races Females Executive/Senior 77.9% 1.8% 4.4% 12.4% 0.0% 1.8% 1.8% 31.9% Managers First/Mid-Level 63.5% 5.4% 8.3% 17.3% 0.2% 0.1% 5.2% 39.8% Managers Professionals 54.3% 7.1% 7.6% 24.9% 0.2% 0.2% 5.6% 41.8% Administrative 53.8% 16.4% 15.0% 5.6% 0.4% 0.3% 8.5% 72.1% Support All Others 50.3% 6.8% 14.7% 18.2% 0.3% 0.2% 9.6% 41.1% Totals 55.4% 10.4% 11.1% 15.7% 0.3% 0.2% 6.9% 53.1% *Data on race/ethnicity may not sum to 100% due to rounding. 40 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Executive Compensation Learning and Development We compensate our executives fairly, based on individual and company performance, competitive benchmarking and support Citi employees have access to a range of career development of our Mission and Value Proposition. Our Proxy Statement and learning resources to enhance their ability to perform contains a scorecard with each named executive officer’s finanin current roles and prepare for future opportunities — with cial and nonfinancial performance goals, which are approved close to 40 percent of open positions filled internally in 2017. by the Board’s Personnel and Compensation Committee. We We continued to focus on enhancing our employee learning seek to design our executive pay program to motivate balanced and development opportunities in 2017 by shifting to more behaviors consistent with our focus on long-term strategic flexible, cloud-based solutions. These digital platforms enable goals. Citi incorporates shareholder and stakeholder input on learning when, where and how it is most effective for employexecutive pay into our Compensation Philosophy. We apply our ees, and we expanded program offerings in 2017. We also Compensation Philosophy through our Executive Compensation offer a range of internal development programs for leaders at Framework, which enables incentive compensation awards to all levels, and we continue to evolve those programs to meet closely reflect our pay-for-performance approach. new needs. As we enhance our development offerings, we are working to formally capture employee feedback on programming to better understand the impact on employees and the Discrimination and Sexual Harassment potential for further enhancement. In 2017, all Citi employees in the Workplace received training. Citi strictly prohibits any form of unlawful discrimination or harassment, as set forth in its widely disseminated and Digital Learning Solutions consistently enforced policies. Employees who believe they have been discriminated against or harassed are encouraged In 2017, Citi piloted a new third-party, online learning platform to report any incidents that violate Citi’s policies to their with more than 11,000 employees. Called Degreed, the platform managers, another member of the employee’s management allows employees to access and share a range of learning chain, Human Resources, or to the Ethics Hotline. Upon resources anytime, anywhere — from courses to videos to receipt of any complaint, Citi promptly investigates and takes articles, on a host of subject areas. Degreed provides access remedial measures up to and including termination of employto Citi’s many learning libraries, including Udemy, one of the ment, where appropriate. All contacts and investigations are largest producers of education “how-to” videos offering a treated as confidentially as possible, consistent with the need range of business courses developed by industry experts. to investigate and address the matter and subject to applicable laws and regulations. Citi’s policies also strictly prohibit retaliation against any employee who has made a complaint Internal Development Programs or participated in an investigation. For more on our discrimiLeadership training opportunities are offered across Citi to nation and harassment policies, see our Code of Conduct. help support new hires and provide development opportunities to those already on the job. GLOBAL EMPLOYEE TRAINING BY REGION IN 2017 In our Institutional Clients Group (ICG), the New Director AVERAGE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE Promotion Program takes new directors through an interactive business case seminar that seeks to highlight the qualities ASIA PACIFIC 37.7 and responsibilities of successful Citi leaders. In 2017, over 270 new directors attended, and 98 percent of participants rated the program as “excellent” or “above average.” EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 37.7 ICG also offers a Diversity Leadership Program, a six-month LATIN AMERICA 44.5 program for high-potential women and U.S. minority senior vice presidents and vice presidents to help build confidence, executive presence and strategic skills. To date, over 200 NORTH AMERICA 47.8 individuals have participated in the program. In addition, our Global Consumer Banking business runs three High Potential Accelerator Programs focused on developing future leaders. Since inception in 2011, 215 employees have participated in Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 41 The Citi Women’s Leadership Development Program is also VOICE OF THE EMPLOYEE offered to high-performing female directors from around the world. To date, the program, which offers four days We survey our employees annually to gather critical of networking and learning opportunities, has impacted input on trends in the workplace and management more than 700 female leaders around the world. In 2017, the practices. This feedback informs important changes in program began to integrate more peer coaching and exposure company practices. In 2017, instead of one annual Voice to senior Citi leaders. of the Employee (VOE) survey, we piloted three shorter surveys throughout the year called VOE Pulse. This format gave Citi additional opportunities to hear from Employee Evaluations employees on issues such as employee engagement and diversity. Citi provides ongoing feedback and support for employees as an important part of the career development process. Our Engagement Index, which measures employees’ Employees receive formal feedback from their managers sentiments regarding opportunities for growth, job through mid-year and year-end reviews. In 2017, we enhanced alignment with skills and perception that the company our year-end performance review process to include a twois making the changes necessary to compete, increased rating system to increase emphasis on and further incorporate from 76 percent in 2016 to 78 percent in 2017. the Leadership Standards, in an effort to increase transparency around leadership coaching and feedback. This shift reflects We also measured sentiment about diversity. One of the increased importance of individual leadership within the our diversity items on the survey — related to senior company to best serve our clients. management support for diverse employees and ideas — increased to 80 percent in 2017. Some employees also have the opportunity to receive multi-perspective feedback (MPF) surveys from direct In 2018, we will return to the traditional, once-per-year reports, peers, partners and other co-workers. Previously, VOE survey format. MPF surveys were provided only to senior vice presidents and above; in 2017, we expanded the MPF process to include all people managers. About 46,000 employees (90 percent these programs. The Women in Risk Program, which was of those eligible) participated in the program last year. In launched by our global Risk group in 2011, has also been instruaddition, approximately 4,000 managers who participated in mental in building a stronger pipeline of women for leadership training programs received a 360-degree performance review, roles. More than half of the participants in this program to which is designed to help these individuals identify oppordate have taken on new or expanded roles within the firm. tunities for development. The goal of both the MPF and the Additionally, in 2017, the Finance group launched its inaugural 360-degree reviews is to provide a more holistic view of each Women in Finance Program, designed to invest in future participant’s strengths and development opportunities, to women leaders by providing exposure to senior leadership improve their overall effectiveness at Citi. and building a community of women in Finance. SUMMARY OF TRAINING HOURS Training Type 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Instructor-Led 5.2M 5.8M 5.6M 5.7M 5.0M 3.7M Web-Based 5.3M 5.1M 5.0M 4.8M 4.8M 5.1M Total 10.6M 11.2M 10.8M 10.5M 9.9M 8.9M Training Hours/Employee 40 44 45 46 45 43 42 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Workforce Well-Being Maintaining policies and a culture of well-being for our employees helps drive business success. We continually evaluate the tools and policies available to maintain the well-being of our global workforce. Work /Life Balance There are several Citi programs that help employees balance their work and life. We embrace a culture of flexible work with both formal and informal flexible work arrangements — providing options for how, when and where our employees work — that contribute to employee satisfaction and retention while also increasing productivity. In addition, our Work/ CITI FITNESS CHALLENGE SETS Life Program provides assistance with every day challenges such as child care concerns, legal advice and dealing with A NEW RECORD identify theft. The annual Citi Fitness Challenge encourages our employees around the world to get moving. In 2017, We also offer a range of health and wellness programs to more than 15,000 employees in 95 countries logged encourage a strong work/life balance. Our Live Well Program nearly 138,000 hours of physical activity over six promotes a culture of physical and mental health and well-being weeks, breaking Citi’s previous record. Our colleagues among our employees. We sponsor three global campaigns: around the world all participated in their own unique Heart Health, Resilience and the Fitness Challenge. Each of ways, including friendly competitions in the UK and these campaigns is aligned with the four pillars of the Live Well Thailand, bike breaks in Mexico and yoga in Japan. Program — healthy nutrition and exercise, health risk reduction, work/life balance and the importance of mental well-being, and a tobacco-free lifestyle. For example, in 2017, the Global Resilience campaign focused on the importance of healthy sleep PROMOTING MENTAL HEALTH AT CITI for physical and mental well-being. The topic of mental health is often overlooked in In the U.S., our on-site medical clinics provide health care, discussions of well-being. But it’s an issue of increasing free preventative screenings and health promotion programs, importance in financial services, where long hours and immunizations and pre-travel health guidance to all employees. a high-pressure environment, together with the normal These initiatives help employees and their families achieve their demands of life, can strain many employees. health goals through resources that are free, easy to use and In the UK, Citi launched the Minds at Citi campaign, available to employees whether or not they are enrolled in a Citi which is working to destigmatize the topic with the help health plan. We also offer a Health Advocate program, separate of internal videos featuring employees talking about from insurance programs, to aid employees in resolving insurtheir own challenges with mental health. To mark World ance claims, accessing medical specialists and addressing their Mental Health Day on October 10th, we announced that health needs and those of their families. Our Save Well plans a mental well-being nurse will be permanently on site guide our employees in building financial stability and saving for at our London office to help employees in need. The retirement, and we offer a tuition reimbursement plan for those initiative will increase access to counseling services for going back to school. busy employees. We also used World Mental Health Day as an opportunity to share the Minds at Citi campaign and its key messages in 15 other countries across our Europe, Middle East and Africa region as well as Australia and New Zealand. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 43 Citi Benefits and Family Life In 2017, Citi employee volunteers contributed over 1 million volunteer hours in communities around the world. They used Supporting employees in their family life is an important part their professional skills, expertise and time volunteering with of workforce well-being. We offer family support through a community organizations to support a range of projects, from range of programs. For example, for our U.S. workforce, we traditional hands-on activities to skills-based volunteering. provide paid pregnancy and parental bonding leaves, which These employee engagement efforts with community organiprovide job protection above and beyond the requirements zations often complement financial support from Citi and the of the federal Family and Medical Leave Act. Negotiated rates Citi Foundation. For example, we piloted the Citi Skills Sprint are also available for dependent care. In addition, we offer at Kingsborough Community College in New York, where the Bright Horizons Special Needs program, which provides Citi employees helped students map out their academic and online resources for parents in the U.S. with special needs career paths. Visit the Pathways to Progress section to learn children and subsidized dependent care when work-related more about how our employees are helping Citi and the Citi issues disrupt regular schedules. We also offer a college Foundation fulfill our commitment to support the career readicoach to help families and their children navigating the ness of young people. post-secondary education admissions process. While Citi employees volunteer year-round, Global Community Day, our annual day of service for employees, friends and Volunteerism family, is an important way in which we collectively deepen Mobilizing our human capital is central to our goals of creating relationships with our communities. In 2017, more than shared value and supporting communities where individuals 100,000 volunteers participated in events held in more than and families can thrive. We provide our employees with 500 cities across 91 countries. the resources and tools to engage in meaningful volunteer opportunities in the communities in which they live and work. CHAMPIONING COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS IN INDIA Since 2015, Citi India has implemented the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Champions program to encourage a culture of leadership through volunteering. Senior leaders are paired with local nonprofit partners across India to raise awareness within Citi of the nonprofit organizations’ efforts and to use their knowledge, expertise and leadership to help each organization reach its goals and deepen its impact. CSR Champions advise nonprofits on steps to improve their organizations, providing guidance on topics such as governance, financial planning and process improvement, and on strategies for improving programming. Additionally, CSR Champions partner with Citi colleagues to evaluate our relationship with each organization and provide recomCiti India CSR Champions with Citi senior leaders mendations on deepening engagement. Through these relationships, Citi India senior leaders model a culture of leadership and encourage employees to live our values. 44 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain SERVICE AND SKILLS Engaging with the communities where we live and work is vital to our business success. It’s also a valuable employee development and retention tool. In a survey of our summer analysts, almost 75 percent indicated that they want to work for a firm whose values aligned with their own and that provides opportunities to volunteer. In response to what we’ve heard from our junior bankers, we’ve evolved our volunteerism offerings to include more immersive experiences, including Volunteer Africa and Service Year. We believe these experiences enable our junior bankers to become better professionals and more well-rounded individuals. Launched in 2016, Volunteer Africa is an initiative that connects microentrepreneurs in Africa with Citi employee volunteers from select global ICG businesses. In 2017, 24 junior bankers spent five weeks in Uganda applying Citi volunteers, employees and community partners, as part their professional knowledge and skills to benefit a group of the 2017 Volunteer Africa program of 16 entrepreneurs. The goal of the program is to help grow the businesses and create much-needed jobs in the to work in a strategic role at a nonprofit of their choice. local community. The entrepreneurs are also able to pitch With a guaranteed return to Citi after their year of service, for investment from Citi through a dedicated fund estabparticipants come away with valuable leadership skills and lished by the bank. fulfilling community service experiences, and the nonprofits benefit from the skills and expertise of some of our Service Year, an innovative program established by Citi in best and brightest. Given the success of the program thus 2016 for New York City-based employees, offers selected far, we hope to expand the initiative to additional cities in university graduates who have accepted a full-time offer the coming year. with Citi the opportunity to defer that offer for one-year WHAT’S AHEAD Achieving our goals on talent and diversity will require active We will also continue working with the UN on initiatives engagement at all levels of the company. We will continue to that advance gender equality, including with Citi senior use data to inform our efforts and engage stakeholders that leaders serving on the UN High Level Panel on Women’s keep us accountable. At the start of 2018, Citi signed on to Economic Empowerment and the UN Women’s Global the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion (CEO Action), joining Innovation Coalition for Change. In 2018, Citi signed more than 350 CEOs and presidents committed to driving the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), which policy changes and practices in their companies that help promotes the equal and full inclusion of women in society, increase diversity, including the widespread availability of the economy and in the workplace. unconscious bias training, which is now being rolled out to all Citi employees in 2018. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 45 Human Rights To ensure human rights considerations are taken into account across our business, we conduct human rights risk analysis and due diligence and regularly engage stakeholders on this topic. We have also established policies and standards, including our Statement on Human Rights, to protect our employees, provide guidance to our suppliers and inform our business Respecting human rights in decisions — including what we choose to finance and the conditions we place on that financing. our business activities has been a priority at Citi for more than a decade. In the last two Our Commitment to years, however, we have learned Respect Human Rights important lessons that have Citi engages human rights experts, clients and peers to help implement our respect for human rights in line with the UN increased our awareness and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights — a global framework for preventing and addressing the risk of adverse accelerated our response to impacts on human rights linked to business activity. The UN these issues. Through our Guiding Principles draw upon existing international human rights instruments whose principles we endorsed years ago, such as experience and engagement those in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Core Conventions regarding with stakeholders, we have child labor, forced labor, freedom of association, the right to organize and bargain collectively, and equal pay and nondistaken steps to improve policies crimination in the workforce. We are committed to respecting and processes that will better human rights wherever we do business, regardless of the degree to which governments are upholding their duties to protect, equip us in promoting the full respect and fulfill human rights. realization of human rights This marks the second year we have prepared our Global for all those impacted by Citizenship Report in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, which was released in 2015 (see Index). our business. Governance, Policy Development and Updates Citi regularly updates our policies and practices to strengthen our human rights due diligence. During the development of our Statement on Human Rights, which we adopted in 2007 and last updated in 2014, we conducted broad-based internal and external stakeholder engagement to help assess our human rights impacts and identify salient issues that impact our employees, supply chain, clients and the communities where we do business globally. Our handling of salient human rights risks is regularly communicated to senior management and our Board of Directors. For more information about our governance of citizenship issues, including human rights, see the Citizenship Governance at Citi section. GRI INDICATOR: 102-44 46 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain In addition to our formal Statement on Human Rights, Citi’s The salient issues we routinely screen for in financed activiEnvironmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, ties covered by our ESRM Policy include risks to Indigenous adopted in 2003 and summarized in our Environmental and Peoples’ rights; labor violations, such as forced labor and Social Policy Framework, guides our approach to assessing human trafficking or child labor; resettlement of projectenvironmental and social issues related to financing our impacted local communities; and concerns for how project clients’ business activities. In 2017, we updated our ESRM sponsors engage public or private security forces around project Policy and due diligence practices in response to the lessons sites. (See page 49 for more about how we manage these risks.) we learned from financing the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) — especially regarding the consultation of Indigenous Peoples in relation to a project’s impact on land or cultural heritage. In addition to our involvement with DAPL, we consulted external Respecting the Human human rights experts and conducted extensive stakeholder engagement to inform the policy update, which has prepared Rights of Our Employees us to better identify potential adverse impacts to Indigenous Every Citi employee is expected to adhere to our Code of Peoples affected by projects we finance and to engage our Conduct, which includes a commitment to human rights, and clients on the mitigation and management of those impacts. to participate in relevant trainings. Our Code of Conduct For more information about the changes to our ESRM Policy, prohibits unlawful discrimination, harassment and other see the Environmental and Social Risk Management section. behaviors that infringe on individual rights. This policy applies to all employees as well as suppliers, clients and community partners globally. Our Salient Human Rights Risks Human rights has emerged as one of our most material citizenDiversity and inclusion are of particular concern, especially in ship issues in recent years. However, concern for human rights is countries where there is no legal protection against discrimnot new to Citi, and we have spent more than a decade working ination based on characteristics such as gender, gender on the most salient human rights risks for our company — those identity, race, ethnicity, age or sexual orientation. Although related to our business or the activities of our clients and other diversity and inclusion issues are not always discussed in terms business partners that pose the greatest risks to people. of human rights, they are essential to human dignity, which human rights aim to protect. Championing diversity and incluWe evaluate human rights risks that could arise across our value sion not only aligns with our core values, it is also vital to our chain, including in our operations and in our clients’ operations, business success. Citi prohibits discrimination and harassment ranging from data protection and privacy to discrimination in of our employees in all forms regardless of whether or not lending. However, we have determined that our most salient individual protections are legally mandated in the countries human rights risks are those related to our financing of client and communities where we operate. In fact, we know that even activities that might impact people in local communities, in locations where antidiscrimination laws exist, there is still including workers and vulnerable groups. We identified most of a need for companies to ensure they are doing their part to these risks under our ESRM Policy as “Areas of High Caution” respect individual rights. several years before the advent of the UN Guiding Principles. To identify these areas, we focused on the most severe potential To put our values into action, during 2017, we made online risks posed to people by our clients’ activities. Our work to unconscious bias training available to all employees, expandaddress these risks has included helping to found and govern ing on the pilot we initially deployed in 2016. The training has the Equator Principles framework to enhance and standardize been completed by more than 80 percent of our employees. risk management across the banking sector, establishing an In signing the UK Women in Finance Charter, we established internal ESRM team, and developing our risk identification and a goal to have 30 percent of senior management roles in mitigation policies and procedures. our Europe, Middle East and Africa region held by women by 2025. For more information on our diversity and workforce GRI INDICATOR: 102-41 initiatives, see the Talent and Diversity section. We work to provide a respectful and inclusive work environment, and we investigate and take action on all violations. For instances where our employees feel aggrieved or have Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 47 concerns about the company’s treatment of them or others, we encourage them to use Citi’s grievance mechanism, the Respecting Human Rights Ethics Hotline. The hotline is open to external parties and available in several formats and languages. in Our Financing Decisions The decisions we make about what to finance can have a bigger impact on human rights than anything else we do. The Freedom of Association challenge to effectively evaluate human rights risks related While the financial services industry is not heavily unionized, to our clients and the projects we finance is significant. We we do have unions or work councils in many of the countries work diligently to meet this challenge and respect the human where we operate. Approximately 12 percent of our employee rights of the individuals and communities touched by the population is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We projects we finance. engage directly with our employees and through these associations to discuss issues such as health and safety, remuneration, In some situations, we are well positioned to avoid causing work hours, training, career development, work time flexibility or contributing to adverse human rights impacts or to avoid and equal opportunity. entering into business relationships that are linked to human rights concerns. For example, our anti-money laundering efforts help us prevent criminally sourced funds — including Extending Respect for funds associated with human rights abuses, such as human trafficking — from passing through our bank. Our ability Human Rights Through Our to disrupt the flow of money to those perpetrating human rights abuses and to deny those abusers safe harbor for illicit Suppliers and Partners proceeds tied to corruption or human rights violations is an effective way to undermine their efforts. Nondiscrimination policies also extend to Citi’s and the Citi Foundation’s philanthropic activity and to Citi’s suppliers. We In other situations, however, the link between our financial do not provide funding to organizations that discriminate on services and potential human rights impacts is more complex the basis of personal characteristics, such as gender, race and and less clear. The complexity leaves us with less leverage sexual orientation, among others, nor do we work with suppliand diminishes our ability to ensure that on-the-ground ers that violate our policies. outcomes are consistent with Citi’s values. In these instances, we work to improve our clients’ awareness and business In addition, our suppliers must adhere to Citi standards, includpractices. In addition, where a transaction’s financial and ing those related to human rights, as outlined in our Statement legal structure allows it, we put loan covenants in place of Supplier Principles and in our Supplier Standards. These and monitor mitigation efforts through ESRM systems and expectations are reinforced by our Corporate Responsibility corrective action plans. If proactive management of identified Questionnaire (CRQ), which helps our procurement team human rights risks is not possible, we might deny financing determine how well potential and current suppliers manage or involvement in a particular transaction. Or, if a client’s environmental, social and governance issues, including human overall track record and relative commitment to improvement rights issues. Our CRQ for the Europe, Middle East and Africa does not meet our standards, we will sometimes re-evaluate region includes questions specific to modern slavery concerns, the client relationship — a move we take very seriously as and during 2017, we implemented those questions in the CRQ we recognize that terminating the relationship removes any for other regions as well. leverage we might otherwise have had to improve practices over time through constructive engagement. For example, in As with our employees, suppliers are encouraged to use Citi’s 2017 we exited one client relationship in the palm oil sector Ethics Hotline to raise concerns. For more information on our because of the client’s unwillingness to comply with our supply chain, see the Operations and Supply Chain section. standard for the sector, which requires certification by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. 48 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Human Rights Due Diligence in • Resettlement: Resettlement of local communities, including indigenous groups, can be necessary for project implemenClient Transactions tation. When this occurs, it should be conducted through Citi has thousands of corporate and institutional clients. The carefully designed resettlement action plans that are reviewed UN Guiding Principles acknowledge the challenges posed by by project lenders in advance of implementation and should, having such extensive business relationships, and we have where necessary, include efforts toward achieving the free, adopted the approach set out in the UN Guiding Principles of prior and informed consent of indigenous communities. identifying general areas where the risk of adverse human • Security: Security concerns have been identified relating to rights impact is most significant from the perspective of how project sponsors engage with public or private security people who could be affected. We regularly evaluate and, forces protecting project sites. In such circumstances, if when needed, enhance our due diligence requirements to we decide to proceed with financing, we will advise project ensure that the clients that pose the most significant human sponsors on the implementation of international standards, rights risks are managing and mitigating those risks in line such as those in the Voluntary Principles on Security and with international best practices. Human Rights. We use our ESRM Policy, where applicable, to assess and manage risks consistently and evaluate client projects and If during our initial screening or more extensive due diligence activities against a common set of environmental and social for a transaction we find there is a risk of adverse impacts, standards. In addition, for certain qualifying projects, we we carefully evaluate the client’s current commitment and apply the Equator Principles (EP) to assess and manage envicapacity to avoid, mitigate and/or manage those impacts in ronmental and social risks. The EP framework helps financial accordance with international industry best practices and their institutions define processes and standards for stakeholder willingness to engage in continual learning and improvement. engagement, including mechanisms for affected communities We escalate the most challenging cases with the potential for to address grievances proactively with project sponsors. severe adverse impacts to senior business and risk managers for collective discussion on the risks and the client’s commitOur ESRM team screens transactions covered by our ESRM ment and capacity. In some cases, senior management will Policy during the initial marketing phase to identify any conclude that the likelihood for adverse impacts is too great — client activities we believe pose heightened risks to workers posing an imminent threat to people or communities — and we and local communities. Our policy prohibits financing any will decline involvement in the transaction. clients or projects involved in forced labor, child labor or human trafficking. In addition, the policy covers Areas of High After the financial close of project-related transactions that Caution — heightened environmental and social risks that have time-bound environmental and social action plans, we require closer due diligence and heightened risk management. monitor the project sponsor’s implementation of those actions These areas overlap with our most salient human rights risks through the construction and operation phases of the project — and include the following: often through the retention of an independent environmental and social risk consultant who periodically reports to lenders • Indigenous Peoples: Various concerns arise around the following on-the-ground audits. For more information, see the extent to which indigenous communities have been conEnvironmental and Social Risk Management section. sulted during project development and have consented to impacts to their land, livelihoods and cultural heritage. • Labor: There are risks related to labor forces used in the construction of projects or other operations, including risks associated with forced labor, child labor and human trafficking by project operators and their subcontractors. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 49 Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s and business ethics related to confidentiality that limit our ability to disclose such information without client consent. Statement on Human Rights Addressing requests for transparency will continue to be a In 2017, the ESRM team screened 328 total transactions balancing act between protecting the confidentiality of our during the initial marketing phase, and of those, 27 were clients’ information and disclosing information to stakeholdflagged as requiring additional due diligence for human ers as appropriate to advance the protection of human rights. rights risks. This screening does not include other human In 2017, we did respond both informally and in writing to rights risk assessments the ESRM team does as part of several inquiries related to client activities from NGOs such as annual client reviews or portfolio reviews. The specific BankTrack, Friends of the Earth and the Business and Human types of risks we uncovered are outlined in the table below. Rights Resource Centre, and we encouraged our clients to do Of the 25 transactions flagged for additional human rights the same (see case study on the following page). due diligence, 14 proceeded to close after we confirmed the clients were managing and mitigating the potential risk appropriately. Transactions may not reach financial close for Providing Access to Remedy a number of reasons, not solely due to ESRM review. The UN Guiding Principles call on governments and companies to play their respective roles in ensuring that victims Examples of transactions flagged for further review include of human rights abuse have access to effective remedies. a project loan to finance construction of a new mine in Latin Remedy can take many different forms, including apologies, America that neighbors indigenous communities and an financial or non-financial compensation or efforts to prevent export credit loan for an infrastructure project in Asia with future harm through policy commitments and changes in resettlement impacts. operational practice. The purpose of remedy is to help make victims whole again or to restore them, as much as possible, Citi engages with NGOs to communicate about our processes to their lives and enjoyment of their rights before those rights and invite feedback. While in recent years banks have come were violated. Remedy can also help ensure that they and under increasing pressure to disclose specific findings others will not suffer similar harms in the future. related to client projects, we are bound by legal requirements IDENTIFYING HUMAN RIGHTS RISKS IN TRANSACTIONS Risk(s) Identified Requiring Additional Transactions that Closed Human Rights Risk Human Rights Due Diligence* After Risk Review Indigenous Peoples 16 7 Labor 3 1 Resettlement 10 6 Security Practices 1 1 Water 5 4 Other 2 1 * There were 27 transactions requiring additional human rights due diligence in 2017. Of those, 14 closed after risk review. In this table, one transaction may be reported under more than one human rights risk. 50 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain As a financial institution, our approach to remedy usually Recently, we helped upgrade the labor provisions of the involves working with clients to ensure they have the right RSPO standard and trained other member companies on policies in place and channels available to enable victims to various labor risks in the sector, with the goal of improving lodge grievances. In addition, companies must follow up on overall access to remedy for people working on palm oil allegations and have established processes to offer remedies plantations around the world. or cooperate with authorities to make sure effective remedy • Migrant Labor: Citi helped finance the construction of an is provided. In 2017, we worked to enhance access to remedy infrastructure project in the Middle East that is bringing a in the following ways: projected influx of approximately 100,000 migrant workers • Indigenous Peoples: We updated our ESRM Policy related to into a region known for human trafficking-related risks. the consultation of Indigenous Peoples to account for gaps We anticipated that, because of the scale of the workforce, between the legal requirements in developed countries and traditional methods for lodging grievances would not be international human rights norms. Through our updated adequate. In response, we recommended that our client, approach, we hope to assist our clients in enhancing their the project sponsor, expand beyond traditional consulengagement of Indigenous Peoples to ensure that the right tant audits and basic worker hotlines to use cutting-edge of free, prior and informed consent is more robustly and technology to create a mechanism capable of receiving universally respected when project impacts require it. grievances from the massive construction workforce of this • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO): The palm oil project. The client agreed to implement this technology, sector faces systemic human rights risk, and our leverage which will enable them to better monitor subcontractor with any one palm oil client can be limited. We are able to management and respond to emerging issues, from minor tackle this risk more broadly as a member of the financomplaints to more serious grievances. cial institutions task force of the RSPO complaints body. STAKEHOLDERS HEARD THROUGH DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS Responding to human rights concerns often means revealed a complex web of issues stemming from decades taking the time to understand the local context and of exploration by various mine operators, as well as more the different stakeholder perspectives through direct current concerns regarding the impact of Petropavlovsk’s engagement. This proved important prior to a bond activities. Importantly, the due diligence found there to offering by Petropavlovsk PLC, a London-based gold be constructive dialogue in recent years between the mining company with operations in Russia. During our company and the indigenous community, and paved the due diligence process, we discovered that a formal way for improved relations through an enhanced stakecomplaint had been filed with the UN’s Office of the holder engagement strategy. High Commissioner for Human Rights, alleging that an Evenki indigenous leader had been falsely convicted Before launching the bond, we encouraged the company to and imprisoned for his advocacy against the Russian be more responsive and transparent regarding allegations government’s treatment of his community and in the public domain. The company agreed to implement a Petropavlovsk’s mining activities near his village. multifaceted action plan to enhance its approach to stakeholder engagement in line with the International Finance We knew it was critical to gain insight directly from the Corporation’s Performance Standards. Petropavlovsk Evenki community to understand their perspectives on was also receptive to our suggestion that the bond the case against the indigenous leader and to evaluate offering fully disclose to investors the risks related to its the company’s social license to operate near Evenki interactions with the Evenki community as potentially traditional territory. We engaged a social consultant to relevant to its ability to obtain project-related licenses travel to the remote region and conduct interviews with and permits, and thus, to the viability of its operations. community members and NGOs, as well as with company and government representatives. The consultant’s report GRI INDICATORS: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 51 x Continuous Learning In addition, we pay close attention to human rights issues raised by stakeholders within specific industries, such as and Improvement forestry and palm oil. We actively engage with these industries directly through client relationships, stakeholder meetings and active participation in groups such as the RSPO. By engaging Continuous learning and engagement with other companies, bilaterally with multiple stakeholders connected to a value stakeholders and experts in the field of human rights is a key chain we are able to enhance our leverage and potentially component of our approach to respecting human rights. Our improve the collective effort of those connected to particular work in 2017 to update our ESRM Policy, in response to what commodities, industries or risks. For more information about we learned through our experience with DAPL and the extenour engagement with the RSPO, see the Environmental and sive stakeholder engagement we undertook as part of that Social Risk Management section. policy update, is one example of our commitment to ongoing engagement with stakeholders and subsequent improvement During 2017, we also continued our participation in Shift’s of our policies and processes. Business Learning Program. Shift is a nonprofit organization that engages with companies, governments, civil society and other actors to build capacity and provide guidance Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights and expertise related to implementation of the UN Guiding To ensure that we are living up to our commitment to respect Principles. Through our participation in the Business Learning human rights and anticipate emerging risks, we regularly Program, we collaborate with other companies to understand communicate our approach externally and engage with stakehow they are bringing the UN Guiding Principles to life for holders on their issues of concern. Specific examples during their businesses. Given the broad range of sectors repre2017 included: sented, this strengthens our capacity to advise our clients, • Meetings with an NGO about its work to combat financial especially when we have identified gaps between a client’s corruption and related human rights abuses in the Great current human rights performance and best practices. Clients Lakes region of Africa. Members of Citi’s Sustainability, with identified gaps may be working toward completion of an Anti-Money Laundering and Sanctions teams met with the Environmental and Social Action Plan to fill those gaps. See organization, along with other banks, for briefings about the Environmental and Social Risk Management section for its investigative research into persons of interest who are more information about these action plans. alleged to have carried out human rights abuses in their countries and their attempts to finance this work or hide illicit proceeds through networks of related companies and Employee Human Rights Training the global financial system. We provide training to our employees on various human rights • Engagement with the Institute for Human Rights and issues, from discrimination in the workplace to identifying Business related to concerns about the use of artificial potential risks in financial transactions. In 2017, we began intelligence, data and automation. training our supply chain management employees about the unique challenge of identifying and addressing risks of • Engagement with a coalition of organizations assembled by modern slavery (see page 53). the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre regarding rising threats to human rights defenders. 52 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain CITI’S RESPONSE TO THE UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles’ call for We also continue to integrate the issue of modern slavery businesses to communicate how they are addressing their into risk assessments for suppliers and the various sectors most severe actual or potential human rights impacts, we finance. Among other changes, our Supplier Standards and in response to the requirements of the UK Modern now expressly prohibit the charging of recruitment fees Slavery Act, we released our first UK Modern Slavery to workers, and our ESRM Policy now includes a focus on Act transparency statement in June 2017. The statement human trafficking in addition to our existing emphasis on summarizes our approach to eradicating modern slavery forced and child labor. Our next UK Modern Slavery Act in our operations and supply chain, including information transparency statement will be released in 2018. about our governance and policies related to modern slavery, risk assessment and due diligence processes, and These activities and related requirements in our Supplier training. Since issuing our first public statement, we have Standards and ESRM policies show Citi’s commitment formed a global working group to coordinate our efforts, to SDG 8, which aims to promote sustained, inclusive bringing together diverse global and regional teams, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive including employees from our Sustainability, Supply Chain, employment and decent work for all. In particular, Human Resources, Legal and Compliance teams, including our work in these areas, addresses target 8.7 which Anti-Money Laundering. includes a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafficking and end child During 2016, we conducted in-person training and labor in all its forms. awareness sessions for key employees within our EMEA Enterprise Supply Chain Sourcing and Third Party Management teams in the Europe, Middle East and Africa SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 8 region, to improve understanding and communicate the Decent Work and Economic Growth actions that those employees can take to help Citi tackle the risk of modern slavery in our supply chain. In 2017, we conducted similar sessions for relevant EMEA Human Resources teams in the region and are working on rolling out trainings to other regions. WHAT’S AHEAD As part of the Equator Principles update process, Citi is close attention to is the role of human rights defenders. participating in the Equator Principles Social Risk working Whether they are community leaders, human rights activgroup, which aims to strengthen the way banks evaluate ists, journalists or NGOs, these people do important work client stakeholder engagement, including risks related to advance human rights issues and expose abuses by to issues that affect Indigenous Peoples. In addition, governments, companies and others, which helps inform as we seek to improve our response to human rights our own human rights due diligence. Defenders’ voices risks across our portfolio, we will continue researching draw attention to important issues of which Citi and other emerging technologies that improve the effectiveness of financial institutions need to be aware so we can ask grievance mechanisms and seek opportunities to work the right questions, enhance our client and transaction with our clients to implement those technologies as screenings and work with clients to address any potential appropriate. An emerging issue Citi is paying increasingly impacts related to projects we finance. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 53 Environmental Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) is one pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy,5 and our ESRM-related activities and policy help us and our clients navigate a constantly and Social Risk evolving risk landscape and make responsible decisions. Management Our ESRM Policy Citi finances billions of dollars in transactions with a wide variety of companies and projects, many of which have potential environmental and social impacts. We carefully evaluate Large energy, infrastructure and and consider these risks when making financing decisions on individual, project-related transactions, during annual company extractive projects carry the reviews and when assessing entire portfolios. potential for environmental and Our ESRM Policy, summarized in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework, is the foundation of our risk assessment human rights impacts. At the process. The policy covers a broad scope of financial products same time, there is increased and sets standards for how we assess client impacts on local communities, labor, climate change, biodiversity, air quality, attention globally on social and water quality and other environmental and social issues. We established our comprehensive ESRM Policy in 2003 — the first environmental justice issues, U.S.-based financial institution to do so — and we continue to especially as they relate to evolve our approach in response to emerging risks and new product development. climate change, creating both an For example, in 2017, we updated the Areas of High Caution expectation and an opportunity related to Indigenous Peoples and human rights in our ESRM Policy in response to what we learned as one of the banks that for sustainable finance. At Citi, financed the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL). In accordance the financing decisions we with the Equator Principles, we assess project risks against applicable standards — either national law in high-income make, and our assessment and OECD countries, or the Environmental and Social Performance Standards and Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines management of environmental of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) for projects and social risks, are integral to in emerging markets. Since DAPL is located in the U.S., we referred to U.S. regulations and permitting processes during acting responsibly as we enable our initial assessment of the project. However, as Native American opposition to the project grew, our deeper dive growth and economic progress. into the issue made it clear that international standards for consultation with Indigenous Peoples had evolved beyond U.S. law, creating a gap in expectations. DAPL lenders engaged a human rights expert to further elucidate this gap and develop recommendations for how banks can work with U.S. clients to go beyond minimum legal compliance in their engagement with Native Americans. We updated our ESRM Policy to clarify the need to exceed the requirements of national law, even in high-income OECD countries, to align with international best 5 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Scorecard, please see the Appendices of this report. 54 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Policy Implementation Our centralized team of ESRM specialists evaluates all transactions that trigger a review according to our ESRM Policy. We also rely on employees throughout our organization globally to help spot potential risks. For instance, ESRM Champions — credit risk officers who have expertise in regional and product-related ESRM issues — provide important regional insight that improves our ability to make responsible lending decisions. This network approach greatly enhances the global coverage capacity of our centralized specialist team. The ESRM team works collaboratively and shares information and best practices in bimonthly network calls that help support and strengthen the entire network. For example, our ESRM Champion in Southeast Asia presented practices for consultation with Indigenous Peoples. The policy at a sustainable marine finance seminar, hosted by World updates also include a new Area of High Caution for projects Wildlife Fund and the Stock Exchange of Thailand, for banks with certain elevated human rights risks, such as large and companies in the seafood industry. Citi participated in migrant labor forces or significant vulnerable populations in a panel discussion about sustainable seafood supply chains, project-affected areas. addressing the policies of Thailand-based fisheries and strategies for resolving labor issues. Our ESRM Champion in We are proud to have been among the first to identify the Brazil has been working closely with the Brazilian financial need for change and to have taken quick and decisive steps authorities and regional bankers to develop a greenhouse gas in that direction. Human rights is a material citizenship issue disclosure framework and update the tools and resources we for our company, and protection of Indigenous Peoples is use to identify, measure, mitigate and manage environmental a human rights priority. The changes to our ESRM Policy and social risks in the Brazilian market in line with the local demonstrate our commitment in this area. central bank’s environmental and social regulation. Meanwhile To accompany our ESRM Policy update, we developed addiour Champions across geographies work closely with our key tional internal guidance for use by our Banking and Risk teams. internal banking divisions to screen transactions and train This guidance includes questions and reference materials to teams on our ESRM Policy and how and why we address envihelp identify aspects of host country laws, project sponsor ronmental and social risks at Citi. policies and project characteristics that might indicate a Citi’s ESRM team categorizes the project-related transactions potential high risk related to Indigenous Peoples or human they review as A, B or C with A indicating the highest risk. rights. When developing this guidance we referred to First General corporate transactions are categorized as GR (general Peoples Worldwide’s Indigenous Rights Risk Report as well as review). The categorization is based on the magnitude of potenFoley Hoag’s Good Practice for Managing the Social Impacts of tial adverse social and environmental impacts associated with Oil Pipelines in the United States. The new internal guidance the project. For general reviews, we evaluate a client’s enviwill assist us in identifying projects that may require inderonmental and social policies and performance, as well as their pendent review by a qualified social expert or, in some cases, commitment and capacity to manage environmental and social projects we should avoid due to their heightened social risks. issues. Our ESRM Policy helps us ensure responsible financing The updated policy and guidance are already being impleof projects while managing and minimizing impacts and effecmented and have led to changes in our approach to client due tively engaging our clients on sustainability best practices. diligence and business selection. For example, Citi declined to participate in two transactions in high-income OECD countries during 2017 due to Indigenous Peoples risks. GRI INDICATOR: 102-44 Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 55 Higher-risk, project-related transactions receive in-depth reviews against applicable standards by independent environMonitoring the Changing mental and social consultants. If gaps are found between a client’s environmental and social plans, policies or practices Risk Landscape and international standards, we develop an Environmental and The ESRM team uses a number of methods to proactively Social Action Plan (ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition of scan the changing risk landscape for both new, emerging financing, we require the client to implement the ESAP, and we risks as well as risks with increased prominence and prevamonitor progress over time. The application of our ESRM Policy lence. We continually evaluate these risks for both specific helps us identify additional risks beyond traditional credit clients and projects, and more broadly in high-risk industries risks, guides decisions for how to evaluate future transactions and stakeholder areas of concern. Using a systematic, related to companies or projects within high-risk sectors, and data-driven approach, we’re able to flag emerging issues of presents opportunities for us to advise clients on solutions to concern, fine-tune our risk management, raise awareness thematic risks. within Citi about new issue areas to watch, shore up our approach to specific sectors, update policies if warranted To learn more about our ESRM Policy, including Areas of High and provide advice to our clients. Caution, sector-specific standards and policy prohibitions, visit our Environmental and Social Policies and Standards In 2017, we flagged labor welfare as a growing concern that webpage and our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. is receiving increased attention. As a result, we conducted research and engaged our clients to explore new technologies that might help them track and monitor labor welfare among UPHOLDING INTERNATIONAL their employees, thereby increasing transparency to lenders STANDARDS WITH FINANCING regarding compliance with social requirements in loan agreements. We also organized and led a webinar series with the DECISIONS Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil focused on labor welfare While implementing our ESRM Policy, we sometimes on palm oil plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia. come to the conclusion that we need to decline a transaction that doesn’t meet accepted standards. For Our risk monitoring feeds into our ESRM Watchlist process, instance, during 2017, Citi bankers in early discussions rolled out in 2017, through which we flag individual companies with a company about a large hydro project in Africa based on their track records, sensitive or controversial assets, contacted the ESRM team for an early ESRM screening third-party analyst scores and/or negative news. Banking of the project. Our research identified that the project relationship managers are proactively notified of their clients’ would negatively impact a World Heritage Site, a Ramsar ESRM Watchlist status. Once a client is flagged, ESRM specialists wetland and wildlife habitat and migration corridors. review any potential transactions for these clients (including Given these impacts, we determined we were not general corporate purposes transactions) and identify opporcomfortable with the magnitude of the potential risks tunities for client engagement to understand what steps and it was unlikely the project would be able to meet these clients are taking to address challenges and implement international standards. As a result, we declined to improved practices where needed. continue discussions on the project. 56 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain CASE STUDY Working Toward a More Sustainable, Transparent Palm Oil Industry Citi is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil accountability with regard to fire and deforestation. As part (RSPO), a multi-stakeholder initiative that includes palm oil of our Palm Oil Sector Standard annual review process, we producers, sellers, traders, retailers, financiers and environrequested that clients provide descriptions of fire responses, mental and social NGOs. Citi requires that all of our clients prevention and management plans. During 2017, our clients with business in the palm oil sector become members of demonstrated significantly improved fire prevention and the RSPO and, as such, abide by the organization’s principles management policies and practices. and criteria regarding sustainable palm oil. These principles include commitments to conserving critical habitat, sustainable To advance even more progress in this area, Citi attends growing techniques, establishing fair treatment and pay for workshops and accepts invitations to public speaking events workers, and ensuring that neighboring communities have the to further engage clients and the RSPO, encourage the right to free, prior and informed consent and fair compensation public disclosure of plantation concession maps, and demonfor any use of their private or communal lands. strate the value of remote sensing, improved deforestation and fire tracking tools. We are seeing progress. During 2017, In 2016, we collaborated with the RSPO on fire prevention Indonesia allowed the distribution of concession maps, and and management, encouraging palm producers to share maps the RSPO has issued a call for all members to share maps of their concession areas to create more transparency and with the organization. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 57 Climate-Related Risk Stranded Assets Analysis One important area of climate risk analysis is related to The numerous natural disasters around the world in 2017 — stranded asset risks, which is the potential for assets to lose from wildfires to floods to hurricanes — led to widespread value if they are deemed uneconomic because of a price on damage as well as economic and social costs. These natural carbon or similar policy tool. Financial institutions are paying disasters are stark reminders of the serious risks that climate more attention to stranded asset risk, especially the potential change poses. As global temperatures rise, we are seeing for assets to lose value as a result of unburnable carbon. As rising sea levels, more extreme weather and growth in the the world transitions toward low-carbon solutions, fossil fuel frequency and severity of natural disasters. These changes industries may face lower earnings and increased costs. Clients are expected to affect nearly all sectors. As a financier of the in carbon-intensive sectors could receive downgraded credit global economy, we are keenly aware that climate change is ratings and become higher credit risks. To date through our a serious risk that affects many of our clients. In response, own analysis we have found that larger companies would not be we are increasingly focused on how to assess the impacts of significantly affected in their ability to repay loans, but smaller climate change on our portfolios. service providers could be at risk if the price of oil continues to remain low and regulatory risks are not carefully managed. We expect issues regarding unburnable carbon and the related Climate Scenario Analysis stranded assets to remain significant for our clients, especially Risk management is a core pillar of the Task Force on Climatein light of the Nationally Determined Contributions under the related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. We have Paris Agreement, which provide clear signals about countries’ highlighted our thorough environmental and social risk manageplans to combat climate change. ment processes in this report and described how consideration In our ongoing assessment of risks related to climate of environmental and social issues, including climate change, are change, we have identified the following estimated timeembedded in our decision-making around what to finance. We frames for potential impact. continue to enhance these processes to account for emerging risks, including climate-related risks, and will continue to transparently report on our ESRM efforts. Risk Estimated Likelihood Timeframe of Impact Building on this work, we are partnering with other leading global and regional banks and the United Nations Environment Changes in Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to conduct climate precipitation Unknown High scenario analysis to evaluate climate risks and opportunities extremes and under three different global warming scenarios: 1.5°C, 2°C and droughts 4°C. As part of this pilot project, we are currently assessing both the potential physical risks of climate change and the Increase transition risks that will arise from changing policies and techin tropical Virtually nologies for a segment of our energy and transport portfolios. cyclones Immediate certain We will use the learnings from this project to develop better (hurricanes and typhoons) tools, models and metrics to monitor and measure the impacts of climate change on our portfolio and adapt our Risk processes and business strategies as needed to ensure we are appropriStranded About as 3–5 years ately incorporating climate risks in our financing decisions. assets likely as not For further details on where content that directly relates to the TCFD recommendations can be found throughout the report, see the TCFD Index. 58 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Citi recently collaborated with Cambridge University on a project to analyze potential stranded assets in the energy Enhancing Our Training sector. The project examined the implementation of a Each year, we train key risk and banking personnel on our carbon tax to curb emissions and evaluated the likelihood ESRM Policy, including in-depth discussions on environmenfor upstream oil and gas assets to become stranded as a tal and social risks relevant to certain regions and sectors, result, and the consequences for companies’ valuation and Equator Principles implementation and Citi Sector Standards. cash flow. We will continue this work, enhancing the granuThe training also includes emerging risks and guidance to larity and scope of the analysis and considering alternatives help employees recognize environmental and social risk in to the carbon tax as a mechanism to curb emissions. This transactions — ranging from climate change risks to human research is an important input into Citi’s decision-making rights risks to labor concerns and more. We guide our bankers related to our energy portfolio. through screening for environmental and social risks and Water scarcity is another risk that can strand assets. In conduct interactive case studies. During 2017, we conducted our 2016 Citizenship Report, we discussed Citi’s test of the ESRM training for 519 Citi employees. Natural Capital Finance Alliance’s drought stress testing tool to understand how drought affects our credit portfolio. The pilot process developed five drought scenarios for four WHAT’S AHEAD different countries, gathering information about Citi’s portfolio of clients that would be impacted under each scenario. In 2018, the outcomes from the UNEP FI pilot on The exercise revealed a number of data gaps that need to be TCFD will begin to help inform our approach to filled to provide a more rigorous analysis and understanding managing climate risk, as well as our related discloof drought risk. It also illustrated the significant variation in sures. We will put our research on labor rights into each country’s vulnerability. In 2017 the Alliance released a action by enhancing our Palm Oil Sector Standard summary report that provides further information about the questionnaire with specific questions related to tool and high-level findings. systemic labor risks on oil palm plantations, and we will seek opportunities for our clients’ to implement new labor welfare monitoring technologies to better Reducing Credit Exposure to Coal assess labor practices deeper in the contractor Coal mining is one industry affected by the shift away from supply chain. We will work to better understand how fossil fuels and toward low-carbon solutions. In 2016, we we can most effectively address deforestation risks updated our Coal Mining Standard to include additional due in our clients’ activities and champion progress in diligence, and implementing this policy remained a focus conserving high conservation value forests. Citi will for us in 2017. We have committed to reducing our credit also actively participate in the Equator Principles exposure to this industry over time, an effort that applies update process, helping to design the next iteration globally to companies generating a majority of their revenues of this global standard for banks evaluating environfrom coal mining activities and to coal-focused subsidiaries mental and social risks. of diversified mining companies. To deliver on our commitment to credit exposure reduction, we have reduced and are actively measuring and tracking our credit exposure, which is reviewed by senior management in our businesses as well as our Risk and Public Affairs functions. Implementation of this policy has led to more selectivity, in some cases leading us to decline onboarding of new coal mining clients. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 59 2017 PROJECTS COVERED BY THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles (EP), Funded EP Project Funded EP Project-Related we report annually on our implementation. Finance Loans Corporate and Bridge Loans Category A — Projects likely to have potential signifiA cant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented 0 Category A 1 Category A Category B — Projects likely to have potential limited B adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures 5 Category B 4 Category B 0 0 Category C — Projects likely to have minimal or no C social or environmental impacts. General Review — Use of proceeds are directed to Category C Category C GR multiple projects with varying risk levels TOTAL = 5 TOTAL = 5 Citi had no EP Project Finance Advisories in 2017. Funded Project Finance Loans Breakdown Funded Project-Related Corporate and Bridge Loans Breakdown By Sector A B C Total By Sector A B C Total Infrastructure – 1 – 1 Manufacturing 1 3 – 4 Power Gas – 3 – 3 Infrastructure – 1 – 1 Power Wind – 1 – 1 By Region A B C Total By Region A B C Total Asia and the Pacific – – – 0 Asia and the Pacific 1 1 – 2 Europe – – – 0 Europe – – – 0 Latin America – 2 – 2 Latin America – 1 – 1 Middle East and Africa – – – 0 Middle East and Africa – 2 – 2 U.S. and Canada – 3 – 3 U.S. and Canada – – – 0 By Country Designation A B C Total By Country Designation A B C Total Designated* – 3 – 3 Designated* – – – 0 Nondesignated** – 2 – 2 Nondesignated** 1 4 – 5 By Independent Review A B C Total By Independent Review A B C Total Yes – 5 – 5 Yes 1 3 – 4 No – – – 0 No – 1 – 1 *Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are high-income OECD countries. See the Equator Principles website for more information. ** Nondesignated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are all non-OECD countries and all OECD countries not designated as high income. 60 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW BY REGION Total Transactions 0 / 21 Global Receiving ESRM Review 6 / 78 411 Europe 380 59 382 3 / 86 30 A U.S. and 7 / 74 Canada 29 Asia Pacific 114 148 B 5 / 33 112 9 / 90 Middle East Latin and Africa America 58 # of Category A / Total 34 C 30 / 382 72 BY SECTOR 141 144 GR Forestry, Palm Oil, Pulp Forestry,and Palm OiPaper l, Pulp & Paper 0 / 26 118 Infrastructure & Transportation Infrastructure and Transportation 5 / 80 Manufacturing and Manufacturi ng and Industrials Industrials 7 / 39 49 39 26 NOT CATEGORIZED Metals and Mining Metals & Mining 7 / 77 2015 2016 2017 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals Oil, Gas & Petrochem 3 / 67 For more information on our ESRM Policy, including Power (IncludingPower (Including Renewables) Renewables) 8 / 80 how we categorize loans, visit our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. OtherOther 0 / 13 Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. BY PRODUCT TYPE 0 20 40 60 80 Advisories Advisories 1/3 Annual Credit AnnualReview credit review 0 / 48 Corporate or Government CorporateLoans or Govt Loan 7 / 162 Debt and Equity Debt & Equity Underwriting Underwriting 2 / 53 EP Covered EP Covered Loans Loans 10 / 20 Letters of Credit and LettersGuarantees of Credit & Guarantees 2 / 13 Project Finance Project FiLoans nance Loans 7 / 28 Other (e.g., Equity, Other (e.g. Equity, derivetc.) Derivatives, atives, etc.) 1 / 55 x 0 50 100 150 Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 61 Operations and Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Supply Chain We embrace our responsibility to minimize our global footprint, setting goals to address the environmental impacts of our operations, including a new goal to source renewable energy for all of our energy needs by 2020. We also recognize the interconnectedness of environmental sustainability Citi’s global operations and and employee well-being and continue to look for ways to supply chain — comprising advance progress in these areas. thousands of suppliers and 2020 Goals a presence in nearly 100 As part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we set ambicountries and jurisdictions — tious goals to reduce our environmental impact. We began reporting on our direct environmental impacts related to our present an enormous operations in 2002, and are now in our third generation of goal setting with 2020 goals first announced in 2015. opportunity for positive impact on the communities where we Our operational goals cover energy use, water consumption, recycling, waste and green building. To achieve our greenhouse live and work. From increasing gas (GHG) emissions goals, we have been setting absolute targets in five-year increments and tracking annual perforsupplier diversity, including with mance. In 2017, we took our commitment even further and womenand minority-owned announced a new goal use 100 percent renewable energy to power Citi’s facilities globally by 2020. We own or lease over businesses, to minimizing the 55 million square feet of real estate in nearly 100 countries, consisting of more than 7,700 properties. To meet this ambienvironmental effects of our tious goal, we will consider on-site power generation, power purchase agreements and appropriate use of renewable energy footprint, we work to manage credits, as well as continuing to focus on energy efficiency. In these areas responsibly and connection with this commitment, we have joined RE100 — a global initiative led by The Climate Group and CDP, which are efficiently. For this reason both part of the We Mean Business coalition. Operations and Supply Chain During 2017, we made positive gains toward our 2020 goals in is one of the pillars of our all areas. We reduced our carbon emissions, energy use and water consumption, while continuing to surpass our waste Sustainable Progress Strategy.6 diversion goal. Our GHG emissions and environmental data are verified and assured by SGS, a leading third-party inspection, verification, testing and certification company. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. 6 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Scorecard, please see the Appendices of this report. 62 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain 2020 OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT GOALS 100% use of renewable 30% reduction in energy 30%reduction in water energy for consumption (compared consumption (compared facilities globally with 2005 baseline) with 2005 baseline) PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS 18% 29% 29% 33% of global real estate 60% diversion rate of waste 10% of water used portfolio to landfill (compared coming from reclaimed LEED-certified with 2005 baseline) or recycled sources PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS 22% 61% 5% Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 63 Sustainable Building Principles at Work The renovation of our global headquarters in New York, for which we plan to seek LEED Platinum certification, is on track to be complete by 2020. With this renovation, we are improving indoor air quality by installing direct outside air systems, which balance recirculated air with outside air. We are also using low-emitting adhesives, sealants, paints, coatings, flooring and composite woods. Water-conserving plumbing fixtures could save up to 100,000 gallons of drinking water each day, and our cogeneration plant, fueled by natural gas, will produce heat and electricity on-site, reducing the building’s carbon footprint by 30 percent — a key contributor to our commitment to meeting the NYC Carbon Challenge. Outside the building, we preserved the mature trees lining Greenwich Street and planted new ones. We also put in more than 8,500 square feet of new plantings and a 3,500-square-foot lawn. When the Transparent Reporting of Operational project is complete, we will recapture approximately 2 million gallons of water annually from the building’s roof and reuse Climate Impacts more than 80,000 gallons to maintain the plantings in the Citi reports our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions plaza. Nearly all the demolition waste from the project is being in both our annual Global Citizenship Report and in our CDP recovered, reused or recycled. response. We began reporting on the direct environmental impacts of our operations in 2002 and have submitted data The way we procure energy for our buildings is another importto CDP every year since 2003. We follow the GHG Protocol ant consideration for our environmental footprint. In 2016, we Corporate Standard and Scope 2 Guidance for measuring established a contract to purchase energy for our data center and reporting both market-based and location-based Scope 1 in Roanoke, Texas, through a collaboration between Citi Realty and Scope 2 GHG emissions. We also report Scope 3 CO 2 Services (CRS) and our subsidiary, Citi Energy Inc. (CEI). The emissions from employee air and train travel and projectTexas data center marks the first collaboration between the financed thermal power plants in our Citizenship Report, and two groups. Through this project, Citi will use green e-certified Scope 3 electricity transmission loss and employee commutrenewable energy for 100 percent of the data center’s electricity ing data to CDP. In 2017, Citi received a score of Aon our usage and has worked with a retail electricity provider to arrive climate change impact reporting for 2016 data. at a pricing structure that provides renewable power at an attractive price point. The CRS and CEI teams are proactively Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions is identifying additional projects to partner on to help us meet also a component of the recommendations of the Task Force our renewable energy needs and energy reduction goals. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), under metrics and targets. As we continue to assess climate-related risks and opportunities, we will also determine whether additional targets and metrics are needed, beyond those we currently report, to manage, measure and track our performance. For more information about the TCFD and our related reporting, see the TCFD Index. 64 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability and Employee Well-Being Wellness is an important aspect of sustainability in building design, alongside more traditional environmental considerations, such as energy and water efficiency and the use of green materials. Our Citi Tower in Hong Kong is a significant milestone in our pursuit to operate facilities that live up to high environmental standards while providing employees with workplaces that support their well-being. The building has been awarded LEED Platinum certification, and in 2017 it was also the first Citi project to receive WELL Silver certification from the International WELL Building Institute™. The WELL Standard — which is separate from, yet highly complementary to, LEED certification — assesses buildings for features related to health and well-being. The Tower includes many wellnessrelated benefits, from waterand air-quality testing to a fitness center and workstations with ergonomic features. We’ve also introduced initiatives for our employees that emphasize the intersection of personal well-being and reduced environmental impact. For instance, our Drink-Up initiative promotes hydration, but rather than stocking our breakrooms Citi’s LEED Silver certified office in Algeria with disposable plastic water bottles, we are converting the water fountains at our facilities to also work as bottle-filling CITI ALGERIA BREAKS NEW GROUND stations. Based on the amount of water dispensed via the bottle fillers, we have avoided the use of more than 700,000 water WITH LEED CERTIFICATION bottles since the program’s inception in 2016. In 2017, our office in Algeria became the first corporate building in the country to achieve LEED certification. The Each year, during Citi’s Step Up Challenge, we encourage project team worked with contractors to educate local employees to use the stairs at our buildings as a way to increase suppliers about LEED and implement the requirements daily physical activity and improve their health. Participating to achieve a LEED Silver certification for the building. employees track how many flights they climb and the number The building has energy-efficient LED lighting linked to of steps they take during walking breaks at work. During 2017, motion and daylight sensors, which detect the amount 341 employees in 102 buildings across 22 countries logged more of natural light in the office space and automatically than 8.3 million steps and climbed 22,430 flights of stairs. adjust the internal lighting to suit employee needs. Other sustainable features include Energy Star-rated appliances and low-water consumption plumbing fixtures such as taps and showerheads. In addition, 66 percent of the waste generated from the refurbishment was diverted away from landfill. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 65 Efficient Travel Options We have 20 Green Teams, with more than 1,300 employees, operating around the world. In 2017, these Green Teams held We encourage employees to use video and web conferencing 150 volunteer and educational events, resulting in more than technologies rather than traveling, whenever possible. When 2,500 volunteer hours dedicated to helping communities. business travel is unavoidable, we ask employees to group trips together to manage costs and reduce the number of Each year, our company participates in World Wildlife Fund’s trips taken, and we offer employees the option of train travel Earth Hour. In March 2017, more than 3,000 Citi facilities in whenever feasible. Because many of our offices are centrally 95 countries turned off the lights between 8:30 and 9:30 pm located near public transportation, it reduces the need local time. This is the 10th consecutive year that Citi has particfor employees to drive to work. To encourage use of these ipated in the event, and we achieved record participation rates, options and reduce the impact of employee commuting, we with more than 75 percent of facilities joining in. In addition, offer U.S.-based employees the option to use pre-tax dollars in recognition of Earth Day, Citi hosted environmental and to cover the cost of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry sustainability events during the month of April. Employees and vanpool. We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a organized 140 events across all Citi regions, and more than number of facilities and sponsor bike share programs, known 3,200 employees globally participated. For example: as Citi Bike, in New York City, Jersey City and Miami. At our • More than 100 volunteers in the state of Michoacán in car park in London Citigroup Center, we offer a dozen electric Mexico collected garbage on the island of Janitzio, famous vehicle charging stations for those driving electric vehicles. for its celebration of Día de los Muertos or Day of the Dead. Business travel and employee commuting are reported as part The site accumulates a tremendous amount of trash from of our Scope 3 emissions data. tourism, and volunteers collected nearly 1.5 tons of waste in just over three hours. Employee Engagement • Nearly 90 volunteers in Costa Rica visited the Irazú Volcano to clean trails, paint railings and repair roads. We work to engage employees in achieving our environmental sustainability objectives both in their day-to-day activities and • In the Philippines, a Citi employee organized a coastal and responsibilities at work as well as through volunteer efforts underwater cleanup with more than 50 volunteers, collectand Green Team activities. ing more than 1,600 pounds of trash. • In New York City, employees led a park cleanup with New Green Teams are employee-led groups that design and lead York Cares. More than 180 volunteers worked to remove positive environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces invasive species and debris from several ecologically senand local communities, such as recycling drives, volunteer sitive areas, mulch pathways, plant seedlings and spread projects, informative lectures and awareness campaigns. milkweed for monarch butterflies. Citi Green Team from Mexico collecting garbage on the island Citi Green Team revitalizing a park in New York City of Janitzio 66 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Responsible Sourcing Our commitment to responsible, ethical and sustainable business practices extends to our supply chain, as many of our most material issues are also relevant to our suppliers. Responsible sourcing is a critical part of the Operations and Supply Chain pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, and we set high standards of performance across our global supply chain. We also strive to engage a diverse set of suppliers and provide opportunities for them to partner with us in delivering products and services to our clients. Enterprise Supply Chain SUSTAINABLE PAPER SOURCING Our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) team works with our business units to support the supplier selection process, implement In the U.S., Citi consumes approximately 25,600 tons of sustainable supplier initiatives and mitigate environmental paper annually for our direct mail and marketing print and social risks in our supply chain. During 2017, we conducted for Branded Cards. Historically, the direct mail supply various training sessions for ESC employees, including a session chain and supplier relationships have been managed by a exploring Citi’s sustainability goals, as well as one discussing third-party print management company, giving Citi little how the UN Sustainable Development Goals influence our visibility into the sourcing of paper and related environapproach to global inclusion and sustainability activities that mental impacts. the Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability team engages in and supports. In December 2016, Citi transitioned to a direct-tosupplier relationship model. By fully leveraging our In 2015, we identified three priority areas in our supply chain scale and purchasing power, we are reducing costs to focus on through our third party utilities process as part of by millions of dollars, and we have implemented a our Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and paper products, “right paper” philosophy. Our ESC Global Print, Cards information technology (IT) hardware and e-waste disposal, & Fulfillment Sourcing team and Branded Cards print and travel and logistics. Position statements that provide guidproduction team have worked with every vendor in ance on implementation procedures for each of these topics our direct mail supply chain and the paper merchant were developed and disseminated. During 2017, the Supply and mills to establish a complete end-to-end Forest Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability team worked Stewardship Council (FSC) certification process. As with the Third Party Utilities team, procurement global leads, a result, since the beginning of 2017, every element and regional and category champions to further socialize these of Citi’s Branded Cards direct mail packages in the statements and strengthen policy adherence aligned to the U.S. uses paper sourced in the most environmentally Global Operating Procedures. We will continue to implement responsible manner available to the industry, with a employee training and guidance on best practices in 2018. formal chain of custody so Citi can trace the paper all the way back to the planting of the trees. We are now working to implement the sustainable sourcing practices and chain of custody across our statement and transactional print supply chain, which accounts for another 13,700 tons of paper annually. Most of the vendors in this supply chain are already FSC-certified, and the paper being sourced is already mostly FSC compliant. We are now working to ensure appropriate chain of custody at each step in the process. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 67 Supplier Engagement and Evaluation pursuant to the UK Modern Slavery Act. Integrating these questions into our CRQ and our broader work to address the Suppliers provide critical goods and services our company issue of modern slavery is part of the way Citi supports SDG 8, needs to continue operating, and we view partnerships with which aims to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable our suppliers as an essential aspect of operating responsibly, economic growth, full and productive employment and decent meeting our sustainability goals and managing expenses. We work for all. In particular, our work in this area addresses seek out suppliers that share our values and work to clearly target 8.7, which includes a mandate to eradicate forced labor, communicate our expectations regarding social and environend modern slavery and human trafficking and end child mental issues. The following standards and policies provide labor in all its forms. the foundation for these efforts: • Our Statement of Supplier Principles outlines the ethical, human rights and environmental standards we expect from SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 8 our suppliers. Decent Work and Economic Growth • Our Standards for Suppliers provide guidance across 11 general policy areas. We published a new version in 2017 that includes updates to strengthen our standards related to accessibility Our network of Global Champions helps us adapt the CRQ to and diversity, the handling of Citi employees’ personal local cultures and business norms, and we translate the CRQ information, child labor, forced labor and human trafficking, into 14 languages to make it easier for suppliers to fill out and among others. to enable productive follow-up conversations. • Suppliers are also asked to abide by the Citi Statement on We typically ask suppliers to fill out the CRQ every two Human Rights. For more information about our approach to years. If a supplier’s CRQ score is below 70 percent, we human rights, see the Human Rights section. communicate our concerns to the supplier and our regional • Citi complies with the UK Modern Slavery Act, and we sourcing manager and ask the supplier to take action steps to released our first transparency statement in 2017, which improve and submit a CRQ again the following year. In 2017, summarizes our approach to eradicating modern slavery 8 percent of suppliers scored 70 percent or lower on the in our operations and supply chain. For more information, CRQ. We often find that additional training and face-to-face see the Human Rights section. dialogue can help suppliers better understand the CRQ and We use our Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ) to our expectations so they can quickly address any issues evaluate suppliers’ adherence to our Statement of Supplier that we have flagged related to their responses. With this in Principles and Citi Code of Conduct and to gauge how well they mind, we meet with suppliers that fall below the 70 percent manage a range of issues, such as environmental management, threshold to review their CRQs, discuss the factors that human rights, labor practices, diversity and health and safety. led to their scores and outline steps necessary for them to The CRQ for our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region improve their scores within a year when they will resubmit. also includes specific questions intended to help in our efforts If the necessary improvement is not achieved within that to identify and contribute to eradicating child labor and the year, we escalate review to determine whether the contract set of practices known as modern slavery, including forced or should be discontinued. To ensure a consistent approach and bonded labor and human trafficking. We continue working to understanding of the CRQ process and supplier evaluation, implement these questions across other regions as well and to we provide training for our employees. We also provide continually improve our transparency with an annual statement sustainability training and education to suppliers. 68 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain In 2017, to strengthen our efforts, we integrated the CRQ The work we are doing is not going unnoticed. Our Supply with other internal systems, which will enable greater risk Chain Sustainability program was recognized at the Sustainable management and end-to-end governance for the CRQ on a Purchasing Leadership Council Awards in 2017. We received an global scale. We also conducted educational sessions with Outstanding Case Study Award for our overall sustainability ESC sourcing teams in the Asia Pacific, EMEA and Latin efforts as well as the global deployment of the CRQ. America regions to ensure global alignment and consistency in processes related to the questionnaire. 2017 CRQ SURVEY IMPLEMENTATION CRQ Surveys Completed Suppliers Scoring 70% or Lower 100% /8% North America 90% /0% Europe, Middle East & Africa 100% /2% Latin America 50% /0% Asia Pacific QUESTIONNAIRE HIGHLIGHTS (AS OF DECEMBER 2017) 100% 2017 14 Percentage of top tier The year the CRQ was The number of languages in which the CRQ is global suppliers that have made available to all available — including Arabic, English, French, completed the CRQ since it approved suppliers globally German, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, Korean, was established in 2013 Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Turkish and two different written Chinese formats: Simplified Chinese (China) and Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 69 Supplier Training and Development Broad engagement with other organizations helps us strengthen our own supplier diversity efforts and advance the conversation Citi works to build supplier capacity through training and more broadly. The following are just a few examples of Citi’s development opportunities. In 2017, we partnered with supplier diversity-related engagements in 2017: several organizations, including the Women Presidents’ • Participated in the inaugural Women’s Economic Educational Organization, New York City Small Business Empowerment Global Summit Services’ Corporate Alliance Program, the New York & New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council and the • Hosted the seventh-annual Sustainability Symposium in National Minority Supplier Development Council, to co-host partnership with the New York & New Jersey Minority Supplier events and participate on panels that provide educational Development Council, bringing together representatives from content to certified diverse suppliers. Topics at these events Fortune 500 companies, government and academia to discuss included subcontracting and Tier 2 opportunities, sustainthe importance of incorporating sustainability initiatives into able supply chain practices and transformational leadership. supply chain business practices • Worked with the National Minority Supplier Development During 2017, Citi also completed a two-year, in-depth mentorCouncil (NMSDC) to simultaneously host the Chief Proing and training program in partnership with the New York & curement Officer Summit and the NMSDC Corporate Plus New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council, Rutgers Summit; this combined event brought together procureUniversity, Covenant Business Concepts, and other corporate ment thought leaders discussing best practices in supply sponsors. During the program, Citi provided one-on-one coaching chain management (including diversity) with NMSDCfor two minorityand women-owned businesses, provided learncertified minority-owned businesses ing sessions on sustainability and transformational leadership and hosted a debrief data collection session. We have committed to participate in a second round of mentorship and training $769M $100M through this program beginning in 2018. Supplier Diversity Total amount spent Amount Citi pledged on Tier 1 and 2 to procure from Our ESC organization sets clear supplier diversity goals and diverse suppliers in women-owned embeds them in our supplier selection processes. In addition, businesses over the 2017 ($488 million the Citi Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability direct spend to next three years, Program gives U.S. small businesses and women-, veteran-, Tier 1 only) especially from firms disabilityand minority-owned firms access to business opportulocated in developing nities, education, mentoring and training. Working with a range markets of supplier-focused organizations, we identify small and diverse suppliers that can meet our supply chain needs and then help build these suppliers’ capacity. During 2017, we hosted an on-site Supplier Expo, creating an opportunity for diverse businesses to share their capabilities with Citi sourcing professionals and internal lines of business. We also pledged, along with other multinational companies at the 2017 Global Citizen Festival, to procure an additional $100 million from women-owned businesses over the next three years, especially from firms located in developing markets. 70 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain Partnerships are critical as we work to expand the Citi Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and Sustainability Program WHAT’S AHEAD beyond the U.S. In 2017, we continued our engagement with Supply Nation in Australia and maintained our memberships Recognizing the connection between environmental with Minority Supplier Development UK, the Canadian sustainability and employee well-being, Citi will benchAboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC) and mark our design guidelines against wellness standards WEConnect International, a global organization dedicated to to elevate wellness alongside LEED considerations. the advancement of women-owned businesses. For each of We will also continue to minimize environmental these partnerships, there is a designated regional champion impact across our operations, evaluating and using to oversee and support the relationship on a local basis. In technology to solve sustainability-related problems. Canada, our engagement with WEConnect and CAMSC has As we strive toward our 2020 goal to use 100 percent resulted in a 20 percent increase in business with diverse renewable energy for our facilities, we will continue suppliers over 2016. We also worked with UN Women to help to secure renewable energy contracts, incorporate produce The Power of Procurement: How to Source from onsite generation and look for innovative solutions Women-Owned Businesses. where renewable power is not readily available. We will also address water consumption in our own operations as it remains a critical global issue. DIVERSE SUPPLIERS RECOGNIZED In our supply chain, we will continue our efforts to bolster supplier diversity by improving our internal processes and strengthening our external partnerCiti’s Supplier Awards recognize suppliers that share ships. We will also prioritize efforts to meet our Citi’s values, provide exemplary products and services, Sustainable Progress Strategy supply chain scoreand consistently demonstrate a partnership built on card goals, including continued implementation of mutual trust and value contribution to Citi. In 2017, our CRQ and relevant training for our employees three out of the seven Citi Supplier Awards went to and suppliers. diverse suppliers. DIVERSITY PARTNER AWARD Professional Translating Services CITILEAN PARTNER AWARD SHI International INNOVATION PARTNER AWARD First Financial Network Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 71 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE FOR OPERATIONS Progress Against 2020 Goals 2020 GOAL PROGRESS 100% use of renewable energy for facilities globally 18.3% 30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 29.9% 30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 29.0% 10% of water used coming from reclaimed or recycled sources 5.8% 60% diversion rate of waste to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 61.8%* 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED-certified 21.8% LEED-Certified Buildings by Region** Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total North America 27 28 68 1 124 Latin America 1 3 5 0 9 Asia Pacific 4 12 37 11 64 Europe, Middle East & Africa 2 5 17 7 31 Total 34 48 127 19 228 LEED-Certified Buildings by Building Type** Building Type 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Data Centers (DC) 1 0 0 1 1 DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0 Office Buildings 13 13 14 7 11 Operational Centers 0 3 1 1 3 Branches 0 23 10 23 3 Total 14 39 25 32 18 Cumulative Total*** 114 153 178 210 228 * Diversion ratio met ** Based on the Active Buildings in the Portfolio by YE 2017, and excludes projects for Inactive and Disposed buildings. *** Includes buildings certified prior to 2013. 72 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain GHG Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) by Region Region Scope 1 CO2e Scope 2 CO2e Total CO2e (mt) † Location-Based Market-Based Location-Based Market-Based (mt) (mt) (mt) (mt) North America 13,610 327,832 243,494 341,441 257,104 Latin America 2,302 115,272 84,909 117,573 87,211 Asia Pacific 1,511 193,217 189,346 194,728 190,857 Europe, Middle East & Africa 3,675 63,932 51,091 67,607 54,766 Regional Operational Environmental Performance Total Region GHG Emissions Total Waste Consumption Location-Based Market-Based Energy Water (mt) (mt) (GWh) (m3) (mt) North America 341,441 257,104 802 2,484,810 15,690 Latin America 117,573 87,211 285 1,070,294 10,735 Asia Pacific 194,728 190,857 307 818,997 6,581 Europe, Middle East & Africa 67,607 54,766 180 384,822 3,725 Electricity Consumption Amounts Applied to Market-Based Emission Factor Types Emissions Factor Basis Electricity Steam Chilled Water Total % Total (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) Consumption (kWh) RECs or Other Energy 191,591,559 0 0 191,591,559 13% Attribute Certificate PPA or Source Contract 108,048,154 0 0 108,048,154 7% Supplier Specific 138,960,450 0 7,928,970 146,889,420 10% Steam Default 0 27,824,759 0 27,824,759 2% Residual Mix 30,741,801 0 4,619 30,746,420 2% Grid Average 956,443,354 0 19,478,138 975,921,492 66% Total 1,425,785,317 27,824,759 27,411,727 1,481,021,803 100% † The Scope 2 Quality Criteria have been met for the instruments used in the calculation. Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 73 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT 2005 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Operating Sq. Ft. 71,978,507 61,476,361 57,689,984 54,888,730 52,399,026 50,354,101 48,051,230 Headcount 344,650 306,370 235,054 225,750 224,740 219,056 208,043 ABSOLUTE INDICATORS Energy Electricity (GWh) 1,964 1,831 1,733 1,657 1,586 1,519 1,426 District Heating (Steam & 87 62 57 60 62 61 55 Chilled Water) (GWh) Energy Purchased 2,050 1,892 1,790 1,717 1,648 1,581 1,481 (GWh) Scope 2 Natural Gas (GWh) 145 84 86 83 76 70 64 Fuel Oil (GWh) 51 56 42 37 37 32 29 Energy Consumed 197 140 127 120 113 102 93 (GWh) Scope 1 Total Energy (GWh) 2,247 2,032 1,917 1,836 1,761 1,683 1,574 CO 2e Emissions* Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 43,533 32,587 28,941 27,042 25,742 23,178 21,097 (Gas & Fuel Oil) (mt) Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) (Electricity, Steam & 1,048,241 912,137 863,132 820,435 789,002 749,583 700,252 Chilled Water) (mt) Total CO 2e (mt) 1,091,773 944,724 892,073 847,476 814,743 772,761 721,349 RECs or Other Energy Attribute Certificate 5,953 98,450 101,642 67,028 72,947 72,772 102,067 Purchased (CO 2e) (mt) Net CO 2e (mt) 1,085,820 846,274 790,431 780,448 741,796 699,989 619,282 Water Consumption Potable Water (m3) 6,691,645 6,178,591 5,867,268 5,272,072 5,094,364 4,835,388 4,484,822 Non-Potable Water (m3) 13,014 21,414 20,433 20,784 57,822 233,093 274,101 Total Water 6,704,659 6,200,005 5,887,701 5,292,856 5,152,186 5,068,482 4,758,923 Consumption (m 3) * For our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method. 74 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Conduct and Culture Digital Innovation Talent and Diversity Human Rights Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain 2005 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Waste One Citi NY** Construction 0 0 0 0 0 15,251 6,679 Recycling (mt) Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,230 14,043 16,820 16,608 14,992 26,908 10,513 Total Recycling (mt) 2017 17,192 One Citi NY Construction 0 0 0 0 0 661 4,205 Waste (mt) Refuse and Other (mt) 57,412 33,956 31,297 29,825 28,818 27,691 26,217 Total Waste (mt) 2017 30,422 Total Waste (mt) 63,642 47,999 48,117 46,433 43,810 70,512 47,614 RELATIVE INDICATORS Total Energy Consumed KWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 31 33 33 33 34 33 33 KWh/Headcount 6,520 6,633 8,157 8,135 7,834 7,683 7,525 Net CO2e Metric Tons/Rentable Sq. Ft. 0.0152 0.0154 0.0155 0.0154 0.0155 0.0153 0.0150 Metric Tons/Headcount 3.17 3.08 3.80 3.75 3.63 3.53 3.45 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Business Travel Business Air Travel CO 2e NA 123,302 150,967 178,694 109,687 135,735 151,112 (mt) Business Train Travel CO 2e NA NA 5,335 6,651 1,605 2,125 209 (mt) Thermal Power 30-Year Plant Life CO 2 NA 0 9.7 0 9.6 7.8 18.1 (mmt) 60-Year Plant Life CO 2 NA 0 19.4 0 19.2 15.6 36.2 (mmt) **One Citi NY is Citi’s NY headquarters renovation project Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 75 SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT As one of the world’s leading financial service companies, Citi is well positioned to help address complex societal challenges, such as rising wealth inequality, rapid urbanization and climate change. Whether we are providing capital for large infrastructure projects or lending to small business owners, we see these activities as potential solutions to global issues that matter to our clients and impact our communities. There is still much work to be done, but we believe that by addressing the challenges of today, we can find greater opportunities for tomorrow. 76 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Citi 2017 Global Clobal Citizenship Report 77 Environmental Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Finance Environmental Finance is a pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy,1 and the $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is the flagship initiative of our environmental finance efforts. We hold ourselves accountable by measuring, tracking and publicly reporting our activities and impact. In recent years, we’ve seen increased engagement and As a global bank, we play an essential role in financing a sustainable economy, and environmental finance activity represents international agreements on a growth opportunity for our business and our clients. In 2015, we announced our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal, to efforts to slow, and even reverse, finance and facilitate $100 billion in activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions global warming and build a more that benefit people and communities. This commitment follows resilient, sustainable economy. a previous goal, completed in 2013, to direct $50 billion toward climate-friendly projects. From the Paris Agreement to the The $100 billion goal supports Citi’s mission to provide financial UN Sustainable Development services that enable growth and economic progress. All of the Goals (SDGs), one common business that counts toward the goal is driven by market demand and generates positive risk-adjusted financial returns for Citi, factor stands out — trillions of for our clients and for society as a whole. Having an established goal provides us with a cohesive way to measure and report on dollars of investment is needed the impact of activity that contributes to an important global challenge, while also sending a clear signal about our intentions to make these shared goals a to our clients and partners, and to the market. reality. For more than a decade, Each transaction counted toward the goal must meet at least Citi has increasingly worked with one of six criteria, which include renewable energy, water quality and conservation, sustainable transportation, green clients to identify areas where building, energy efficiency and clean technology. The activithere are business opportunities ties that fall under the goal span a diverse range of products and services, such as green bonds, power purchase agreethat also positively impact ments and tax equity financing. the environment. We’ve also In 2017, we released a new report, Sustainable Growth at Citi: Progress and Impacts of Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental strengthened our transparency Finance Goal, to share our progress toward the goal, from 2014 around our reporting to better through June 2017, and provide more detail about how we are measuring the impact of our environmental finance activities. measure our progress towards our own environmental finance goals. 1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Scorecard, please see the Appendices of this report. 78 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE IN SUPPORT OF THE SDGS Much of our work that counts toward our $100 Billion another of the key criteria of our goal. In 2017, financing Environmental Finance Goal is also directly aligned with for sustainable transit projects contributed $5.1 billion three of the Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 7, toward our goal. which seeks to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all; SDG 11, which While SDG 13 is focused on the wider response to a changaims to make cities and human settlements inclusive, ing climate, several of our investments, including municipal safe, resilient and sustainable; and SDG 13, which bond underwriting and activities supporting water quality contributes to urgent action to combat climate change and conservation projects, deliver on SDG target 13.1, and its impacts. which aims in part to strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards. For example, target 7.2, to increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030, and target 7.3, to double the global rate of energy efficiency SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 7 improvements by 2030, are both directly aligned with the objectives of our $100 billion goal. As part of our Affordable and Clean Energy goal, we facilitate the financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects — areas that make up two of SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 11 the six criteria of the goal, accounting for $36.3 billion Sustainable Cities and Communities and $800 million, respectively, in 2017. The $100 billion goal also directly contributes to SDG SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 13 target 11.2 — which aims to provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems Climate Action for all — thanks to our investments in sustainable transit, $100 BILLION ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS, 2014–2017 $57.0B toward the $100B Environmental Finance Goal* RESULTED IN $5.1B $11.8B $6.3B in sustainable transportation in public finance in water quality and conservation $36.3B $9.3B ** $2.0B in renewable energy in green bonds in green building *  Transactions fall within multiple categories of reporting. For complete data, see page 85. **Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 79 OVERVIEW OF CITI’S $100 BILLION ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal supports environmental solutions that will reduce climate change impacts and benefit society. To reach our goal, Working with partners and clients we apply our we finance a range of transactions, environmental criteria: such as the examples listed below: Renewable ALTERNATIVE ENERGY BANKING Energy AND FINANCE • Renewable Energy Project Financing • Solar Company IPO Water Quality and GREEN BONDS Conservation • Green Bond for Corporate Client PUBLIC FINANCE Sustainable • Mass Transit Bond Financing Transportation • LEED Certified Affordable Housing Financing COMMODITIES • Power Purchase Agreement Green • Monetization of Renewable Energy Credits Building CONSUMER/COMMERCIAL BANKING • Energy Star Home Mortgages Energy • Solar Company Corporate Loan Efficiency Clean Technology 80 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Our environmental finance activity This work results in can be seen around the world: measurable impacts: $57.0B 4.5M mt CO e GHG emissions avoided 2 TOTAL $1.7B MULTIPLE REGIONS 104,305 Jobs supported (direct, indirect and induced) $30.2B NORTH AMERICA $20.9B 43.6M EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST Population in U.S. cities AND AFRICA and counties served by water-quality projects 4,747 $1.1B $3.2B Families served by green affordable housing LATIN AMERICA ASIA PACIFIC 2,329 MW New renewable energy capacity Figures may not sum to total due to rounding. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 81 Evolving Our Accounting Methodology In 2017, we shifted from counting the fair market value of the WHAT IS A LEAGUE TABLE? deals that were included in the $100 billion goal to a league A league table is a competitive ranking of banks, table credit methodology to calculate Citi’s share. This new companies, industries, geographies or other groups approach is based on third-party verifiable league table data, of entities ordered according to a metric (e.g., deal which better illustrates Citi’s direct contribution to environvolume, number of deals). mental solutions on behalf of our clients, based on our role in each transaction, and more closely aligns overall with the For those transactions to which we can apply league way we measure other aspects of our business. In order to table accounting measures — more than 90 percent promote transparency, and to promote wider adoption of this of financial activity counted toward the goal — we use approach among our industry peers, we have made this methDealogic, Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg New Energy odology publicly available. Finance (BNEF) league tables. For deals that involve loans or other financial products from Citi where there Using our league table accounting methodology, we’ve recalare no established league tables, we count the amount culated all the activity that has counted toward the $100 billion that reflects Citi’s engagement in the deal. goal, from 2014 through 2017, and determined that we have contributed $57 billion toward sustainable growth. In 2017, Citi ranked No. 1 as bookrunner in the Dealogic Global and Renewables league tables for Project Finance, and we were ranked fourth in Dealogic’s Green Bond league table. We were also ranked second in Working Toward Our Goal the industry for our municipal finance activity by the Thomson Reuters SDC league table and No. 3 for Tax Citi draws on the diverse expertise of our global teams to Equity by BNEF. provide our clients with innovative products and services that best capture emerging opportunities to address climate challenges. Our Corporate Sustainability team works closely with contributing business units to track progress toward ENERGY EFFICIENCY our $100 billion goal in each business category — Alternative Energy-efficient design — for both building retrofits Energy Banking and Financing, Green Bonds, Public Finance, and new construction — is an important contributor to Commodities, and Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. reducing overall greenhouse gas emissions around the world. Citi is working to create new, creative models for this market to help our clients reach their goals and Alternative Energy Banking and Financing build scalable, high-impact solutions. For instance, in Citi provides a full range of financing solutions for environmen2017 we worked with Metrus Energy on a programmatic tal projects globally, and we continue to develop innovative, Efficiency Service Agreement (ESA) for a Fortune 100 end-to-end solutions to meet our clients’ unique financing company to deploy lighting efficiency upgrades at 13 of needs. Our Alternative Energy Banking and Financing teams their sites across multiple U.S. states. This “efficiency have developed extensive expertise in financing solutions as a service,” pay-for-performance model allows the for a broad spectrum of renewable energy technologies, client to finance efficiency upgrades without upfront including wind, solar, geothermal and biomass. For larger, capital by monetizing the energy savings under a utility-scale projects, we are able to provide multiple services services contract. Ultimately, the upgrades will reduce as a “one-stop shop” for our clients, including construction electricity use for lighting by 65 percent, equivalent to financing, commodities hedging and tax equity on a single deal. removing 18,600 cars off the road over the lifetime of For example, on the 200MW Flat Top Wind Project completed in the project. The ESA — a structure that can be likened 2017, Citi provided construction financing and tax equity financto a power purchase agreement for renewable energy ing to help enable the deal. By accessing multiple services from — is still an evolving market and represents a promising a single provider, our clients are able to reduce complexity and and impactful area of growth. transaction costs, thereby enhancing project returns. 82 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Citi also cofounded the Green Bond Principles, which provide TCFD RECOMMENDATIONS AND issuers with guidelines encouraging transparency, and we are an active member of its Social Bond Working Group. In 2016, CLIMATE OPPORTUNITIES as part of that working group, we worked on the release of Citi has been a supporter of the Task Force on the Social Bond Guidance document to support the growth of Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and its the emerging markets for social bonds, which finance projects recommendations for improved disclosures of the that produce clear socio-economic benefits, and sustainable financial impacts of both climate-related risks and bonds, which support both social and environmental benefits. opportunities. The TCFD’s Final Recommendations Citi has been an active part of these nascent bond markets, Report, released in 2017, notes that: “Organizations and while social and sustainable bonds are not counted that pro-actively seek opportunities in new markets or toward our $100 billion goal, they are an important part of our types of assets may be able to diversify their activities growing sustainable finance business. and better position themselves for the transition to a lower-carbon economy.” Public Finance This focus on climate opportunities as well as risks is well aligned with Citi’s Sustainable Progress National and sub-national governments are often on the Strategy. In addition to managing environmental and front lines in responding to climate change and Citi provides social risks and our own emissions and operational financial solutions, including loans and bonds, to help them footprint, Citi has also focused on the opportunity invest in clean water, transportation and energy infrastructo help our clients address the challenges presented ture to meet the needs of their citizens. For example, in March by climate change through the provision of environ2017, Citi structured a buyer’s credit financing solution with mental finance. Trillions of dollars in investments for the Export Credit Agency of Spain to enable the Republic renewable and other clean technologies are needed of Panama to finance its purchase of additional train cars to help the world transition to a low-carbon economy for the first line of the Panama Metro System. The new cars that is environmentally sustainable in the long term. will increase access to mass transit in Panama City, helping In addition, investments are needed to help mitigate to decrease greenhouse gas emissions in the country. Citi’s the impacts of climate change and make our commucommunity lending and investing activity also includes financnities more climate resilient. Through our $100 Billion ing of affordable housing. In the U.S., through Citi Community Environmental Finance Goal and our previous $50 Capital, we invested more than $4.7 billion in affordable Billion Climate Finance Goal, we have actively worked housing projects. LEED certified affordable housing projects, to increase the availability of sustainable financing for such as the $27.9 million Citi provided to finance the construcactivities that reduce climate change impacts and create tion of LEED Gold certified MLK Plaza in New York City, are environmental solutions in collaboration with our clients counted toward our $100 billion goal. and other stakeholders for well over a decade. For more details on the ways in which we are respondCommodities ing to the TCFD recommendations, and managing Citi’s commodities team and energy trading desk, Citigroup climate risks and opportunities, see the TCFD Index. Energy Inc. (CEI), helps clients obtain renewable energy credits, works on commodities derivatives and provides hedges for renewable energy project financing deals. These services help Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds enable our clients to achieve their financial and environmental goals for a range of renewable energy generation projects. Citi was the fourth-largest underwriter of all green, social and CEI has also played a role in helping Citi meet our own energy sustainability bonds globally in 2017, helping our clients raise needs sustainably. In 2017, CEI teamed up with Citi Realty over $28 billion through socially responsible bonds to meet Services to sign a deal that will secure 50 percent of all energy their environmental and sustainability goals. For example, Citi needs for a Citi data center in Roanoke, Texas, from renewable served as co-lead manager for a $1 billion sustainability bond sources. The deal will allow us to fix our retail utility rate and issued by the Development Bank of Japan in October 2017, the utilize renewable energy at an attractive price point, and largest socially responsible investment bond ever issued by a provides a useful transaction model for other entities looking Japanese government entity. Additionally, our U.S. Municipal to ramp up their renewable energy mix. Finance business issued $1.3 billion in green municipal bonds. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 83 green bond and attracted nearly €4 billion in orders from Examples of Our over 80 investors from around the world. Proceeds from the Environmental Finance Work bond will be used toward projects that qualify for the bank’s environmental investment program, Renewable Energies Programme — Standard, which is focused on renewable energy generation both within Germany and abroad. Rattlesnake Wind Farm In April 2017, Citi provided tax equity financing with BHE Renewables (a division of Berkshire Hathaway Energy) to the Tesla Residential Solar Financing Chicago-based Goldwind Americas’ 160-megawatt Rattlesnake In December 2017, Citi was the lead left, co-structuring agent Wind Project in McCulloch County, Texas. Citigroup Energy Inc. and joint bookrunner on a securitization of residential photoprovided the long-term physical power hedge under which the voltaic (PV) solar systems in the U.S. for Tesla. This $130 million project will receive a fixed power price. Goldwind is a subsidiary offering securitized a diverse portfolio of leases and power of China-based Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. purchase agreements (PPAs) for residential rooftop PV solar Ltd., the largest manufacturer of permanent magnet directinstallations in the U.S. Approximately 90 percent of the asset drive wind turbines in the world. This project will be Goldwind’s pool was also originally financed via two Citi tax equity funds, largest U.S. project to date, utilizing 64 of its turbines, once and the remaining 10 percent were systems Tesla contributed operational. The Rattlesnake Wind Project will bring significant from its balance sheet. economic benefit to the community of McCulloch County; the company estimates it will support approximately This is Tesla’s second securitization under the Tesla name 250 well-paying construction and service-related jobs. since acquiring SolarCity Corporation (d/b/a Tesla Energy), following a first issuance in November 2017. SolarCity executed five similar transactions and two solar loan issuWalney Extension Offshore Wind Farm ances prior to being acquired by Tesla. Tesla Energy has In January 2018, the first phase of the Walney Extension been a leader in the residential solar energy market, offering Offshore Wind Farm, a 659-megawatt wind farm off the coast leases and PPAs to homeowners, since 2006. Tesla Energy of Walney Island in the Irish Sea, began generating power. has installed solar systems across 27 states, Washington D.C., The project — which is jointly owned by Ørsted, Denmark’s Puerto Rico, Canada and Mexico and maintains operations leading energy company, and two Danish pension funds — will centers across the U.S. be composed of nearly 90 wind turbines once complete. Citi served as exclusive M&A financial advisor, co-structuring bank and placement agent for this first-ever investment-grade Mutual Housing at Spring Lake project bond for an offshore wind project. The project is due Citi served as the administrator on a $16.7 million constructo be operational in the second half of 2018, and will ultition loan for Mutual Housing at Spring Lake, an innovative mately be capable of powering more than half a million homes affordable housing development that is the first 100% Zero in the UK with clean, renewable energy. Net Energy-ready rental housing development in the U.S. Located in Woodland, California, the development caters to The bond was oversubscribed and won the 2017 Thomson full-time agricultural workers, who have traditionally faced Reuters’ Project Finance International award for European inadequate and unhealthy housing conditions. Homes in Renewables Deal of the Year. The proceeds of the £2 billion sale the development are designed to be energy efficient and will partially fund the construction of the offshore wind farm, are primarily powered by an on-site solar power system so which will be the largest in the world once commissioned. that each unit typically produces about as much energy as it consumes. Mutual Housing offers permanent year-round housing to agricultural workers and also includes leadership KfW Green Bond development, peer lending and digital education support In May 2017, Citi acted as one of three joint lead managers on a services. In 2017, Mutual Housing at Spring Lake won the €2 million green bond issuance for KfW, a German governmentWorld Habitat Award for its innovative and holistic design. owned development bank. It was the bank’s largest-ever 84 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities $100 BILLION ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL FINANCIAL DATA* in billions of dollars, 2014–2017 Region 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL TOTAL % North America $4.2 $11.2 $6.7 $8.1 $30.2 53% Europe, Middle East and Africa $2.4 $4.1 $7.8 $6.7 $20.9 37% $57B Asia Pacific $57B $0.2 $57 $0.1B $0.5 $2.3 $3.2 6% TOTAL TO DATE TOTAL TO DATE TOTAL TO DATE Latin America $0.2 $0.5 $0.0 $0.4 $ 1.1 2% Multiple Regions $0.5 $1.1 $0.0 $0.0 $1.7 3% TOTAL $7.5 $16.9 $15.0 $17.6 $57.0 100% Environmental Criteria Renewable Energy $4.9 $11.6 $9.0 $10.9 $36.3 64% Solar $0.8 $2.1 $0.6 $4.8 $8.3 15% Wind $3.0 $7.9 $8.1 $4.4 $23.4 41% Multiple Technologies $1.1 $1.6 $0.3 $1.6 $4.6 8% $57B $57 Energy Efficiency B $0.1 $0.3 $0.3 $0.1 $0.8 1% TOTAL TO DATE TOTAL TO DATE Green Building $0.4 $0.6 $0.6 $0.3 $2.0 4% Sustainable Transportation $0.5 $1.8 $1.6 $1.2 $5.1 9% Water Quality and Conservation $0.4 $1.1 $2.8 $2.0 $6.3 11% Clean Technology $0.1 $0.1 $0.1 $0.0 $0.3 1% Multiple Criteria $1.1 $1.4 $0.5 $3.1 $6.1 11% TOTAL $7.5 $16.9 $15.0 $17.6 $57.0 100% Business  lternative Energy Banking A $4.2 $11.0 $8.5 $9.3 $33.0 58% and Finance Green Bonds** $1.8 $1.8 $1.3 $4.4 $9.3 16% $57B Public Finance $0.7 $3.3 $4.3 $3.5 $11.8 21% TOTAL TO DATE Commodities $0.2 $0.5 $0.5 $0.2 $1.4 2%  onsumer Banking and C $0.6 $0.5 $0.4 $0.2 $1.6 3% Commercial Banking TOTAL $7.5 $16.9 $15.0 $17.6 $57.0 100% * Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. ** Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 85 Environmental and Social Overall, we take a conservative approach to reporting impacts and do not include deals in which we have limited transparency Impacts Achieved Through on transaction details. We have also aligned our impact measurement methodology with our new goal accounting approach to Our $100 Billion Goal report on impacts associated with our share of a transaction. To calculate environmental impacts, we developed models to The $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is about more than estimate the GHG emissions avoided by the different types a dollar figure. We recognize that the real-world impacts of these of transactions that contribute to the $100 billion goal — investments are a crucial measure of success — for Citi, our clients specifically, renewable energy financing and energy efficiency and our communities. financing, public finance and consumer and commercial banking. We have identified a range of impacts — greenhouse gas (GHG) For social impacts, we focus on jobs supported as a metric emissions avoided, jobs supported and community benefits because of the positive impacts that employment has on — that we are able to apply to a subset of the transactions people’s livelihoods and on economic growth. Based on an counted toward the goal. We calculate these metrics where approach used by economists and public policy experts, we actual data or a reasonable proxy method can be obtained. developed a model to estimate our contribution to supporting Our approach was developed with stakeholder feedback and job creation. Our modeling tool estimates the number of following extensive research on existing best practices. We jobs supported from Citi’s financing of U.S.-based renewable recognize this is still a nascent area of work and continue energy projects and, in 2017, we expanded the model to to welcome the challenge to better understand the impacts include U.S. public finance activity. These calculations are associated with the activity that counts toward our goal. based on specific investment and expenditure profiles tied to data aggregated from a number of sources. IMPACT DATA ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL Avoided GHG Emissions (mt) 1,360,092 1,740,659 325,676 1,058,809 4,485,236 Renewable Energy 1,294,788 1,590,612 180,739 1,057,022 4,123,161 Project Financing Energy-Efficiency Financing 60,061 145,524 140,149 0 345,734 Public Finance 2,224 1,672 1,453 1,246 6,595 Consumer/Commercial Banking 3,019 2,851 3,335 541 9,746 Annual Renewable Energy 563 869 278 619 2,329 Capacity Added (MW) SOCIAL IMPACTS 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL Jobs Supported 11,574 29,494 30,140 33,097 104,305 Renewable Energy 4,870 8,069 4,378 4,357 21,674 Project Financing Public Finance 6,704 21,425 25,762 28,740 82,631 Annual Trips on Transit 0 3,468,037,144 3,128,031,314 4,222,362,606 10,818,431,064 System Projects People Served by Water Quality 211,346 6,916,113 28,831,321 7,617,037 43,575,817 and Conservation Projects Families Served by Affordable 1,237 1,004 1,166 1,340 4,747 Housing Activity 86 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities CITI SUPPORTS THE CITI GPS REPORT EXPLORES PARIS AGREEMENT WATER FINANCING OPPORTUNITIES Citi has been outspoken in our support of the Paris The world’s water resources are becoming increasingly Agreement, the international plan to address climate strained and, in some areas, nearing crisis points. An change that has been signed by nearly 200 counestimated 800 million people lack access to clean tries. In May 2017, Citi CEO Michael Corbat, along water, while 4 billion people live with water scarcity at with his counterparts in 30 other large companies, least one month a year. The water challenge will likely signed an open letter to the U.S. President that laid only grow in severity — the global demand for water is out the business case for the Paris Agreement. Even expected to nearly double over the next 15 years, and though it was announced that the U.S. would be withthe effects of climate change and intensifying drought drawn from the Paris Agreement, we have continued patterns will only compound the problem. to voice our support for the global agreement due to the unique and widespread risks that climate change New approaches to water are needed now more than presents to society and to our business. ever, and water quality and conservation is one area of focus under our $100 Billion Environmental Finance We believe that U.S. participation in the agreement Goal. Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions (GPS), would strengthen American competitiveness in our premier thought leadership product, examined the global markets, create jobs, and support investments issue of water scarcity and paths forward in an April and new market development by setting clear, long2017 report entitled Solutions for a Global Water Crisis: term goals. The End of Free and Cheap Water. The report, which looks at both demandand supply-side solutions, found Citi remains fully committed to contributing to climate that poor water management policies, insufficient change solutions and global collaboration. Regardless infrastructure and a lack of effective pricing mechaof whether the agreement is officially recognized as nisms are major contributors to a pending global water a commitment by the U.S. government, it will remain crisis. Vast investment in infrastructure to increase a guiding framework for publicand private-sector water efficiency is critical — according to the report, activity around the world and is a relevant piece of $7.5 trillion to $9.7 trillion is needed in investment for our strategic work on environmental finance. water and sanitation and related equipment around the world to address this issue. WHAT’S AHEAD The scale of the climate challenge necessitates a major cross-sector and international effort to quicken the pace evolution in environmental finance — one that enables of new technology adoption, while also working toward rapid growth in technologies that reduce or avoid GHG a responsible transition toward a low-carbon economy. emissions, such as energy storage and carbon sequesCiti, along with our clients, will continue to work to tration. While we know that slowing global warming is understand these emerging market opportunities on an important goal, it is also important to look at how to behalf of our clients, in a way that also addresses the reverse the trend. This will require an unprecedented, critical SDG development agenda. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 87 Inclusive This section is by no means a comprehensive collection of our efforts, but rather a sample of highlights that aims to provide insight into how we deploy our products, people and and Resilient financial resources to serve as engaged problem-solvers in our communities, promote economic mobility and create economies in which households at all income levels have the Communities opportunity to succeed. CATALYZING INCLUSIVE AND RESILIENT COMMUNITIES At Citi we believe that, thanks to Innovative Local Government our resources and expertise, we and Community Change Agents Engaged more than 100 cities globally in are well-placed to affect positive advancing sustainability projects through the change in communities around Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative supported by the Citi Foundation. the world. We are committed to engaging in important issues Infrastructure that affect our employees, clients Financed more than $7 billion in green building and sustainable transportation projects globally. and communities, speaking out in support of equality, respect and Affordable Housing and protecting our environment, and Homeownership standing against discrimination Provided more than $4.7 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S. and repression. We also make sure to listen closely to the Thriving Small Businesses local governments, nonprofits Provided more than $11 billion in lending to small businesses in the U.S. and community organizations that work on the frontlines Financial Inclusion every day. Most of all, we are Expanded our ATM Community Network committed to taking action. We to provide fee-waived access to more than 400,000 clients of minority-owned banks are proud of the range of work and credit unions in the U.S. we do — from infrastructure to affordable housing to jobs — Future of Work Invested more than $43 million by the to create more inclusive and Citi Foundation globally in preparing youth resilient communities. for the 21st century job market through Pathways to Progress. 88 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Many of the programs described in this report rely on a range of partnerships — with clients, governments, NGOs, academic institutions, and companies ranging from startups to large multinational corporations — to succeed. These partnerships highlight how our work contributes directly to SDG 17, which seeks to strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. In particular, Citi’s efforts contribute to target 17.3, which seeks to mobilize additional financial resources for developing countries from multiple sources, including the private sector, to ensure sufficient financing is available to achieve the SDGs. SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 17 Partnerships for the Goals Innovative Local DE-RISKING DEVELOPMENT DEBT Local governments and large institutions in emerging Government and frontier markets often rely on hard-currency loans from supranational organizations, such as The and Community World Bank Group, to fund growth and development. Change Agents Holding foreign currency debt can expose these countries to foreign exchange risks that can lead to severe financial repercussions when exchange rates Over the past several years, the role that local government fluctuate. However, these countries often also suffer and community organizations play in creating thriving neighfrom underdeveloped or nonexistent swap markets borhoods has expanded greatly from simply ensuring that and local debt capital markets that limit their ability basic services are available to residents. Now, more than ever, to hedge such risks. they are expected to serve as “change agents” and drivers of innovation, addressing a wide array of issues that impact Through Citi’s global footprint and relationships with residents, including infrastructure, employment, housing governments, supranationals and investors, we are and financial health. Moreover, they often do so while facing able to help clients in emerging markets by identifying significant budget and resource constraints. Increased collabfavorable market conditions and enabling them to oration and investment in innovative, efficient solutions can “de-dollarize” debt — convert supranational hardhelp local governments and community organizations address currency loans to local currency debt, mitigating long-standing challenges and economic trends in new ways. foreign exchange risk and promoting the development of swap markets in the country. For example, in 2017, Citi executed a $144 million, 10-year cross-currency Public-Sector and Institutional Funding swap with the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) Globally through Citi’s Public Sector Group, and in the U.S. that allowed the IADB to re-denominate outstanding through our Municipal Securities Division, we provide a broad debt from U.S. dollars to local currency for the range of banking and financial products and services, advice Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad, the Costa Rican and support to public-sector clients, such as government government-run electricity and telecommunications agencies, central banks, development organizations, NGOs services provider. The transaction constitutes the first and academic institutions, to enable them to more effectively public-sector debt de-dollarization in Costa Rica. provide critical services to local communities. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 89 CASE STUDY The Effects of Income Inequality Income inequality within many OECD countries has increased substantially in recent years, reversing a long period of decline. But it is still unclear why, exactly, this is happening, and what the long-term effects will be on developed economies. Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions (GPS) — our research and thought leadership division — examined the issue of income inequality in a September 2017 report entitled Inequality and Prosperity in the Industrialized World: Addressing a Growing Challenge. There were three important findings. First, if the various drivers of inequality are left unaddressed, future drag on economic growth is likely. Thus, from an investment perspective, it makes good economic sense to understand and address the drivers of inequality. Second, economic inequalities are everywhere — not just between countries but also between regions within countries, and between generations, industries and firms, and putting an intergenerational lens on this sharpens the issue. Economic inequality is indeed integrally connected to issues such as youth unemployment, social mobility and pension funding. Finally, inequality, as well as the impact of other exacerbating Citi GPS report Inequality and Prosperity in the Industrialized World: factors such as lower social care budgets and the reduced Addressing a Growing Challenge provision of other government-funded services, is contributing markedly to the erosion of societal trust and cohesion and the fragmentation of the political process. Inequality FINDINGS ON INCOME INEQUALITY will likely be an increasing factor in election outcomes, with Left unaddressed, the drivers social media playing a growing role in shaping perceptions. 1 of inequality will slow future These findings suggest that a consensus urgently needs to be economic growth. reached between government, the public sector, the private sector and society at large about how to tackle the challenge of inequality in a way that promotes inclusive and necessary Economic inequalities are found economic growth. 2 everywhere — across geographies, generations and industries. Inequality and other factors are 3 contributing to the erosion of social trust and cohesion around the world. 90 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Innovative Financing Mechanisms Many investors are looking for returns beyond profit, and Citi offers products that deliver on this intent. Thematic bonds — such as green, social and sustainability bonds — provide a way for investors to see yields, while also contributing to positive social and environmental solutions. Thematic bonds continue to evolve to address new needs and issues, and Citi is working closely with clients and partners on new products. Vaccine bonds, for example, help finance a critical public health issue in the developing world. Each year, it’s estimated that more than a million and a half children globally die from preventable diseases. Due to a lack of predictable funding, local health organizations in poor countries are often unable to supply and implement vaccines for diseases including pneumonia, polio and yellow fever. Bonds are one financing tool that can address these funding issues. In November 2017, Citi helped manage a $300 million, three-year vaccine bond for the International Finance Facility for Immunisation, a fundraising organization providing development assistance. The bond was oversubscribed and will be used to run immunization programs by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. This follows on a similar issuance Citi supported in 2016. In Mexico, the federal government has made financial inclusion a national priority. In August 2017, they made a notable commitment with the issuance of the country’s first social bond, on behalf of Mexico’s development bank, Nacional Financiera. Citibanamex successfully priced the product as a five-year MXN$4,000 million (US$229 million) bond on the The industry also continues to use innovative financial instruMexican debt market, receiving over MXN$13,000 million in ments to hedge environmental risk. For example, catastrophe investor demand. The proceeds will be used to fund a range of bonds (CAT bonds) were created in the 1990s following programs across the country, including small enterprise develHurricane Andrew. The destruction of the hurricane made it opment, access to affordable housing, and energy efficiency nearly impossible for many homeowners in Florida to obtain to decrease utility costs for low-income households. insurance. CAT bonds help policyholders by transferring the financial risk following natural disasters from the bond’s These examples build on the contributions Citi has made in sponsor (traditional insurance and reinsurance companies) to promoting the growth of social bonds over the past few years. the global capital markets. In 2017, we co-led the placement of a $500 million social bond for the International Finance Corporation, that is designed In mid-2017, Citi’s Banking, Municipal Securities and Capital to finance projects benefiting women-owned businesses and Markets Origination teams completed their third Everglades low-income communities in emerging markets. We also priced catastrophe bond, raising Citi’s total issuance in the series to a $500 million, four-year Education, Youth and Employment more than $2 billion in the past three years. The transaction, (EYE) bond on behalf of the Inter-American Development issued by Florida’s Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Bank in 2014. To learn more about Citi’s efforts to promote is valued at $300 million and provides a fully collateralized the growth of other thematic bonds, including green and source of reinsurance protection against any named storms sustainability bonds, visit the Environmental Finance section. that may occur over a three-year period. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 91 In addition, through our Export and Agency Finance division, SERVICE DESIGN FOR AND WITH Citi partners with development finance institutions (DFIs) to create financing solutions for development projects. DFIs LOW-INCOME NEW YORKERS are government agencies that support overseas investment Few know more about the strengths and weaknesses in emerging markets and are one tool to generate economic of public services than those who rely on them. One development in underserved areas. By partnering with DFIs emerging field of practice, known as service design, such as the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the works to actively engage all stakeholders of a service — African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) and the Asian especially beneficiaries — to better understand every Development Bank, Citi structures investments that share aspect of how a public service is administered to risk and enable important development projects that would improve its delivery and impact. normally be considered too risky for the private sector. In October 2017, the New York City Mayor’s Office for Economic Opportunity, the Mayor’s Fund to Advance Philanthropic Efforts New York City, and Citi Community Development launched the nation’s first-ever municipal Service Around the world, NGOs make valuable contributions to Design Studio and toolkit dedicated to making public addressing difficult social problems. But they often need funding services for low-income New Yorkers as effective and other resources to amplify the impact of their work or to and accessible as possible. The Studio launch builds pursue as-yet-unproven solutions that can be tested and later on several years of work with the city of New York to brought to scale. This is often the space where Citi and the Citi explore the use of service design to improve services Foundation can play an effective role. Moreover, by helping city that meet the needs of its most vulnerable residents, leaders develop technology-driven solutions to urban challenges, from free tax preparation to financial coaching, through our initiatives help support SDG 9, which promotes inclusive the Designing for Financial Empowerment initiative. and sustainable industrialization and fosters innovation. The Service Design Studio at the Mayor’s Office for Since 2014, the City Accelerator, an initiative of the Citi Economic Opportunity and its accompanying toolkit, Foundation and Living Cities, has gathered municipal NYC Civic Service Design Tools + Tactics, provide a leaders from cities of all sizes to share learnings and try new central resource for expertise and best practices in approaches for sustainable and equitable urban growth. In service design to support public servants in the city of 2017, five cities — Charlotte, Chicago, Los Angeles, Memphis New York. The service design approach incorporates and Milwaukee — worked together to refine their approach to ethnographic field research, behavioral science, economprocurement spending, pursuing at least one new strategy ics, information technology, design and other related to increase the diversity of municipal vendors and contracdisciplines. The Service Design Studio will be available tors and direct more spending to local minority-owned to all New York City government agencies, providing a businesses. For example, the city of Chicago, which has valuable resource to test and scale innovative public been working on the issue of inclusive spending since 2015 service improvements for low-income New Yorkers. through its Procurement Reform Task Force, will focus on building a universal procurement platform to cover multiple city agencies that spend a combined $6 billion every year. This effort directly contributes to SDG 9, target 9.3, which seeks to increase the access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in particular in developing countries, to financial services, including affordable credit, and their integration into value chains and markets. SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 92 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Cities for Citizenship is another example of our support for organizations working to improve lives in local communities. Since 2014, Citi Community Development has partnered with the mayors of Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City, as well as the Center for Popular Democracy and the National Partnership for New Americans, on this nonpartisan national initiative to provide naturalization resources to the estimated 8.8 million legal U.S. residents eligible for citizenship and to encourage cities to invest in citizenship programs. About half of those eligible for citizenship are low-income, and becoming a naturalized citizen can improve access to higher-paying jobs, increasing salary by as much as 11 percent. As a founding corporate partner of Cities for Citizenship, we have worked with municipalities and nonprofit organizations across the country to expand naturalization and financial inclusion programs and to provide Val Smith, Managing Director of Global Corporate access to legal assistance, microloans and financial counselSustainability, speaking at the second-annual C40 Financing ing. Since its launch, Cities for Citizenship has grown from Sustainable Cities Forum three to 42 member cities and counties. Citi and the Citi Foundation regularly work with community FINANCING SUSTAINABLE organizations to amplify their impact. In 2015, the Citi CITIES INITIATIVE Foundation launched the Community Progress Makers Fund — About 54 percent of the global population lives in a two-year, $20 million initiative to help local change-makers cities today, and, according to the UN, that number is scale and innovate. Forty grantees received general operatexpected to rise to 66 percent by 2050. 2 Much of this ing support grants of $500,000 over two years, plus access shift will happen in the developing world, and interto skills-based, pro-bono Citi volunteer teams and a network national collaboration is needed to meet the needs of of technical experts. To date, these grantee organizations growing populations in a climate-safe and inclusive way. have helped more than 14,700 low-income people secure financial assets, placed over 25,000 people in affordable Since 2015, the Citi Foundation has worked in parthousing and connected nearly 2,000 young people to jobs in nership with the WRI Ross Center for Sustainable their communities. Cities and C40 Cities to implement the Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative, which aims to help accelBased on the success of the program, in 2017, the Citi erate the pace of financing for sustainable solutions Foundation announced the expansion of the Community in cities. Over the last two years, the Initiative has Progress Makers Fund with an additional $20 million investsupported more than 100 cities in advancing clean ment for nonprofits across six U.S. cities. The expansion will energy and transportation projects. provide general operating support grants to organizations working on economic challenges facing low-income commuTogether, in 2017, we hosted the second-annual C40 nities in Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, the San Francisco Bay Financing Sustainable Cities Forum along with the Area, New York City and Washington D.C. Grantees will be Greater London Authority. The event brought together announced in 2018. global leaders in sustainable city finance at London City Hall to share successful business models and discuss new solutions to accelerate investment in more prosperous, inclusive and sustainable cities. 2 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, 2014 Revision of World Urbanization Prospects: Highlights (July 2014), page 1, https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2014-Highlights.pdf. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 93 COMMUNITY PROGRESS MAKERS With support from the Community Progress Makers Fund, 40 nonprofit organizations in cities across the U.S. deployed innovative solutions to address long-standing urban economic challenges, from creating “We’ve learned the importance jobs to expanding affordable housing to supporting small businesses of being influencers, not and increasing energy savings for families. Below is a snapshot of their just doers.” collective impact. – Anne Evens, Elevate Energy, Chicago $7M saved in energy efficiency for families 14K+ Impacts from 1.1K 40 people helped in securing small businesses financial assets strengthened Nonprofit Organizations 1.8K 25K+ people placed in young people affordable housing connected to jobs “Our work was seen as “We led new efforts credible, and we got the with confidence.” attention of new funders.” –B  ill Schleizer, – Emily Gresham, StartUP FIU Food, Miami Delta Institute, Chicago All data cover the period from January 1, 2016, to July 30, 2017. 94 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Infrastructure explores the potential for a global infrastructure push and the vast opportunity for both the public and private sectors. Citi finances billions in infrastructure projects around the As much as $59 trillion in infrastructure investment will be world. In 2017, our activities included providing more than needed in the next 15 years around the world to keep up with $7 billion in green building and sustainable transportation demand and replace aging systems. 3 This need for investment projects that are helping cities meet the needs of rapid is not being met — the amount spent on infrastructure as a urbanization and work toward SDG 9, which commits to build percentage of GDP has continued to decline in recent years. resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation, as well as SDG 11, Ineffective, outdated or even completely lacking infrastructure which aims to make cities and human settlements inclunegatively impacts the lives of people, with low-income commusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Our work contributes nities and developing economies particularly hard hit. Over to target 9.1, which includes developing quality, reliable, 1.5 billion people around the world live without electricity, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, while our work on nearly 1 billion lack clean water and 2.5 billion have no access to affordable housing also supports target 11.2, which includes basic sanitation.4 This deficiency impacts those living in develan aim of providing access to safe, affordable, accessible oped countries too — according to the American Society of Civil and sustainable transport systems for all. Engineers, degraded infrastructure in the U.S. decreases GDP by nearly $4 trillion and costs American families an average of $3,400 in disposable income annually. 5 SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Privateand public-sector stakeholders need to work together to find ways to overcome investment barriers. In 2016, we published a Citi GPS report entitled Infrastructure for Growth: SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 11 The Dawn of a New Multi-Trillion Dollar Asset Class. The report Sustainable Cities and Communities MEXICO CITY AIRPORT Mexico City’s Benito Juárez International Airport, serving a city of 20 million, is Latin America’s busiest airport in terms of passenger and aircraft traffic. The airport needed investment for expansions and improvements to meet growing demand. With public budgets strained, the project required a smart debt-financing plan to avoid problems down the road. Citi worked with airport and government officials to craft a customized and sustainable financing plan that would reduce the need for federal budget contributions, or new debt and new taxes. We acted as the global coordinator, collateral agent and intercreditor agent for the airport’s $3 billion construction loan in 2015, as well as its inaugural $2 billion bond issue in 2016 and a follow-on bond issuance in 2017. The project will also improve quality of life and the This bond was the largest-ever Latin American airport bond economy for local residents. After expansions and and won six industry awards. The high visibility of the Mexico upgrades which are expected to be complete in 2020, City airport project and its innovative finance structure are the new airport will have six times more capacity and will sure to make it a future model for other countries. create an estimated 600,000 indirect jobs. 3 Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions, Infrastructure for Growth: The Dawn of a New Multi-Trillion Dollar Asset Class (October 2016), https://www.citivelocity.com/citigps/ReportSeries.action?recordId=55. 4 Ibid. 5 “Infrastructure Report Card: Economic Impact,” American Society of Civil Engineers (website), accessed January 2018, https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/the-impact/economic-impact/. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 95 CASE STUDY Citi Bike Expands in New York City and Beyond Since launching in New York City in 2013, Citi Bike has become across the five boroughs, and during peak season, Citi Bike an integral part of the public transportation landscape in employs over 450 people. Citi Bike has also expanded beyond several cities. Over the past four years, the New York City our hometown, with our trademark blue bicycles popping up in program doubled the number of bikes from 6,000 to 12,000 Miami, Florida, and Jersey City, New Jersey. CITI BIKES BY CITY New York City Miami Jersey City Launched: May 2013 Launched: Dec. 2014 Launched: Sept. 2015 Trips since launch: 54M Trips since launch: 4.6M Trips since launch: 589K Miles traveled: 93.8M Miles traveled: 13.7M Miles traveled: 719K Annual members: 134K Annual members: 5.5K Annual members: 3K All figures are through December 31, 2017. 96 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities RESPONDING TO NATURAL DISASTERS AROUND THE GLOBE In 2017, millions of people were affected by a barrage of extreme weather events and disasters, including devastating hurricanes that hit the U.S. and Caribbean, earthquakes in Mexico, wildfires in California and flooding in South Asia. Citi and the Citi Foundation responded with a combination of grant investments, employee and client fundraising, volunteerism and in-kind donations. In response to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, the Citi Foundation contributed $2.25 million to the Red Cross’s relief and recovery efforts. In addition, Citi employees and clients contributed more than $600,000 through online fundraising channels. Employees also donated their time volunteering. For example, employees delivered 22 tons of food and supplies to colleagues in Puerto Rico in the first weeks after the storm. Citi also stepped up to create A beneficiary of earthquake recovery efforts in Mexico a unique form of aid to the American Red Cross — call center assistance during a time of increased volume. Over the Citi Foundation, opened accounts to allow the public a two-week period, Citi Call Center employees answered to contribute to reconstruction efforts and partnered with 1,800 Red Cross calls — about 15 percent of call volume — other corporations and private foundations to match the helping callers seeking financial assistance after Irma and funds raised. By the end of 2017, Fomento Social Banamex Harvey or looking for loved ones. had received more than $5 million in public donations and matched those funds, with the support of partners, to Also in partnership with the American Red Cross, the contribute more than $10.6 million to support rebuilding Citi Foundation supported ongoing relief and recovery efforts throughout 2018. These efforts will produce 2,500 efforts for 3,000 families in Bangladesh following floods homes, three public schools and three public markets. that engulfed the northern region of the country. In Contributions will also help to support the economic January 2018, Bangladesh also experienced historically recovery of impacted communities, providing 500 kitchlow temperatures that badly disrupted the lives of many, ens and ovens for microentrepreneurs in the food industry particularly low-income individuals, children and the and conducting 11 folk art workshops to help artists elderly. In response, Citi Bangladesh donated 1,000 blankets recover and expand their businesses. to Prothom Alo Trust, the organization leading a countrywide relief effort. These disasters impacted not only the communities where we live and work, but also our employees and clients. Citi The earthquakes in Mexico in September 2017 affected offered fee waivers, emergency credit line assistance, over 170,000 families whose houses were destroyed adjusted rates and access to forbearance programs for or damaged. Fomento Social Banamex, which leads our mortgage holders to many affected customers. philanthropic efforts in Mexico in close coordination with Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 97 CASE STUDY Building a Greener Port in Long Beach In the port city of Long Beach, California, increasing temperaAction Plan, first adopted by both ports in 2006 and updated tures due to global warming have broken several records in in 2017, is to eventually reduce emissions to zero. As part of recent years. Mayor Robert Garcia has cited extreme heat as this plan, the Port of Long Beach is implementing a series of one of the city’s top concerns, and the city has embarked on carbon reduction measures, including equipment upgrades an ambitious plan to become more climate-resilient through and fees on diesel vehicles. greener infrastructure and urban planning. In June 2017, Citi served as senior manager on the Port of One key aspect of this plan is greening the Port of Long Beach, Long Beach’s $172 million financing, including a $26 million which is the country’s second-busiest port and saw traffic green bond offering. Proceeds from the green bond will increase by 11 percent in 2017. Together, the Port of Long be used by the Port to help create new shipping terminal Beach and the neighboring port in Los Angeles represent improvements designed to move cargo more efficiently the largest stationary source of air pollution in Southern with less pollution. California, making them a significant contributor to global warming. One of the most ambitious goals of the Clean Air FPO photo, Port of Long Beach Photo caption arum, tem rerum quatatum, quam que sectate 98 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Affordable Housing Citi has also pursued solutions that boost and preserve affordability. For example, Citi Community Development (CCD) acted and Homeownership as a lead investor in an innovative public–private partnership — that also included capital investment through Citi Community Capital — in San Francisco. Launched in February 2017, this Nominal prices for U.S. homes have surpassed their pre-recession partnership aims to help preserve and produce homes for peak,6 while wages have largely remained flat, leaving homelower-income families in one of the country’s most expensive ownership out of reach for many. This has in turn increased real estate markets. The San Francisco Housing Accelerator demand for rental units. The share of U.S. households renting Fund was launched by the city of San Francisco, local foundahomes is now at a 50-year high of 37 percent, and some 11 tions, corporations and other partners as a nonprofit financial million households pay more than half of their income toward intermediary that acts as a “one-stop shop” for investing in rent,7 well above the 30 percent threshold that is considered affordable housing in the city with a speed and responsiveness a “cost burden.” Communities of color and low-income faminot otherwise possible in such a competitive real estate market. lies have been disproportionately impacted by these trends, Through the Fund, the City of San Francisco will have a sustaincontributing to growing inequality. able funding source to acquire new sites for affordable housing Citi is working to help solve the affordable housing crisis by development in the future, and will continue to leverage private financing projects in low-income urban areas and developing and philanthropic contributions to increase its impact. The new models to strengthen affordable housing markets overall. Fund aims to preserve and protect 1,500 affordable housing This work aligns with SDG target 11.2, which includes providing units in its first five years by helping affordable housing develaccess for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and opers better compete with market rate players, and is one basic services. example of creative problem-solving by Citi and our nonprofit and municipal partners. Financing Affordable Housing CCD also works to strengthen affordable housing options for vulnerable populations that are often overlooked, such as the Citi Community Capital (CCC) offers a range of housing elder LGBTQ community. One recent study found that nearly financing solutions — including municipal bonds, tax credits half of older same-sex couples applying for senior housing and subsidies — to affordable housing developers. We focus on faced discrimination. In March 2017, SAGE, one of the nation’s projects that serve low-income and special needs populations, oldest nonprofit organizations dedicated to the needs of including seniors, those with disabilities and the homeless. that constituency, announced plans to expand its LGBT Elder CCC’s work goes beyond just housing — we also finance other Housing Initiative with the help of CCD. Under this expansion, projects critical to strong and vibrant communities such as SAGE is scaling its strategy to produce safe and welcoming schools, healthcare facilities and businesses that contribute to affordable housing projects and promoting best practices for community revitalization. building inclusive housing among the housing development sector, community groups servicing LGBT individuals, policyIn 2017, the affordable housing market in the U.S. was chalmakers and regulators. lenged by uncertainties around tax reform, as well as labor and materials shortages, which were further exacerbated in some areas by natural disasters. At Citi, we continue to work with our clients to structure financing that is responsible, SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 11 even amidst these challenges. Last year, we provided over Sustainable Cities and Communities $4.7 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S., covering 28,700 units in 129 cities, serving as the leading financer of affordable housing in the U.S. for the eighth consecutive year. 6 Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, The State of the Nation’s Housing 2017 (April 2017), http://www.jchs.harvard.edu/sites/jchs.harvard.edu/files/harvard_jchs_state_of_the_nations_housing_2017.pdf. 7 Ibid. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 99 Preserving Homeownership Suffering a foreclosure can have serious effects on a homeowner’s credit score and financial health that can last for years. Citi works on foreclosure prevention through our Office of Homeownership Preservation. Nationally, the foreclosure rate has continued to decline and reached an 11-year low in 2017; however, foreclosure activity remains above pre-recession levels in many areas.8 The Citi Office of Homeownership Preservation addresses this ongoing challenge through restructuring loans, training housing counselors, scaling technological efficiencies to coordinate loan servicing, and investing in shared equity models. We also work with partner organizations to prevent foreclosures. For example, in May 2017, CCD announced a collaboration with UnidosUS (formerly the National Council of La Raza) and local housing counseling agencies in Puerto Rico — PathStone, One Stop Career Center of Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico Neighborhood Housing Services and Ponce Neighborhood Housing Services — A rendering of affordable housing complex Draper Hall to help both struggling homeowners and those aspiring to buy. in New York City The funding helped expand these organizations’ existing capacity and support critical counselor training, which was provided AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN by UnidosUS. Puerto Rico has not seen the same post-recession economic recovery as the mainland U.S., with unemployment URBAN MARKETS sticking at 11 percent (compared to about 4 percent nationally) Citi Community Capital helps developers fill crucial gaps in and nearly half of all residents living below the poverty line. the affordable housing market. For example, The Watson According to the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of on East Howard development in Quincy, Massachusetts, Puerto Rico, the housing foreclosure rate has risen by nearly which CCC helped finance with a $35 million construction 90 percent in the past decade. CCD also gave an additional loan, aims to serve people who have incomes too high $50,000 to the Puerto Rico Community Foundation to help for subsidized housing yet are priced out of Boston’s nonprofit housing developers expand the housing stock for expensive rental market. The 140-unit project includes the lowand moderate-income residents. largest number of workforce housing units ever financed under MassHousing’s Workforce Housing initiative. Unfortunately, Hurricane Maria, which hit Puerto Rico in September 2017, has further exacerbated the island’s chalDraper Hall, a 203-unit affordable housing complex for lenges. In early 2018, CCD provided an additional $500,000 to senior citizens, opened in New York City’s gentrifying these organizations to help thousands of families across the East Harlem neighborhood in October. The complex, Commonwealth recover by providing free essential housing which won the Affordable Housing Finance Reader’s services, such as support for home repairs, free housing Choice award in 2017, helps fill an increasing need for counseling, and other vital recovery resources. Citi remains affordable homes for older citizens. It also includes an committed to helping the island and for more on our response adult day program with home health and medical services to the crisis, please see page 97. to help residents age in place. A construction loan from CCC helped bring the $85 million project to fruition. 8 Attom Data Solutions, “U.S. Foreclosure Activity Drops to More Than 11-Year Low in Q3 2017” (October 2017), https://www.attomdata.com/news/foreclosure-trends/q3-2017-u-s-foreclosure-market-report/. 100 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Innovative Financing Approaches In recent years, as cities have become dynamic and attractive places to live and work, we have seen the rapid gentrification of urban areas around the country. The commensurate rapid rise in land and property values are threatening to displace low-income communities. An expansion of innovative approaches to affordable housing financing is needed to help circumvent this trend and develop more permanent solutions. Citi Community Development (CCD) is working with several partners to develop community land trusts (CLTs) in rapidly gentrifying cities such as Washington D.C. and New York City. A CLT is a nonprofit organization that buys land to build permanently affordable housing for low-income households. Under this model, the CLT places a cap on resale and rental A veteran who is being placed into a home as part of the Bring them HOMES initiative prices to maintain affordability over the long term, even as property prices in the area escalate. This enables renters to acquire stable, affordable housing while those able to buy can HOMES FOR VETERANS build equity and accrue other benefits of homeownership. An estimated 40,000 veterans are homeless on any night in America.9 Since 2012, CCD has supported the In February 2017, CCD partnered with City First Enterprises to Bring them HOMES initiative by the National Equity plan a CLT for the Douglas neighborhood of Washington D.C., Fund and Local Initiatives Support Corp. to help end where median home prices increased by 20 percent in 2016. veteran homelessness. Over the last several years, The Douglas CLT aims to acquire land and build properties to this initiative has worked to finance, facilitate, advopreserve affordability and build wealth for 100 families in the cate and implement affordable housing options for area. Citi provided $450,000 to the trust to support developveterans. To date, a total of 3,500 affordable housing ment of the CLT. units, including 2,500 specifically for veterans, have been completed or are in development. CCD is also the founding corporate partner for New York City’s first citywide CLT. The Interboro CLT follows a unique Citi also partners with other organizations working to multi-partner structure that includes the Center for NYC end the problem of veteran homelessness through tradiNeighborhoods, Habitat for Humanity New York City, MHANY tional financing and investment activity. For example, Management Inc., and the Urban Homesteading Assistance in 2015, Citi Community Capital provided construction Board. By building permanently affordable housing across financing totaling $20 million for renovations at the the city, this project hopes to address the widening economic New England Center for Homeless Veterans, a Bostoninequality in one of the world’s most expensive cities. CCD based nonprofit providing services to veterans at risk provided $1 million in seed funding for the program in 2017 of homelessness. The multimillion-dollar renovations, to launch the Interboro CLT Growth Fund to accelerate the completed in 2017, give homeless veterans around the development of the first 250 units and position the CLT to country better access to improved living accommodabecome one of the largest urban land trusts in the nation. tions, transitional services, medical help — including critical mental health and addiction services — and vocational programs. 9 “Homeless Veterans: 2016 by the Numbers,” U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (website), accessed January 2018, https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/accomplishments/2016-by-the-numbers.asp. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 101 Thriving Small Business Pathways program not only creates employment opportunities, but also helps meet a critical need for lowBusinesses and middle-income families. This initiative replicates the successful model of Food Business Pathways, a free business accelerator program that was developed through a partnerSmall businesses are the backbone of the global economy, ship between Citi Community Development and NYCHA. To accounting for two out of every three jobs in the U.S. alone.10 date, Food Business Pathways has helped 167 graduates — Yet many face difficulties accessing the financing and capital 90 percent of them female — create 132 businesses. that they need to thrive and grow. Citi takes a multi-pronged approach to supporting small businesses, including tailored products to meet their needs and partnerships that work to Supporting Training and Development provide training and development for microentrepreneurs and small business owners and create a more enabling Across the U.S., the Citi Foundation provides funding to atmosphere for the growth of small businesses in countries community partners to empower entrepreneurs and small around the world. business owners with business development support and training that is invaluable in launching or growing their businesses. For example, through partnerships with eight Financing Small Businesses community organizations across the New York Tri-State area, the Foundation invested more than $500,000 in business Access to capital is a fundamental need for any business. To development programs that aim to reach more than 3,000 help small businesses grow and create jobs, Citi provides them people in the region, with the majority focused on supporting with capital — through loans, lines of credit and other prodwomen and/or minority business owners and entrepreneurs. ucts and services. In 2017, Citi invested more than $11 billion in small business lending in the U.S. These kinds of programs are equally important to the success of small businesses outside the U.S. For example, in Poland, the Citi Foundation funded the Foundation for Women’s Removing Barriers to Growth Entrepreneurship to support the growth of women-led Citi works with public and private partners to help remove enterprises in Warsaw, by providing high-potential female barriers for small business owners. For example, education, entrepreneurs with access to intensive training, office space, access to capital and affordable space are common chalmentorship, networking and technical assistance to design, lenges for would-be small business owners. Citi Community manage and scale their companies. Development supported the Childcare Business Pathways program, which connects New York City Housing Authority Through one-on-one counseling, workshops, training, mentor(NYCHA) residences with resources to build home-based ship and access to networking and financing opportunities, childcare businesses. Childcare costs are a significant these kinds of programs aim to empower current and potential burden for parents, accounting for an average of 10 percent business owners to strengthen their business models, improve of median income for married couples and 36 percent of their financial standing, create job opportunities and contribute median income for single parents nationwide.11 The Childcare to economic growth in their communities. 10 U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, Small Business Quarterly Bulletin (August 2017), page 1, https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/advocacy/Quarterly_Bulletin_FINAL_508_compliant.pdf. 11 Childcare Aware of America, Parents and the High Cost of Childcare (January 2017), page 10, https://usa.childcareaware.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/2017_CCA_High_Cost_Report_FINAL.pdf. 102 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities CASE STUDY Companies to Inspire Africa Despite popular representations of Africa as uniformly underreport breaks down, for the first time, Africa’s fastest growing developed, the continent is host to a diverse, high-potential private companies by country and industry as they seek private sector across 54 nations. However, many African much-needed visibility and investment; it also profiles microcompanies need investment to reach their potential and to, economic success stories. The report includes a foreword in turn, accelerate economic growth and progress for people by Manolo Falco, Citi’s Head of Corporate and Investment across the region. Banking for Europe, Middle East and Africa, and highlights Africa’s vast investment opportunities for an international In 2017, Citi provided support for the publication of audience. The report launched in April and was followed by Companies to Inspire Africa (CTIA), a groundbreaking report regional events in five capitals across the continent. produced by the London Stock Exchange Group. The CTIA Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 103 Inclusive Economic Growth over 1.3 million microentrepreneurs. In 2017, under the Global Inclusive Finance Framework, we expanded our collaboration Leveraging cross-sector partnerships and innovative with OPIC to include our first non-financial institution client. approaches, Citi invests in microfinance and technology soluIn August, Citi Turkey provided a $5 million loan to Işık Tarım, tions that focus on reaching underserved markets around the a Turkish organic produce manufacturer. The loan will allow world. Most microfinance beneficiaries globally are women, the company to add 1,500 additional small farmers under its making Citi’s work on microfinance a direct contributor to community-based and sustainable agribusiness model. SDG 5, in support of gender equality and empowerment for all women and girls, and in particular target 5.A, which In the U.S., Citi has worked with microfinance provider strives for a range of gender-related objectives including Grameen America since 2008, providing specially designed giving women equal rights to economic resources. Citi savings accounts to Grameen clients. The organization offers microloans, training and support to low-income female entrepreneurs. More than 12,000 of Grameen America’s SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 5 female clients have active Citi savings accounts with total Gender Equality balances of more than $3.75 million. Citi Inclusive Finance supports businesses, clients and transIn February, Grameen America, Citi and Mastercard joined forces actions that aim to expand access to products and services in to develop fintech solutions that will help Grameen find new operlow-income communities. In partnership with Citi Export and ational efficiencies and improve service and digital access for its Agency Finance, for example, Citi Inclusive Finance works with network of entrepreneurs. As part of the upgrade, national field the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) to provide staff will be able to enter real-time data remotely, enabling better financing to microfinance institutions that work with clients analysis of Grameen’s impact. In addition, Grameen America in developing countries around the world. To date Citi has will begin disbursing its loans with reloadable Mastercard cards, funded 49 institutions in 25 countries with nearly half a billion issued by Citi Prepaid Services, instead of checks. The switch will dollars in debt capital that has helped to catalyze the efforts of allow Grameen entrepreneurs — many of whom did not previously hold bank accounts — easier and safer access to funds. CITI MICROENTREPRENEURSHIP AWARDS The Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards (CMA) has been a tailored training to women in traditionally male sectors, as signature component of the Citi Foundation’s work on finanwell as resources on business formalization and financial cial inclusion for over a decade. Since 2005, the CMA has education. To date, the Moroccan microfinance sector has focused on providing economic empowerment opportuniserved 1 million people, nearly half of them women. ties for microentrepreneurs in about 30 countries. To date, we have invested more than $23.5 million in microfinance networks and microfinance institutions, and provided $10.5 million in cash prizes to more than 6,000 entrepreneurs. One notable example of the impact of the CMA is in Morocco. The Moroccan government has pushed microfinance as a valuable tool to combat poverty for over 20 years. Through the CMA, the Citi Foundation has worked with our in-country partner, the Mohammed VI Center for Microfinance and Solidarity (CMS), since 2012 to support the organization’s mission to empower microentrepreneurs throughout the country, many of whom are women in hardto-reach areas. CMS uses the annual CMA event to provide Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards participant in Morocco 104 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities Financial Inclusion An estimated 2 billion adults around the world — in both developing and developed markets — remain outside the formal banking sector. Access to financial products and services is an essential part of financial resiliency — the ability to weather income shifts or unexpected costs — for both individuals and communities, and is related to wider macroeconomic health. Banks have a responsibility to correct historical mistrust of financial institutions among many traditionally underbanked communities. Citi offers SUPPORTING AGRICULTURE IN INDIA direct-to-consumer financial products and services that help Agriculture is a critical part of India’s economy and its improve financial resiliency and inclusion. We also work with largest provider of livelihoods. An estimated 44 percent partner organizations to increase access to financial services of the country’s population is employed in agriculture.12 and provide educational resources in low-income communities. Technology, including the introduction of artificial intelligence and new sources of analytics, largely driven by Our extensive work on financial inclusion contributes to ag-tech startups, is changing the way that rural farms progress on SDG 8, which aims among other things to provide operate and providing new solutions to boost agriculture full and productive employment and decent work for all. For across the country. Yet access to finance and concerns example, Citi’s work on financial inclusion in the U.S., Mexico about money management and debt repayment are roadand elsewhere contributes to target 8.10, which aims to blocks to stability and growth for many rural farmers. strengthen the capacity of domestic financial institutions For example, in the province of Tamil Nadu, researchers to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and found that more than half of loans were through informal financial services for all. lenders charging up to 54 percent interest.13 Inclusive finance is also a key success factor for progress on goal Citi India has focused extensively on agriculture and SDG 9, which aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote has grown our portfolio in the segment significantly in inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovarecent years, including providing valuable crop loans tion, specifically enabling progress on target 9.3, which seeks to and credit that enable farmers to secure inputs such increase the access of small-scale enterprises, particularly as seeds, fertilizers and labor at very affordable rates. in developing countries, to financial services to facilitate Our overall lending to the agriculture sector in India, integration into value chains and markets. led primarily by investment credit, has benefited almost 31,000 farmers. We also recognize the importance of helping these farmers improve the long-term sustainSDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 8 ability of their businesses by building their financial Decent Work and Economic Growth capability. Citi supports a range of efforts focused on building the financial knowledge and skills of low-income families across India, and we are working to bring these SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 9 resources to farmers in the coming years. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure This support of agriculture is one part of Citi’s effort to advance economic progress in India, along with financing affordable housing, microand small enterprises, economic development and trade. 12 “Employment in Agriculture (% of Total Employment),” The World Bank (website), accessed February 2018, https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.AGR.EMPL.ZS. 13 IFMR Lead, Harvard University and Duke University, Expensive but Worthwhile: Resolute Informal Financier Markets (April 2016), page 1, http://www.ifmrlead.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/KGFS_Brief2_Financiers.pdf. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 105 Access to Financial Products and Services The unbanked benefit from products that are designed to MICROINSURANCE FOR FINANCIAL meet the needs of that population. For example, Citi’s Access SECURITY IN THE PHILIPPINES Account — a simple, checkless bank account with low or no Financial security can be an elusive aspiration for monthly fees and no overdraft fees — provides people with low-income families around the world, with the a straightforward way to save and manage their finances. It potential for a single financial shock — illness, natural is one example of how smartly tailored solutions can serve disaster, economic instability, death in the family — once-overlooked markets, such as senior citizens, recent resulting in financial ruin. Financial services, including immigrants and low-income individuals. Citi branch employees products like insurance, can be critical to weathering have been trained on Access Account features and how to best these shocks. However, more than 3.8 billion people communicate its value to potential customers. Representing lack access to insurance. Microinsurance, a safety net 25 percent of all new checking account products, the Access product for those unable to afford traditional insurAccount is one of our fastest-growing consumer products. ance products, can help to provide this security. Banks also have to be prepared to meet people where they Since 2016, the Citi Foundation has supported RIMANSI, are. For example, studies show that low-income communities a microinsurance technical resource center established of color favor cash transactions, making ATM access and fees by leading microfinance institutions in the Philippines, especially important. In 2016, Citi launched its ATM Community to support community-based microinsurance associaNetwork pilot program, giving clients of minority-owned banks tions across the country with training and customized and credit unions access to our wide network of ATMs. Last technical assistance services, to increase organizational year, the program added seven additional credit unions and capacity, increase membership and improve member banks, expanding our reach to allow more than 400,000 clients retention. RIMANSI has provided assistance to microof participating institutions to withdraw cash from Citi’s 2,400 insurance mutual benefit associations with improving national ATMs without surcharges. governance, including board and senior staff development, strategic planning and improving organizational We expanded surcharge-free ATMs for our Citibank customers structure. The organization has also worked to target in several large metropolitan markets, including Chicago, Los new segments of the uninsured market and develop new Angeles, New York and more. In January 2017, we signed an products that improve the ability of providers to reach agreement with Cardtronics, the world’s largest ATM owner/ the underserved. Through these efforts, RIMANSI will operator, to make an additional 30,000 ATMs at certain retail provide access to greater financial stability to millions of locations available for use for free for our customers. The households across the Philippines. agreement nearly doubles the number of surcharge-free ATMs in our network, providing greater convenience and service to our customers across the economic spectrum. WORLD’S BEST BANK FOR Mexico is one of Citi’s largest consumer markets outside of FINANCIAL INCLUSION the U.S. Nearly half of the country’s citizens are unbanked, and Mexico’s President has made the issue a national priority Citi was awarded the 2017 Euromoney through the National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS). As Magazine inaugural award for the part of our $1 billion investment in 2016, Citibanamex — our “World’s Best Bank for Financial Mexican subsidiary and the country’s second-largest retail Inclusion,” acknowledging Citi’s bank — is working to increase financial inclusion in the pioneering partnerships with governcountry. Our investment included funding to create a Financial ments, clients and microfinance Inclusion business unit focused on expanding access to safe institutions to build a more inclusive and affordable financial services for unbanked citizens. financial services industry. Citibanamex Financial Inclusion builds upon our long track “Solving the challenge of the world’s unbanked is record of supporting microentrepreneurs and expands mobile going to take investment, innovation, and an ability to banking tools and financial education resources. We are also bring together key players in payments, fintech and working directly with the Mexican government to support the microfinance. No bank is quite as committed to that NFIS with private-sector resources and expertise. combination as Citi.” Euromoney Magazine 106 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities CASE STUDY Promoting Digital Financial Inclusion Digital financial solutions — including mobile device-based platforms for financial accounts and transactions — have been touted as a potential “game-changer” for the world’s poor for several years. While digital financial solution providers have made massive inroads into previously unreached communities around the world, there is still much progress to be made to improve policies and increase financial inclusion. Since 2016, the Citi Foundation has supported the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) at the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to implement a digital financial inclusion program in East Asia. This program engages policymakers and practitioners with digital financial inclusion experience in three markets — China, Indonesia and the Philippines — to tackle the challenges they face in promoting innovations in the digital delivery of financial services to the unserved and underserved in their markets and sharing those experiences globally. Through its efforts, CGAP helps policymakers compile and share best practices across the region and around the world. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 107 Through a joint venture with America Movil and a strategic partnership with Oxxo, a network of convenience stores, SUPPORTING U.S. VETERANS Citibanamex provides a basic account and mobile banking Once military service members return home, there solution for the unbanked sector in Mexico called Transfer. is a lot of catching up to do and veterans often face Out of 5.4 million active accounts, more than 80 percent of difficulties reestablishing themselves after duty. One customers were new to banking, and 1.3 million use Transfer aspect of this is improving financial capability, particto receive government benefits. Approximately 9,000 ularly for veterans who may be working toward big accounts are being opened every day. life steps such as homeownership or starting a family. Money Management International leads the Clearpoint Reconnect program, an initiative to help veterans Financial Capability and Resiliency that may be struggling to manage their finance. The Consumer education is a key component of building a more program, which Citi has supported since 2012, offers inclusive financial system. It’s not enough to have access to free financial education resources and an interactive financial products and services — consumers need to know website to help military families meet their financial how to use these products responsibly and how to protect goals. Clearpoint Reconnect has added 7,000 registheir own best interests. tered users since 2012, and in 2017 the organization hosted 1,278 military members at 124 events and workCiti offers a range of free financial education resources shops. Support for this program is part of Citi Salutes, online. We also provide support to financial capability our firm-wide initiative to meet the unique needs of programs around the world. For example, we work with service members, veterans and their families in the several municipal and community partners to run a financial areas of employment, financial capability and housing. counseling service serving Mexican immigrants. Like many other immigrant groups, many in the Mexican community in the U.S. often lack previous exposure to formal financial These programs have been focused on real-world impacts services and are wary of hidden fees and large institutions. that improve the lives of local citizens. For example in 2017, The Ventanilla de Asesoría Financiera (Financial Counseling a year after launching the Boston OFE, the city, along with Window) operates within the Mexican Consulate and offers Citi Community Development (CCD) and other partners, beneficiaries advice on banking services and money managelaunched an ambitious goal for building up the credit profiles ment. The Ventanilla was initially formed in New York City, in of its citizens. The Boston Builds Credit program, the nation’s partnership with the NYC Department of Consumer Affairs first citywide credit-building initiative, aims to help 25,000 Office of Financial Empowerment, the Cities for Financial residents reach a prime credit score (defined as a 660 FICO) Empowerment Fund, Ariva and Qualitas Foundation. Since by 2025. This initiative will help ensure that the city’s most then, Citi Community Development has also led the expansion vulnerable residents can build a financial profile that will to seven additional cities: Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los enable them to achieve their goals. Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco and San Jose. Another example of focused financial capability intervenWe also have a long-running relationship with the New York tions is the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) awareness City Office of Financial Empowerment (OFE). Since 2008, Citi campaign led by New York City and supported by Citi for the and the Citi Foundation have contributed more than $1.5 million past several years. The EITC can be a substantial lump-sum in funding to the OFE to help scale their efforts to improve the payment for many low-income households. However, many financial well-being of low-income families in the city. The OFE people are not aware of their eligibility for this program and provides free financial education, coaching and counseling miss a valuable opportunity to pay down debt or save money. programs focused on helping their clients stabilize their finanNYC Free Tax Prep, led by the city of New York in partnership cial future by saving money, building credit and paying down with participating nonprofit organizations, is a marketing debt. The OFE model has since expanded to Boston, Chicago, campaign to increase awareness of the EITC, along with free San Francisco and Los Angeles. tax preparation services for qualified individuals. In 2017, NYC Free Tax Prep helped return nearly $150 million in fee savings and tax credits to 113,000 households. 14 “Mayor Garcetti Announces Free Tax Prep,” City of Los Angeles (website), accessed January 2018, https://www.lamayor.org/mayor-garcetti-announces-free-tax-prep-los-angeles-support-low-income-working-families. 108 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities In 2017, CCD supported the most comprehensive EITC The expansion of Pathways to Progress also addresses the program in Los Angeles County to date. The Free Tax Prep findings of a recent Citi Foundation-funded global youth study: Los Angeles Campaign, a joint initiative between the city Global Youth Survey 2017: Economic Prospects & Expectations. and county of Los Angeles, CCD and community partners, The study, conducted by Ipsos, polled more than 7,000 young launched in February 2017 to facilitate access to free tax people in 32 countries and found that, despite political, preparation services and the EITC for eligible filers. Los economic and social upheaval, young people around the world Angeles is home to 60 percent of California’s eligible EITC are optimistic about their career prospects, but face the reality filers, yet families leave over half a billion dollars of unclaimed of limited opportunities and a skills mismatch for many availtax credits on the table every year.14 able jobs. Through these efforts, the Citi Foundation aims to help bridge that skills divide and ensure that young people are well positioned to enter the workforce. See pages 110-113 for more information on the impact of The Future of Work Pathways to Progress. There are more than 1.2 billion young people around the SDG SPOTLIGHT: GOAL 8 world, with over 150 million working but still living in poverty, Decent Work and Economic Growth and 71 million unemployed. New approaches are needed to help young people develop the agile and versatile skill sets necessary to compete for meaningful, stable employment opportunities and be effectively prepared for the rapidly WHAT’S AHEAD evolving job market of the future. Through our Pathways to Progress initiative, Citi and the Citi Foundation help to deliver on SDG target 8.6, which aims to substantially reduce, Cross-sector partnerships remain an effective way by 2020, the proportion of youth not in employment, to tackle a myriad of social and economic obstacles education or training. that prevent low-income communities and families from achieving financial security. We will continue to learn about and invest in the visions of NGOs that Pathways to Progress act as change agents in their communities and share what’s working and what’s not to accelerate progress Citi and the Citi Foundation are committed to preparing in other communities. We will also work with municyoung people for today’s competitive job market through our ipalities and help support efforts that inform and Pathways to Progress initiative. In 2017, the Citi Foundation improve service delivery and resident engagement to doubled down on its dedication to this cause with a new threehelp cities run more effectively and provide economic year, $100 million commitment — the largest philanthropic opportunity for all. commitment in the Foundation’s history. This builds on its previous $50 million effort in the U.S., which helped over 100,000 young people become career-ready and employable. With the Foundation’s new $100 million commitment, they are aiming to reduce youth unemployment in cities around the globe and are partnering with community organizations and municipal leaders to connect 500,000 young people around the world to jobs, internships, business training and leadership development. Citi is also mobilizing 10,000 Citi employee volunteers to serve as mentors and coaches and provide professional advice to help young people move toward their career goals. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 109 PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS 2020 CITI FOUNDATION GLOBAL COMMITMENT IMPACTS ON YOUTH: 2017 10K+ youth launching, iti Foun d ation in youth p rog ram 51K+ th eC mi improving or expanding youth obtaining work by n g enterprises d a experience, incl. te inv cros internships es s7 3M M+ 9m $4 et s a rk 200K+ Youth Reached y all 3. ob + gl 5K th i ti u yo C em d plo ye e c he oa 91K+ vo l u n te e r s m e n t o r e d a n dc 44K+ youth youth connecting acquiring jobs with mentors 74K+ youth improving financial skills 110 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS: PARTICIPANT VOICES Our business aspirations are to The program helped me transform create a sustainable business that my social enterprise from a class can be up-scaled into multiple project into my life’s mission. franchises in major centers and hopefully across the continent. Yusef | Mexico Yusef is the founder of Vitaluz, a social enterprise that Mpumelelo and Lawrence | South Africa promotes the use of solar power in off-grid communities. Mpumelelo and Lawrence are young entrepreneurs who After he participated in Citibanamex Fomento Social’s New recently opened their first business venture — a coffee Ventures Exponential program, where young entrepreshop called Kofi in the Soweto Township of Johannesburg. neurs receive seed capital to develop and implement their They opened Kofi after participating in TechnoServe’s business ideas, Yusef manufactured and installed Vitaluz’s Box Shop Program, which connects local entrepreneurs first 10 solar panel systems in a community that had no with wider markets and links them to stable supply chains. access to government electricity. He received additional Mpumelelo and Lawrence believe that the program gave funding to install 138 solar panels in schools, providing them a platform to achieve their dream of bringing a students with lighting and access to technology. product they believe in — their coffee — to market. I aspire to help people make I used the skills I obtained at Citi more informed and rational ecoto start my career in the IT field. I’m nomic decisions and ideally make so grateful for this opportunity, which the society I am living in a more enabled me to pursue my goals. just and sensible one. Lei | Singapore Vanessa | U.S. Lei, a university student in Singapore, was unsure After graduating with a computer science degree, which of her many interests would translate into Vanessa enrolled in an NPower program to boost her a successful career. After participating in the Citi real-world credentials and find a full-time job. After an Foundation–YMCA Youth For Causes Program, she internship at Citi, she obtained a full-time job running realized her passion for socially minded development the IT system of a local community organization. and declared a major in economics. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 111 Youth Workforce Fund | north america Access to apprenticeships, internships and vocational training is essential to empowering youth and preparing them to compete in today’s economy. According to the Citi Foundation’s 2017 Global Youth Survey, 78 percent of young people believe that internships and apprenticeships are critical for career success; however, 60 percent say there aren’t enough of these opportunities in their cities. In April 2017, the Citi Foundation launched the Youth Workforce Fund (YWF). The $4 million fund is supporting youth employment organizations across 15 U.S. cities, helping them expand their programming to provide a range of employment opportunities in various areas, including environmental sustainability, robotics, culinary arts and coding. In 2018, the Citi Foundation announced that it will renew the YWF, with the request for proposals launching in April 2018. PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS: PARTNER EXAMPLES Youth Co:Lab | asia pacific Creando tu Futuro | latin america The Citi Foundation and the United Nations Development The Citi Foundation works with the Global Fairness Initiative Programme (UNDP) have partnered to launch Youth Co:Lab, (GFI) to implement Creando tu Futuro, an innovative job skills which empowers young people to lead through entrepreneurtraining program aimed at building a strong foundation of ship and social innovation. Youth Co:Lab includes a series of technical knowledge and life skills for low-income youth in National Dialogues and Social Innovation Challenges across the Latin America. Through the program, youth in Colombia, Asia-Pacific region. National Dialogues enable young people Argentina and the Dominican Republic participate in both to directly engage with policymakers, private-sector partners, online learning modules and classroom instruction that teach NGOs and others, to discuss challenges and solutions for the technical and personal skills necessary for financially encouraging youth entrepreneurship across the region. Social sustainable jobs in the organized sector. The Citi Foundation’s Innovation Challenges, akin to startup hackathons, enable support also enables the GFI to conduct youth unemployment participants to showcase their proposed ideas. Youth Co:Lab studies using data gathered through the program. The findserves as a platform for enabling youth-led social enterprises ings are used to catalyze the dialogue around youth unemthat are tackling some of the region’s most significant developployment among global influencers in the field. ment challenges and contributing to the SDGs. Jóvenes de Excelencia | mexico International Rescue Committee | In Mexico, Citibanamex Compromiso Social’s Jóvenes de europe, middle east & africa Excelencia program supports high-achieving low-income The global refugee crisis that has gained worldwide attention in university students who aspire to complete their master’s recent years will have long-reaching effects for many. Millions degrees at top universities abroad. Participating youth receive of young people continue to be swept up in war and displacesupport and guidance throughout the admission process, ment, disrupting their lives and putting their future at risk as including mentorship, exam prep, English language profieducation and work opportunities are lost. Creative intervenciency training and internship opportunities, with the goal of tions are needed to help get refugees, who face enormous increasing their success when applying to master’s programs. social and economic hurdles, back on track. The Citi Foundation Once accepted, youth are presented with a wide range of announced a new partnership with the International Rescue options for financial support along with continued mentoring Committee to provide refugees, internally displaced young from professionals who have received their master’s degrees people and vulnerable youth living in host communities with abroad. This program is contributing to the social mobility of support to help them generate reliable incomes and contribute youth in Mexico, who develop their knowledge and leadership to their local economies. The partnership includes a $2 million skills abroad and then apply these skills toward the developgrant to fund Rescuing Futures, a program that will provide ment of their local communities upon their return home. business training and startup grants to help nearly 1,000 young people in three cities — Athens, Greece; Amman, Jordan; and Yola, Nigeria — start their own businesses and build a better economic future over a period of two years. 112 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS: CITI EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS Citi employee volunteers play a powerful role in our Pathways to Progress programs around the globe, acting as mentors, coaches and role models to young adults in support of their career ambitions. In today’s complex environment, we need competent leaders who bring their respective strengths and styles to build a better world together, and these future leaders need mentors to help guide them. Gary | Asia Pacific Gary has been serving as a mentor to youth for the past nine years through the YMCA Youth For Causes Program, where youth, with guidance from mentors like him, design and implement social entrepreneurship projects to benefit local nonprofit organizations of their choice. There are so many students who The level of empathy that these could really benefit from the advice young leaders and innovators and knowledge that a professional demonstrated provided me with a adult can impart, and mentoring can great perspective on how to make a be mutually beneficial. positive impact on people’s lives. Farjana | North America Mark | Asia Pacific Farjana has been mentoring Rosemary for more than Mark has been mentoring Lisa for the past six months two years. When they first met, Rosemary was strugas part of the Young Social Pioneers Program. The gling academically and did not see college as a part of program helps indigenous youth develop, design and her future. With Farjana’s support, tutoring, summer implement social impact projects that are providing school, a few extra classes and a lot of hard work, innovative solutions to local community challenges. Rosemary graduated high school on time and is now With the help of Mark’s support and coaching, Lisa enrolled in a culinary arts program. took home the $10,000 grand prize, which will help kick-start her social enterprise, Yuludarla Karulbo. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 113 APPENDICES 114 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 115 2017 Sustainable Progress Scorecard ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE — Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: To lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years toward activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions GOAL METRIC BY 2017 PROGRESS Environmental finance goal $100 billion 2023 $57B Environmental impact tracking* Total annual CO 2e emissions avoided 4.5M+ (MT) Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax equity activity (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs) 104K+ JOBS Annual riders on transit system projects 10B RIDES Social impact tracking* People serviced by water-quality projects 43M+ PEOPLE Families serviced by affordable housing activity 4K+ FAMILIES ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT — Manage environmental and social risks and impacts associated with client transactions and our financial products and services GOAL 2017 PROGRESS ESRM Policy continuous • Updated Citi’s ESRM Policy to strengthen • Created new Area of High Caution related to improvements requirements related to consultation of Indigprojects or activities with elevated human enous Peoples in developed countries rights risks • Developed internal guidance to help screen for risks related to Indigenous Peoples and human rights Internal training • Worked with Citi training platform to integrate • Trained 519 risk managers and bankers the Equator Principles Association’s e-training on ESRM module, which will be available in 2018 Portfolio-level analysis of • Screened our portfolio of midstream oil and • Scanned all industry sectors in Citi’s corporate high-risk sectors gas clients to understand the level of environclient portfolio to identify which sectors may mental and social risk of proposed pipelines present elevated human rights risks and determine if those sectors are adequately covered under existing ESRM Policy Monitoring of emerging • Continued to develop the ESRM Watchlist to • Researched emerging technologies clients risks & trends flag high-risk companies can use to monitor labor welfare and community opinion Building global capacity • Presented at a World Wildlife Fund conference • Worked with Brazilian financial authorities in 2017 on how banks evaluate ESG risks in on a greenhouse gas disclosure framework the seafood industry * These potential impacts represent the positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our environmental finance transactions. 116 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance OPERATIONS — Minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 7,700 owned and leased facilities GOAL METRIC BY 2017 PROGRESS 100% use of renewable energy for facilities globally 2020 18% 30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 2020 29% 30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 2020 29% Environmental footprint 10% of water used coming from reclaimed/recycled sources 2020 5% 60% diversion of waste stream to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 2020 61% 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED certified 2020 22% SUPPLY CHAIN ­— Work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards GOAL METRIC BY * 2017 PROGRESS Establish supply chain policies: Further socialized existing position statements • Paper and paper products across our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) and • IT hardware and e-waste Policies finalized and implemented 2019 included them in our ESC’s Global Operating disposal Procedures. • Travel and logistics Updated our Standards for Suppliers in 2017, Update Statement of an interim step towards this goal. The next Statement updated and disseminated 2019 Supplier Principles step is to formally update our Statement of Supplier Principles. 20% of supplier master contracts include Integration of Supplier Supplier Principles integrated into Supplier Principles. We are continuing to work Principles into master 2019 100% of master contracts for suppliers with sourcing leads on integration into master contracts contracts with suppliers. Corporate Responsibility 100% of top tier suppliers have completed the Questionnaire (CRQ) rolled 100% of suppliers complete the CRQ 2019 CRQ. We continued to systematize the embedding out to all regions of the CRQ within the supplier selection process. 100% of ESC employees 2019 80% of ESC employees have completed training. complete training Internal/external training 100% of suppliers complete training 2019 70% of all suppliers completed training. * Previously reported milestone data included different completion dates. In 2017, we realigned our supply chain scorecard so all metrics are in relation to 2019. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 117 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We also reported on many indicators beyond the Core reporting option, including disclosures from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can find information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI indicators relevant to our business. Please visit the GRI website for the full text of the indicators and other information on the guidelines. DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 [GRI 101 DOES NOT INCLUDE ANY DISCLOSURES] GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Fully Citigroup Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, Fully Citi at a Glance products and services 2017 10-K pages 4-5 102-3 Location of headquarters Fully 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013 102-4 Location of operations Fully Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance Citi Website Countries and Jurisdictions 102-5 Ownership and legal form Fully 2017 10-K page 4 102-6 Markets served Fully Letter from Our CEO Citi at a Glance 2017 10-K pages 4-8 102-7 Scale of the organization Fully Citi at a Glance 2017 10-K pages 4-8 102-8 Information on employFully Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce ees and other workers Citi may engage external service providers who may be responsible for performing a non-core business activity, or non-employee resources that are employed by an external third party but support Citi processes. These non-employee resources could be working under Citi supervision or be working under the supervision of an external third party in the third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or non-employees for a variety of different business purposes that include project based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill set that are not readily available, professional and outsourced services. There is no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment). 102-9 Supply chain Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing 102-10 Significant changes to the Fully 2017 Annual Report organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle Fully As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and address risks or approach as part of our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions. 118 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 102-12 External initiatives Fully • CDP • Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures • Equator Principles • UN Environment Programme Finance • International Finance Corporation’s Initiative Environmental and Social Performance Standards • UN Global Compact • International Finance Corporation’s • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Environmental, Health and Safety Human Rights Guidelines • UN Sustainable Development Goals • International Labour Organization Core • UN Universal Declaration of Human Conventions Rights • Natural Capital Declaration • Wolfsberg Principles • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 102-13 Membership of Fully Conduct and Culture > Industry Collaboration associations Conduct and Culture > Public Policy 102-14 Statement from senior Fully Letter from Our CEO decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks and Fully Letter from Our CEO opportunities Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi Sustainable Progress Strategy 2017 10-K pages 54-63 102-16 Values, principles, Fully About This Report standards and norms of Conduct and Culture behavior Code of Conduct Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Fully Conduct and Culture > Conduct and Culture at Citi and concerns about Ethics Hotline ethics 102-18 Governance structure Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi 2018 Proxy Statement pages 29-37 Board Charters Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1, 5 Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter Board of Directors 102-19 Delegating authority Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi 2018 Proxy Statement pages 46-51 Board Charters 102-20 Executive-level responFully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi sibility for economic, 2018 Proxy Statement pages 46-51 environmental and social Board Charters topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi on economic, environHuman Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process mental and social topics 2018 Proxy Statement pages 46-51 Board Charters 102-22 Composition of the Fully 2018 Proxy Statement pages 32-37, 51-66 highest governance body and its committees Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 119 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 102-23 Chair of the highest Fully The Chairman of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director. governance body 2018 Proxy Statement page 29 102-24 Nominating and selecting Fully 2018 Proxy Statement pages 46-51 the highest governance Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Fully 2018 Proxy Statement pages 26, 41, 102 102-26 Role of highest Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi governance body in setting 2018 Proxy Statement page 22 purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi highest governance body Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates 102-28 Evaluating the highest Fully 2018 Proxy Statement pages 46-51 governance body’s Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 5-6 performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi economic, environmental, Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi and social impacts Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process Citigroup Inc. Risk Management Committee Charter 2018 Proxy Statement pages 26, 30-31 Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi management processes Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter 102-31 Review of economic, Fully At least annually environmental and Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi social topics 2018 Proxy Statement page 29 102-32 Highest governance body’s Fully Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical Fully Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk concerns Code of Conduct 2018 Proxy Statement page 43 102-35 Remuneration policies Fully Talent and Diversity > Compensation Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 2018 Proxy Statement page 67-69 102-36 Process for determining Fully Talent and Diversity > Compensation remuneration Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 2018 Proxy Statement page 67 102-37 Stakeholders’ involveFully Talent and Diversity > Compensation ment in remuneration Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Fully Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 102-41 Collective bargaining Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Fully Stakeholder Engagement at Citi stakeholders Conduct and Culture > Industry Collaboration Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process 120 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues engagement Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process 102-44 Key topics and concerns Fully Stakeholder Engagement at Citi raised Conduct and Culture > Industry Collaboration Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Wherever We Operate Environmental and Social Risk Management 102-45 Entities included in the Fully 2017 10-K pages 4-5 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues 102-48 Restatements of Fully There are no such restatements for this reporting period. information 102-49 Changes in reporting Fully There are no significant changes from the previous reporting period. 102-50 Reporting period Fully This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2017. 102-51 Date of most recent Fully April 2017 report 102-52 Reporting cycle Fully Annual 102-53 Contact point for quesFully Global Public Affairs tions regarding the report Citigroup Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, NY 10013 citizenship@citi.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in Fully This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Fully GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance Fully We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles, transactions covered by Environmental and Social Risk Management reviews, and environmental data for our operations. Assurance GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 121 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its 2017 10-K pages 6-8 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach 2017 10-K pages 6-8 201-1 Direct economic value Fully 2017 10-K pages 6-8 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and Fully Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures other risks and opporOperations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts tunities due to climate Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal change Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-related Risk Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Infrastructure 2017 10-K pages 79, 304 201-3 Defined benefit plan Fully Citi Benefits Online obligations and other retirement plans GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citi’s Value Proposition: A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress approach and its Citizenship Governance at Citi components 2017 10-K pages 4-8 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citi’s Value Proposition: A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress management approach Citizenship Governance at Citi 2017 10-K pages 4-8 202-1 Ratios of standard entry Fully We provide competitive levels of compensation that meet or exceed local minimum level wage by gender wage requirements. Competitive wages and benefit programs may vary according to compared to local country and/or location. Most employees are hired locally. minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior Fully Most employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, we may management hired from consider qualified candidates from across the globe. the local community GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Inclusive and Resilient Communities boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Environmental Finance components Inclusive and Resilient Communities 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities 122 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 203-1 Infrastructure Fully Environmental Finance investments and Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Infrastructure services supported Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Affordable Housing and Homeownership 203-2 Significant indirect Fully Citi’s Value Proposition: A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress economic impacts Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved Through Our $100 Billion Goal Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Affordable Housing and Homeownership Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Innovative Local Government and Community Change Agents Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion Inclusive and Resilient Communities > The Future of Work GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk components Conduct and Culture > Ethics Program 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Conduct and Culture > Ethics Program 205-1 Operations assessed for Fully Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk risks related to corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement 205-2 Communication and Fully We do not report quantitatively on training for management or business partners. training about antiAnti-corruption training is performed globally, therefore we do not disclose such corruption policies information by region. and procedures Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its 2017 10-K pages 61-64, 283-290 components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach 2017 10-K pages 61-64, 283-290 206-1 Legal actions for Fully 2017 10-K pages 61-64, 283-290 anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 123 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures components Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures management approach Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Sustainable Progress Scorecard 302-1 Energy consumption Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations within the organization Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 302-3 Energy intensity Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations 302-4 Reduction of energy Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations consumption Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the mateFully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues rial topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures components Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi management approach Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Sustainable Progress Scorecard 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations emissions Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 305-5 Reduction of GHG Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations emissions Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts components Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing management approach Sustainable Progress Scorecard 306-2 Waste by type and Fully Citi did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period. disposal method Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report 124 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing components Sustainable Progress Strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Sustainable Progress Scorecard management approach 308-1 New suppliers that were Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation screened using environSustainable Progress Scorecard mental criteria GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Talent and Diversity > Managing Diversity components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Talent and Diversity > Managing Diversity management approach 401-1 New employee hires and Fully Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to fullFully Talent and Diversity > Workforce Well-Being time employees that are Citi Benefits Online not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development management approach 404-1 Average hours of training Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development per year per employee Talent and Diversity > Employee Training by Region Hours per Employee Talent and Diversity > Summary of Training Hours 404-2 Programs for upgrading Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employFully Talent and Diversity > Employee Evaluations ees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 125 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Talent and Diversity > Managing Diversity boundary Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Talent and Diversity > Managing Diversity components Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Talent and Diversity > Managing Diversity management approach Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 405-1 Diversity of governance Fully 2018 Proxy Statement page 30 bodies and employees Board of Directors GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices components Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices management approach Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees 407-1 Operations and suppliers Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees in which the right to Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees components Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees management approach Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 408-1 Operations and suppliers Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of child at significant risk for labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of work in the incidents of child labor financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high risk jurisdictions. 126 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees components Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees management approach Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 409-1 Operations and suppliers Fully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of forced at significant risk for or compulsory labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of incidents of forced or work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high risk compulsory labor agricultural commodities, conflict minerals, or other high risk products or services, nor do we directly procure any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers based in high risk jurisdictions. Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights components Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights management approach Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 411-1 Incidents of violations Fully Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy involving rights of Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights Indigenous Peoples GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees components Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Statement on Human Rights Statement of Supplier Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees management approach Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 412-1 Operations that have Fully Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy been subject to human Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights rights reviews or impact assessments Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 127 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 412-2 Employee training on Fully Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training human rights policies or Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees procedures Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement Code of Conduct 412-3 Significant investment Fully Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its Operations and Supply Chain boundary Environmental and Social Risk Management Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement components Environmental and Social Risk Management Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement management approach Environmental and Social Risk Management Environmental Finance Inclusive and Resilient Communities 413-1 Operations with local Partially Stakeholder Engagement at Citi community engagement, Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights impact assessments and Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process development programs Inclusive and Resilient Communities 413-2 Operations with signifiFully Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy cant actual and potential Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working Toward a More negative impacts on local Sustainable, Transparent Palm Oil Industry communities FS13 Access points in lowFully Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions populated or economically Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion disadvantaged areas by type FS14 Initiatives to improve Fully Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions access to financial Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion services for disadvantaged people GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing components Sustainable Progress Strategy 128 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Sustainable Progress Scorecard management approach 414-1 New suppliers that were Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation screened using social Sustainable Progress Scorecard criteria GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk components Citi Political Activities Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk management approach Citi Political Activities Statement 415-1 Political contributions Fully Citi U.S. Political Contributions GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Conduct and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly components 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues management approach Conduct and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly 417-1 Requirements for product Fully Conduct and Culture > Responsible Marketing and service information and labeling GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information components Code of Conduct Online Privacy Statement Citi Security Center 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information management approach Code of Conduct Online Privacy Statement Citi Security Center 418-1 Substantiated complaints Fully Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 129 DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING REPORT SECTION NUMBER TITLE STATUS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk components 2017 10-K pages 52-62 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Conduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk management approach 2017 10-K pages 52-62 419-1 Noncompliance with laws Fully 2017 10-K pages 52-62 and regulations in the 2017 Annual Report social and economic area FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 103-1 Explanation of the Fully Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management Fully Citizenship Governance at Citi approach and its Conduct and Culture > Public Policy components Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion 2017 10-K pages 6-14 103-3 Evaluation of the Fully Conduct and Culture > Public Policy management approach Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion 2017 10-K pages 6-14 FS6 Percentage of the portFully 2017 10-K pages 6-14 folio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sector FS8 Monetary value of Fully Environmental Finance products and services Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal designed to deliver a Sustainable Progress Scorecard specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 130 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index We have included in this year’s report information and of climate-related risks and opportunities within the financial voluntary disclosures that are aligned with the Final industry, as outlined in greater detail in this report. In future Recommendations Report of the Task Force on Climate-related reports, Citi plans to expand our reporting on TCFD recommenFinancial Disclosures (TCFD), released in June 2017. Citi is dations based on the results of this pilot. working with other banks on a United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) pilot project to The table on this page indicates where readers can find inforimplement the recommendations and strengthen disclosures mation that addresses the TCFD requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. DISCLOSURE CITI’S RESPONSE STRATEGY a) D escribe the climate-related risks and Environmental and Social Risk Management opportunities the organization has identified Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy over the short, medium and long term. Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) D escribe the impact of climate-related risks Environmental and Social Risk Management and opportunities on the organization’s Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy businesses, strategy and financial planning. Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework c) D escribe the resilience of the organization’s Citi, along with 16 other financial institutions, is working with the strategy, taking into consideration different UNEP FI on a pilot project to implement the recommendations. The pilot future climate scenarios, including a 2°C or project is part of our journey to incorporate climate scenario analysis lower scenario. into our strategy and reporting. METRICS a) D  isclose the metrics used by the organization Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy AND TARGETS to assess climate-related risks and opportunities Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals in line with its strategy and risk management Environmental Finance process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and the Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report related risks. c) D  escribe the targets used by the organization to Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals manage climate-related risks and opportunities Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing and performance against targets. Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations GOVERNANCE a) D escribe the Board’s oversight of climateCitizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi related risks and opportunities. Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Charter, page 4 b) D escribe management’s role in assessing Citizenship Approach > Citizenship and Sustainability Governance and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. RISK a) D  escribe the organization’s processes for Environmental and Social Risk Management MANAGEMENT identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework b) D escribe the organization’s processes for Environmental and Social Risk Management managing climate-related risks. Operations and Supply Chain Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework c) D escribe how processes for identifying, Environmental and Social Risk Management assessing and managing climate-related risks 2017 10-K pages 79 and 304 are integrated into the organization’s overall Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework risk management. Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 131 UN Global Compact Index This report serves as our 2017 communication on progress “Citi supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined Compact as an important part of its business strategy and the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s ethical culture. Our participation in this important initiative, 10 principles across our business and report on activities which binds signatories from around the world to a common related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and set of principles of responsibility, reinforces our commitment anti-corruption. to corporate citizenship and sustainability.” – Michael L. Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc. UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights human rights abuses. Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights and compulsory labor; Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Standards for Suppliers Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Standards for Suppliers Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices respect of employment and occupation. Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers and Partners ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precauEnvironmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy tionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Operations and Supply Chain greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffuEnvironmental Finance sion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupConduct and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Digital Innovation > Case Study: Tech for Integrity Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program 132 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index We have included information and disclosures in this report human rights-related activities and policies. The following aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting table indicates where readers can find information that framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding addresses the framework requirements, either in this report Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitor other publicly available documents. ment to transparency and accountability regarding our SECTION OF THE FRAMEWORK REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION PART A: GOVERNANCE OF RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY COMMITMENT A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? A1.1 How has the public commitment been Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights developed? A1.2 Whose human rights does the public Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights commitment address? Citi Statement on Human Rights A1.3 How is the public commitment Conduct and Culture > Code of Conduct disseminated? The following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect human rights and our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: Citi Code of Conduct Citi Standards for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Statement on Human Rights EMBEDDING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS A2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights commitment? A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for human Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi rights performance organized within the Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions company, and why? Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates discussed by senior management and by the Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks Board, and why? A2.3 How are employees and contract workers Conduct and Culture > Code of Conduct made aware of the ways in which respect Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees for human rights should inform their deciCiti Statement on Human Rights sions and actions? Citi Code of Conduct A2.4 How does the company make clear in its Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions business relationships the importance it Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation places on respect for human rights? Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Citi Standards for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles A2.5 What lessons has the company learned Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates during the reporting period about achieving Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy respect for human rights, and what has Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process changed as a result? Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 133 PART B: DEFINING THE FOCUS OF REPORTING STATEMENT OF SALIENT ISSUES B1 State the salient human rights issues Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks associated with the company’s activities Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions and business relationships during the reporting period. DETERMINATION OF SALIENT ISSUES B2 Describe how the salient human rights Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks issues were determined, including any input from stakeholders. CHOICE OF FOCAL GEOGRAPHIES B3 If reporting on the salient human rights issues focuses on particular geographies, explain how that choice was made. ADDITIONAL SEVERE IMPACTS B4 Identify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. PART C: MANAGEMENT OF SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES SPECIFIC POLICIES C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, what are they? C1.1 How does the company make clear the Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees relevance and significance of such policies Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy to those who need to implement them? Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation Citi Code of Conduct Citi Standards for Suppliers STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT C2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient human rights issue? C2.1 How does the company identify which stakeStakeholder Engagement at Citi holders to engage with in relation to each Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy salient issue, and when and how to do so? Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement C2.2 During the reporting period, which stakeHuman Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates holders has the company engaged with Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process regarding each salient issue, and why? Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement C2.3 During the reporting period, how have Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates the views of stakeholders influenced the Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement company’s understanding of each salient Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy issue and/or its approach to addressing it? ASSESSING IMPACTS C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time? C3.1 During the reporting period, were there any Human Rights > What’s Ahead notable trends or patterns in impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? 134 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance C3.2 During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they? INTEGRATING FINDINGS AND TAKING ACTION C4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making processes and actions? C4.1 How are those parts of the company Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi whose decisions and actions can affect the Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions management of salient issues, involved in Human Rights > Citi’s Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act finding and implementing solutions? Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation C4.2 When tensions arise between the prevention Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions or mitigation of impacts related to a salient Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation issue and other business objectives, how Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation are these tensions addressed? C4.3 During the reporting period, what action Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates has the company taken to prevent or Human Rights > Case Study: Stakeholders Heard Through Due Diligence Process mitigate potential impacts related to each Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy salient issue? Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement TRACKING PERFORMANCE C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice? C5.1 What specific examples from the reporting Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions period illustrate whether each salient issue is being managed effectively? REMEDIATION C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient human rights issue? C6.1 Through what means can the company Conduct and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns receive complaints or concerns related to Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions each salient issue? Citi Code of Conduct Citi Standards for Suppliers C6.2 How does the company know if people feel Conduct and Culture > Ethics Program able and empowered to raise complaints or Conduct and Culture > Spotlight on Ethics concerns? Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions C6.3 How does the company process complaints Conduct and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns and assess the effectiveness of outcomes? Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy Citi Code of Conduct C6.4 During the reporting period, what were Human Rights > Governance, Policy Development and Updates the trends and patterns in complaints or Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions concerns and their outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the company learned? C6.5 During the reporting period, did the company Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant examples? Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 135 Assurance 136 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 137 Assurance 138 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 139 Assurance 140 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION HOW WE DO BUSINESS SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT APPENDICES Scorecard GRI Index TCFD Index UN Global Compact Index UN Guiding Principles Index Assurance Citi 2017 Global Citizenship Report 141 Assurance 142 © 2018 Citigroup Inc. Citi, Citi with Arc Design and Citibank are trademarks and servicemarks of Citigroup Inc. (and its affiliates) and are used and registered throughout the world.
