2017 CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO 3 Section 1 Governance & Management 5 Ethics, compliance and continuity of business 1.1 Governance Structure 6 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 8 1.3 Supply Chain 11 1.4 Continuity of Business 14 Section 2 Environmental Program 15 Protecting the environment for a brighter future 2.1 Environmental Governance 16 2.2 Energy and Emissions 18 2.3 Landfill Diversion 23 2.4 Water Conservation 26 2.5 Green Building Practices 28 2.6 Biodiversity 30 2.7 Awareness and Engagement 31 Section 3 Employees & Culture 33 SAS’ world-renowned culture is based on trust, flexibility and values 3.1 Workplace Culture 34 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff 36 3.3 Skills Development 39 3.4 Health and Safety 40 Section 4 Education & Philanthropy 41 Meeting the challenges of the new millennium 4.1 P-12 Education 42 4.2 Higher Education 44 4.3 Philanthropy 46 4.4 Community Engagement 48 4.5 Donation Process 51 Section 5 Data for Good 54 Analytics helping humanity Section 6 About This Report 60 GRI Index 64 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 CEO Letter At SAS, we believe in connecting analytics and advocacy to As part of the Data for Good movement, we help organizations make the world a better place. This commitment to corporate use data in meaningful ways to solve humanitarian issues social innovation weaves through everything we do, including around poverty, health, human rights, education and the our work with organizations to address economic, social and environment. From tackling opioid addiction and safeguarding environmental issues. As a socially responsible business and vulnerable children to protecting fragile species through a good corporate citizen, we have a history of treating employenhancing conservation efforts, SAS is actively changing lives ees well, giving back through education and safeguarding the through our software, knowledge and expertise. planet. We also encourage employees and customers to The cornerstone of our philanthropic efforts is education. We develop novel solutions with a social purpose to inspire believe education can change what’s possible by empowering positive change. In fact, SAS was recognized on Fortune each new generation. SAS supports global education initiatives magazine’s list of companies that “Change the World” in 2017. that promote learning and literacy for all, foster STEM skills and To help make a difference in the world, we use our analytics build diversity in the workforce pipeline. to benefit humanity. In 2017, we launched GatherIQ™– This commitment to education is a natural extension of where a crowdsourcing initiative that brings together volunteers to we came from and what we do. We support early learning and solve social challenges. This mobile app connects nonprofits, literacy so that children have a strong foundation on which to partners and SAS to support important causes and solve build their futures. We also focus efforts on STEM education, pressing problems through data and analytics. People in putting young learners on paths to greater opportunities. For more than 70 countries have downloaded this app to P-12, SAS offers free digital tools, resources and apps through gain better understanding of how data can contribute to Curriculum Pathways,® which is used by more than 3.5 million discovering solutions Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 CEO Letter teachers and learners around the world. It includes CodeSnaps, When it comes to protecting the larger global community, our an engaging and interactive app that teaches students coding company operations are based on environmentally friendly fundamentals using Sphero robots and tablets. In higher practices. From energy conservation and solar projects to education, we partner with colleges and universities around “green” buildings, waste reduction and recycling, SAS the world to prepare more graduates to succeed in analytics continues to reduce its environmental footprint. A sample and data science careers. We also offer free and low-cost SAS® of new projects in 2017 includes pioneering “smart campus” software and training for students of all ages. technology at our headquarters to better understand and lower energy consumption, installing beehives to help boost The desire to contribute to the greater good begins by taking urban bee populations, and achieving LEED certification for care of our employees. We continue to set international 78 percent of all office and data center spaces on campus. standards for building a workplace that helps them balance We also added 6 percent capacity to our solar farms, which career and personal life. By caring for our employees, they will increase production from 3.8 million to more than 4 million remain motivated, creative and loyal, which directly contributes kilowatt hours annually. to our ability to innovate and create software to address growing trends such as AI and IoT. SAS also makes it a Our growth for more than 40 years proves that caring for our priority to promote an environment where varied perspecpeople, our planet and our communities is the right way to do tives are encouraged. This past fall, I signed the CEO Action for business. Along with our forward-thinking technology, our CSR Diversity and Inclusion – the largest CEO-driven business commitment continues to evolve and expand through social commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workinnovation initiatives aimed at making a positive impact on the place. To further demonstrate this ongoing commitment, SAS world – and ultimately a brighter future for all. also established a Diversity and Inclusion initiative to enhance Sincerely, areas where we’ve made strides and expand to new horizons. Everyone is encouraged to express their ideas, and everyone Jim Goodnight knows that they will be respected for their unique contributions CEO of SAS and abilities. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G73250.0518 4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1 Governance & Management Ethics, compliance and continuity of business SAS is committed to high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Robust regulatory compliance practices ensure that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and safe manner. Guided by the company’s Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance practices have earned the company its exceptional reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is also committed to building long-term relationships with both direct and indirect suppliers. There are a wide range of best practices to ensure the supply chain remains strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all procurement needs. Continuity of business is paramount as well, with a focus on corporate governance, information security and corporate social responsibility. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Governance & Management Download section 1.1 Governance Structure 1.1 Governance Structure Industries served SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services. SAS is committed to employing high ethical standards in its dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers and competitors. Maintaining the great workplace at SAS requires a moral commitment and accountability Automotive Health Care Media across all departments, positions and countries. Company Profile Banking Health Insurance Energy & Utilities SAS Institute Inc. is a North Carolina corporation that has been privately held since its inception in 1976. Headquartered in Cary, NC, the company operates through functional divisions that include Worldwide Marketing, Sales, Research and Development, Finance, Legal and Capital Markets Education Higher Education Corporate Services. SAS delivers software and related services to customers throughout the world. Sales activities are conducted primarily through SAS Institute Inc. and its controlled sales subsidiaries in nearly 150 countries. The sales subsidiary entities are grouped into Retail Communications Hotels three regional sales divisions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific. SAS’ global corporate organization, including our parent company, SAS Consumer Goods Insurance Sports Institute Inc., and a group of operating subsidiaries, provides software and services to customers in various geographic regions around the world. The Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions comprise approximately 50 standalone operating subsidiaries. Additional subsidiaries Defense & Security Life Sciences Travel & Transportation in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions are dedicated to research and development activities. Together with several representative and branch offices of these subsidiaries, SAS maintains a corporate presence in 59 international jurisdictions. Government Manufacturing Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1.1 Governance Structure Jim Goodnight (CEO) Oliver Schabenberger (COO) Research & Development SAS Americas Canada, United States, Human Resources Information Technology Latin America, Carribbean Legal Global Hosting and US Professional Services SAS AP Finance Asia Pacific Growth and Business Operations Corporate Services SAS EMEA Risk Research and Europe, Middle East, Africa Community Relations Quantitative Solutions Sales Operations JMP Technical Support Marketing IDeaS Internet of Things Fraud and Security Intelligence CEO Jim Goodnight and co-founder and Executive Vice issues that challenge local, state, federal and international President John Sall constitute the board of directors of SAS agencies. These challenges include delivering better and Institute Inc. They also serve as executive officers, overseeing safer health care while minimizing fraud, waste and abuse; corporate performance and investment decisions across ensuring that vulnerable children receive appropriate environmental, social and economic interests. Goodnight and government services, including quality pre-K through Sall are the company’s principal shareholders. third-grade education; providing better stewardship of taxpayer resources with greater government accountability; Employee rights, including employment-based compliance and helping governments make better use of their data issues, are managed through SAS’ Human Resources Division assets to fulfill their missions, such as helping detect terrorist under the direction of the executive vice president and chief financing and money laundering schemes. SAS actively human resources officer. The Ethics and Compliance group in engages in public policy discussions to help protect the the SAS Legal Division, overseen by the vice president and valuable intellectual property resources that are the undergeneral counsel for ethics and compliance, manages other pinning of its business. SAS also engages in discussions with compliance responsibilities, including anti-corruption, privacy, legislators and regulators worldwide to help shape laws and trade, lobbying, gifts and anti-aggression laws. Environmental policies that affect the handling of data, including discussions conservation is managed through the Facilities group in the related to data protection and data security. Recently, SAS Corporate Services Division. has begun to engage policymakers to help educate them as to the role and benefits of artificial intelligence, with an end to Corporate Social Responsibility Governance shaping a workable regulatory framework that encourages its SAS maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Task use. Additionally, SAS engages with policymakers to enable Force comprising employees across business functions, reasonable rules to promote digital trade, and to ensure fair including internal communications, legal, facilities, marketing tax rules for organizations of all types. and external communications. This group meets bimonthly to advance annual goals and priorities, and to address topics SAS abides by political contribution laws and prohibits the use related to sustainability throughout the year. The group’s of corporate funds for political contributions to individual function is to ensure the integration of corporate social candidates. Corporate contributions may be made to political responsibility efforts across the business. This team works parties or national or state political party organizations if closely with various departments and communicates with approved through established procedures. SAS records and SAS executive leadership to ensure that CSR policies and reports all corporate political contributions in accordance with initiatives are considered in all aspects of the business. applicable local laws. SAS complies with relevant lobbying laws in its operations. Public Policy Lobbyist registrations and disclosure reports are filed by SAS SAS also actively engages in public policy discussions, particuon a regular and timely basis. larly related to the role of technologies in solving larger societal SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107774_G73252.0418 7 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Governance & Management Download section 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Robust regulatory compliance and training practices ensure SAS’ Code of Ethics is available to all employees on the that SAS conducts business in an honest, respectful, fair and company’s intranet, and is periodically advertised by safe manner. Guided by the Code of Ethics, SAS’ compliance the company’s internal communications program. practices have earned the company its valued reputation as an ethical and responsible employer and business partner. SAS is 2017 Data committed to maintaining this reputation and conducting all SAS did not have any substantiated, materially negative aspects of the business in a way that promotes and reflects incidents with regard to public policy, privacy, corruption, ethical practices. SAS compliance programs use training, ethics, bribery, anti-competitive actions, anti-trust violations or policies, processes and audits to ensure compliance in areas monopoly practices, societal impacts, the environment, labor such as anti-corruption, international trade and privacy. practices, or employee discrimination or harassment; nor were there any sanctions or fines for noncompliance. SAS is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness and accountability in every decision and action, including each interaction with employees, customers, suppliers and competiTraining tors. The SAS Code of Ethics helps the company define and The Ethics and Compliance group at SAS has developed maintain high standards for respect, honesty, fairness and courses to help employees abide by the SAS Code of Ethics accountability. This SAS Code of Ethics applies to every and applicable external rules and regulations. SAS provides employee – at every subsidiary and in every region – as well as this training to equip all employees to make the right choices all members of the board of directors, officers appointed by when ethical and regulatory challenges arise. the board of directors and agents. Failure to comply with the SAS Code of Ethics or other applicable policies can result in Online training was developed under the management and disciplinary action, up to and including termination. oversight of the vice president and general counsel for ethics and compliance, with input from many departments across The internal version of SAS’ Code of Ethics, which includes SAS, and with ultimate approval by the chief legal officer. All links to SAS policies and procedures, serves as a central global training courses developed since 2012 are available in reference for employees to respond to situations in an ethical English, simplified Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, manner consistent with SAS standards. The external version Portuguese and Spanish. of the Code of Ethics is available as part of this report and demonstrates SAS’ values to customers, suppliers and How SAS monitors completion and renewal of training varies, other stakeholders. depending on relevant policies, strategies, trainings and codes. Online training completions are tracked by the third-party Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance vendor that helped to create them and are monitored by the Anti-Corruption Ethics and Compliance group. Automated reminders are sent SAS has an anti-corruption program to provide training and to those who have not completed training as the deadline monitoring across the company. This program includes an approaches, and managers are contacted as trainings become online anti-corruption course for all new employees and overdue. All new employees and certain contract workers are certain third parties, and in-person, targeted training for sales, required to take some or all of the following training: marketing, finance and other affected groups. In addition, • Code of Ethics. SAS has implemented gift, marketing event, “revolving door,” conflict of interest, lobbying, and donation policies – as well as • Information Security. review procedures – to comply with applicable laws and customer requirements. These documents are available to all • Export Controls Awareness. employees on the Ethics and Compliance internal website. • Workplace Respect. SAS conducts advance and ongoing due diligence on • Global Anti-Corruption. subcontractors, partners and other third parties to verify their reputability and identify and mitigate anti-corruption risks. • Privacy and Data Protection for Global Companies. SAS also contractually requires that its subcontractors comply with the principles set forth in its Code of Ethics, including In addition, all employees are required to take annual refresher anti-bribery provisions. SAS also conducts audits and transacethics training. tion-specific due diligence measures to support compliance in high-risk transactions. SAS provides specialized training for personnel as needed. For example, certain California and India employees take additional anti-sexual harassment training as required by law. Export Controls SAS maintains an export management system complete In-person, targeted compliance training is conducted with product licensing and screening processes that include periodically. These courses are developed by the Ethics and checking employees, customers and suppliers against the Compliance group in the Legal Division with input from the Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) Specially Designated relevant functional business units. For example, in 2017, SAS Nationals and Blocked Persons list and certain other conducted anti-corruption training for government sales and government lists of prohibited parties. SAS also files regular marketing groups, privacy training for IT staff, export training and timely anti-boycott reports as required by US law. for federal government sales and services, and HIPAA training for employees interacting with data in the company’s health SAS classifies its products according to US export laws and care center or associated with its health care industry solutions. makes such classifications available to its customers at the SAS Current Export Designation Information page. Employee Feedback Employees are responsible for appropriately communicating Privacy concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal conduct to The Ethics and Compliance group in the SAS Legal Division a supervisor, Human Resources or the Legal Division. Specific works to ensure that SAS’ use of personal data complies with procedures for reporting concerns are displayed on the Legal applicable laws, SAS policies and customer expectations. Division’s internal website. Employees may submit comments SAS Global Information Security establishes processes and to SAS Ethics and Compliance via email, telephone or an deploys technologies to protect the confidentiality, availability anonymous online form. and integrity of data in the custody or control of SAS. SAS does not retaliate against anyone who reports suspected These groups work closely together to manage data privacy violations in good faith. All reports of misconduct are investiissues and security by, among other things, establishing gated in a timely fashion. Unless the complaining individual information governance policies, standards, guidelines and chooses to remain anonymous, he or she receives feedback processes based on regulations, business needs and industry on the results of the investigation, to the extent allowed by best practices. Periodic privacy and security-related applicable law. assessments and compliance reviews include privacy impact assessments for newly developed or modified applications 2017 Data that may affect individual privacy interests, and for any new or significantly modified uses of personal data that may affect 100 percent of complaints to SAS Ethics and Compliance were those interests. investigated and addressed as needed. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1.2 Ethics and Regulatory Compliance The Ethics and Compliance group also takes a leadership role SAS’ privacy statement is global, covering SAS US and its with the SAS Privacy Champions Network, a cross-functional, foreign subsidiaries and other business units. Translated global network of employees who are on the “front lines” of versions of the privacy statement with country-specific privacy and SAS’ handling of personal data on a daily basis. requirements are linked to the English version. The Ethics and Compliance group ensures that timely and accurate privacy guidance is distributed through the SAS requires all its employees and certain categories of network, and responds to concerns identified in the field contractors to complete training on privacy and information by network members. Throughout 2017, SAS was actively security. SAS Global Information Security publishes a monthly taking steps to prepare for the General Data Protection information security awareness newsletter to inform employees Regulation (GDPR) in 2018. about information security and privacy issues. The Ethics and Compliance group ensures that SAS’ externally posted privacy statement accurately reflects its information collection and use practices with respect to external parties. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107774_G73253.0518 10 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Governance & Management Download section 1.3 Supply Chain 1.3 Supply Chain SAS strives to build long-term relationships with both direct SAS has confirmed via supply chain due diligence that and indirect suppliers. A wide range of best practices, tools no conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or and policies are used to ensure that the supply chain remains production of any product manufactured by or contracted strong and the company is identifying the best fit for all for manufacture by SAS. procurement needs. Direct suppliers provide products or The supply chain compliance program also consists of services used in creating the products and services SAS sells. contractual requirements for anti-corruption and ethics These include software, software as a service, hardware, rules for all contractors and consultants. SAS also conducts consultants and IT infrastructure. Indirect suppliers in areas in-person and online training, expense record and expenditure such as food services, legal and accounting, real estate, reviews, audits, and global outreach through organizations facilities services and travel provide support for operating such as the UN Global Compact. SAS voluntarily provides the business. SAS places a priority on contracting with local supply chain information for the Carbon Disclosure Project suppliers when it makes sense for the company. (CDP) and Great Place to Work. SAS uses mechanisms such as service level agreements, SAS uses competitive bidding to help ensure competition key performance indicators, benchmarking and supplier and fairness in the marketplace for suppliers. SAS’ request for relationship management to monitor and manage suppliers’ proposal form emphasizes the importance of corporate social results. Suppliers are subject to ongoing anti-corruption due responsibility, including environmental stewardship and diligence, which – proportionate to the level of the supplier’s promotion of supplier diversity. Additionally, if the bidder is not business and risks presented – screens prospective suppliers a diverse company, it must provide a statement regarding its and relevant or high-risk individuals within those organizations. active supplier diversity programs or opportunities it has to The company also has an advance due diligence process subcontract to diverse suppliers. for suppliers who assist in sales efforts and potential acquisitions. The process involves investigation of the supplier 2017 Data at levels that are proportionate to the risks presented by the Beginning in 2017, the Strategic Sourcing and Procurement supplier, including investigating the supplier’s background, Department requires adherence to the SAS Supplier Code qualifications, conflicts of interest, financial condition and of Conduct in SAS’ standard vendor agreements and history of regulatory violations. purchase orders. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1.3 Supply Chain Supplier Diversity Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. As part of the Corporate Services Division, the Manager of Supplier Diversity is responsible for the supplier diversity In the area of professional services offered to its customers, process, which includes: SAS provides small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and • Reviewing RFPs and contracts and responding to customers woman-owned small businesses, the opportunity to participate with diversity requirements. in the subcontracts it awards to the maximum practicable extent, consistent with efficient performance of the contract. • Preparing and providing diversity spending reports to customers. Regarding the procurement of goods and services to support corporate operations, SAS continually seeks ways to make • Providing information and access to SAS’ procurement business opportunities available to small businesses and opportunities by supporting and conducting various businesses that are: diversity activities and events (e.g., sponsorships, education and attendance). • Minority-owned. • Providing internal training to buyers and stakeholders • Woman-owned. regarding the importance and value of providing access to and utilization of diverse suppliers and small businesses. • Disabled-owned. By developing and maintaining effective relationships with • HUB Zone-certified. suppliers, the company aims to create value throughout the life • Veteranor service-disabled veteran-owned. of each contract based upon economy, quality, environmental preservation and social values. SAS is a member of the National SAS encourages diverse businesses interested in more Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business information about potential working opportunities and Center of North Carolina and the North Carolina Veterans relationships to email supplierdiversity@sas.com. Business Association. SAS is also represented on the boards of various minority supplier development councils and economic development initiatives. Two examples examples include Suppliers and the Environment the North Carolina Governor’s Working Group for Veterans, The environmental impact of business activities extends Service Members and Their Families; and the North Carolina beyond the SAS campus and work spaces to the entire supply Governor’s Advisory Council for Small and Historically chain, from suppliers to distribution channels to product use. Underutilized Businesses. The Environmental Management Program researches ways to incorporate corporate social responsibility into procurement SAS’ supplier diversity program has continually earned efforts and reduce the environmental impact of supply chain accolades and service awards, such as the “2017 Partner of processes. To accomplish this, SAS: the Year” recognition from the Women’s Business Center of North Carolina. • Strongly encourages employees to give consideration and preference to suppliers with environmental practices Supplier Diversity Policy Statement and programs. SAS customers represent a wide range of industries, people • Promotes the adoption of environmental principles by and locations – and the company seeks this same level of contractors and suppliers, encouraging or requiring diversity in its supplier community. Unlike a typical manufacturimprovements. ing environment, the creation of SAS products does not require purchasing materials or component parts, but rather relies on a • Completes the annual CDP supply chain questionnaire. highly skilled staff of technical professionals. SAS complies with • Makes extensive use of green products, such as environfederal laws and regulations that prohibit discrimination in mentally friendly cleaning supplies and low-emissions employment based on race, color, religion, gender, national paints and products for campus buildings. The procurement origin, age, disability or veteran status. teams routinely assist with finding the most efficient and As a federal contractor, SAS complies with Executive Order Earth-friendly options. 11246, as amended, and the implementing rules and regulations of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, 12 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 1.3 Supply Chain • Maximizes investments by eliminating unnecessary 2017 Data purchases, extending the life of assets through repurposSAS continued to research options for incorporating ing and reselling outdated equipment to employees as corporate social responsibility elements into procurement well as donating materials to educational institutions. Only processes and reducing environmental impact of supply then are materials processed for responsible recycling. chain processes. As a software company, SAS has limited risks and concerns As in years past, SAS completed its annual CDP supply chain in regard to raw materials, hazardous wastes and supplier questionnaire related to greenhouse gas emissions inventopractices. Because the primary input to SAS products is ry and related climate change management. SAS achieved intellectual property, SAS does not currently collect data on an overall CDP performance score of B-. The average GHG emissions and climate change strategy from suppliers. performance score for more than 3,300 supplier responses was C-. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107775_G73254.0518 13 c o r p o r a t e s o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y 2 017 Governance & Management Download section 1.4 Continuity of Business 1.4 Continuity of Business At SAS, continuity of business (COB) is an important global • Provide timely communications between local offices and corporate initiative, addressing threats or hazards that may SAS world headquarters. affect employees and customers and disrupt business • Put plans in place to recover SAS’ most critical, customer operations. COB planning supports corporate governance, supporting, business operations. This includes annual information security and corporate social responsibility. qualification of key partner and supplier dependencies to SAS is a business partner that customers can entrust with the support strategies for continued operations. viability of their operations because of the company’s ability to • Develop resumption strategies, such as providing support to continue critical customer-facing services and core operations. customers from another office until the affected office can resume normal operations. SAS’ COB initiative involves response/recovery and business resumption teams from across the organization. These teams Through business continuity planning, SAS exercises work together proactively to develop resilience and mitigation operational controls to improve organizational resilience. This strategies and – in the event of a business disruption – coordisupports the company’s commitment to meet the expectations nate to return the business to normal operations. of its customers in an increasingly risk-conscious regulatory SAS’ global business continuity program goals are to: environment. More information on SAS’ COB program can be found in the Continuity of Business white paper (PDF). • Avoid and minimize business interruptions through greater awareness and risk management. • Prepare employees to know what to do in a crisis. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107776_G73255.0518 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2 Environmental Program Protecting the environment for a brighter future SAS reduces its environmental footprint with ongoing programs focused on energy conservation and solar projects, emissions management, pollution mitigation, water conservation, waste reduction and recycling, procurement and green building. View environmental performance reports using SAS® Visual Analytics to see how SAS uses its own software to collect, manage, calculate and report its global environmental footprint. Top 2017 achievements: • Energy consumption decreased by 7.7 • Increased overall solar capacity by •R  educed paper use per employee percent and related emissions were 140kW and generated 3.5 million kWh from 1,067 sheets to 939 – a 12 percent reduced by 4.5 percent despite a 1 of clean, renewably sourced energy decrease from 2016 and almost a 65 percent increase in office space and from rooftop and ground-mounted percent reduction since 2009. staff growth of 2.2 percent. solar systems. •C  ontinued support for plug-in electric • Energy use intensity for office • Diverted 56.1 percent of operational vehicles by increasing the number of buildings decreased 3.1 percent and construction waste from landfills free workplace charging stations to 15.4 kWh per square foot. globally. to 94 globally. • Energy consumption in SAS data • Achieved LEED® Gold level certificacenters decreased 1.9 percent despite tion for SAS’ largest office building and a 43 percent increase in servers. data center at its world headquarters. All SAS HQ office buildings and data centers built in the last 25 years are now LEED certified. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.1 Environmental Governance 2.1 Environmental Governance SAS’ sustainability performance is reviewed by executive environmental regulations. To accomplish this, all employees leadership to provide guidance on conducting global are asked to adhere to the company’s environmental manoperations in a sustainable manner. dates, integrate environmentally responsible practices, and seek innovative solutions to optimize operational efficiencies. Implementing environmental strategies is largely the domain of the SAS Corporate Services Division Environmental Environmental Mandates Management Program. The program facilitates environmental efforts at company headquarters in the US, collects and reports The following corporate mandates provide guidance for key environmental indicators for global operations, and adhering to policy and establishing priorities for environmental provides guidance and support to offices worldwide. Offices initiatives. around the globe have personnel who manage site-specific • Corporate priority. Establish policies, programs and environmental initiatives. practices for conducting operations in an environmentally Members of the Environmental Management Program are sound manner. part of the CSR Task Force that meets regularly to address • Integrated management. Integrate environmental environmental and social responsibility initiatives throughout policies, programs and practices into all functions, SAS’ business operations. business units and global offices. • Continual improvement. Continue to raise the bar on Environmental Policy performance, aligning with technological developments, SAS is an active and committed partner in communities where scientific understanding and stakeholder expectations. employees live, work and conduct business. SAS recognizes • Employee education. Educate, train and motivate that environmental responsibility is a continuous effort that employees to conduct activities in an environmentally requires prudent use and preservation of natural resources. responsible manner. The company encourages its business operations around the world to minimize environmental impacts by exceeding all Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.1 Environmental Governance •A  ssessment. Conduct impact assessments before starting a 4. T  o promote environmental awareness via increased transparnew activity or project and before decommissioning a facility ency and access to meaningful data so analytics can be used or leaving a site. to make intelligent and responsible decisions. • Products and services. Provide products or services that have 5. T  o show that environmental responsibility is not just about no undue environmental impact throughout the product life goodwill; it makes good business sense. cycle – from development to delivery, use and disposal. • Customer support. Advise and educate customers, ISO Compliance distributors and the public in the safe and environmentally The Environmental Management Program applies best responsible use, transportation, storage and disposal of practice ISO 14001 Environmental Management System SAS® products. processes and structure to include: •F  acilities and operations. Develop, design and operate • Using SAS software solutions and other tools to measure and facilities and conduct activities with continual consideration improve environmental performance. for minimizing resource consumption, adverse environmental • Ensuring environmental affairs are addressed by executive impact and waste. management. • Research. Conduct or support research on the • Addressing immediate and long-term impacts of products, environmental impacts of SAS activities and how to services and processes on the environment. minimize adverse impacts. • Providing global direction about addressing environmental •C  ontractors and suppliers. Promote these principles concerns through the allocation of resources, assignment of to SAS contractors and suppliers, encouraging and responsibility, and ongoing evaluation of practices, proce(where appropriate) requiring improvements. dures and processes. Precautionary Approach • Enabling continual improvement of environmental processes. SAS supports a precautionary approach to minimizing SAS uses its own technology to measure and analyze the anthropogenic impacts from business operations. performance of its sustainability initiatives. SAS software calculates the company’s global carbon footprint and the This aligns with SAS’ philosophy in five meaningful ways: impacts of business processes and mitigation initiatives. 1. To ensure business operations do not expose the public SAS solutions support the application of global standards and environment to harm. such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the Global 2. To comply with environmental regulations. Reporting Initiative. 3. To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107777_G73257.0518 17 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.2 Energy and Emissions 2.2 Energy and Emissions SAS’ Environmental Management Program assigns top SAS also partnered with organizations such as The Smart Cities priority to minimizing energy consumption and related Council, Envision America and the Research Triangle Region emissions from its operations. The energy and emissions Cleantech Cluster (RTCC) to help municipalities become management program includes energy sourcing, conservation smarter by harnessing the explosion of data sourced from and generation, policy compliance, and employee education connected devices, social media and the Internet of Things and engagement. (IoT). Increasing the understanding of innovative and environmentally friendly technologies will help improve efficiencies, SAS® software improves processes for collecting, understandreduce costs, identify opportunities and mitigate the impacts ing and managing energy and emissions requirements for of climate change. facilities worldwide, increasing the ability to report and proactively influence consumption trends. The program uses Emissions Management and SAS software to identify reduction strategies, develop and Emissions Mitigation monitor performance indicators, understand relationships SAS decreased energy consumption by 7.7 percent in 2017, between measures, determine initiatives with the greatest despite a 1 percent increase in office space, staff growth of effect, and communicate strategy, goals and objectives 2.2 percent and rapidly expanding data center operations to facilitate execution. Click here to access dynamic to satisfy growing customer demand for computing and environmental reporting using SAS Visual Analytics. storage solutions. Key energy and emissions mitigation initiatives include Building on its corporate sustainability leadership and IoT calculating and reporting global carbon footprint, building technology prowess, SAS took steps to establish a “smart and maintaining facilities to LEED® guidelines, investing in campus” at its Cary, NC, headquarters. Through SAS’ renewable energy, pursuing new, energy-efficient advanced, real-time analytics, the smart campus project will technologies for operating buildings and data centers, improve energy usage while proactively monitoring equipment and proactively maintaining SAS-owned facilities to the performance to boost operational longevity. Starting with a highest efficiency standards. handful of buildings, two on-site solar farms, and select waste Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.2 Energy and Emissions containers, the project will eventually span across most of Energy Efficiency the 24 buildings on campus. By using analytics to help SAS analyzes operational data to optimize development SAS operate more efficiently and identify ways to make and delivery of its products and services to customers. improvements on campus, the company can pass on the The efficiency chart below highlights a sustainable trend of firsthand insight of products and best practices to decreasing energy growth against increasing revenues. customers for their smart city-related initiatives. In 2017, SAS’ revenue increased, while overall energy 2017 Data consumption decreased, resulting in a reduced environmental •S  AS’ environmental footprint was mitigated by ongoing impact for the solutions we provide to our customers. investment in energy-efficient technologies, smart energy sensors, solar, retro-commissioning of primary office buildings, and adoption of LEED best practices. Revenue vs. Energy Growth • Energy efficiency gains from office buildings (35,661 gigajoules) and data centers (2,345 gigajoules) offset headcount and facility growth in 2017. • Global scope 1 and scope 2 emissions decreased 4.5 percent. • Global scope 3 emissions from commercial air travel decreased 4 percent, from 18,685 to 17,950 t CO2e. • Two primary office buildings at SAS headquarters have more than 300 wireless energy sensors as part of a smart campus initiative to improve access to interval energy data in older SAS buildings. Office Building Energy Use Intensity • SAS achieved LEED Gold certification for its largest office building and data center at its world headquarters. SAS currently has 10 LEED certified buildings globally. • Use of renewable energy remains a priority for SAS as an integral part of a strategy to reduce emissions. In 2017, SAS renewable energy generation totaled more than 3.5 million kWh. • SAS continued support for plug-in electric vehicles by providing charging stations with free electricity and premium parking for employees and visitors. SAS now has 94 electric vehicle charging stations with plans for Energy and carbon use intensities for office more in 2018. buildings decreased 3.1 percent. The 15.4 • SAS offices in France, Netherlands, Spain and kWh per square foot for 2017 continues a the United Kingdom moved to LED lighting for five-year trend decrease of 15.4 percent. greater efficiency. Since 2010, the aggregate intensity has In 2017, 78 percent of SAS energy consumption was decreased 32.5 percent. sourced from electricity suppliers and on-site solar generation. Approximately 28 percent was used for building heating, ventilation and cooling. 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.2 Energy and Emissions Energy Trend (Gigajoules) 2017 Energy by Type Energy Variance (Gigajoules) 2017 Energy by Source (Gigajoules) 2017 Energy by Region (Gigajoules) Environmental Surveys SAS annually completes the CDP and EcoVadis Supply Chain surveys to show our customers how environmental and social responsibility is incorporated across operations. In 2017, SAS achieved an overall CDP performance score of B-. The average performance score for more than 3,300 supplier responses was C-. SAS achieved Silver recognition and is ranked in the top 22 percent of all suppliers on the EcoVadis supplier assessment. SAS is ranked in the top 4 percent of all software companies in the environmental category. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.2 Energy and Emissions Data Center Operations Energy for data center operations is the largest contributor to SAS’ environmental footprint. This is due to increased demand by customers for energy and data center space to handle additional computing and storage solutions as well as IT globalization. To maintain the support expected by customers, SAS invested in high-efficiency technologies and designs to construct a new, dedicated computing facility at its world headquarters, emphasizing efficiency, flexibility and sustainability. SAS data center operations regularly achieve an average power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.35 or better. A PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power consumed, an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power. Thus a PUE closer to 1.0 indicates greater efficiency. 2017 Data Despite adding 43 percent more servers in 2017, SAS data centers managed to decrease energy consumption by 1.9 percent. Global Emissions Variance (t CO2e) Global Emissions (t CO2e) 2017 Emissions by Scope 21 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.2 Energy and Emissions Solar and Renewable Energy • Solar Farm II (July 2010): 1.34 MW in capacity, seven acres and 5,236 panels; generates 2 million kWh of clean renewable Since 2008, when SAS broke the solar energy 1 megawatt energy annually. barrier for the Southeast US, the capacity of solar installations in North Carolina has grown to 4,308 MW – ranking the state • Building C: 405 roof-mounted panels, 74 kW-capacity solar No. 2 nationally. Solar power now accounts for 14 percent of PV system; generates 100,000 kWh of electricity annually. all energy capacity in North Carolina. SAS proved solar was viable, and the community responded. • Building R: 702 roof-mounted panels, 169 kW-capacity solar PV system; generates 200,000 kWh of electricity annually. 2017 Data SAS increased its capacity of solar farms by 140 kW. SAS’ • Building Q: 176 roof-mounted panels, 45 kW-capacity solar nine global solar installations generated 12,727 gigajoules of PV system; generates 60,000 kWh of electricity annually. clean renewable energy. Since 2008, SAS has generated more • SAS Sweden: 80 roof-mounted panels, 20 kW-capacity solar than 109,000 gigajoules of solar energy – approximately 88 PV system; generates 25,000 kWh of electricity annually. percent was sold to North Carolina utilities in support of the state’s Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. • Building T: 24 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal panels provide hot water for on-site cafeteria. At a combined 2.3 MW in capacity, SAS’ solar farms are located on 12 acres at world headquarters in Cary, NC. • Building G: 42 roof-mounted 4-by-10-foot solar thermal The photovoltaic (PV) solar arrays generate 3.8 million panels provide hot water for showers and laundry for the kilowatt-hours of clean, renewable energy each year, reducing campus gymnasium. carbon dioxide emissions by more than 2,000 tons annually — • Building C: Eight roof-mounted 5-by-6-foot evacuated-tube the amount of emissions produced by consuming more than type solar thermal panels produce hot water for on-site 367,000 gallons of gasoline. cafeteria. The system works in concert with a building HVAC • Solar Farm I (December 2008): 1 MW in capacity, five chilled water system and uses additional heat extracted from acres and 5,040 panels; generates 1.6 million kWh of water-to-water heat pumps. clean renewable energy annually. All reports are based on actual resource data collected from Solar Energy Trend (Gigajoules) owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. SAS applies the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol recommended standards and IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) factors to report emissions inventories under our operational control. Solar Energy Variance (Gigajoules) SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. 22 Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107778_G73258.0518 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.3 Landfill Diversion 2.3 Landfill Diversion The SAS Waste Management Program at world headquarters •G rassroots programs for employees reduce waste and measures and monitors the waste stream, with significant encourage recycling efforts. environmental benefits resulting from efforts at individual •S ince 2009, operational waste diverted from landfills has and local levels. For example: increased from 26 percent to better than 50 percent. • SAS provides on-site recycling for aluminum, batteries, SAS country offices around the world also participate in cardboard, electronics, magazines, glass, newspaper, waste management programs. Some examples include: pallets, paper, plastic bottles, printer cartridges, scrap • SAS Argentina has an on-site recycling program. metal and more. •S AS Brazil has an on-site recycling program, uses • SAS strives for 100 percent e-waste recycling by repurposing biodegradable cups and conducts an electronic equipment for internal use, recycling with responsible waste collection campaign. vendors and donating to educational institutions. •S AS Chile participates in the Recycling to Clean Point • Polystyrene-based disposables have been replaced with program where it hosts recycling centers for paper, compostable options. Tetra Pak containers, plastic bottles and glass containers. • Cafeteria food waste is composted and used by SAS •S AS France and SAS Netherlands have on-site recycling landscapers; waste vegetable oil is recycled and converted for employees. into biodiesel fuel. •S AS United Kingdom introduced on-site recycling • Online resources reduce paper consumption globally. containers and fully compostable coffee cups. • SAS strongly encourages the use of biodegradable and recyclable materials. 2017 Data • Building construction projects regularly exceed Globally, SAS disposed of 2,026 metric tons of operational 85 percent waste diversion from landfills. waste, including paper, food, cardboard, composting, aluminum and plastic, and other nonconstruction waste Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.3 Landfill Diversion material. This amount is 1.2 percent, or 25 metric tons, less •S  AS diverted 100 percent of e-waste from landfills by than 2016. repurposing equipment for internal use, recycling and donating to educational institutions. Highlights from 2017 include: •S  AS diverted 56.1 percent of operational and construction •D  eployed sensors in dumpsters as part of pilot project waste (1,729 metric tons) from landfills through recycling at its world headquarters. The goal is to get better data and waste management worldwide. about waste and recycling, eliminate unused dumpsters, reduce pick-up schedules, and ultimately decrease waste • Construction projects at world headquarters achieved an management expenses. astounding 79 percent landfill diversion rate on more than 814 metric tons of waste. Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS® Visual Analytics Operational Waste Disposal by Year (Metric Tons) Operational Waste Variance (Metric Tons) Landfill Diversion Rate Trend 2017 Recycling by Material Type 2017 Landfill and Recycling Rate Office Building Energy Use Intensity 24 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.3 Landfill Diversion Paper Consumption Like most businesses, SAS is dependent on paper products decrease. Globally, SAS used 60 metric tons of paper for to conduct business operations. SAS embraces the three R’s printing in 2017. This is 10.4 percent less than 2016. reduce, reuse and recycle to help minimize impact of paper Reuse. When SAS does print, employees are encouraged to consumption: find creative ways to reuse scrap paper. Ideas include using Reduce. SAS has significantly reduced print volumes by deliverscrap paper for notes, reprinting, packaging material for ing less physical media to customers. This includes reducing shipping and on-site composting. inventories and increasing efficiencies by using a print-on-deRecycle. SAS recycled 147 metric tons of paper materials mand model; convenient access to online documentation; in 2017 – 1.4 percent more than 2016. In 2017, the average education and awareness campaigns; and personal choices. recycled content for all paper at SAS headquarters is Since 2009, the average annual pages of paper used by 39 percent. employees has dropped from 2,631 to 939 – a 64.3 percent Paper Use (Metric Tons) Paper Use (Sheets per Employee) Hazardous Materials Water Discharge Management • Compliance with all Occupational Safety and Health AdminisPreservation of ecosystems in proximity to our operations is tration regulations for handling hazardous materials. standard business practice for SAS and common across all • Plans for the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure rule operations. Facilities staff work closely with local water utilities that meet US Environmental Protection Agency regulations. to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations and are trained to manage storm water runoff and pollution 2017 Data prevention. The Neuse River Basin is the primary water source SAS did not have any spills of hazardous materials, oil, fuel, waste for SAS headquarters and has the greatest risk of impacts from or chemicals, and did not have any fines for noncompliance with discharges and storm water runoff. environmental legislation. SAS is very careful to minimize As a software company, SAS does not handle raw materials, environmental impact as the company continues to grow. conflict minerals, hazardous wastes or related supplies typical The company strictly adheres to environmental regulations. of traditional manufacturing. While risks are minimal, SAS All reports are based on actual resource data collected from places the utmost importance in abiding by industry best owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to practices and governing regulations, including: approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107779_G73259.0518 25 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.4 Water Conservation 2.4 Water Conservation SAS’ 900-acre headquarters in Cary, NC, and 13 global • Wastewater options, such as reclaimed and gray water, sites use water for office and data center cooling, cafés, lower potable water consumption. gymnasiums, landscaping and employee consumption. • Reducing and customizing irrigation schedules avoids Water conservation is of paramount importance to SAS, overwatering plants. with many facilities operating in communities where water • Collecting rainwater in retention ponds and cisterns shortfalls and water use restrictions are standard. At SAS minimizes stormwater runoff and provides water for headquarters, coupling water-saving technologies and landscape irrigation. practice with increased employee awareness has resulted in significant savings. For example: • Native and drought-resistant plants and warm-season grasses require less frequent irrigation. • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 • Timely repair of leaking pipes and the installation of percent more compared to standard fixtures. low-flow toilets, shower heads and faucet aerators save at least 1.4 million gallons each year. • Rooftop rainwater collection systems capture water for use in bathrooms. • Cooling towers are replaced with high-efficiency models that use reclaimed water. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.4 Water Conservation 2017 Data SAS water use increased by 3.5 percent in 2017. The 9,758 • Overall building efficiency improvements contributed to a cubic meter increase was primarily due to expanding the use lower employee water use intensity rate of 16.3 gallons per of reclaimed water in building cooling systems. While the use square foot – a 1 percent improvement from 2016. of reclaimed water requires less energy by utilities to treat it • Returned 46 percent (116,952 cubic meters) of municipal to potable quality, the use of reclaimed water in cooling water for treatment by local utilities. systems requires additional volumes to maintain operational • Completed pilot project to test the use of sphagnum moss efficiencies. Additional water increases were due to higher as a water treatment option in building cooling towers. The than normal global temperatures. data indicated this solution improved overall water quality, increased equipment efficiency, removed corrosive organic material, reduced potable water consumption, and minimized the need for chemical treatments. Click here to access dynamic environmental reporting using SAS® Visual Analytics Water Trend (Cubic Meters) Water Variance (Cubic Meters) Water Percentage by Source All reports are based on actual resource data collected from owned and leased offices, and intensity metrics applied to approximately 21 percent of leased office space that does not have access to actual data. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107780_G73260.0518 27 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.5 Green Building Practices 2.5 Green Building Practices SAS strives to be a leader in environmental sustainability about SAS® software. Building C achieved LEED Platinum and is committed to making a difference around the world. certification for water and energy conservation, the first for To achieve this goal, SAS embraces Leadership in Energy and any building in Wake County and only the fifth in North Environmental Design (LEED®) guidelines for new construction, Carolina in 2011. The building consumes 40 percent less and remodeling and retrofitting existing buildings. Since 2005, energy and 50 percent less water by integrating highly all new office buildings and data centers at world headquarters efficient technologies and sustainable features: have achieved LEED certification. • Photovoltaic panels generate 100,000 kWh annually to SAS’ 10 LEED-certified buildings include Platinum-level support lighting and building systems. certification for the Executive Briefing Center at world • Solar thermal panels provide hot water for the café. headquarters. Platinum is the highest level awarded by the US Green Building Council (USGBC). SAS holds a Silver level • Thermal slab floor cooling uses water cooled in national membership with the USGBC. For offices located off-peak hours by building chillers to help maximize in countries that do not use LEED, SAS is incorporating air conditioning efficiency. country-specific best practices and pursuing equivalent certifications for new construction and maintenance. • Radiant floor heating is used in the atrium for greater occupant comfort and minimizes heat loss through the roof. Examples of SAS’ commitment to green building practices that are LEED-certified include: • Highly efficient HVAC systems integrate economizers, enthalpy wheels, variable speed drives, and various heat World Headquarters: Building C — recovery systems to increase energy savings. LEED Platinum Certified Office Building • T5 fluorescent and LED lighting fixtures – along with Building C includes the Executive Briefing Center, café and an individual lighting controls, motion sensors and office tower for employees. The Executive Briefing Center automatic timers – save energy. uses cutting-edge technologies to help customers learn Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.5 Green Building Practices • A 1-acre sedum green roof minimizes stormwater runoff Solna, Sweden: and insulation, significantly reducing the heat-island effect LEED Gold Certified Office Building for this microclimate. Sweden’s newest office building was awarded LEED Gold • Low-flow and electronically activated plumbing fixtures certification. The facility features geothermal energy wells for greatly reduce employee water consumption, saving 63 efficient heating and cooling, rooftop solar photovoltaic percent more compared to standard fixtures. panels, a sedum-covered green roof, and even on-site • A rainwater collection system with two 20,000-gallon beehives, which provide natural honey for the cafeteria. cisterns captures water for use in bathrooms. Toronto: • A 655,000-gallon retention pond collects stormwater LEED Silver Certified Office Building runoff for landscape irrigation. Toronto was the first LEED-certified new office building in World Headquarters: Building D — Canada. With rainwater harvesting and energy conservation LEED Gold Certified Data Center measures saving more than 6 million kWh of energy per year, the SAS building has served as an inspiration for many other The 38,660-square-foot facility includes two server farms, new buildings in Toronto. providing additional data handling for expanded SAS OnDemand offerings, hosted solutions and continued R&D São Paulo, Brazil: growth. Environmental technology designed into the building, LEED Certified Office Building Renovation which earned LEED Gold certification by the USGBC, includes SAS’ leased office in São Paulo received LEED certification for a reclaimed water system and mechanical and electrical an office renovation project in 2013. systems emphasizing efficiency of operation. World Headquarters: Building Q — 2017 Data LEED Gold Certified Office Building Green building highlights from 2017 include: The 220,660-square-foot office building features rooftop • Achieved LEED certification for SAS’ largest office building solar photovoltaic panels, highly insulated exterior wall and and data center at its world headquarters 78 percent of all roofing systems, highly efficient heating and air conditioning, office space at Cary headquarters is LEED certified. mechanical systems, energy recovery units and a water-side heat exchanger, extensive use of LED lighting, and reclaimed • Continued to incorporate environmental best practices in water use for cooling towers, irrigation and toilets. The the construction of a new office building planned for parking lot has 12 spaces designated for plug-in electric completion in early 2019. “Building A” will be the largest vehicles with access to electric vehicle charging stations. SAS facility and is expected to earn a high-level LEED certification. It will be partially powered by one of our solar World Headquarters: Buildings R, S, T & U — farms, utilize a “smart building” analytics platform to optiLEED Certified Existing Office Buildings mize building performance, make extensive use of LED lighting and have 17 free electric vehicle charging stations. In 2013, Building T was the first SAS building to be awarded LEED certification for an existing building. Since then, SAS has • Completed pilot project to test the use of sphagnum moss achieved LEED existing building certifications for buildings R, as a water treatment option in building cooling towers. S and U. These buildings are Energy Star certified and The data indicated this solution improved overall water feature the use of solar panels, energy-efficient lighting quality, increased equipment efficiency, removed corrosive and automation controls, and low-flow bathroom fixtures. organic material, reduced potable water consumption, and They have also completed advanced retro-commissioning minimized the need for chemical treatments. to ensure optimal performance for all building systems. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107781_G73261.0518 29 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.6 Biodiversity 2.6 Biodiversity SAS is careful to minimize impact on biodiversity and • Collecting rainwater from rooftop systems, retention ponds surrounding habitats as it grows and expands its operational and cisterns to minimize stormwater runoff and provide footprint. SAS adheres to the US Green Building Council water for landscape irrigation. LEED® guidelines for protecting natural environments and • Harvesting timber from construction sites so artisans promoting biodiversity in areas where the company operates. can craft unique pieces of furniture and accent walls Of approximately 900 acres at SAS headquarters, about for buildings. 100 acres feature buildings, roads or other impervious • Restoring land disturbed by construction projects with surfaces. The remaining 800 acres are retained as old-growth native and adaptive drought-tolerant plants that help woodland, lakes and streams, farmland, natural areas and local ecosystems thrive and reduce dependence on approximately 60 acres of maintained lawns, primarily for water and chemicals. employee recreation and landscaping. • Growing local produce for SAS cafeterias in on-site gardens. The company applies LEED best practice guidelines for new and existing building projects, smart land use planning and 2017 Data campus landscaping, such as: SAS achieved LEED certification for its largest office building • Preserving large areas of open space in construction and data center at world headquarters. Adoption of green projects to minimize disruption to local ecosystems. building practices included a substantial effort to minimize • Reducing the heat island effect by installing white environmental impact for both construction and ongoing reflective materials and planting sedum on rooftops. operation. Building design and construction processes Sedum increases insulation, minimizes stormwater ensured a minimal site footprint, higher than mandated runoff and provides habitat for wildlife. erosion and stormwater controls, reduced heat island impact, maximized green space, use of native and drought-tolerant plants, and more. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107782_G73262.0518 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Environmental Program Download section 2.7 Awareness and Engagement 2.7 Awareness and Engagement In addition to employing sustainability measures globally, SAS Some activities included: promotes environmental education and awareness. Activities • In Cary, NC, SAS installed beehives next to a tranquil pond include educational campaigns, speaking engagements, SAS by the solar farms to help promote the repopulation of bees solar farm visits, companywide Earth Day activities, articles on in urban locations. Employees also donned bee suits and the internal green website, white papers and webcasts. experienced hands-on tours of the apiary to learn more By engaging with customers, employees, industry leaders and about beekeeping and the importance of bees in our world leaders, SAS seeks to extend the reach of its sustainabiliecosystem. ty initiatives. Forbes even featured SAS sustainability initiatives among efforts that attract and retain top millennial talent. •S  AS France has five on-site beehives at the Grégy headquarters. Two employees are specifically trained SAS works with leading international organizations to apply to care for them and the annual honey produced is offered technology to address greenhouse gas emissions, as well as to employees. other environmental and social concerns. Customers use •S  AS Canada formed a green committee who organizes SAS® software to generate power efficiently, promote better various employee events to encourage eco-friendly use of critical resources, minimize waste, assist environmental initiatives such as planting rooftop gardens. protection agencies, and improve the production and delivery of goods. •S  AS United Kingdom provides land at the Marlow Estate office building where employees can grow 2017 Data fruit and vegetables. SAS employees joined in various activities to raise awareness •A  t headquarters in Cary, NC, SAS Eco Advocates, an about the benefits of renewable energy, conserving energy, employee volunteer group who supports environmental reducing waste, reducing water use, and protecting the activities, participated in the below events: environment. SAS held Earth Week celebrations at its world o Worked with the Mountains-to-Sea Trail organization headquarters campus, while offices around the globe to improve trails of a local state park as part of the engaged employees with stewardship initiatives. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 2.7 Awareness and Engagement EarthShare North Carolina Corporate Earth Day specially marked preferred parking spaces for plug-in electric Challenge. vehicles (PEVs), low-emission vehicles and active carpool participants. Eco-Commuter parking includes designated o Collected tiger footprint data from Carolina Tiger PEV spaces with access to 94 charging stations. SAS provides Rescue to improve techniques for identifying free charging for all employees and visitors at most of our endangered tiger species in the wild. office locations. o Partnered with the Duke Nicholas School of the Employees share the charging station infrastructure by Environment to collect data from SAS office buildings following the SAS Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment Use and contribute toward a global initiative to reduce Policy and Guidelines. bird collisions with buildings. The SAS Eco-Commuter Program also provides subsidized o Supported the semiannual company Junk Swap. employee vanpools and bike racks at all office buildings. Employees donated gently used, unwanted items that SAS Belgium has free electrical bikes for employee use to were offered free to other employees or donated to the either commute or run errands during the work day. Salvation Army. More than 300 employees donated household items, including furniture and kitchen 2017 Data appliances, sporting goods, books and loads of toys. SAS was recognized for providing smart commuting options at Electric Vehicle Support and the 2017 GoTriangle/GoPerks celebration and was represented the Eco-Commuter Program on a Ceres panel, The Case for Electric Vehicles and How Policy Can Drive Their Deployment. Minimizing energy consumption and related emissions from its operations is another SAS priority. The SAS Eco-Commuter Parking Program encourages employees to mitigate the environmental impacts of their daily commute by providing SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107783_G73263.0518 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 3 Employees & Culture SAS’ world-renowned culture is based on trust, flexibility and our values: authentic, accountable, curious and passionate We’re not only known as the pioneer in analytics, but also in workplace culture. SAS’ culture is anchored by meaningful work, empowering leadership and a world-class work environment. The company has been ranked on the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list since the list’s inception for its corporate culture – which encourages work/life balance. Our employees share a common spirit and a passion for their work, their customers and one another. It’s truly a workplace like no other, based on the belief that happy, healthy people have a passionate engagement with life – and bring that passion to work. We understand there’s a direct correlation between our exceptional culture and business success with more than 40 years of growth. We’ve found that if you treat employees well, they will continue to innovate and create amazing software that ultimately keeps customers happy. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employees & Culture Download section 3.1 Workplace Culture 3.1 Workplace Culture Our engaging work environment coupled with our unique culture enables employees to build lasting relationships with customers and drive the innovation that sustains our company’s leadership in advanced analytics. SAS is recognized worldwide for being a great place to work, providing opportunities for challenging work and focusing on employees’ health and well-being. 2017 Data SAS earned 28 workplace culture awards, including the No. 3 ranking for World’s Best Multinational Workplaces and No. 15 ranking on the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For list. Also, SAS was recognized on Fortune magazine’s list of companies that “Change the World” in 2017. In addition to workplace culture recognitions, offices around the world have received several honors. For example, SAS Hong Kong has consecutively achieved the “Caring Company Logo” by The Hong Kong Council of Social Service since 2015. SAS Korea also won an award from the Social Responsibility Management Quality (SRMQ) Institute for its investment in education and fair operation efforts. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 3.1 Workplace Culture Awards earned for 2017 Best Companies to Work for Asia – Hong Kong Best Workplaces India Best Companies to Work for Asia – Malaysia Best Workplaces Ireland Best Employers Russia Best Workplaces Portugal Best Multinational Workplaces in Europe Best Workplaces Spain Best Places to Work for Recent Grads Best Workplaces Switzerland Best Workplaces Australia Best Workplaces UK Best Workplaces Austria Computerworld’s Best Places to Work in IT Best Workplaces Europe Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Pro Patria Award Best Workplaces for Diversity Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For Best Workplaces for Millennials People’s 50 Companies That Care Best Workplaces for Women Top Employers Belgium and Luxembourg Best Workplaces Germany Top Employers Brazil Best Workplaces Greece Top Employers China Best Workplaces in Technology Top Employers France SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107784_G73265.0418 35 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employees & Culture Download section 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff SAS cultivates the optimal environment for creativity, encouraging employees to take risks and exceed expectations while helping them balance work and life. SAS not only invests in employee career development, but also health and well-being through several services, programs and benefits. For example, SAS offers up to eight weeks of paid parental leave for birth mothers, fathers, domestic partners and adoptive parents to provide employees with paid time off to bond with and care for newborns or a newly adopted child. 2017 Data SAS maintained its perennially low turnover rate while sustaining its worldwide headcount. SAS did not have any substantiated and material negative incidents with regard to employee discrimination or harassment. At the end of 2017, SAS had 14,116 employees worldwide and 7,108 US employees. In the US, the average SAS employee tenure is 9.5 years, compared to an industry average of 3.68 years.¹ Reducing turnover reduces recruitment costs, helping the company retain knowledge and deliver deeper, longer-term customer relationships. This means SAS employees spend more time on productivity and less time training new hires. SAS sees a strong connection between employee loyalty and business success. SAS’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 6.5 percent. The average industry voluntary turnover rate was 14.4 percent.² 1 US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2 Radford/Aon Hewitt Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff US Turnover Summary 2015 2016 2017 Type Turnover number 353 437 463 Turnover percentage 5.1% 6% 6.5% By age group 19-31 72 48 63 32-44 110 127 129 45-63 122 228 225 64 and up 49 34 46 By gender Female 149 165 191 Male 204 272 272 Diversity and Inclusion oT he “Tribe” for Accessibility – the Accessibility and Applied Assistive Technology Team or “tribe” believes At SAS, it’s not about fitting into the culture, it’s about everyone should be able to work with and benefit from adding to it. Diversity and inclusion are more than just data. They are fundamentally changing the way people gender or race – we have a culture that blends our different interact with data by developing innovative technology backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and cultures from that makes data visualizations like charts, graphs and our 58 countries around the world. As innovators, we rely maps accessible to all, regardless of technical savvy or on our creativity and differences to create great software. physical abilities. SAS CEO Jim Goodnight is fulfilling this commitment by leading a task force of the Business Roundtable, by using his • Summer intern programs for students demonstrating SAS’ voice as a LinkedIn Influencer, and by sponsoring numerous commitment to promoting diversity in the field of technology. STEM education initiatives that open these fields to people of oR ecruit, Recognize, Retain (R3) for women and all backgrounds. And to further formalize the commitment, students of color. last fall, he joined leaders of the world’s 300 top companies oV eteran Employment, Training and Support (VETS) in signing the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion, a for uniformed service members and veterans. pledge to use their individual and collective voices to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. •S  TEM Diversity Career Day with historically black colleges and universities. To promote diversity and inclusion, SAS engages in • STEM Career Showcase for students with disabilities. the following: • Future of STEM: Back-to-School Minority Opportunity Fair. • SAS employee-led interest/affinity groups. •E  xecutive Women’s Day during SAS Championship golf oW omen’s Initiative Network (WIN) is dedicated to tournament. inspiring, encouraging and empowering women through • Diversity recruitment events. networking, career development and community service. o HBCU Career Development Marketplace. oY oung Professionals Network provides ongoing opportunities for professional development, engaging o Student Veterans of America. with the community through volunteerism, and social o Women in Data Science and Statistics. networking for the younger employee population – and o Women in Technology. the young at heart. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 3.2 Hiring and Retaining Staff • Partnerships promoting diversity and inclusion include: • Helping  veterans transition to rewarding civilian careerso Enable America partnership to provide job shadowing SAS partners with many nonprofit organizations to provide and mentoring for transitioning veterans. mentorship and career development resources for veterans transitioning to civilian life. In addition to the VETS o Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Cominternship program that provides valuable work experimunication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) program ence for military personnel pursing an IT degree, SAS provides job coaches for long-term autistic employees joined forces with the Institute for Veterans and Military who work in SAS cafes. Families in 2017 to offer free SAS programming courses to o Food and Service Training (FAST) students from Wake transitioning service members and their families. County Public Schools receive credit toward Occupational Course of Study (OCS) diplomas by volunteering Equal Employment Opportunity with corporate mentors to learn basic workplace skills. SAS is committed to providing an equal employment o Arc of Wake County to help match people in the comopportunity that treats all employees and applicants equally munity with disabilities who are seeking competitive based on merit and experience – without regard to age, employment with appropriate jobs and on-site coachrace, color, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, ing. Students gain work credit to meet requirements national origin, citizenship, marital status, sexual orientation, for OCS diplomas. disability, medical condition, veteran status, pregnancy or any other protected class as defined by federal, state or o American Statistical Association – Committee on Minorities local law. We recruit, hire, train, and promote without regard in Statistics (StatFest and Diversity Mentoring Program). to protected characteristics and ensure that all our employo International Biometric Society – Fostering Diversity in ment decisions are based only on valid job requirements. Biostatistics Workshops (Eastern North America Region). o Triangle Women in STEM Initiative. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107785_G73266.0518 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employees & Culture Download section 3.3 Skills Development 3.3 Skills Development SAS supports the idea that all employees have a natural desire to learn and grow. As part of its culture and benefits for employees, SAS provides many development opportunities for employees, whether for specific job skills, business acumen or interpersonal competence. Training includes instructor-led classes, e-learning and live web training. Employees at all levels are encouraged to pursue training to keep their skills sharp and learn new techniques to improve their professional capabilities. 2017 Data Approximately 96 percent of employees participated in professional training, totaling 178,500 hours. In addition to skills training, SAS has created a program specifically for employees pursuing leadership and management training. Courses are offered at different levels within the organization to cultivate and nurture internal talent. In 2017, SAS provided 25 courses on leadership development, training 2,126 people. SAS offers a wide array of training options that enable employees to find their best learning method to meet work and career goals. Employee Type Average Time in Training Training Breakdown Full-time 25 hours Classroom 68% Webcast and video 31% Reading material 1% Training programs include Leadership development Interpersonal development Sales training Technical training SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107786_G73267.0518 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employees & Culture Download section 3.4 Health and Safety 3.4 Health and Safety Around the globe, SAS provides a safe and healthy working The Safety Team will complete a comprehensive investigation environment for all its employees. Each SAS office manages of all reportable work-related incidents and provide corrective its own health and safety programs. Resources and best actions when necessary. practices are available from the headquarters office in the US; SAS also has an Ergonomics department that supports however, each program is designed to fit the needs of that employees through personal assessments and training. particular location. The department provides further educational resources Many SAS offices around the globe have exercise facilities through an intranet site, which includes FAQs, tips and on-site or have access to regional fitness clubs. All employees information about a safe work skills program for manual labor have access to health care coverage that is tailored to the employees. It also provides an assessment request form that cultural norms and local laws of each region. At the world employees can complete for a personal work-site evaluation headquarters in Cary, NC, an on-site health care center by one of two full-time ergonomics specialists. provides comprehensive services that promote optimal health. The staff includes family nurse practitioners, physicians, Absenteeism registered dietitians/nutritionists, nurses, medical laboratory By providing a safe, nurturing work environment, SAS strives technologists, a psychologist and physical therapists. to keep employees productive and effective in their roles. The Security & Safety and Risk Management departments One measure of that success is the absenteeism rate. investigate any incidents that pose a danger to company employees or third parties and take measures to reduce or 2017 Data eliminate these hazards. These departments provide additional SAS recorded an absence rate of 4.5 days per full-time training and resources to help identify and prevent similar employee. This accounts for the following absence types: sick, incidents from causing damage or injury to individuals. time away medical, time away non-medical, floating holiday, school leave, jury duty, military and bereavement. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107787_G73268.0518 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4 Education & Philanthropy Meeting the challenges of the new millennium SAS CEO Jim Goodnight refers to education as the engine of economic growth. By supporting efforts that prepare more graduates for college, work and success in the 21st century, SAS continues to play a vital role in the global community. For the last 25 years, SAS has made education its primary philanthropic focus. As a company, we believe that quality public education is a critical imperative for our children and for the country in this competitive, global economy. We are actively engaged in ensuring that all students have the support necessary to reach their full potential and become productive citizens. In North Carolina and around the world, SAS targets education initiatives in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to ensure the next generation of innovators has the knowledge and skills to succeed. SAS also supports thoughtful and evidence-based approaches to increasing third-grade reading proficiency, which is critical to ensuring that students leave high school ready for college and careers. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Education & Philanthropy Download section 4.1 P-12 Education 4.1 P-12 Education The quality of education in the P-12 system directly affects SAS® Programming for High School economic growth and prosperity. In fact, reading proficiently at SAS provides five days of training, all instructional materials, the end of third grade is a key milestone to success in school assessments and teaching guides necessary to teach SAS and beyond. Students who do not achieve this milestone are programming to high school students. Students will leave this four times more likely to drop out of school. SAS advocates for course with skills that allow them to sit for the SAS Certification policies and programs that will increase third-grade reading exam, a globally recognized certification. These resources are proficiency, such as expanding access to high-quality, full-day available to educators at no cost. pre-kindergarten. Early reading is critical for all future learning, including studies STEM Career Showcase for in high-demand STEM fields. In its effort to increase access to Students With Disabilities skills in the critical areas of STEM, SAS offers several products SAS partnered with the North Carolina Museum of Natural and services at no cost to schools. Sciences to create an annual event where students with disabilities in grades six through 12 interact with college Curriculum Pathways® and students and professionals with a variety of disabilities who Mobile Learning Apps have forged successful career paths in STEM fields. Students Curriculum Pathways from SAS provides interactive, network with role models who are pushing the boundaries of standards-based resources in the core disciplines for knowledge, building innovative products and creating the middle and high school students in traditional, virtual or technologies of the future. The 2017 event was attended by home learning environments. From preschool children to nearly 350 students and chaperones in person and viewed lifelong learners, Curriculum Pathways mobile learning nearly 4,000 times online. apps engage students of all ages. Curriculum Pathways Triangle High Five Math Collaborative and apps are available to every educator and learner in the This collaborative effort has helped mathematics teachers world at no cost. In 2017, nearly 3.5 million teachers and identify and engage in highly effective instructional practices students used the free digital resources for P-12. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.1 P-12 Education and address disparities in math achievement related to race In further support of strengthening reading proficiency, and income. Schools in the Triangle High Five partnership, SAS hosted 28 national experts to explore various issues which includes five public school districts, are striving to with which policymakers are dealing across the country in prepare more students to be successful in math and achieve determining how to strengthen and expand high-quality their highest potential. From 2010 to 2017, nearly 800 elemenpre-K programs. A report from these experts was released tary and middle school teachers each year attended the annual nationally at the Brookings Institute in April 2017. Math Summit at SAS, a two-day professional development event. Although the summit is now being hosted by NC State Global Education Initiatives University, SAS continues to be a sponsor for the 2018 summit. SAS offices around the world participated in several P-12 projects that supported education initiatives. Here are a Support for STEM Careers few examples: SAS STEM Career Day, in conjunction with Hour of Code • In Belgium, the Teach for Belgium program helped more and Computer Science Education Week, had 80 volunteers than 5,000 needy children get access to schooling and an venturing into classrooms to generate enthusiasm about introduction to programming. careers in STEM. Employees engaged students with real-world examples, shared insights from their own careers and • In Brazil, the office’s donations provided educational sports emphasized how school prepared them for success. In 2017, activities to children living in poor and vulnerable areas. SAS volunteers conducting Hours of Code introduced more • In Canada, programs helped local children with weekly than 2,000 students to this national effort. reading time, a learn-to-skate clinic and a robotics coding class. SAS also supports other organizations devoted to improving the quality of education, including the Institute for Emerging • In Japan, a weekend focused on data science encouraged Issues, BEST NC, NC Public School Forum, Business Roundtachildren to learn programming through CodeSnaps that ble and other nonprofit organizations. controlled mini robots. • In England, an annual outreach program hosted local SAS Education Policy Priorities students to visit the campus and and learn how to use SAS CEO Jim Goodnight led a task force of CEOs from the SAS software. Business Roundtable to explore the importance of third-grade reading proficiency. That work culminated in a report, Why Reading Matters and What to Do About It. The report was released in February 2017 by a separate task force of North Carolina business leaders who are working with Goodnight and SAS to improve literacy rates across the state. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107788_G73270.0518 43 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employee & Culture Download section 4.2 Higher Education 4.2 Higher Education Preparing the Next Generation Support to Universities and Big data has created an unprecedented demand for analytics Community Colleges talent that outpaces qualified applicants. To address that skills The SAS Education division provides training and teaching gap, SAS® Academic Programs offers free software, university materials to help professors and instructors incorporate SAS partnerships and compelling user communities focused on into their teaching. Resources include slides, data sets and helping students gain new skills and provide more opportuniprintable/editable files of the student manual. These materials ties for their education and career. are provided free of charge, with copyright permission for professors to use any of the content in their own class notes. Free Software for Higher Education SAS also provides numerous guest lecturers to universities and and Adult Learners community colleges – at no cost to the institutions. SAS trained Through SAS University Edition and SAS OnDemand for more than 4,000 professors and students in the use and Academics, professors, students, researchers and independent instruction of analytics in 2017. learners have free access to SAS software for teaching and learning valuable analytics skills. Students and independent Analytics Degree Programs learners can jump-start careers and appeal to talent-hungry SAS partners with traditional and nontraditional graduate and employers by building analytics expertise. In 2017, SAS undergraduate programs around the world to create degree launched the global, online SAS Academy for Data Science, and certificate programs that generate the analytical talent which offers colleges and universities free access to academy organizations need to make the most of big data. SAS has content to help students earn valuable SAS credentials. helped launch 72 master’s and undergraduate degrees and Downloads and registrations of SAS University Edition and SAS nearly 172 certificate programs in analytics and related disciOnDemand for Academics grew 37 percent in 2017 to approxiplines. New programs in 2017 include ones at American mately 1.45 million, and more than 230,000 people registered College of Greece, Appalachian State University, California for free e-learning courses in statistics and programming. University of Pennsylvania, Open University of Hong Kong, Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.2 Higher Education Swinburne University of Technology (Australia), Troy University Global Education Initiatives and Università di Roma Tor Vergata (Italy). SAS offices around the world participated in several projects SAS Student Programs and Scholarships that supported education initiatives. Here are a few examples: SAS has many programs that recognize, support and propel • In Belgium, Syrian refugees were trained and certified to use students toward a career in analytics or other STEM fields. SAS software. Through opportunities such as the SAS Student Ambassador • In Chile, Colombia and Mexico, the Alliance for Youth-Pacific Program, the SAS Scholar Award Program, the SAS Analytics program gave young Latin American professionals a new Shootout, the SAS Global Forum Student Scholarship career and training opportunities. Program, the SAS Global Forum Student Symposium and others, students receive valuable assistance, experience, • In China, the office sponsored a data analytics contest where networking and professional exposure at major SAS events. undergraduate and graduate students explore cutting-edge Also, in 2017, Capella University and SAS announced four models and technologies. winners of the Capella Women in Analytics Scholarships • In Colombia and Mexico, an annual SAS scholarship program program, which was created to encourage more women provides college graduates with free SAS training. to enter and rise in the analytics and big data field. • In India, a program funded classes at a women’s college in Mumbai for underprivileged graduate and postAchieving the Dream Conference graduate students. SAS cosponsored the 2017 Achieving the Dream Data Summit. • In Spain, the office partnered with several universities to offer Community colleges across the US engaged with industry opportunities to learn SAS software. experts to explore ways analytics can help institutions enroll and retain more students, with greater rates of success in school and beyond. By sharing insight into successful community college data and analytics programs, the Data Summit has been the catalyst for schools to begin understanding their role in addressing the talent pipeline challenge. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107789_G73271.0518 45 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Employee & Culture Download section 4.3 Philanthropy 4.3 Philanthropy SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives and • Donations of money, software and expertise to numerous policy advocacy that increase interest and achievement in colleges, universities and community colleges around STEM, as well as increase third-grade reading proficiency, with the world. an emphasis on North Carolina and the region surrounding •M  apping the Nation, an online resource that reveals the SAS world headquarters. importance of a globally competent workforce and citizenry. Programs must generate a long-term impact and affect • North Carolina Science Festival, a statewide showcase of significant numbers of people, without discrimination. science activities. Examples include: •U  niversity of North Carolina Data Dashboard, an interactive • #GivingTuesday, a global day of giving. online database built by SAS that gives students, parents, policymakers and taxpayers expanded access to detailed •C  ommunities in Schools, the nation’s largest dropout prevenUNC system data to track system performance. tion organization. •U  niversity of North Carolina Educator Quality Dashboard, an •C  omputer Science Education Week, including Hour of Code. interactive online tool built with SAS data visualization This is a national effort that SAS joins by providing volunteers software that enables citizens to analyze and display data on with training, activities and materials to work with students the UNC system’s efforts to prepare more and higher-quality and pique their interest in computer science. teachers and school leaders for the state’s public schools. • In-kind donations for nonprofit organizations that need •T  riangle High Five, a partnership committed to seeing that computer equipment or software. SAS gives hundreds of students graduate from high school ready for higher educathousands of dollars in surplus computer hardware, office tion and careers of their choice. equipment and other tangible items to community groups that can benefit from the donation. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.3 Philanthropy • University of North Carolina Public Television, which broad• DonorsChoose.org, a national nonprofit that connects donors casts award-winning, educational programs that are watched with classrooms in need. Each year, SAS matches employee by more than 4 million viewers each week. contributions to the cause. •Y  MCA of the Triangle, with 17 branches and three overnight •N  orth Carolina K-12 State Chess Championships, which camps to meet community needs through programs that encourages young people to take up chess, a known promote good health, strong families and solid communities. gateway to STEM careers 2017 Data SAS donated more than $60 million to nonprofits across the globe. Local offices worldwide managed $1.3 million in community grants. In the US, SAS donated more than $59 million of in-kind training, software, hardware, services, volunteer time, and surplus equipment and furniture. DonorsChoose.org for 2017 2017 Type Global Donations Total 247 SAS employees donated Cash donations Worldwide cash $1,278,443 Software, $62,919.64 hardware and services $12,074,149 donated by SAS employees $120,532.70 Additional JMP® software $1,273,333 donated total impact In-kind donations (US only) 650 projects supported Value of in-kind training for students and $45,528,513 educators 39 states reached Surplus equipment/ furniture/hardware $141,255 72,559 Total $60,295,693 students reached SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107790_G73272.0518 47 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Education & Philanthropy Download section 4.4 Community Engagement 4.4 Community Engagement As an integral part of SAS culture, the company encourages Some SAS volunteer projects in 2017 included: employees to donate their talent, time and/or finances to • SAS employees in 16 countries joined more than 30,000 projects supporting education, the environment and social organizations around the world in support of #GivingTuesday, welfare. Offices across the globe manage programs tailored Nov. 28. #GivingTuesday reports that more than $300 million to fit the needs of their communities and the interests of was raised. There were 21.7 billion social media mentions and SAS employees. people in over 150 countries participated. To foster a culture of volunteerism at SAS, the company • In Belgium, employees participated in the SAS Creates manages the Employee Volunteer Fund (EVF), which contribChances program which raised money for a variety of utes cash to education-based nonprofit organizations after an groups such as children of refugees, young accident employee has provided at least 50 hours of volunteer support victims and farmers. in three out of four quarters over 12 months. • In Brazil, employees collected clothes and shoes for a local 2017 Data shelter as well as raised funds and volunteered to help build SAS employees in the US volunteered almost 25,000 hours houses for those in need. through the EVF program, resulting in more than $91,000 paid to schools across the country. Globally, SAS employees • In Canada, employees served lunches and packaged food volunteer their time in the community. Whether it is collecting for local indigenous women and their families. SAS Canada toys at Christmas in France, adopting a local school in Canada, raised more than $132,311 in 2017 for charities and communiraising money for the food bank in Pittsburgh, collecting coats ties through activities such as a cycling challenge and local for kids in North Carolina, or building Habitat for Humanity sports tournaments. homes across the US, SAS employees generously give their time to improve their communities. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.4 Community Engagement • In China, employees donated school supplies to a local A number of activities took place at SAS world headquarters: nonprofit that cares for orphan and disabled children •4 00 children received new clothing as part of the Salvation across the country. Army Angel Tree collection. • In Colombia, employees donated clothes, surgical materials •S AS employees donated over $60,000 to DonorsChoose.org and formula milk for children of Operation Smile. for classroom projects; SAS matched those donations, • In Detroit, employees sponsored local families and provided resulting in $120,500 for 650 unique projects. A total of 72,559 clothes, winter coats, toys and books for children. students in 39 states have benefited from the partnership this past year. The DonorsChoose.org challenge raised $44,466 in • In France, employees collected professional clothing for donations to 202 classroom projects via the #GivingTuesday individuals searching for employment, collected toys for campaign at SAS. needy children and donated blood. •S AS Internal Communications and SAS Solutions on Demand • In Hong Kong, employees raised funds and volunteered for a hosted students from the Boys & Girls Clubs of Wake County hospital charity organization that services schools and homes in an exciting hands-on STEM event called “Data on the Fly” for the elderly. in conjunction with the NC Department of Transportation at • In Mexico, employees held a breakfast to help support a Raleigh-Durham International Airport. breast cancer foundation. • 137 pints of blood were donated to the American Red Cross. • In New York, employees purchased baby supplies to send to •S AS volunteers helped raise nearly $87,000 for UNC-TV, the families in Puerto Rico who were affected by Hurricane Maria. statewide public television network. Since 2000, SAS has • In Scotland, employees collected toys and gifts for lowhelped raise more than $2 million for public television. income families. •S AS is a founding partner in SummerSTEM, and for the third • In Spain, employees collected food and clothes for those year hosted a STEM immersion experience involving six in need and invested in organizations that help the disabled corporations and 50 middle and high school teachers. find employment. 49 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.4 Community Engagement • SAS STEM Career Day. SAS STEM volunteers visited schools and described their careers, how they chose their career paths, and how SAS and its customers use math, science and technology. The goals are to increase student interest in STEM careers and courses, to help students connect what they do in school with an exciting STEM career pathway, and to familiarize them with the varied STEM careers at SAS and other organizations. •T  he below activities served the Food Bank of Central and Eastern NC: ° Between the child care centers’ food drive and the Can Ornament display, employees donated 3,930 pounds of canned goods – enough to provide more than 3,300 meals. ° The Executive Cooking Challenge raised awareness and encouraged employees to donate. ° The Virtual Food Drive monetary donations totaled $27,768 – or 138,840 meals. ° All in all, enough food and money was collected to provide 142,149 meals – almost 90,000 more than last year. Community Board Membership SAS staff members carry the company’s corporate responsibility values outside the office by serving on the boards of community organizations that support education, disaster relief, the arts, science innovation, environmental conservation and other issues important to employees. 2017 Data SAS executives served on numerous boards, including the following: • American Statistical Association • Food Bank of Central and • North Carolina State University • AmCham Belgium Eastern North Carolina Board of Trustees • Business Council • Friday Institute for Educational Innova• Smithsonian National Museum of tion (North Carolina State University) Natural History, Advisory Board • Business Roundtable • Inter-Faith Food Shuttle • WildTrack •B  EST-NC (Business for Educational Success and Transformation in • North Carolina Museum of Art • World Wildlife Fund North Carolina) • North Carolina Museum of Natural • YMCA of the Triangle • Cary Academy Board of Directors Sciences – Friends • Youth Thrive •C  SC Strategic Advisory Board at • North Carolina Public School Forum North Carolina State University – • North Carolina Science Festival Board Emeritus SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107791_G73273.0518 50 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Education & Philanthropy Download section 4.5 Donation Process 4.5 Donation Process SAS’ corporate philanthropy supports strategic initiatives and The SAS Community Relations Program does not consider policy advocacy that increase interest and achievement in funding or in-kind donations for the following: STEM and increase third-grade reading proficiency, with an • Sponsorship of professional athletic or amateur sports teams emphasis on North Carolina and the region surrounding SAS or individuals. world headquarters. • Single events such as walk-a-thons, fundraisers, workshops, To be eligible for donations, organizations must meet the seminars, etc. following criteria: • Religious causes. • Have nonprofit tax exemption status under Internal Revenue • Political parties, candidates or issues. Service code 501(c)(3). • Organizations that are in any way exclusive. • Have a responsible board of directors serving without • Trips or tours. compensation. • Independent film/video productions. • Show financial stability as evidenced by audited annual financial statements. • Requests from individuals. • Employ ethical methods of publicity, promotion and solicitation of funds. SAS Community Relations Program: Criteria for Donations Related to Education • Raise funds without payment of commissions, street solicitations or mailing of unordered tickets. If your organization meets the above criteria, follow these steps to apply for a donation: • Operate from a detailed annual budget. 1. Complete the SAS donation application below, making sure • Request funds for programs or operations with a minimal to provide all information requested. portion applied to overhead. 2. Prepare a brief description (three pages or less) of the • Use the in-kind donation to benefit organizational members project/program to be funded or for the in-kind request, or constituents. including answers to the following questions: Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.5 Donation Process •W hat is the primary mission of your organization? Describe your current programs and significant accomplishments, along with your total annual budget over the last three years. •W hat issue or problem does your program/ project address? •H ow does this issue relate to SAS’ educational focus, priorities and criteria? •W hat is the scope of your program? Who is your audience and/or the population to be served? (Include any available program or policy statements that reference geographic location, socioeconomic status, or other factors that identify the target audience.) •W hat is the program goal or expected outcome of the program for which support is requested? •W hat is the track record of the project/program to be funded? (If new, discuss accomplishments of the organization.) •H ow will you measure the success of the program/project and report the results to SAS? 3. Provide the following supporting documentation: • A photocopy of the IRS 501(c)(3) letter. •E vidence of current accreditation (for educational institutions). •A n audited financial statement or detailed information on finances. •A list of those currently on the board of directors and their professional affiliations, as well as the executive leadership of the organization. • A separate project/program budget, if applicable. 4. Return (1) the completed application; (2) description; and (3) all required supporting documentation. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Completed applications are reviewed in the order they are received in February, May, August and November. Mailing address: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 Note: Submitted materials will not be returned. 52 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 4.5 Donation Process Donation Application Date: Name of Organization: Address of Organization: Contact Person: Title/Position: Address (if different from above): Telephone: Fax: Email Address: Website: How long has this organization operated in this community? The funds being sought are to be used for: Capital Campaign Operating Budget Special Project – project start and end dates: Total budget for current project: $ What percentage is being requested from businesses? Dollar amount or description of in-kind donation requested from SAS: How was this amount calculated? (include overall budget if requesting partial funding): Has your organization received previous support from SAS? Yes No If yes, list year(s) and amount(s): List three to five other major business contributors to this program and the amounts contributed: List names and positions of any SAS employees involved with your organization: Name Title Return completed donation application, together with all required supporting documentation, to: Community Relations SAS Campus Drive Cary, NC 27513 SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107834_G73274.0518 53 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good Analytics helping humanity Our commitment to innovation means we believe technology advancements push boundaries, challenge the status quo and change the way we live. But it’s more than just technology innovation. At SAS, we also believe that social innovation is just as important. That means working with organizations to identify areas where we can make an impact together, then developing solutions and processes that result in positive changes for a community, a city, a state and even around the world. Our corporate social innovation efforts help us focus our purpose on making the world better for all. A natural extension of this social innovation is our participation in the Data for Good movement, where we seek opportunities to improve how people live. By using SAS Analytics, we address humanitarian issues like poverty, health, human rights, education and the environment. Making a difference in the world is at the heart of what SAS does, and just another example of using our software to serve the greater good. Through these stories, learn how SAS is being socially innovative and using data to change lives. Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good SAS Changing Lives GatherIQ ™ GatherIQ is an innovative crowdsourcing project from SAS that puts analytics in the public’s hands to address world problems with a mobile app. Nonprofit organizations like the International Organization for Migration, World Wildlife Fund, Sepsis Alliance and Global GoalsCast pose questions through the app for concerned citizens to help answer. Through interactive data visualizations, these users gain better understanding of issues and how they can engage their community with data-driven conversations to inspire action. For example, with Sepsis Alliance, data visualizations based on years of nationwide sepsis surveys can help data scientists determine areas most in need of education and awareness and how they’ve changed over time. “Sepsis affects more than 1.6 million Americans every year. As a medical emergency requiring early detection and treatment, recognizing symptoms is critical to saving lives. Insights we learn from this project will help us maximize resources and become more strategic in developing future campaigns to increase awareness of this silent killer.” Thomas Heymann, President of Sepsis Alliance World Wildlife Fund World Wildlife Fund (WWF) uses SAS Data Management and SAS Analytics to help maximize donations that build a future where people live in harmony with nature. WWF is also using GatherIQ to crowdsource information to help identify the universities and other learning institutions that focus on conservation. “Investing in education and training for local leaders empowers individuals and improves and accelerates conservation action. We need to connect the leaders of tomorrow with the opportunities of today.” Andrea Santy, Director of Russell E. Train Education for Nature Program at WWF 55 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good WildTrack WildTrack identifies and monitors endangered species by analyzing animal footprints. Working with SAS software and employees, WildTrack is exploring how artificial intelligence and crowdsourced footprint data from all over the world could help find answers to global conservation questions. This machine learning process also helps to further improve and enhance SAS software that can be used for other conservation efforts. “I’m excited about the potential of artificial intelligence because I think that one of the hugest challenges we face is how to protect our planet. The way we can solve this is by bringing in data from all parts of the world, which holds incredible value for conservation.” Zoe Jewell, President and Co-Founder of WildTrack Boston Public Schools With insights from analysis work done by a team at SAS, Boston Public Schools (BPS) optimized its bus routes and improved quality of service to students while using fewer buses. The recommendations based on SAS Analytics helped BPS operate more efficiently and cost-effectively by reducing the number of bus stops anywhere from 20 percent to 50 percent. As a result, the district has been able to redirect the money saved toward enhancing educational quality. SAS hopes this analytical insight can help many school districts who face these types of problems and inspire changes for a positive impact on students, teachers and parents. “Because of SAS, we’ve found new ways to consolidate bus stops, which leads to savings for the school districts without putting students in unsafe situations. It also allows us to think differently about the power of analytics, and what it can bring to the transportation system as a whole.” John Hanlon, Chief of Operations at Boston Public Schools 56 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good Canada Health Infoway For Canada Health Infoway’s Data Impact Challenge, a passionate group of SAS employees used data and analytics from SAS to identify teens’ suicide risk. Through Twitter data, the team looked at the percentage of people in the group who were talking about depression or suicide, and what they were talking about. “The move from paper to digital has created a critical mass of information that can be quickly accessed and analyzed to help inform the policies that help lead to better-informed decision making. The challenge demonstrated that in just a short period of time, and with existing data, important health policy issues and questions can be answered.” Fraser Ratchford, Group Program Director at Canada Health Infoway Telethon Kids Institute Telethon Kids Institute is protecting vulnerable children through research with the help of data and analytics. With SAS, Telethon Kids Institute collects and integrates data from many sources to analyze and then present the findings into a readable format. “When you’re doing this research, you need to back up your findings with sound tools and methodologies. With SAS, we can guarantee the accuracy of our procedures and be confident in our findings.” Scott Sims, Data Analyst at Telethon Kids Institute 57 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good Project Data Sphere Project Data Sphere integrates and analyzes historical, patient-level data from phase three cancer clinical trials to spark innovation by opening up new research possibilities – like knowing sooner if a treatment is working. The organization uses SAS to host the research platform and provides free access to analytics technology and experts. “There’s a ton of information that’s just left on the table, and it’s routine stuff that nobody pays attention to. Data sharing can draw attention to connections between different commonly measured things that you would just never see otherwise. It can change your whole thinking about where to focus.” Dr. Howard Scher, Research Lead at Project Data Sphere Healthy Nevada Project With SAS Analytics, the Healthy Nevada Project is performing a landmark population health study to reveal hidden health insights. By combining genetic, clinical, environmental and socioeconomic data, researchers are looking to better understand the complex interplay between these factors and related effects on population health. “We are working to understand how environmental factors can help predict who may be at risk, allow for quicker diagnoses, and encourage the development of more precise treatments. The modern statistical and machine learning methods, along with the intuitive data visualizations made possible by SAS software, have been critical elements of our success to date.” Jim Metcalf, Chief Data Scientist of the Healthy Nevada Project 58 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 5 Data for Good International Organization for Migration When two earthquakes shattered the lives of Nepalese families, the International Organization for Migration used SAS Visual Analytics to help them rebuild faster. “By modernizing our approach to first response through analytics, we were able to understand what the country’s production capacities and inventories are, and work on that very complicated equation of identifying the best way to assist people without creating dependency.” Brian Kelly, Advisor at IOM Peace-Work Peace-Work and SAS are applying sophisticated analytics to the challenges of combating human trafficking – and are achieving initial success. A team at SAS used text analytics to assess patterns of human trafficking in State Department reports to help better determine where to focus anti-trafficking efforts. “Our next step will be to look at states and metros that are better at finding and reporting trafficking to identify best practices that other states can use.” David J. Corliss, Founder and Director of Peace-Work SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 108877_G73275.0518 59 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 About This Report The SAS 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report so information is more accessible and customizReport is based on the calendar year Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, able. The report format allows for greater explanation and 2017, and updated annually. All data and information transparency on SAS’ practices and policies and provides pertain to SAS Institute Inc., the US-based parent space for updates to relevant and material topics. Over company for SAS, unless otherwise stated. Environmentime, this report will evolve in response to the needs of tal reports are based on global operations data. The stakeholders, employees, customers and the community. most recent report was the 2016 CSR report, which was SAS Visual Analytics data visualization software is used to published online in June 2017. That data has now been generate charts and graphs to illustrate the data and updated for the 2017 report. In 2017, SAS made strides to provide additional analytics capabilities. This provides far improve global reporting of its programs and initiatives, greater visibility, transparency and accuracy in reporting and will continue to improve reporting on offices outside of SAS’ environmental impact. Charts and graphs included in the US. There have been no other significant changes the PDF documents reflect a specific time frame for during the reporting period. gathering and analyzing data for this report. Executive The report was developed using the Global Reporting leaders and other relevant internal stakeholders have Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and reviewed content in this report. was prepared in accordance with Core GRI requireSAS welcomes your comments and questions regarding ments. SAS’ CSR efforts focus on four core areas: this report and its corporate responsibility efforts. governance and ethics, employees, environment, and For questions about this report or its contents, please education and philanthropy. The report can be viewed in email globalreporting@sas.com. a PDF document by separate sections or as a complete Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 About This Report Download section About This Report Scope and Boundaries Since SAS headquarters are in Cary, NC, the scope of this CSR At this time, SAS does not collect environmental information report focuses primarily on SAS’ United States operations. on suppliers or partners; however, the company seeks to work Where available, global data is provided and appropriately with organizations that have a similar approach to reducing labeled. There have been no significant changes to the their environmental impact. All suppliers must abide by scope and boundaries for SAS; however, there have been required ethics and compliance rules, which can be found in improvements in the reporting of such boundaries. the Supply Chain section under Governance & Management of the Corporate Responsibility website. Because SAS is a software company, much of the company’s impact is related to its own operation rather than the products Materiality Matrix and services provided to customers. Externally, impacts The CSR Task Force, a cross-departmental sustainability team generally occur related to the business practices of suppliers. based in the US, underwent a facilitated process to determine Examples of impacts include: the primary issues that affect SAS and its stakeholders. This included issues that affect the industry as a whole, peer • Environmental: energy use in offices and data centers, businesses, communities, customers, employees and waste, and construction of new buildings. management. Through this process, the team determined • Societal: compliance with local, national and international areas where SAS has a significant environmental, social or laws; ethical treatment of employees, customers, suppliers, economic impact. These issues were then rated to determine partners and communities; supporting and fostering a their importance to stakeholders and/or SAS’ operations. strong workforce. Using the GRI standards, these issues have been reported • Economic: creating value in communities where SAS as “material topics.” Each team member then gathered operates; job creation and economic growth; supporting information specific to these areas of impact for inclusion the community through philanthropy. in this report. The focus areas of this report include: Internal: Issues Relevant to Employees and Management Great workplace Training for next generation of employees Health and safety Talent development Ethics Environment Diversity and Inclusion Workers’ rights Volunteerism and community engagement Energy and emissions Recycling Water Smart Campus IoT 61 Volunteerism and community engagement Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 About This Report Energy and emissions Recycling Water Smart Campus External: Issues Relevant to Other Stakeholders, Including Customers, IoT Communities, Governments, Partners, Subcontractors, Suppliers, etc. Quality of support Giving Back Ethics Privacy Continuity of business Global trade EnvironmentAnti-corruption DiversityFair business practices Gift law Government relations Civic participation Stakeholder Engagement SAS’ stakeholders include communities, employees, regulatory and governmental bodies, industry organizations, students and teachers, and business partners and suppliers. Engagement with stakeholders provides SAS with the opportunity to gain a greater understanding of the needs in the community and in the market. It allows the company to build strong partnerships with regulatory bodies and organizations within the industry, and lasting relationships with communities, employees, partners and suppliers. Stakeholder Engagement 2017 Communities Employee volunteers, community Employee donations and corporate matching grants, in-kind donations and for DonorsChoose.org totaled more than training, fundraising. $62,000, funding 650 classroom projects and benefiting 72,559 students in 39 states. SAS employees volunteered almost 25,000 hours, resulting in more than $91,000 donated to education from the Employee Volunteer Fund. Employees Enhance the SAS workplace culture Intranet, webcasts, videos, webzines, blogs by communicating with and informing and The Hub, an enterprisewide social employees about company activities networking platform. and internal and external programs. Domestic and international policy Data protection and privacy; big data; Regulatory and and legislation development on topics copyright protections; review of legislation government that affect SAS customers and the targeting frivolous patent lawsuits; revision development of new products. of administrative policies to ensure strong, quality patents are issued. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 About This Report Industry organizations Industry associations, think tanks Public speaking engagements, development and academia. or contribution to industry position papers, and one-to-one meetings. Business partners Meetings, webcasts and Board memberships include American and suppliers representation on boards. Chamber of Commerce to the European Union (AmCham EU) Executive Council, Atlantic Council Board of Directors and American Statistical Association. Customers Host ongoing dialogue with customers SAS interacts with customers through the SAS to answer questions and gather input Global Forum conference, customer advisory for product improvement. boards, self-help and assisted-help resources, focus groups, training, books, technical papers, social media, support communities, samples, SAS notes and focus areas, and more. Analysts Inform and solicit feedback from SAS’ Analyst Relations group is responsible for industry analysts. informing, influencing and soliciting feedback from industry analysts and thought leaders with the purpose of validating technology and corporate direction and to provide SAS with a crucial third-party perspective. Students and teachers Free online and mobile curriculum Curriculum Pathways® provides free online resources, free SAS software, teacher resources and mobile apps for early learners and professor training, summits and to grade 12. SAS offers free software, training meetings, classroom volunteers. and communities for people to gain valuable analytics skills, and supports analytics degree and certificate programs at colleges and universities around the world. SAS is a regular convener of important education meetings, and focuses volunteer efforts on education. External communications Build awareness and shape the SAS External communications helps build awarebrand through external communications. ness and shape the SAS brand by influencing what others think and say about the company. SAS uses external communications to guide the flow of information to educate and persuade various public stakeholders, including the news media, bloggers, customers, prospects, analysts and partners. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. 107777_G73257.0518 63 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Description Reference Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-2 Primary brands, products and services Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-3 Location of headquarters Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile Number of countries where 102-4 organization operates Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-6 Markets served Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-7 Scale of organization Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-8 Size and composition of workforce Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-9 Organization’s supply chain Governance and Management>Supply Chain Significant organizational changes 102-10 during the reporting period None Precautionary approach or principle Environmental Program>Environmental Governance> 102-11 is addressed by the organization Precautionary Approach Externally developed economic, 102-12 environmental and social charters Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management the organization endorses 102-13 Memberships and associations Education Philanthropy>Community Engagement Strategy and Analysis 102-14 Statement from the most senior From the CEO decision maker of the organization 64 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 GRI Index Disclosure Description Reference Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Organization’s values, codes of conduct and codes of ethics Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-19 Delegating authority Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Company Profile body and its committees 102-25 Conflicts of interest Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Role of highest governance body in Governance and Management>Governance Structure> 102-26 setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Collective knowledge of Governance and Management>Governance Structure> 102-27 highest governance body Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Identifying and managing economic, Governance and Management>Governance Structure> 102-29 environmental,and social impacts Corporate Social Responsibility Governance Governance and Management>Governance Structure> 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Social Responsibility Governance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Reporting Practices 102-45 List all entities and explain omissions Governance and Management>Company Profile; About This Report 102-46 How report content was defined About This Report>Scope and Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics About This Report>Materiality Matrix 102-48 Restatements About This Report>Scope and Boundaries 102-49 Significant changes in scope or boundary About This Report>Scope and Boundaries 102-50 Reporting Period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent previous report About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point About This Report 102-54 GRI “in accordance” option About This Report 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 65 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 GRI Index Disclosure Description Reference Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholders About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement Percentage of employees covered by collective 102-41 None bargaining Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 102-42 with whom to engage About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About This Report>Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders About This Report>Materiality Matrix Economic – Economic Performance Direct economic value generated 201-1 and distributed CEO Letter; Philanthropy Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 opportunities for the organization’s activities Not applicable due to climate change Economic – Procurement Practices Governance and Management>Supply Chain Management 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers North Carolina only Economic – Anti-Corruption Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance>Anti-Corruption Communication and training on Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory 205-2 anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance>Anti-Corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory 205-3 actions taken Compliance Economic – Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory 206-1 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Environmental – Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion Environmental – Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions Reductions in energy requirements 302-5 of products and services Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 66 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 GRI Index Disclosure Description Reference Environmental – Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source Environmental Program>Water Conservation Water sources significantly affected by Environmental Program>Water Conservation – US only 303-2 withdrawal of water Percentage and total volume of 303-3 water recycled and reused Environmental Program>Water Conservation Environmental – Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in 304-1 or adjacent to protected areas and areas of Environmental Program>Biodiversity high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, 304-2 products and services on biodiversity Environmental Program>Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Program>Biodiversity Environmental – Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 13 Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GhG emissions Environmental Program>Energy and Emissions Environmental – Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion 306-3 Significant spills Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion Water bodies affected by water discharges and/ 306-5 or runoff Environmental Program>Landfill Diversion Environmental – Compliance Non-compliance with environmental 307-1 laws and regulations Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Environmental – Supplier Environmental Assessment New suppliers screened 308-1 using environmental criteria About This Report Negative environmental impacts in the supply 308-2 chain and actions taken Environmental Program>Environmental Governance Social – Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff 67 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 GRI Index Disclosure Description Reference Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 401-2 not provided to temporary or part-time employees Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff 401-3 Parental leave Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff Social – Occupational Health and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days and absenteeism Employees and Culture>Hiring and Retaining Staff Social – Training and Education Average hours of training per year 404-1 per employee Employees and Culture>Skills Development Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 Employees and Culture>Skills Development transition assistance programs Social – Non-Discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination 406-1 and corrective actions taken Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Social – Human Rights Assessment Employee training on human rights Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory 412-2 policies or procedures Compliance>Training Social – Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 impact assessments, and development programs Education Philanthropy; partial reporting Social – Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Governance and Management>Governance Structure>Public Policy Social – Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Governance and Management>Supply Chain Negative social impacts in the supply chain 414-2 Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance and actions taken Social – Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 418-1 customer privacy and losses of customer data Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance Social – Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations 419-1 in the social and economic area Governance and Management>Ethics and Regulatory Compliance SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. ® indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright © 2018, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. G73278.0618 68
