ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Contents About the Report 3 Message from the CEO 4 About Anadolu Efes 6 Sustainability Milestones 8 2017 Highlights 10 Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan 12 Materiality Analysis 12 Stakeholder Engagement 15 Sustainability Management 18 Ethical and Transparent Governance 19 ENVIRONMENT 20 Climate Change and Energy Management 23 Water Management 25 Waste and Packaging Management 28 COMMUNITY 30 Contributing to the Local Economy 32 The Future is in Tourism 32 Culture and Arts 36 Anadolu Efes Sports Club 37 PEOPLE 38 Diversity 40 Talent Management 42 Performance Management 44 Occupational Health and Safety 44 Employee Engagement 46 VALUE CHAIN 48 Suppliers, Dealers and Distributors 50 Support for Sustainable Agriculture 52 Product Safety and Responsible Marketing 53 Performance Tables 56 Independent Assurance Statement 60 GRI Content Index 61 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 About the Report Since 2010, Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayii A.Ş. has been providing corporate governance, and environment and social performance information through its sustainability reports. We continue to transparently present our stakeholders with our strategies, objectives, performance and developments in this year’s 3 sustainability report. This report has been prepared according to the GRI Standards: Core option. The information provided in the report involves the beer operations performed between Turkey, Russia, Kazakhstan, Georgia and Moldova in the January 1–December 31, 2017 period. The report also encompasses the developments as part of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the UNGC CEO Water Mandate, both of which we are a signatory. Anadolu Efes affiliates are not included in the report. The sustainability report for the affiliate Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. is available at the sustainability section of the www.cci.com.tr website. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Dear Stakeholders, We have published the eighth Sustainability Report to share transparently the positive impact we have made on 4 the environment, community, people and the value chain. We owe this success to our sustainable business model, which prioritizes people and nature, supports socio-economic development and aims to create a positive We’re influencing a vast ecosystem by impact for all our stakeholders. reaching more than 300 million consumers, thousands of employees and partners in This year, we have conducted a wide-scale more than 70 countries. In this direction, stakeholder analysis and accelerated our we are ensuring that our efforts comply sustainability efforts. We have updated with and contribute to the Sustainable the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, Development Goals. We took part in global which forms the basis of our sustainability initiatives as a signatory of the UN Global strategy in the light of global and sector Compact, the UNGC CEO Water Mandate, trends. Accordingly, we have published and the Women Empowerment Principles. the eighth Sustainability Report to share transparently the positive impact we have In 2017, we identified our material issues made on the environment, community, with a comprehensive stakeholder people and the value chain. We would analysis. As we improve our operations like to make new accomplishments by in line with our positive impact goals, sustaining our leading role in this field. we are contributing to the development This year, we have responded to the of thousands of suppliers, dealers, and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate distributors, whom we are cooperating Program and have begun sharing our with in compliance with the Anadolu Efes’ efforts to combat climate change with our labor standards. Thanks to our agricultural stakeholders. R&D program, we have developed our own species of malt barley and hops, which are the primary ingredients of beer. We contributed to the fight against climate change by developing agricultural ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 products that require less water. We also the Four Seasons of Foça (Foça, Izmir), support sustainable development in Birds Calling You (Buldan, Denizli), and an agriculture and the betterment of farmers’ History Break: On the Lycian Way (Demre, welfare. As part of the Contract Purchase Antalya) projects. Model, we cooperate with local farmers to ensure planned production and domestic We are committed to achieving our supply of these products. primary sustainability goals in line with the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact 5 With these efforts, we made significant Plan. I would like to thank our valuable progresses in 2017. We achieved a 15 colleagues, business partners, distributors percent reduction* in energy consumption and dealers, as well as our customers and per product in beer production. Our total all our stakeholders who contributed to greenhouse gas emissions decreased by the sustainable efforts of Anadolu Efes. nine percent*. We decreased our water We are proud to share the details of their consumption by 38 percent and our waste contributions in this report. water discharge by 41 percent*. Kind regards, Additionally, we obtained 72 percent of our raw material from contracted farmers. We GAVIN HUDSON provided 1,600 total hours of training to Beer Group President and 200 manufacturers as part of the Contract Anadolu Efes CEO Purchase Model. We trained 97 percent of our dealers and distributors, providing two hours of training per person and 548 persons/hours in total. We consider social investments an indispensable part of our sustainable business model. We aspire to create a local development model with a focus on tourism. We will provide funding to three tourism projects each year through the “The Future is in Tourism” project, an initiative ran in conjunction with the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the United Nations Development Program. During the reporting period, we supported * In comparison to 2008 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 102-45 About Anadolu Efes Turkey Market Leader We operate in 6 countries and export to more than 70 3 Brewery countries. 7,6 mhl Beer Production Capacity As part of the Anadolu Group, we are the 2 6 fifth-largest brewer in Europe in terms of Malt Production Facility volume and the fifteenth-largest brewer in Thousand Ton Beer the world. We set out in 1969 with just two 118 Production Capacity breweries: one in Istanbul and one in Izmir. Today, we lead the industry with three 1 Hop Processing Facility breweries, two malt facilities and one hop processing facility in Turkey. We operate 11 Beer Consumption per Person in Liters as a major regional player and export to more than 70 countries with 14 breweries, 61%* Market Share five malt production facilities, one hop processing facility and one preform production facilities in six countries. Our Kazakhstan Market Leader beer brands reach over 300 million people. We entered into a strategic partnership 2 Brewery with SABMiller Plc (“SABMiller”) with an eye to expand our area of influence in 2,5 mhl Beer Production Capacity the region. In 2016, Anheuser-Busch Inbev (“AB InBev”), the world’s biggest brewer, 29 Beer Consumption per Person in Liters acquired SAB Miller, distributing 24 percent of its Anadolu Efes shares to AB InBev. 54%* Market Share We take pioneering and innovative steps to advance the sound corporate competencies we have built, and honor our vision with a dynamic and modern * Nielsen organization. ** Gamma Retail Audit *** Company estimate ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Russia Market Position: Second Moldova Market Leader 6 Brewery 1 Brewery 20 mhl Beer Production Capacity 1,3 mhl Beer Production Capacity Beer Consumption per 3 30 7 Malt Production Facility Person in Liters Thousand Ton Malt 110 Production Capacity 61%*** Market Share 1 Preform Production Facility Beer Consumption per Georgia Market Leader 52 Person in Liters 15%* Market Share 1 Brewery 1 mhl Beer Production Capacity Ukraine Market Position: Second Beer Consumption per 23 Person in Liters 1 Brewery 49%** Market Share 3,2 mhl Beer Production Capacity 41 Beer Consumption per Person in Liters 31%* Market Share ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Milestones Anadolu Efes earns the privilege to represent Turkey in sustainable The ISO 14001 Environmental agricultural applications at the 8 Management System set-up at United Nations Conference on all plants is still in place and sees Sustainable Development. continuous improvement. 2004 2011 2012 2013 Anadolu Efes obtains the ISO 50001 Anadolu Efes becomes the first Energy Management Systems Turkish company to be certificate, a first in the industry. included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Anadolu Efes signs the United Nations Global Compact, taking its commitments to a global level. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Anadolu Efes signs CEO Water Mandate, an initiative of the United Nations Global Compact Principles, It becomes the first-ever Turkish 9 becoming the first Turkish company company to be listed in the Vigeo to participate. Eiris Emerging Market 70 Ranking. 2014 2015 2016 2017 Anadolu Efes is included in the BIST Starts responding to Carbon Disclosure (Borsa Istanbul) Sustainability Index. Project (CDP) Climate Reporting. Signs the United Nations Women’s Identifies material issues with a Empowerment Principles (WEPs). comprehensive stakeholder analysis and updates the Positive Impact Plan strategy accordingly. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 2017 Highlights We identified material issues with a comprehensive stakeholder analysis and renewed the Positive Impact Plan strategy. 10 Carbon Disclosure Project We started climate reporting in Turkey. We achieved a 15% reduction* in energy consumption per product in beer production. We decreased our water consumption by 38%, and waste water discharge by 41%*. Our ratio of female executives reached 38%. Our total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 9%*. * Progress in comparison to 2008 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Our accident frequency rate dropped by 32% year-on-year. We trained 97% of our dealers and distributors, providing nearly 2 hours of training per person and 11 ve toplamda 548 person/hours in total. We sourced 72% of our raw material need from contract farmers. We provided 1,600 total hours of training to 200 manufacturers as part of the Contract Purchase Model. We supported the Four Seasons of Foça, Birds Calling You, and an History Break initiatives as part of the “Future is in Tourism” Project. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43 Anadolu Efes We believe it is important to develope international and multi-stakeholder Positive Impact Plan collaboration and emphasize contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals We strive to contribute to socio-economic as part of our impact area. We take part development with a focus on people in global initiatives in material areas as and nature as part of the Positive Impact a signatory of the UN Global Compact, Plan, a plan that defines our sustainability the UNGC CEO Water Mandate, and the 12 strategy. This year, we have revamped Women's Empowerment Principles. the headings and structure of our positive impact strategy. We achieved this by conducting a materiality analysis with Materiality Analysis participation from our stakeholders. We We shaped the four areas of the Positive aim to consistently bolster the effect by Impact Plan according to our material creating a positive impact in four areas: issues. In identifying our material issues, the environment, community , people we consulted with our stakeholders and and the value chain. With the help of our identified common issues by aligning the stakeholders, we are forging ahead to priorities of Anadolu Efes with the company accomplish our goals in these areas. strategy. Stakeholders’ Priorities: We conducted online questionnaires with stakeholders grouped as employees, customers, dealers, suppliers, public institutions, NGOs, and associations. Here, we learnt what they know and expect with regards to priority issues and sustainability. We analyzed global trends, industry priorities, and the views of our stakeholders, and included them in our process. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 13 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 Anadolu Efes Priorities: Material Issues We based our company priorities on the Environment: Water risks and Anadolu Efes and sustainability strategy. management, climate change and energy, Using online questionaires, we collected waste and packaging management, the company priorities of directors to Community: Contribution to the local include in our analysis. We considered economy and social investments, financial, social, environmental risks and People: Talent management and legislative regulations when identifying the growth, occupational health and safety, 14 priorities. employee engagement, Value Chain: Value chain management, supporting sustainable agriculture and farmers, sustainable sourcing, product quality and safety. Materiality Matrix 100 Water Risks and Support for Sustainable Management Agriculture and Importance for Stakeholders 90 Farmers Climate Change and Energy Responsible Human Rights Supply Contributing Employee Occupational to the Local Satisfaction 80 Health and Safety Economy and Talent Product Responsible Value and Management Waste and Packaging Quality Marketing Chain Investment Management and Safety Management 70 Ethics Equal Opportunity Customer 60 and Diversity Satisfaction and Briefing Corporate Management and 50 R&D and Innovation Risk Management 40 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Importance for Anadolu Efes ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 102-40 Stakeholder Engagement Effective and mutual communication with the stakeholders is essential. We are working on maintaining a transparent communication by establishing different 15 communication methods with the different stakeholder groups. We shape our sustainability strategy and efforts in line with the input from our stakeholders and use effective communication methods in keeping with the suggestions and opinions from the different stakeholder groups. We support growth in the industry by collaborating with the stakeholders. Stakeholder Group Method of Communication Satisfaction surveys, internal communication magazine, quarterly bulletins, intranet portal, Anadolu Efes Quality Circles, events and voluntary activities, Employees OHS Board meetings, annual and sustainability reports, websites, stakeholder analysis Meetings and conferences, annual and sustainability reports, websites, Public Institutions stakeholder analysis, one-on-one meetings, effective relationship management, lobbying activities One-on-one meetings, annual and sustainability reports, websites, stakeholder Distributors and Dealers analysis One-on-one meetings, audits and trainings, annual and sustainability reports, Suppliers websites, stakeholder analysis Joint projects, collaborations, meeting and workshop group participation, Associations and NGOs seminars and conferences, annual and sustainability reports, websites, stakeholder analysis General assembly meetings, material disclosures, press releases, one-on-one meetings, correspondences, conferences, intermediary Shareholders, Investors and Analysts institution/bank reports, seasonal briefing, annual and sustainability reports, websites, stakeholder analysis Internship programs, career days, conferences, websites, annual and Universities sustainability reports, stakeholder analysis ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Memberships and Working Groups We believe that sustainable progress is only possible through collaboration with all stakeholders. That’s why we participate in various associations and initiatives and assume an active leadership in working groups. 16 Participation in Associations and Initiatives Beer and Malt Producers' Association (BMUD) Brewers of Europe (BOE) Corporate Communicators Association Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Corporate Relations Institute Environmental Protection Foundation (ÇEVKO) Ethics and Reputation Society (TEID) Food and Drink Industry Associations of Turkey Federation (TGDF) International Investors Association (YASED) Manufacturers and Importers Association of Alcoholic Beverages (ALKİDER) Private Sector Volunteers Association Public Communication and Corporate Relations Management Association (KIYED) Sustainability Academy Sustainable Development Association The Union of Chambres and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey (TOBB) Third Sector Foundation of Turkey Turkey Quality Association Turkey Seed Industry Association (TURKTED) Turkish Industry & Business Association (TUSIAD) UN Global Compact (UNGC) ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholders’ Views TÜSİAD Chairman Erol Bilecik “In order to accomplish our Sustainable Development Goals, we need to abandon our usual business approach and come up with 17 more inclusive and innovative solutions. I believe Anadolu Efes is leading the industry and the entire business community by example with its steps to achieve more efficient water and energy usage as well as reduced environmental impact through waste and packaging management. TÜSİAD recognizes and encourages industry leaders to expand their present resources, sustainability experience and overall vision throughout the whole value chain. In line with this vision, Anadolu Efes supports its suppliers as part of the agriculture support programs and advocates for more eco-friendly and more effective production. Anadolu Efes has turned social benefit into corporate culture through their sports, culture, arts and tourism projects, particularly those that serve the local economy. I am pleased to see that for many years it has enjoyed a well-deserved reputation in the eyes of all stakeholders. I would also like to congratulate Anadolu Efes for its transparent communication with stakeholders, its upholding of international standards, and for leading the industry by raising the reporting standards each year.” ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Under the leadership of our CEO, all country directors are responsible for Management sustainability efforts in their own countries. We have completed this year’s materiality An effective and transparent management analysis, identifying material issues and is key to delivering the Positive Impact Plan, revising the positive impact model with or our sustainability vision. We pursue the the contributions and support of our CEO. sustainability goals and efforts under the We intend to go forward with the Positive 18 helm of the CEO with participation from all Impact Working Group, which we have countries. created to monitor progress of our goals and performance. We are aware that the goals we set can be achieved through a system Meanwhile, we continue to monitor our that encompasses all operations and sustainability performance and progress employees. This year, we are increasing through our KPIs. KPIs are also used in our efforts to complete our new structure. our executives’ individual performance assessments. Sustainability Committee and Working Group Chairman: CEO Sustainability Committee: Coordinator and Secretariat: Country Directors Corporate Communications Positive Impact Working Group Technic, Planning and Logictics, Sales and Marketing, HR, Financial Affairs, Investor Relations Representatives ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Ethical and Transparent Governance Ethical and transparent governance underlies our sustainability efforts and business practices. To this end, Anadolu 19 Efes Business Ethics Principles provide the necessary guidance. These principles define the code of conduct at Anadolu Efes in a variety of aspects including: human rights, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, responsible drinking and environmental responsibility. Breach of these principles may be tipped off anonymously on the efesethicsline websites or by calling a telephone hotline set up for each country. An independent company reviews these tip-offs and resolves them by taking necessary measures. Group Ethics Committee reviews the breaches and decides on appropriate disciplinary actions. Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct and Ethics is available on http://www.anadoluefes.com/ dosya/calismaprensipleri_in/anadoluefes-code-of-business-conduct-andethics.pdf ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Environment Environment energy management standards, such as ISO 50001 and ISO 14001. Additionally, in line with our sustainability goals, we We are a brewer that sources its main monitor our environmental performance raw materials from nature. As such, we and regularly and transparently share it consider environmental sustainability our with our stakeholders. responsibility to future generations and an essential element of long-term success. We seek solutions to environmental issues 22 by collaborating with our stakeholders We adopt innovative technologies and across local and international platforms. approaches and use natural resources As a member of the Turkish Industry and responsibly with our peopleand ecoBusiness Association (TÜSİAD) Energy friendly business model. We are proactive Working Group, we support energy about managing environmental risks. We efficiency efforts in the private sector. make regular investments to improve our As a member of the TÜSİAD Food, Drink efficiency and reduce our environmental and Agriculture Working Group and the footprint across our value chain. In line with Sustainable Development Association our aim to lead the industry, we inspire (SKD) Sustainable Agriculture and Access positive change and create awareness to Food Working Group, we help improve through collaborative efforts with our sustainability in agriculture. Also, as a stakeholders. member of the Environmental Protection Foundation (ÇEVKO), we continue to We have established climate change and support projects tackling the issue of energy management, water management, packaging waste. and waste and packaging management as material areas of the Positive Impact We believe our employees greatly Plan. This is based on external trends and contribute towards improving our the opinions of our stakeholders. environmental performance and creating awareness. We provided 1,327 person/hour Our Environment, Energy, Climate Change training to our employees in this reporting and Water policy governs the way we period. In the same period, we invested manage our environmental impact. and spent over $2.3 million for We aim to perform beyond the legal the environment. requirements in our areas of operation with a systematic approach. We take the necessary measures by assessing environmental risks in accordance with our risk management system. We maintain operations in compliance with internationally accepted environment and ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Climate Change and In 2017, we began reporting our Energy Management climate change strategy, goals and performance in Turkey Climate change is regarded as one of operations as part of the CDP the gravest issues faced by humanity Climate Program. We also had due to its impact on the environment and our greenhouse emissions data wildlife, as well as on community and the verified. 23 economy. The impact of climate change poses a risk to many areas of our business, such as lower productivity in barley and 2020 Goal hops farming, pressure on declining water sources, and increased risks on the Decrease the energy physical assets caused by more frequent consumption per and severe weather events. product by 17% in We aim to reduce our greenhouse gas comparison to 2008. emissions by using energy sources more efficiently. This is part of our 2017 continued effort to fight climate change Performance and its effects. In conjunction with our sustainability goals, we monitor our We reduced energy energy and greenhouse gas emissions consumption per performance according to international product by 15% in Environment standards. beer production. We conduct work in a wide variety of areas, including investment in lowemissions new technologies, initiatives that encourage a behavioral change in energy efficiency, investment in energy-efficient coolers, and optimization in the logistics network. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Beer Production 2015 2016 2017 Energy Consumption 846,804,765 799,104,619 752,022,286 (kWh) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1&2 264,907 252,695 249,288 – ton CO2e) Malt Production 2015 2016 2017 24 Energy Consumption 175,152,105 159,438,688 165,515,864 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1&2 43,472 41,215 40,358 – ton CO2e) Beer Energy Consumption Per Product Malt Energy Consumption Per Product 42.4 45 41.4 40.9 1,013 1,005 1,100 981 40 35.9 922 1,000 35 9,000 30 800 2008 2015 2016 2017 2008 2015 2016 2017 Energy Consumption Per Product (kWh/hl) Energy Consumption Per Product (kWh/ton) Greenhouse Gas Emissions 308,379 6% reduction Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 310,000 305,000 300,000 293,911 295,000 289,646 290,000 285,000 280,000 2015 2016 2017 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 During the reporting period, we conducted Water Management energy efficiency improvements in all our facilities, which helped achieving significant energy savings and mitigating greenhouse One of the building blocks of sustainable gas emissions. The improvements in development is access to sufficient amount heating and cooling processes in Russia of hygienic and healthy water for all living operations saved nearly 5.5 million beings. Water resources are depleting due kWh of energy consumption. Process to a myriad reasons such as increasingly 25 improvement and automation investments frequent droughts brought on by climate in Georgia facilities provided more than change, and rising consumption and 1.3 million kWh of energy savings as well pollution because of growing global as over $75,000 in financial savings. population. According to the “Turkey's We saved 320,000 kWh by transitioning Water Risks Report” by the WWF, 80 into LED technology in the lighting countries that account for 40 percent of systems in Kazakhstan and Moldova. the world's population experience water We also attained nearly 1.8 million kWh shortages. In line with the population of savings by transitioning into LED lighting growth projections, Turkey is expected technology, investing in the reuse of to become a water poor country by waste-heat, and automating processes 2030 based on per capita water amount in Turkey facilities. classification. Energy Efficiency in Coolers At a time with higher water risk projections, We have coolers in sales and consumption we are aware of our duty to come up with a solution as a beverage company Environment points so as to present our products to customers in high quality and in ideal that needs water in every stage of its tasting conditions. We are conducting value chain. Effective water management energy efficiency improvements in the is essential for the sustainability of our coolers to reduce energy consumption, operations. Water makes up a significant increase performance and minimize portion of our products. It is intensely environmental impact. We save 0.5 kWh used in barley and hops agriculture per cooler annually as a result of the as well as in every single stage from transition investment into next generation production processes to packaging. As models with electronic thermostats. The part of the Positive Impact Plan, water share of next generation coolers in the total risks and management are among our top rose to 35 percent. priorities to help support the Sustainable Development Goals and become a reliable neighbor by monitoring our social and environmental impact, in addition to ensuring continuity in production. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We manage all our operations with a commitments. In 2017, we continued to responsible attitude that secures water lead the Water Working Group of the resources and the needs of future Sustainable Development Association of generations, and with an eye for constant Turkey. improvement. We run water management operations in compliance with the Anadolu In order to accomplish our commitment Efes Water Policy, which outlines our to produce more while consuming less strategic approach about the matter. water, we constantly invest in projects 26 that improve operational water efficiency. Having including water management Each country operation under Anadolu in the corporate risk management, we Efes contributes to reduction of water monitor our performance systematically consumption per unit product by making with short and medium-term tangible progress on its own goals. goals. We regularly assess water risks across our value chain, and take necessary measures. We encourage our people to develop innovative approaches to 2020 Goal using water efficiently at workplace by monitoring our water usage as part of key Reduce water performance indicators of the company as consumption and waste well as of individual KPIs of our executives. water discharge by 30% in comparison We aspire to achieve stakeholder to 2008. participation and develop collaborations locally and internationally in order to reinforce our water management efforts 2017 and create a positive impact. In 2014, we Performance became the first Turkish company to sign the UNGC CEO Water Mandate initiative, We surpassed our goals which mobilizes business leaders to with a 38% decrease find sustainable solutions to water risks. in water consumption Accordingly, we provide all stakeholders and nearly 41% drop in with sustainability reports to give regular waste water discharge. and transparent updates about our performance on water management ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We saved nearly 200,000 m3 of water as Beer Water Consumption per Product a result of many water efficiency projects we carried our during the reporting period such as water reuse, insulation, eliminating 6.0 leaks, reverse osmosis, recycling, and 4.0 optimization of current lines. 2.0 The aim of our water management 0.0 27 initiative is to minimize our environmental impact while discharging minimum 2008 2015 2016 2017 amount of waste water by implementing Water Consumption per Product (hl/hl) practices that go beyond the legislation in the areas we operate. Total Water Consumption Malt Water Consumption per Product 9.8 9.6 8.3 6.3 6.4 6.3 9.6 9.3 9.0 9.4 Environment 9.2 9.0 8.8 8.6 2008 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Water Consumption (million m3) Water Consumption per Product (m3/tonl) ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Waste and Packaging We assume responsibility to decrease the waste arising from our operations as well Management as the packaging waste created by our products. Packaging materials are needed We recognize the importance of waste to present our products to consumers management for efficient use of our with perfect quality and hygiene, but their resources and effectively managing waste creates an environmental impact our environmental impact. We aim to after consumption. To mitigate the impact, 28 create minimum level of waste across the we decrease the use of packaging through value chain of our products. Our waste innovative approaches and prefer reusable management initiatives comply with or recyclable packaging materials with the legislation in the areas we operate low environmental impact. To this end, and with our Environment Policy. And we collaborate with multiple departments. our efforts range from preventing waste creation at the source, to implementing Innovative design, R&D and supplier innovative practices that improve resource collaborations play an essential role in efficiency in production, and increasing packaging material optimization. We the use of recycled materials. As part of saved over $85,000 in the reporting period the waste and packaging management, as a result of the efforts such as reducing our sustainability goals include constantly packaging thickness, using less material in developing new methods to increase painting and printing processes through waste recovery rate and to use more innovative approaches, and decreasing efficient materials. the waste created by optimizing the pallets used to transport products. We manage waste systematically at all our facilities with the objective of minimizing the amount of waste sent to landfills. We take steps for recovery and recycling of all waste, ranging from all kinds of waste created during production to electronic waste created at the offices. During the reporting period, we recycled over 34 tons of waste by working with a new supplier for the green and brown color glass waste, which we weren't able to recycle at the Russia operations. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We adopt the same approach in our value We prefer reusable and recyclable chain to encourage our suppliers to use materials, and encourage our own supply these packaging materials, expanding chain to this end. As part of our efforts in our sphere of positive impact by entering compliance with the country regulations into collaborations with the suppliers and where we operate, Turkey operations rank NGOs. first with 56.4 percent use of steel barrel and reusable glass. Turkey 29 Steel Barrel 11.3% One-way packaging recycling rate soared to 80 percent in Turkey as a result of the One-way (No 12.7% efforts by the ÇEVKO Foundation, of which Refund) Glass Bottle we are a founder. Reusable Glass 45.1% Bottle Aluminum Can 30.9% Post-use recycling rates of our products: steel barrels: 99%; ANADOLU EFES plastic PE; 95%; 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT REPORT glass bottles; 93%. ICITY TR EC Annual household EL electricity consumption of MORE THAN 27,000 ER families TO DATE Annual household AT Annual household W 455 electricity consumption water consumption of OF MORE THAN 195,000 families families TO DATE UELS IL F Annual household SS water consumption of Environment O MORE THAN MORE THAN F 11,000 4,000 families gas tanks of fuel saving TO DATE MORE THAN 54,000 gas tanks of fuel saving EE TR AGE OR ST 1,000 59 soccer fields of storage area decare of forest land TO DATE MORE THAN 10,000 371 TO DATE decare of forest land soccer fields of storage area ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 30 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Community Community Global trends such as climate change and resource scarcity increasingly undermine agricultural production. We recognize We believe that the social projects the important share of agriculture in developed in collaboration with different local economy and support sustainable business partners play a crucial role in agriculture of barley and hops, our two social development. Social investments main production ingredients. make up a significant part of the Positive Impact Plan of Anadolu Efes. Our 32 peopleand eco-friendly business model In Russia, we revamped designed with this mindset supports social 76 water sources since development projects. 2010 as part of the project that aims to We align our social investment projects decrease the use of with the Sustainable Development Goals water and give local (SDG). This year, we maintained our efforts communities access to in Turkey by focusing on tourism, culture, clean drinking water. arts and sports. In addition, we continued to develop projects that focus on people, Thanks to our efforts, the environment and agriculture in the every year more than countries where we operate. 150,000 people can access to clean water in Contributing to the Russia. Local Economy We provide support for the The Future is sustainability of barley and in Tourism hops farming. Turkey's tourism potential is vital to We base our social sustainable approach country's economic growth. We believe that to the local economy and society's sustainable tourism will create a source social development. With our industry's of income for the local community. In this power to create jobs, we boost local regard, we aspire to create a tourism-driven employment and support local production. local development model through the “The We contribute to the local economy, Future is in Tourism” project, an initiative from production to employment, with launched in 2007 in conjunction with the our positive impact approach in the six Republic of Turkey Ministry of countries where we operate. Also, we Culture and Tourism and the United source products through local channels, Nations Development Program. preventing dependency to imported supplies. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholders’ Views Bülent Açıkgöz, UNDP Inclusive Sustainable Growth Portfolio Manager “Future is in Tourism is one of the finest examples of partnership between public and private sectors and international organizations. It has an important place in the agenda of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). For 11 years, we have been conducting the 'Future is in Tourism' project in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and Anadolu Efes. The work began in 2007 with DATUR and in 2013 grew 33 into a small-scale program we called Sustainable Tourism Support Fund. Every year, we made a request for grants so as to develop sustainable tourism models that could be scalable locally and also repeatable. To date, we have supported 15 grant projects in Turkey's different regions. As part of the Future is in Tourism project we have made and − will continue to make − direct and indirect contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals through initiatives supporting local economy, incentives for local businesses, employment creation, preserving social and cultural values, protecting biological diversity, waste management, gender equality, and efficient use of energy. In an effort to advocate community-based tourism approach and expand tourism to four seasons, we provide support by taking into consideration sustainable tourism criteria in diverse fields such as eco-tourism and cultural, rural, gastronomy, nature, experience or volunteer tourism. In all these initiatives, our fundamental goal is to accomplish social transformation, development and local growth by using sustainable tourism as an instrument of local development. The Future is in Tourism initiative lend great support in terms of creating awareness in tourism, diversifying and expanding tourism to all seasons in different regions, building partnerships, and in particular, creating employment for women. Also, studies support the idea of developing diverse types of tourism – one of the main ideas of the Turkish Tourism Strategy-2023 – in accordance with the economic, cultural, social and environmental sustainability principles and by focusing on tourism’s local economic development aspect with a community based approach.” Initially set out as the Eastern Anatolia We fund three tourism projects each year as Community Tourism Development Project (DATUR), part of the project. In addition, we boost the the initiative bolstered the local economy growth and development of tourism in Turkey with the creation of over 20 lodging houses through the projects for which we provide and a number of NGOs servicing the consulting, mentoring and communication tourism industry. Interest from domestic support. To date, we have supported tourism and foreign tourist has been built by projects in 13 cities with a mission of cultural activities such as festivals and bird watching development. excursions with an emphasis on ecological richness. Development of the sustainable During this reporting period, The Future is tourism model has given rise to a system in Tourism project was named the Best to provide livelihood for the local people Corporate Social Responsibility Project at while preserving the region's natural the TÜHİD Golden Compass Public Relations characteristics. Awards. It received the Sustainability Refik ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Baydur Special Award at the TISK Corporate Social Responsibility Awards; the Gold Medal in the Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders’ Views Category at the Hermes Creativity Awards; and the Bronze Medal for Europe's Best TUDER Social Responsibility Project at the Stevie “Four Seasons of Foça project has made an Awards. immense impact in demonstrating the range of available activities in Foça. Communication Projects Supported 34 efforts exhibiting the sustainable tourism in 2017 potential, especially in and around the town, have helped expand the horizon of the visitors, local administration and tourism businesses. Foça and During the reporting period, we launched the project have gained publicity as a result of the following projects: the Four Seasons activities on social media, and also on the visual of Foça (Foça, Izmir), Birds Calling You and print media. (Buldan, Denizli), and A History Break: On the Lycian Way (Demre, Antalya). Even tough the project has ended, communication and promotion initiatives that began with the Four Seasons of Foça (Foça, Izmir) project still continue. The Sustainable Tourism Plan We aim to introduce eco-friendly we have developed serves as the roadmap for the production and business models to Association's future ventures. The efforts under the tourism by supporting sustainable tourism project have bolstered the local trust to the Foça operations. Foça is a great example TUDER. It has helped improve the competencies in for sustainable tourism with a diverse terms of running a project and creating a common range of production activities such as language within the Association. traditional viticulture, fruit and vegetable farming, olive cultivation and coastal We have also learned many things from the Ministry fishing. Subsequently, a comprehensive of Culture and Tourism, the Anadolu Efes and UNDP sustainable tourism plan has been Turkey teams, as well as the project consultants.’’ developed for Foça in collaboration with the Town Governorship and the Municipality of Foça. With participation of all partners, four-season activities have been identified and a map of marketable handicrafts and industrial products have been created for Foça. Four Seasons of Foça has been turned into a brand name and tourism businesses have been trained to help with adoption of the sustainable tourism approach in Foça. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Birds Calling You (Buldan, Denizli) Stakeholders’ Views Buldan Yayla Lake is a natural eco-tourism area, thanks to a wide range of bird types Birds Calling You and rich biodiversity. We have conducted “Our 25 years of sustainable local development work to promote the area to unearth the efforts in Buldan have picked up momentum in potential presented by the Buldan district recent three years with the 'Birds Calling You' of Denizli. We have identified 163 different 35 project, run in collaboration with Anadolu Efes as types of birds by taking an inventory part of the 'Future is in Tourism' initiative. Buldan of the birds in the area. The region has became more popular across the country. The turned into an eco-tourism attraction with eco-system and bird diversity of Yayla Lake were the creation of an alternative walking recognized. Bird watchers, photographers, nature route. Local women have been trained lovers and trekking groups started trips to the area. on weaving the Yayla Lake birds on the Buldan weavers began to embroider bird motifs on Buldan fabrics, boasting 8,000 years local handicrafts. Visitors to the town show higher of cultural heritage. Local economy interest in the products with bird motifs. has received a boost as a result of the exemplary sustainable tourism project. “Hoşgör's Dance with Birds” took place on September 1, 2018 in the ancient city of Tripolis. The event was put together by a team of designers under the helm of Prof. Günay Atalayer, an esteemed lecturer in textiles and the author of the books, Buldan Weaving and Buldan Weaving Community Types. (Hoşgör is a fabric specific to Buldan.) In October 7, Yayla Lake is set to host the European bird watching day, which will be celebrated in various locations around the world. A series of events are taking place in Buldan driven by the synergy created by the project. And the momentum is growing each day. We are confident that the local people have more to gain.” ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 A History Break: On the Lycian Way (Antalya-Demre) Stakeholders’ Views The Lycian Way is Turkey's first longdistance and the world's 10th longest A History Break: On the Lycian walking route. The region possesses a Way significant tourism potential; the project “A History Break: On the Lycian Way project has created awareness for sustainable by our Association has played a vital role in tourism and accomplished continuity of 36 setting an example. The project has become local production with the items made a exemplary model for the villages on the by local women. Women who run the same route. Kapaklı Hoyran Culture, Tourism buildings in Kapaklı and Hoyran as and Development Association is a spin-off cafeteria have began earning revenues as from one of the project initiatives which is now a result of the project which also aims to participating in new projects and activities. In empower women. May, two volunteers from Austria gave English lessons to the locals and worked at the cafeteria. Also, following the training provided during Culture and Arts the project, eight Kapaklı families have began generating an income from the lodging-house Support for culture and arts events is business they commenced last summer. vital for socio-cultural development. Acknowledging the role of businesses The Culture Routes Association and its in social development, we have been supporters create myriad events with regards continuously supporting theater since to post-project sustainability.” 1992 and cinema since 1988. Our culture and arts investments initially began with the support in 1992 for the Evita musical in Istanbul. Today, we continue to support Turkey's major theaters with the likes of Dostlar Theater, Kenter theater, and Oyun Atölyesi. We help theater reach out to wider audiences and promote development of theater culture in Turkey with over 700 plays staged to date under Anadolu Efes' support. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We attach importance to development of The projects carried out under the auspices cinema in Turkey and contribute Turkey of Anadolu Efes Sports Club help us reach cinema's publicity in international venues. out to millions of people. We have created Between 1990 and 2016, we were Turkish awareness for breast cancer with the Cinema and International Competition Pembe Top Sahada (Pink Ball on the Pitch) theme supporter as part of the Istanbul project. We have delivered thousands Foundation for Culture and Arts (IKSV) of books to disadvantaged children and supported award-winning films with the Bir Kitap da Sen Getir (Bring a 37 by prominent movie directors of Turkish Book) project. We have helped social cinema such as Nuri Bilge Ceylan, Yeşim development of more than 15 children in Ustaoğlu, Derviş Zaim, Reha Erdem, Semih need of protection with the One-Team Kaplanoğlu and Zeki Demirkubuz. To date, Koruncuk Foundation project. On March 21 the films we have supported have received World Down Syndrome Day, children with 76 national and international festival Down Syndrome accompanied the team awards. to the away game in Lithuania to create awareness for Down Syndrome. Anadolu Efes Social projects by Anadolu Efes Sports Sports Club Club have received countless awards. Anadolu Efes is the only Turkish team to Established in 1976, Anadolu Efes Sports receive the Euroleague Devotion Award. Club stands as our greatest social And, it has represented our country with investment in sports with countless success by becoming the only team to accomplishments under its belt, including receive the award three times. Anadolu Community the European Cup. Efes has successfully represented the basketball ecosystem, taking two Felis and Anadolu Efes is the first team to every one Achievement awards in three different play in the Euroleague Final Four, proving categories at the MediaCat Felis Awards. It the vital role that the businesses play in has won the Social Responsibility Project advancement of culture, arts and sports. of the Year prize with the Bring a Book We are very motivated to maintain our Project at the awards organized by Aydın support for the Turkish sports and remain University. committed to fostering Turkish basketball. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 38 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 People People origin, as we pursue equal opportunity and offer equal opportunity for equal work. The focus of our business is people. Anadolu Efes Human Resources Policy is This approach provides guidance to available at http://www.anadoluefes.com. talent management, which makes the tr/human-resources/hr-policy utmost contribution to our company's performance and success. Directed with the principles of transparency and integrity, Diversity 40 our Human Resources Policy serves as the foundation of our relations with the employees and the values we embrace We recruit women at all levels. Women account for 25 percent lead the way for constant improvement of of our 5,305 employees from the practices we offer to our employees. different countries. In the multi-national and -cultural work We recognize the business benefits of environment of Anadolu Efes, we place embracing differences, diversity and equal emphasis on providing the employees opportunity at the multi-national and with the tools to help improve their talents -cultural Anadolu Efes. We support goals of and on supporting their productivity and achieving gender equality and reducing all creativity. We draw strength from our forms of inequality, to which the business differences and cultural diversity at the community can make a substantial workplace. As a company with operations contribution globally. in different countries, we perform our work with responsibility by complying with the Studies¹ reveal that higher diversity and Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct women's employment at companies can and Ethics. generate a growth of $28 trillion in the global economy by 2025. To leverage In addition to the principles adopted at the this potential, Anadolu Efes supports company, we maintain our commitment recruitment of women at all levels in line to providing a fair, equal and safe work with global objectives. Women account for environment with respect to human rights 25 percent of our 5,305 employees from as a signatory to the UN Global Compact different countries. We have diverse talents and the Women’s Empowerment Principles in our organization. Of our total workforce, (WEPs). Our Human Resource processes blue and white collar workers account for never discriminate against employees 59 percent and 41 percent, respectively. based on religion, language, race or ethnic ¹ Women Matter Turkey, 2016, http://www.mckinsey.com.tr/arastirma-ve-yayinlarimiz/WomenMatterTurkey2016Report.pdf ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Employees per Category and Gender Employees per Gender 59% 41% 75% 25% 3,124 2,181 41 White Collar Blue Collar Male Female Employees per Category Employees per Operation Area 14% 86% 303 1,878 27% 44% Blue 1,549 2,346 Collar 7% White 388 Collar 13% 8% 32% 68% 700 423 People 1,004 2,120 Female Male Turkey Russia Moldova Kazakhstan Georgia Ratio of our female executives rose to 38 percent in 2017, up from 29 percent in 2016. We create a work environment that allows For the sake of diversity, we care for hiring our employees to freely exercise their executives from different cultures. Foreign association and union rights in all countries nationals make up eight percent of our where unions can be formed. In 2017, executives. the ratio of employees working under a collective bargaining agreement was 19 percent. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Talent Management We aim each employee to benefit from any of the development programs without discrimination or getting tied to any The only way for sustainable success in category. One of our important projects is our industry is to acquire and retain talent the Special Assessment Center, aiming to at our company. We aspire to become an strengthen the sales teams. employer brand that is preferred the first and the most. We have developed the Technical Talent 42 and Development Project to bolster the The company's first priority is to help growth of the technical function. This improve employees' diverse talents project aims to define our workforce's and competencies with various training technical know-how and skills and programs. We do so by focusing on our behavioral competencies, devise industry's requirements and different development and career planning process, needs of the employees. The core of our and built the infrastructure to create the talent management approach is to build technical teams' succession plans. In 2017, a progress-driven, motivated and highly we have provided an average of 11.3 hours engaged workforce that functions as a of training per person. team with a focus on the company's future and strategic objectives. We assess the Anadolu Efes Turkey Academy potential of all employees through talent Anadolu Efes Academy is our widely used and succession programs, and build electronic education platform, providing and update a talent succession map. access to education through technological We also devise leadership programs to means. Anadolu Efes Academy stands internally fill the company vacancies and by our employees in every phase of their allow employees discover managerial lives by offering hobby-based training as competencies to fulfill their potential. well as professional training. Employees Expanding the scope of employee growth can access the Academy on any device, opportunities is part of our objectives. anywhere and anytime they wish by selecting the training modules from the Personalized management approach is catalog. the foundation of all our programs. We provide training programs that allow We place great emphasis on providing the different functions to keep up with the employees with training that will help them trends and improve their technical and demonstrate their potential and develop leadership skills. We offer competency leadership skills. Our leadership programs development training for all and manage are implemented in multiple countries and it with a development catalog featuring present a substantial avenue for talent both in-class and digital learning methods management. based on the company's strategic priorities. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We also develop mentorship programs to As part of the project, managers are benefit from the talents' experiences. All of assessed in terms of managerial skills by our white collar workers are using Anadolu their direct reporting lines. The assessments Efes Academy. are transparently shared during the project in which the executive teams improve on Anadolu Efes Turkey Leadership their managerial skills by receiving onePathway 2020 on-one coaching. Since the launch of the Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 project, 70 executives joined this program. 43 (AELP2020) is a corporate leadership development program for middle and Special Blend senior managers. As part of the program, We implement the Özel Harman (Special managers develop competencies that will Blend) mentorship program that allows constantly advance their performance in executives to share years of know-how a business world transformed by future and experience with new generations. trends. The AELP2020 Program provides This program enables our executives to the tools, technical and professional skills pass on their know-how and experience our managers need to attain a common to the young talents in the company. The leadership approach and language process greatly helps our employees with in the fulfillment of their duties and leadership skills development and personal responsibilities. Employees trained within growth. This year, 15 people took part in the the scope of AELP2020 work on Action program. Learning Projects, enabling progress in business results and honing corporate If I Were You Mentorship Program and individual skills. The program offers We have developed the Sen Olsam (If I e-learning opportunities for executives and Were You) mentorship program to built People directors, as well as one-on-one coaching a communication bridge between the and pier-coaching, and provides in-depth millennials and executives. Created to align analysis through case studies. To date, 80 different characteristics of generations executives enrolled in the program. for a common goal, the programs aims to keep up with the evolving trends; Support and Communication understand technology, social media, and Development Project the youth's expectations as well as their This project helps identify the strengths and perspective on leadership and on the areas of improvement of the managers and industry; an eventually share these insights directors and support their improvement. It directly with the executives. has been devised to improve the executives' leadership and managerial skills, as well as situational leadership competencies, and get an insight on how they are perceived by their teams. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Performance We monitor the OHS performance benchmarks in all our facilities. We Management manage OHS processes in 16 facilities in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 Performance management system is management standard. one of the most important tools to help employees improve their performance. At the beginning of each year, we identify 44 employees' professional and personal development goals and have them monitor these systematically through the 51% 49% Performance Management System, which encompasses all white collar workers. 64 percent of our employees go through the performance evaluation,² a decisive OHS Trainings Other Trainings factor when setting salaries and benefits. Occupational Health Training is crucial in explaining employees and creating awareness on and Safety the requirements of a healthy and safe workplace. In 2017, OHS training made up Offering our employees a safe workplace 49 percent of all training sessions. is the building stone of our business. Efficiency and motivation rise significantly The safety handbooks created as part when employees feel safe. We take of the Anadolu Efes Golden Safety Rules very seriously all of the processes in describe in detail the working principles, Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), an risks and the necessary personal protective essential component of the international equipment. regulations we support. We have reduced the number of accidents Our target in occupational health and and achieved an 11.02 percent accident safety, which is now a strategic business frequency with a 32 percent drop yeartarget at the top management level, on-year by providing training, enforcing is to achieve zero work accidents and preventive practices and increasing occupational disease. employee awareness. And we did not encounter any occupational diseases or We care about our employees' health deadly accidents. and provide them with health checks and consultancy by specialist health teams. 2 The scope of performance management in Kazakhstan has also been extended to blue-collar employees. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Accident Frequency Rate *Accident Frequency Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total working hours Lost Days rate Lost Days Rate: Total Days Lost x 200,000 / Total working hours 16.09 18.00 45 15.00 10.96 11.02 12.00 9.00 6.00 1.80 2.10 2.10 3.00 0.00 2015 2016 2017 Occupational Health and Safety We have prepared various posters, Committees gather each month with banners and visual to create awareness representatives from the employees and on OHS. In 2017, we used the My Friend is management to discuss all OHS related Protected slogan for the incentive reward matters and required measures. The mechanisms developed to raise employee Committee includes senior management, awareness on risk reporting. People on-site doctor and workplace safety experts. Union representatives, foremen and employee representatives also support Committee's work. Senior management is informed about the Committee's assessments and analyses. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan My Life, Anadolu Efes Quality Circles My Safety Anadolu Efes Quality Circles project My Life, My Safety program is offers employees a platform on which implemented to raise awareness in each creative ideas are presented and all employee, independent of position or issues about the work and processes are category, on safe conduct and a healthy discussed. It provides the employees with workplace. The three-tier structure − My tangible benefits such as responsibility, Safety at Work, My Safety at the Office, self-actualization, better innovative and 46 and My Safety on the Road − provides creative thinking, and job satisfaction. safety information on all aspects of life and draws employees' attention to things to Employee Events watch out for outside the work. We hold widely-participated activities throughout the year for the employees Employee in different departments and cities. The activities aim to reinforce communication, Engagement collaboration and team-work on a platform that brings everyone together. Our people-centric approach reflects We have held innovative conferences and on employee communication as well. workshops such as, Personal Motivation We attach great importance to internal Management, Success is a Choice, Give communication and adopt bi-directional Feedback for Progress, helping the communication methods to improve employees improve their competencies to interdepartmental collaboration and collaborate. flow of information within the company. Internal communication magazine, quarterly bulletins and the intranet portal allow employees to keep up with all operational developments, while the events and volunteering activities we hold help enhance communication between the employees. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Anadolu Efes Moldova Dialogue Meetings Employees and executives communicate at the Dialogue Meetings, held in a casual setting attended by plant managers. Employees share their Anadolu Efes experiences both with executives and team members as well as ask questions and 47 make suggestions about the company practices. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan Communication Sessions Meetings are held with the employees to assess various human resources practices and projects such as the employee engagement survey results and the BiFikir (AnIdea) innovation program. Business Visits and communication events continue in four regions, responding to issues experienced especially by blue collar workers. Corporate media tools are used proactively at Efes Kazakhstan with the employees regularly updated about new recruits, birthdays, awards and companyPeople wide changes. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 48 Value Chain ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Value Chain The 2015 Code of Conduct for Suppliers set the standards on human rights, working conditions, and environmental and We strive to make a positive impact for business ethics. We guide Anadolu Efes all stakeholders while managing our suppliers regarding the standards they constantly growing eco-system as the fifthare required to comply with. We regularly largest brewer in Europe and the fifteenthinspect the suppliers for compliance to the largest in the world. We bring social code of conduct. and economic added value to business 50 partners through practices on the value chain that includes producers, customers, suppliers, dealers and distributors. We Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct for Suppliers is available at http://www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/ develop partnerships and collaborations kurumsal-politikalar/anadolu-efes-codeto solidify the value chain. Our priorities of-conduct-for-suppliers.pdf include responsible sourcing, supporting farmers and sustainable agriculture and Anadolu Efes Russia Supplier offering customers high-quality and safe Partnership Program products. We aspire to foster our main suppliers for raw material Activities geared towards developing the and packaging through the value chain also contribute to the United Supplier Partnership Program Nations 2030 Sustainable Development in Anadolu Efes Russia. This Goals. program includes approving and inspecting suppliers, service Suppliers, Dealers and quality management, and and Distributors supplier assessment, in addition to holding regular meetings We advocate growth of the suppliers, with the strategic raw material dealers and distributors we work with by suppliers. guiding them in adopting to the Anadolu Efes working standards. Long-term We offer our products to more than 300 partnerships with stakeholders enable us to million people through an extensive progress together. In 2017, the value chain dealer and distributor network. We hold comprised of more than 6,200 suppliers training sessions to boost occupational and nearly 350 dealers and distributors. development of the business partners at sales points. In 2017, we provided 97 We lead and train our business partners percent of the dealers and distributors to accomplish our economic, social and nearly two hours of training per person environmental objectives together. and 548 person/hours in total. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Based on the business partners' needs We collaborate with the Boğaziçi University in each country, we tailor professional Lifelong Education Center (BÜYEM) in development programs. Our 2017 training our dealers and distributors. curriculum covered diverse subjects such We create the two-year programs with as Bushidoness, professional management BÜYEM and give completion certificates skills, business and profitability, to successful participants. As part of the communication, finance, mental programs, we have provided training to infrastructure. 123 dealers on business and profitability, 51 law, communication and finance. Stakeholders' Views Burak Atalay Sales and Marketing Vice President, Şişecam Glass Packaging Group Turkey “Responsible production and consumption is one of 17 Global Goals that make up the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. An integrated approach is crucial for progress across the multiple goals. Sisecam Glass Packaging Group is committed to contribute to this goal and 2030 Agenda. We greatly appreciate that one of our largest partner, Anadolu Efes also equally acknowledge and integrates such sustainability principles and approaches in their operations. Anadolu Efes being one of the leader in its own field, plays an important role to be an international enabler to promote quality, food security and Value Chain customers’ satisfaction while also advocating the internationally recognized sustainability principles and associated values. Here, I would like to thank Anadolu Efes for their commitments and joining efforts to achieve 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” Gülten Coşkun Okan Coşkun Meşrubat Gıda İnşaat Nakli Trz. / Distributor “We have been working for 21 years with Anadolu Efes as a product distributor. Human resources, good recruitment practices, environmental protection, corporate governance, business ethics, and social and economic development initiatives by Anadolu Efes add value to the industry, our country and the world. Anadolu Efes steps up its potential to create added value for the stakeholders while delivering progress required to enjoy a better future together with its stakeholders. Talimhane EFES training program is vital for us, stakeholders, since its inception in 2012 for distributors and dealers. The Future is in Tourism, The Future is in Agriculture; Culture and Arts; and naturally, sports are finest examples for the sustainable approach of Anadolu Efes. We are proud stakeholders of Anadolu Efes.” ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Support for Stakeholders' Views Sustainable Agriculture İbrahim Akkaş, Farmer “I've been working with Anadolu Efes for five years, producing hops on my farm in Pazaryeri. We, Climate change, one of today's gravest farmers, have benefited immensely from support global environmental issues, have a direct by Anadolu Efes with the Contract Farming Model, impact on agricultural operations. Barley 52 purchase and price guarantee, advance payment, and hops are key raw materials used in and equipment and direct support. We have beer production sourced from farmers. focused on higher product quality without the We ensure sustainable agriculture and hassle of figuring out where and how to sell our business continuity through the practices products. Producers gained a competitive market we implement as part of the fight against advantage, thanks to the support for agriculture climate change. We support sustainable and farmers by Anadolu Efes.” agricultural growth and farmers' welfare with an eye to create positive value for Şefik Sayaner, Farmer our stakeholders. We strive to expand “My venture with Anadolu Efes began in 1983 sustainable agriculture practices with when the foundation was laid for the plant. Çumra the Agricultural R&D Program and the was completely swamp land, there wasn't even a Contract Farming Model. single tree to seek shelter for a meal. I worked so hard during the construction of the plant. Anadolu Agricultural R&D Program Efes created a heaven on a barren and derelict We invest in R&D to ensure continuous land. Following R&D, the first test production of supply of high-quality raw materials and barley types was on my farm. So, I was the first develop drought-proof products against person to observe the transformation of barley climate change. As part of the Agricultural in my region. Anadolu Efes’s barley on my farm R&D Program, we have developed and would mesmerize other farmers. Everyone wanted registered 15 barley and seven hops types. to have it. Planting period is when the farmers need the money most. Fertilizer, seed and diesel Developing raw materials through R&D oil require cash. During that time, Anadolu Efes and innovation yields positive returns gave us seeds under a contract without asking in many ways. First of all, we achieve for money. Then, its technical team provided us consistency in the product quality and help with barley cultivation. When the time came flavor. to harvest the barley, it paid for my barley in full to my account after deducting the dues for the seeds. What more could we ask for? I constantly recommend this system to my farmer friends to make it more popular.” ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 We perform effective water management In 2017, we provided 1,600 total hours as registered malting barley and hops of training to 200 farmers. We regularly types allow reducing water and energy inspect malting barley and hops producers consumption, while helping the fight as well as all other farmers contracted to against climate change. We place produce seeds. The Ministry of Agriculture emphasis on developing drought-proof inspects seed producers. varieties that need less water and energy with minimum environmental impact. We increase competitive edge of farmers 53 and support development of regional Contract Purchase Model agricultural activities by pursuing We practice the Contract Purchase domestic production and purchasing of Model to support agricultural producers' malting barley and hops. We aim to use social, economic and environmental domestic producers for all raw material development. The model assures planned purchases and export hops, a value farming of the malting barley and hops added agricultural product. We sourced 72 types, which we have developed as part percent of all our raw material needs from of the Agricultural R&D Program on the contracted farmers in 2017. lands of about 3,500 farmers we work on a contract basis. We expect the farmers Product Safety and under contract to comply with production requirements for farming quality and Responsible Marketing safety with lesser environmental impact. We pioneer sustainable transformation As a company with a reach of millions of consumers in over 70 countries, we Value Chain in agriculture by providing all financial, operational and information support that operate with a focus on product safety the farmers need during the production and responsible marketing. We ensure process. After establishing the production superior quality and safety in production goals, we provide the farmers with certified while creating a positive impact for our seeds for our registered products free of stakeholders by ensuring responsible charge in return for production. We offer consumption in marketing processes. financing to help them meet production And we continuously strive to maximize costs. We extend support in all technical customer satisfaction. issues, ranging from fertilization and irrigation to disinfection and harvesting, Safe and Quality Products particularly in hops production. Specialists We are committed to offering world class in our company provide consulting to products to consumers while achieving farmers on sustainable agriculture and sustainability and consistency in product planned production practices. quality and flavor. In all operations in Turkey and abroad, we comply with the ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 ISO 9001 Quality Management, the ISO The alcoholic beverage industry is strictly 22000 Food Safety Management System, governed by the laws and vary from and the HACCP Food Safety Management country to county in terms of marketing System standards. We process the malting communication. We conduct marketing barley and hops we have developed to inform consumers about the risks of ourselves by using state-of-the-art irresponsible drinking and to encourage production technologies with a qualitythem for responsible use. We ensure that excellence approach. We offer consumers our products are sold only at legally allowed 54 superior quality and safe products by points of sale and that they are not sold to producing only at facilities with food safety persons below the legal age of consumption. certificate. Anadolu Efes Quality Policy is available Responsible Alcohol Use at: http://www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/ Campaign in Russia kurumsal-politikalar/anadolu-efesIn 2017, Anadolu Efes Russia quality-policy.pdf continued the Don't Drink and Drive campaign, aimed Responsible Marketing to create awareness about Our product marketing is performed with the consequences for driving a social responsibility approach. We have under the influence. The set forth responsible marketing principles project ran in collaboration by taking initiative in the industry, moving with the International Alliance beyond legal and regulatory requirements. for Responsible Drinking and Anadolu Efes employees, dealers, Russian public institutions, distributors, and communication agencies reaching out to nearly are required to comply with our Marketing 5,000 students and 200 Communication Policy. employees. On the Russia Global Responsible Beer Anadolu Efes Marketing Communication Production day, we aimed to Policy is available at http://www. raise awareness on responsible anadoluefes.com/dosya/kurumsalconsumption by visiting the politikalar/anadol-efes-marketingpoints of sales with volunteers. communication-policy.pdf ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Customer Experience All stakeholders, particularly consumers, can send us feedback through the hotlines We provide product information provided on product labels. We reply to all through product labels, web feedback received by the relevant Anadolu Efes departments through the hotlines. In sites and consumer support 2017, 93 percent of the 3,219 feedback were hotlines in accordance with the resolved. laws and local legislation of the countries we operate in. Since the foundation of Anadolu Efes, we have always strived to offer consumers a 55 better experience. We develop superiorquality, safe and delicious products with more than 50 brands by focusing on changing consumer demands and expectations. We conduct brand and product market researches and customer satisfaction studies to improve customer satisfaction. Such survey results are used in product development. Value Chain Giving product information helps enhance customer satisfaction. We provide product information through product labels, internet sites and consumer support hotlines in accordance with the laws and local legislation of the countries we operate in. We give consumers comprehensive information by offering more content on product label than required by the local legislation. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Performance Tables Environmental Performance Indicators Beer Production 2015 2016 2017 Beer production (hliter) 20,474,076 19,530,293 20,920,000 Malt production (ton) 178,470 173,009 164,670 56 Energy consumption in beer 846,804,765 799,104,619 752,022,286 production (kWh) Energy consumption in malt 175,152,105 159,438,688 165,515,864 production (kWh) Greenhouse gas emissions in beer production 264,907 252,695 249,288 (Scope 1&2 – ton CO2e) Greenhouse gas emissions in malt production 43,472 41,215 40,358 (Scope 1&2 – ton CO2e) Total energy consumption (kWh) 1,021,956,870 958,543,307 917,538,150 Total greenhouse gas emissions 308,379 293,910 289,646 (Scope 1&2 – ton CO2e) Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Turkey Operations 100,653.7 87,995.6 86,063.70* (Scope 1&2 ton CO2e) Total water consumption 9.6 9.3 9.0 (million m3) Total waste water discharge 3 3.1 3.3 (million m3) Hazardous waste amount (ton) 207,104 300,540 193,248 Nonhazardous waste amount 120,956 113,775 87,913 (ton) Total waste amount (ton) 328,060 414,315 281,161 Total environmental investments 4.1 6.0 2.3 and expenses (million USD) *Independent audit company EY has audited the greenhouse gas emissions data for the 2017 Turkey operations. The Statement of Assurance on the scope of the audit is provided on page 62 of this Report. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Social Performance Indicators Employees per 2015 2016 2017 Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees 1,464 4,450 1,357 4,114 1,307 3,998 Total 5,914 5,471 5,305 Employees per Category 2015 2016 2017 57 Female Male Female Male Female Male Blue Collar 205 2,144 330 2,002 303 1,878 White Collar 1,259 2,306 1,027 2,112 1,004 2,120 Total 5,194 5,471 5,305 New Recruits based 2015 2016 2017 on Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Age 50 and over 28 36 2 6 5 6 Age 30 to 50 51 119 48 104 57 139 Age 30 and under 137 274 103 200 77 253 Total 645 463 540 Terminated Employees based on 2015 2016 2017 Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Age 50 and over 49 123 48 82 43 96 Age 30 to 50 186 502 120 394 91 376 Age 30 and under 120 286 74 183 72 182 Total 1,266 901 860 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 GRI 102-41 Trainings 2015 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Female Male Average Training per 29.3 24.4 27.5 26.4 9.8 11.7 Employee Collective Bargaining 2015 2016 2017 Agreement (CBA) 58 Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees under CBA 337 1,445 258 1,286 127 896 Executives based on 2015 2016 2017 Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Age 50 and over 3 16 3 15 6 10 Age 30 to 50 42 100 40 98 51 87 Age 30 and under 3 1 3 1 3 2 Total 165 160 159 Senior Executives 2015 2016 2017 Local* Foreign Local Foreign Local Foreign Number of Executives 155 10 147 13 146 13 *Local refers to nationals of the country of operation. Maternity Leave 2015 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees on 137 3 129 14 35 12 Maternity Leave Employees Back from 56 3 73 13 32 12 Maternity Leave ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Occupational Health and 2015 2016 2017 Safety Accident Frequency Rate* 1.8 2.1 2.1 Occupational Disease 0 0 0 Rate** Lost Day Rate*** 10.96 16.09 11.02 Number of Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 *Accident Frequency Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total working hours **Occupational Disease Rate = Total number of occupational disease incidents x 200,000 / Total working hours ***Lost Days Rate = Total days lost x 200,000 / Total working hours 59 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Independent Assurance procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is limited compared with what is necessary in a reasonable Statement assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is To the Board of Directors and Management of Anadolu lower. Efes Biracılık ve Malt San. A.Ş., Istanbul, Turkey The procedures selected depend on the practitioner's This Assurance Statement ('hereinafter 'Statement) is judgment. The procedures include, in particular, inquiry of intended solely for the management of Anadolu Efes the personnel responsible for collecting and reporting on Biracılık ve Malt San. A.Ş. (hereinafter 'Anadolu Efes' or the Selected Information and additional procedures aimed ‘the Company’) for the purpose of reporting on the Scope at obtaining evidence about the Selected Information. 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in its 2018 CDP Climate Change Response (hereinafter 'the Response') that In respect of the Selected Information mentioned above the has been prepared by the Company for the year ended 31 procedures performed include the following procedures: 1. December 2017. Interviewed select key senior personnel of the Company 60 Subject Matter Information and Applicable Criteria to understand the current processes in place for We were engaged by the Company to provide limited capturing the Selected Information pertaining to the 2. assurance on the items listed below, together the ’Selected reporting period; Information' as defined in the CDP Climate Change Reviewed Selected Information on site covering the Response Questions 6.1 and 6.3. Izmir facility of Anadolu Efes as well as off-site review of the Selected Information pertaining to the Company's The scope of our assurance other locations in Turkey, against evidence, on a sample 3. The scope of our assurance is limited to total Scope 1 and basis; total Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions of Anadolu Efes Undertook substantive testing, on a sample basis, 4. operations from its breweries and malteries in Turkey for of the Selected Information; the Response (together 'the Selected Information') which Used the Company’s internal documentation to 5. has been prepared based on The Greenhouse Gas Protocol evaluate and measure the Selected Information; Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised) Evaluated the design and implementation of key 6. (hereinafter 'GHG Protocol'). Our assurance statement processes and controls over the Selected Information; should be read in conjunction with the GHG Protocol. Re-performed, on a sample basis, calculations used to prepare the Selected Information for the reporting 7. Scope 1 sources are fossil fuels, refrigerants, CO2 purchases. period. Evaluated the disclosure and presentation of Selected Scope 1 sources are fossil fuels, refrigerants, CO2 Information in the Report. purchases. Scope 2 source is purchased electricity. Our conclusion As a result of our procedures, nothing has come to our The Company's Responsibilities attention that indicates the Selected Information reviewed The Company's management is responsible for the for the year ended 31 December 2017 was not prepared in preparation, collection and presentation of the Selected all material respects in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Information in accordance with the GHG Protocol. In addition, the Company's management is responsible Our assurance team for ensuring that the documentation provided to the Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary practitioner is complete and accurate. The Company's professionals, has been drawn from our climate change management is also responsible for maintaining the and sustainability network and undertakes similar internal control system that reasonably ensures that the engagements with a number of significant companies in documentation and information described above is free Turkey and internationally. from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. We permit this report to be disclosed in Anadolu Efes Our Responsibilities Biracılık ve Malt San. A.Ş.'s CDP Climate Change Response We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance for the year ended 31 December 2017, to enable the with International Assurance Standards, particularly Directors of Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt San.A.Ş. to show International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other they have addressed their governance responsibilities by than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information obtaining an independent assurance report in connection ISAE 3000 (revised). These regulations require that we with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted comply with ethical standards and plan and perform our by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about other than the Directors as a body and Anadolu Efes the Selected Information. Biracılık ve Malt San. A.Ş. for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing. We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional For Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Accountants, which establishes the fundamental principles Müşavirlik A.Ş. of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1), and accordingly, we maintain a robust system of quality control, including policies and procedures documenting compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and requirements in law or regulation. Zeynep Okuyan Özdemir, SMMM The assurance engagement performed represents a limited Partner assurance engagement. The nature, timing and extent of Istanbul, August 15, 2018 GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER/ LINK GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile 61 102-1 3 102-2 6, 7 102-3 6, 7 102-4 6, 7 102-5 http://www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/faaliyetraporu_in/AEFR17_dizgi_ENG_3005.pdf 102-6 6,7 102-7 6,7 102-8 40-46 102-9 50-52 102-10 50-52 102-11 http://www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/faaliyetraporu_in/AEFR17_dizgi_ENG_3005.pdf 102-12 16 102-13 16 GRI 102: GENERAL Strategy DISCLOSURES 102-14 4, 5 2016 102-15 12-14 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 19 102-17 19 Governance 102-18 http://www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/faaliyetraporu_in/AEFR17_dizgi_ENG_3005.pdf 102-19 18 102-20 18 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 15 102-41 58 102-42 12 102-43 12 102-44 14 Reporting Practices 102-45 6 102-46 14 102-47 14 102-48 None 102-49 None 102-50 3 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 102-51 3 GRI 102: 102-52 3 GENERAL 102-53 3 DISCLOSURES 102-54 3 2016 102-55 61-64 102-56 60 GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 62 Procurement Practices GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 103-2 50, 51 50, 51 APPROACH 2016 103-3 50, 51 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT 204-1 50, 51 PRACTICES 2016 GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Materials GRI 103: 103-1 22, 28 MANAGEMENT 103-2 12, 14, 28 APPROACH 2016 103-3 28-29 301-1 27, 56 GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-2 29 Energy GRI 103: 103-1 22, 23 MANAGEMENT 103-2 12, 14, 23 APPROACH 2016 103-3 25 302-1 24, 56 GRI 302: 302-3 24 ENERGY 2016 302-4 24, 25 302-5 25 Water and Effluents GRI 103: 103-1 22, 25 MANAGEMENT 103-2 12, 14, 25 APPROACH 2016 103-3 26, 27 GRI 303: WATER 303-1 25-27 AND EFFLUENTS 303-2 25-27 2018 303-3 27, 56 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 22, 23 MANAGEMENT 103-2 12, 14, 22, 23 APPROACH 2016 103-3 23, 25 305-1 24, 56 GRI 305: 305-2 24, 56 EMISSIONS 2016 305-5 25 Effluents and Waste 63 GRI 103: 103-1 22, 27 MANAGEMENT 103-2 12, 14, 27 APPROACH 2016 103-3 27, 29 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-2 56 AND WASTE 2016 GRI 400: Social Standard Series Employment GRI 103: 103-1 40-44 MANAGEMENT 103-2 40, 41 APPROACH 2016 103-3 40, 41 401-1 57 GRI 401: 401-2 44 EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-3 58 Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: 103-1 40-44 MANAGEMENT 103-2 40, 41 APPROACH 2016 103-3 40, 41 GRI 402: LABOR/ Operational changes are anounced according to the minimum notice periods MANAGEMENT 402-1 indicated in applicable legal regulations. RELATIONS 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 44-46 MANAGEMENT 103-2 44-46 APPROACH 2016 103-3 44-46, 59 403-1 44 403-2 44-45 403-3 44-45 GRI 403: 403-4 44-46 OCCUPATIONAL 403-5 44 HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-6 44-46 2018 403-7 44-45 403-8 58 403-9 45, 46, 59 403-10 45, 46, 59 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 42, 43 MANAGEMENT 103-2 42, 43 APPROACH 2016 103-3 42, 43 404-1 42, 43 GRI 404: TRAINING 404-2 42, 43 AND EDUCATION 2016 404-3 44 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 64 GRI 103: 103-1 40, 41 MANAGEMENT 103-2 40, 41 APPROACH 2016 103-3 40, 41 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 405-1 40, 41, 57, 58 OPPORTUNITY 2016 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 53, 54 MANAGEMENT 103-2 53, 54 APPROACH 2016 103-3 53, 54 GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND 416-1 53, 54 SAFETY 2016 ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 Contact Legal Notice Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report (Report), Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ș. This Receive more information on Anadolu report has been prepared by Anadolu Efes in Efes's Sustainability Report and share your accordance with the GRI Reporting Principles opinions or suggestions: and the United Nations Global Compact Progress Report. All information and views Simge Abay Balaban provided in this report may not be complete. Corporate Communications Manager 65 They have been obtained by Anadolu Efes E-Mail: and have not been verified independently simge.balaban@tr.anadoluefes.com for the purpose of this document. This report has been prepared for informative purposes Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. only and does not purport to be a basis for Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. investment decisions. The information in this No: 58 Buyaka E Blok report does not constitute a proposal to sell Tepeüstü, Ümraniye 34771 Anadolu Efes shares or an invitation to such Istanbul, Turkey a sale process. Its publication cannot be considered a legal relationship of this type. T: +90 216 586 80 00 Pbx At the time of the preparation of this report, T: +90 216 586 82 24 all data and related documents therein F: +90 216 488 78 63 were believed to be true and information www.anadoluefes.com.tr are presented in goodwill and based on reliable sources. However, Anadolu Efes Reporting Consultant neither makes any statement nor guarantees S360 Sürdürülebilirlik ve İletişim Hizmetleri and/or undertakes any commitment info@s360.com.tr in relation to these data. In this regard, www.s360.com.tr Anadolu Efes or any of its subsidiaries or their T: +90 (212) 351 91 76 board members, consultants, managers or employees are not responsible for any Report Design direct or indirect loss or damage suffered FM Data İletişim by an individual due to any information or info@data-iletisim.com communication relayed within the scope of www.icerikvetasarim.com the Report, or due to information present in T: +90 (212) 662 78 00 this Report or missing from it. roundabout This report is prepared for corporate info@roundabout.com.tr promotion purposes in accordance with www.roundabout.com.tr Anadolu Efes Sustainability Strategy. It does T: +90 (212) 292 07 13 not contain any advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverages directed at consumers. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017 66 This report has been published in minimum quantity by using 100% recycled Cyclus Offset paper. ANADOLU EFES Sustainability Report 2017
