Sustainability Report 2017 elawan.com Sustainability Report 2017 Letter from the President 102-14 It is with pleasure that I present Elawan´s 2017 Sustainability Report, which shows the most relevant data and figures related to our performance, in line with the directives defined by the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and the results of our materiality study. In addition, we have renewed our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. This year, there has been a significant global growth in renewable energy projects. A total of 167 GW in new capacity was installed, amounting to a cumulative capacity of 2,179 GW worldwide, which represents an annual growth rate of around 8.3%. This progress is boosted by falling costs for the installation and management of renewable energy facilities, primarily for wind and solar energy facilities, and by technological improvements, an increasingly favorable political environment and the big social demand for renewable energies over conventional energies. In this context, Elawan shows another year of sustainable growth, as is reflected by our economic results. Reaching a turnover of €171 million enables us to face new challenges and invest in new locations, with the aim of diversifying our investments in different countries applying different technologies. 4 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Regarding our growth, there have been many changes this Regarding the health and safety of our employees, we are year. The sale of the Noblesfontaine wind farm in South proud to not have had any work-related accidents in 2017. Africa stands out as one of these changes, as does the sale Due the nature of our activity, the fight against climate of the majority of our wind farms in Brazil. change is a key feature in our business. Therefore, On the other hand, we have expanded our business with we actively work towards achieving the Sustainable the construction of three new wind farms: Persimon Creek Development Goals (SDG), primarily objective 7 (Affordable in Oklahoma (USA), Hannut in Belgium and Copperton in and clean energy) and objective 13 (Climate action), and South Africa, with a combined total capacity of 324 MW. we avoided the emission of 606,459 tons of CO2. In the In addition, we have a total of 3,820 MW in the advanced environmental chapter we elaborate on our performance on promotion stage, which includes the upcoming construction this matter. of our first photovoltaic farm in Torrijos (Toledo). Nevertheless, we have been affected by two important This year we have conducted an extensive revision of our events this year. First of all, Hurricane Maria passed management system concerning quality, environment through Puerto Rico in September 2017, which, in addition and health and safety, adjusting it to the new corporate to the devastating consequences throughout the country, structure, in addition to switching to the new version caused severe damage to our Punta Lima Wind Farm, (2015) of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards. This has which has been inoperative since then. The earthquake allowed us to design, implement and certify a new Policy that struck Mexico in February should also be mentioned, and a more flexible Integrated Management System, with and whilst it did not affect our facilities directly, it did cause its scope being the ¨International promotion, development, major damage to the region and to the connections of the operation and sale of renewable energy production country´s electrical system. facilities¨. This helps us to improve the integration of the Finally, I would like to congratulate Elawan´s great team of system into our strategic processes, adjusting to the new professionals for their commitment and dedication, and who regulatory requirements. allow us to keep growing and moving forward sustainably. Jon Riberas President Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 5 Letter from the CEO 102-14 As every year, we present our Sustainability Report. This is the not only for renewable energies, but throughout the whole fifth report, corresponding to the year 2017. This document energy sector. Through these systems, renewable energies reflects our economic, social and environmental results. The will not need the support of conventional energies to cover report has been drawn up under the guidelines of the Global production gaps, the energy will be distributed on a mass scale, Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI), and has been audited by an it will be more efficient and more affordable and we will see the independent entity. traditional systems of the electricity sector change. As was mentioned last year, the decarbonization of electrical All of this puts Elawan in an excellent position to continue energy production is in constant progress. It is now not only developing projects that will provide us with energy in the near the pressure from public opinion, the social demand and the future. problem of climate change costs are now another reason. In 2017, we have rebalanced our operational project portfolio, Today, there is no competition in costs for energies like solar to follow a strategy of having one third of our income in and wind energy. No other current technology can compete dollars, another third in euros and the remaining third in other with our costs, nor with the long-term that we can guarantee currencies. With this strategy in mind, we have sold part of our them. We are only limited by the lack of the ¨manageability¨ in operational project portfolio in Brazil and South Africa. The production, and the solution to this problem is moving at a good income obtained has enabled us to reduce our company debt pace. Batteries, their different applications and technologies, and manage the construction of new projects in Belgium, the the reduction of their costs, their massification, for which the USA and South Africa. electric vehicle is its main example, and intelligent distribution networks will bring us the solution to this problem in a relatively Regarding our economic results, we have surpassed our target short period. budget, with a turnover of around €171 million, an EBITDA of €100 million and a pre-tax profit of €12 million. With this in mind, renewable energies represent the majority of the new electrical generation installed worldwide. This year, we started production at 6 wind farms in Brazil (Pedra Rajada, Pedra Rajada II, Cabeco Vermelho, Cabeco I´m not going to go into the figures of added capacity, the Vermelho II, Boa Esperanca I and Pedra do Reino IV) totaling coverage of the demand, etc. You have them in the report, 130 MW, and at a mini-hydraulic plant in Tacotan, Mexico, with and in the annual reports from the main associations and a total power output of 6.9 MW. specialized companies that produce these in great detail. 324 MW are under construction, of which 200 MW will be put It is important to note that fast progress continues to be into operation in Oklahoma in August 2018, 24 MW will start made regarding energy storage technologies. The remarkable production in December 2018 in Belgium and the remaining evolution of batteries and storage systems, together with their 100 MW, in South Africa, will begin production in 2020. very significant cost reductions, is going to cause a revolution, 6 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Over the years, Elawan has put 1,032 MW into operation and we aim to continue growing, with over 3,800 MW in projects spread over 12 markets/countries, in different stages of development. In 2018, we start the construction of a 30 MW photovoltaic farm in the town of Torrijos, in Toledo, Spain, as well as two additional wind farms in Turkey, with a total output of 57 MW. The approval of Europe´s objective to reach 32% renewable energy production will lead to a major opportunity for our development in the European Community, especially in Spain, where we have over 600 MW in the advanced promotion stage, in both photovoltaic and in wind farms. France, Belgium and Poland are also countries that should be an opportunity in 2018. Another important challenge for the company is the reconstruction of the Wind Farm in Punta Lima, Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. We are working on this project, which Puerto Rico and its inhabitants need to be operational, and we count on the help of the insurance company and the wind farm´s financing entities to rebuild the installations and start producing energy again in 2019. To meet these challenges, we will continue to be a highly-efficient company, with an exhaustive cost control and an exceptionally professional number of staff, who have a broad range of experience and excellent skills. In addition, our management model is solid and sustainable, which will allow us to confront the future successfully. I cannot let the opportunity pass to thank our entire team for their effort and dedication, and for the trust placed in Elawan by our customers, suppliers and funders. Dionisio Fernández Auray CEO Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 7 Sustainability Report 2017 01General standard disclosures 10 Our company 14 Main effects, risk and opportunities 17 Governance 21 Relevant points: materiality analysis 23 Report profile Our company Elawan Energy, S.L. 102-2 The company was founded in 2007, and it operated under the Elawan is positioned throughout the value chain, from the initial brand “Gestamp Wind” until October 28th 2017, when the comdesign to its daily management, through a global and coordinapany name was changed to “ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L.” ted vision of the whole business, which enables us to maximize value through three key levers: ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. is dedicated to investing in assets and projects aimed at the generation of energy through renewable • Experience in the management of key contracts; sources and their management. The company operates inter• In-depth knowledge of location selection for assets with a nationally under the brand ¨Elawan¨ (102-1). high resource availability: Its headquarters are located at (102-3): • Selection of ¨Tier 1¨ suppliers for the provision of the equipment that guarantees the highest return on assets. C/ Ombú 3, floor 10 28045 Madrid. Spain • M&A team with experience in acquisitions. Culture Business Model Elawan has a global corporate culture that has maintained the The main activity of the company is the promotion, construcsame values since its foundation, but which is adjusted to the tion and operation of renewable energy production facilities local necessities of each country, the current market conditions and the sale of renewable electrical energy in the countries we and the stakeholder demands (102-16). are present. Our mission is to satisfy our customers’ needs globally, consiOur strategy is based on developing projects from zero, and on dering their activity, the safety of our employees and respect seizing opportunities to acquire more advanced projects, primafor the environment. rily in 12 countries that stand out for their attractive renewable ValUES energy markets, having the capacity to build and operate the projects without discarding the sale of some operational assets. Honestity Humility Tenacity Work 10 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Growth Elawan has experienced significant growth since our beginning, Our maintenance activities include the evacuation infrastructudiversifying to different international markets. In 2017, 6 new res, as well as the high voltage lines (underground or overhead) wind farms began operating in Brazil (Pedra Rajada, Pedra Raand the substations (transformer or connection). jada II, Cabeco Vermelho, Cabeco Vermelho II, Boa Esperanca I The management of all our assets is conducted by the Control and Pedra do Reino IV) totaling 130 MW, and a mini-hydraulic Center of Renewable Energies (CCER). This provides real-time power plant in Tacotan, Mexico totaling 6.9 MW. information on the functioning, performance and production at This growth has given us a current presence in 12 countries, the wind farms, which allows us to act immediately in the event operating a total of 43 wind farms and 2 mini-hydraulic power of any incident, minimizing response and action time. plants, through which we reach a total capacity of 1,023 MW. In addition, a quality system under the UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008 Similarly, we have started the construction of 3 new farms in standard is available for the exploitation and maintenance actithe USA, South Africa and Belgium which amount to 324 MW. vities at the wind farms. In addition, we have an advanced promotion portfolio of around 3,820 MW. 2017 has been a year of changes, and we have sold 15 farms in Brazil and the Noblesfontaine wind farm in South Africa, totaling 372 MW, which will enable us to reinvest in new assets (102-6). 10MW 14MW 12MW Assets Built 110MW 64MW 10MW 82MW 2MW 200MW 1.2 GW 5.300MW 138MW 25MW 24MW 88MW 74MW 128MW 106MW 82MW 22MW 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Assets 2022 Sold 0.9 GW 57MW 98MW 74MW 132MW 84MW 346MW 130MW Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 11 Global Presence 102-4 and 102-6 The map shows the most relevant information regarding our 43 wind farms and 2 mini-hydraulic power plants that have been operating in 2017, as well as for the 3 farms that are under construction and the countries where we have business in the advanced promotion stage. Belgium 26 MW 2 wind farms in operation 1 wind farm under construction 13 wind turbines Spain USA+PR 140 MW 174 MW 7 wind farms in operation 4 wind farms in operation 70 wind turbines 1 wind farm under construction 100 wind turbines Mexico 14 MW Brazil 2 mini hydros 477 MW 25 wind farms in operation 235 wind turbines Argentina In promotion Power Wind business Mini hydro 12 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 12 Main figures 102-7 Countries Poland 1,032 MW in operation 10 MW 1 wind farm in operation 5 wind turbines 324 MW under construction 3,820 MW in advanced promotion 43 Russia In promotion Romania In promotion Turkey Operating wind farms 117 MW 2 3 wind farms in operation 42 wind turbines Mini Hydros 68 Professionals € 171 million euros South Africa Revenues 74 MW 1 wind farm in operation 1 wind farm under construction 41 wind turbines 498 million euros Capitalization (debts + equity) Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 13 Main effects, risks and opportunities 102-15, 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 In developing its activity, the company is subject to different If any unforeseen circumstances arise, the regional managers risks inherent to the different countries it operates in and to the and/or the area directors immediately inform the CEO, these wind energy sector. risks are analyzed and the appropriate measures are taken. The CEO is responsible for informing the Board of Directors. Therefore, prior to developing any project, a comprehensive The main risks identified are outlined below: analysis is done and various mechanisms are established to minimize these risks as far as possible. Operational risks Reputational risks Risks derived from the activity Reputational risks are those derived from potential conduct in Risks inherent to the activity may be through competition in the violation of the guidelines established in the policiesReputatiouse of technology, supply failures and outages, inappropriate nal risks and codes regarding human rights, ethics and anti-comanagement, etc. rruption. To minimize these risks, Elawan develops its objectiIn response to such risks, technological progress in new turbives through an array of policies and initiatives such as the Code nes and the increase in their individual power output allow us of Ethics and Conduct, the Behavioral Guide in Response to the to generate more energy with fewer towers and, as a result, Offering of Incentives, Gifts and Invitations, the Harassment with less impact. This, combined with a lower installation cost Prevention Guide and the Integrated Environment, Quality and compared with other energy sources, makes wind energy more Health and Safety Policy. competitive. Similarly, there are communication mechanisms in place to deal Another of the risks associated with the activity derives from with any complaints and conflicts that might arise in this field. the performance of the wind farms. They depend on climate In 2017, given the nature of their services, there are no risks conditions in the area, as well as wind quality, aspects that canconnected with child labor, threats to freedom of association or not be influenced. forced labor were detected at our production centers and signiIn order to minimize these risks, project feasibility studies are ficant subcontracted suppliers. In the coming year, compliance first conducted, and the optimal orientation of the wind farms to the clauses regarding Human Rights and the Ecuador Princiis defined, in order to make them an attractive investment, both ples will be revised at the parks under construction. for the environment and for the company. Likewise, given its capacity for installation in remote regions, wind energy is an attractive investment to comply with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7, regarding energy and its contribution to sustainable development by 2030. 14 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Business risks Risks derived from investments mental and taxation regulations, etc. Elawan therefore prioritiin new projects zes those regions where there is strong energy demand combined with regulatory certainty so that it can perform its activities In order to analyze viability and development in the various with long-term financing. countries where the company operates or intends to operate, the business model establishes the methodology to be foTo this effect, a series of procedures and controls have been llowed in order to provide the required information concerning established allowing the identification, measuring and managethe potential development and investment risks. ment of the risks derived from the activity with financial instruments. This process analyses the environment and the risks derived from each site, such as, for example: political stability in the country, energy policies, climate and wind conditions, availabiFinancing and human rights lity of land and proximity of output power lines, among others. In 2017, two new financing were closed for the parks. Meanwhile, in order to obtain investment through favorable financing in areas where Elawan wishes to develop, contribu• Macambiras in Brazil, the construction of which will start in tions are made by all company areas (financial, legal, business 2018. The agreement includes obligations with regards to development, environmental, etc.). This serves to establish a the enforcement of Human Rights (for example: early termicomprehensive overview of the situation. nation in the case of child labor or slavery) Once all the potential risks have been registered, along with ac• Persimmon Creek (USA), without any conditions regarding tions to mitigate them, this information is brought to the Board Human Rights. by the CEO which takes the decisions regarding the viability of Regarding the parks under construction in 2017: Hannut (Belthe project. gium) and Copperton (South Africa), although the financing will be closed in 2018, both require compliance to the Ecuador Principles and the submission of an independent report validating Regulatory risks this compliance (412-3). Other risks faced by companies include those associated with Likewise, Elawan has signed the Global Compact and complies regulatory changes, such as, for example: the remuneration of with the 10 established Principles. regulated activities, the required supply conditions, environFinancial risks Elawan aims to control and minimize such risks through mechaCredit risks nisms which are integrated within the organization. The main financial risks identified are summarized below: These risks stem from of the possibility of not being able to recover financial assets in conformity with the established Market risks amount and term. Risks associated with exposure of results and assets to a posIn this regard, the company aims to operate in those markets sible loss caused by variations in the fair value or future cash offering a stable and secure regulatory framework. flows of financial instruments, resulting from changes in market prices, interest rates or exchange rates. Liquidity risks Elawan takes the following action in order to minimize these Liquidity risks arise when liquid funds are not available or acrisks: cessible in a sufficient amount and at appropriate cost in order to meet payment obligations at all times. • Price risk: mitigated through long-term energy sale price agreements at fixed prices and with agreed price adjustThe company manages the risk by analyzing the cash flows ments. generated by its projects and possible asset purchase transactions. • Interest rate and exchange rate risk: reduced by arranging hedging derivatives associated with debt and with financing In addition, it has its liquidity needs guaranteed at all times in foreign currency where this is deemed appropriate. through loans and credit lines maintained with the parent company. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 15 Environmental risks Health and safety risks Environmental risks are minimized through various mechanisms. Health and safety is a primary objective for the company. • The innovation and availability of turbines with higher ouWe have an Integrated Management System and Policy in platput allow for the reduction of the number of towers and, as ce, certified under the OHSAS 18001 standard, which allows us a result, their impact. to manage the possible risks that derive from our activity. • Environmental impact and birdlife protection studies serve Through awareness and training and the thorough monitoring to control and manage potential environmental risks. of the indicators related to accidents and incidents, preventive • The Environmental Management System helps to establiand corrective measures necessary for their minimization or elish objectives for improvement, to minimize impacts derived mination are defined and implemented. from our activity, and to include the principle of precaution (102-11). Finally, our product: renewable energy, helps to mitigate the effects of climate change. Confidentiality and privacy risks Information Security To reinforce awareness and training among group employees, training initiatives and campaigns were staged, such as the At Elawan we are convinced that information has become a “Anti-Phishing” campaign, which was conducted with the aim strategic asset for businesses and people. As a result, we esof identifying the degree of vulnerability, and raising employee tablish the mechanisms required to safeguard privacy of inforawareness about these types of attacks. mation and to protect client and supplier data, to manage and process documentation properly in accordance with its level of relevance, and to reinforce IT security. The IT security procedures are periodically reviewed, and the system is continuously Business Process Support tested to guarantee robustness. Systems are a crucial point in executing business processes. To this end, the IT Department keeps the Group’s infrastructuIn 2017, the following actions were taken, among others, in orre and communications services centralized, while conducting der to improve the security policies: transformation projects in parallel to align systems with the • Periodic scanning of the systems to identify external and incompany’s growth and new processes, placing the focus on ternal vulnerabilities and to correct these in accordance with business support, efficiency, and profitable and sustainable their level of criticality. growth. • Diagnosis of information security and its risks, based on These services are managed with third parties, which are selecstandard ISO 27000. ted through an impartial process, starting with the publication • Preparations regarding the implementation of the new GDPR of the specifications dossier, followed by the receiving and evaregulation coming into effect May 2018. luation of bids, which finally leads to their selection based on quality criteria for business support and IT system efficiency. Situation in 2017 In 2017, Elawan came up against various risks in the countries • Regulatory changes in the energy market in each of the it operates in. However, on a global level, these have not had a countries, as well as their tax regulations. significant impact on the results for the financial year, due to our • The evolution of the euro exchange rate against the respecdiversification across the different markets. tive currencies in each of the countries. The most significant risks identified are summarized below: • Evolution of the interest and financing rates of the projects. 16 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Governance Ownership structure and legal form Structure of governance. 102-5 Composition and committees The parent company structure of Elawan comprises: 102-18 • 75% Acek Energías Renovables, S.L. The governing bodies of the company are the General Shareholders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, the most senior • 25% Clear Wind Eólica, S.L. body of governance, supervision, decision-making and control The company changed its name to ¨ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L.¨ at Elawan, subject to no substantive limits other than those through a deed authorized by the Madrid Notary, Don Federico established in the legal regulations and the Articles of AssociaGarayalda Niño, on 28 October 2017, under protocol number tion, and in particular the corporate purpose. The President at 2.236, registered in the Madrid Mercantile Registry, in volume Elawan does not hold an executive position (102-23). 24.930, Sheet 209, section 8, Page M-440.202, Registration One of the missions of the Board of Directors is to promote nº 20. corporate interests, representing the entity and its partners in The subscribed capital stock at 31 December 2017 amounts the administration of assets, management of businesses and in to €80,880,000.00, represented by 1,617,600 shares of a par setting the course for business administration. The members of value of €50 each, all of them subscribed and paid up. The comthe Board of Directors participate in the discussion and adoppany is not listed on the Stock Market. tion of economic, social and environmental decisions; and are responsible for approving the Code of Ethics. The Board of Directors reaches relevant decisions at its plenary sessions, and delegates, where relevant, the execution of these decisions (102-19). > Ombú Tower. Headquarters. Madrid Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 17 In addition, the Board of Directors may agree special powers of Economic, environmental and social attorney to be vested in company employees to address speciresponsibilities fic aspects of operations previously approved by this body. 102-20 Elawan is and non-listed company, the members of the Board Elawan integrates its economic, social and environmental resof Directors represent the total of shareholders (2 alternative ponsibilities in the Technical Department and the Financial and options): Control Department, the most senior managers of which refer a) and it has no representatives of other stakeholders. any decisions to be taken to the Board of Directors, as is sumb) and, therefore, there is no legal requirement to have repremarized below: sentatives of other stakeholders in place. • Environmental and social issues are coordinated and execuThe Board of Directors comprises four members and is, at 31 ted by the Technical Department, with the Chief Technical December 2017, made up of: Officer (CTO) holding responsibility and accountability before the Board of Directors. • Economic issues are managed through the Financial and Control Department, with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) being responsible for accountability before the Board of Directors. In addition to the above, the most senior managers at these two departments appear before the Board of Directors whenePresident ver it requires them to. Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera Position held since 14/11/2007 Among other issues, the Board of Directors holds the final deMember cision for the approval of the Business Plan, the annual budMember Yoyo2003, S.L. gets and targets, the Investment and Financing Policy, the risk Windwealth, S.L. Mr. Dionisio Fernández Mr. Javier Mateache analysis and, in general, all policies affecting the company. Auray Sacristán as natural person as natural person representative. representative Position held since Position held since 14/11/2007 Processes for consultation and 30/06/2008 communications between stakeholders and the senior body of governance Secretary 102-21 Member (Non member) Mr. Francisco José Mr. David Vázquez The managers of the different departments maintain a permaRiberas Mera Pascual nent and smooth communication with the CEO of the company. Position held since Position held since 14/11/2007 14/11/2007 Any important concern is immediately conveyed by the managers of the different areas to the CEO, who forms part of the Board of Directors (102-33). The Technical Department, the Financial and Control Department and the Human Resources Department at the central level, and the Business Managers of the various countries where the company has a presence, exchange information with stakeholders (suppliers, governments, employees, society, etc.). The No changes were made to the Board of Directors compared different departments are responsible for taking especially relewith the previous year. vant matters to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors does not have a Delegated Executive Meetings are periodically held in which all the staff of Elawan Committee with general decision-making powers, all decisions and the CEO participate. These meeting are bidirectional, with being adopted by the Board itself. on one side the CEO, who informs all the staff on matters relevant to the company´s management and state of affairs, while also receiving, from the staff, feedback on these issues and on other matters of interest. 18 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Processes of appointment and selection Sustainability organization is coordinated by the sustainability team, which is part of the Corporate Communication, Marketing to the senior body of governance. and Sustainability Department (102-32). Conflict of interests The Report and the Materiality Analysis are drawn up annually Powers for the appointment of Directors lie solely with the Geby this team, in collaboration with the various areas and departneral Shareholders’ Meeting, which represents the interests of ments involved at Elawan. After its development, it undergoes all the company’s shareholders. a supervision and review process on the part of the CommuThe Articles of Association of Elawan set out the functioning nication Department, before ultimately being approved by the of the Board of Directors, the requirements and deadlines estaCEO (102-27). blished for the General Meeting to be called, and the functions Similarly, in order to guarantee the reliability of the information, of the Chairman. They likewise set out the grounds for incomthe Report is externally verified by an independent body. patibility among members, subject at all times to the relevant legislation governing companies. The delegation of executive powers by the Board of Directors is performed by means of resolutions passed by the Board itself (102-24). Functions of the senior body of governance in risk management Elawan is a non-listed company at which the members of the 102-29, 102-30 and 102-31 Board of Directors are the shareholders and owners of the company, and so no consideration is given to other aspects regarAt Elawan, in order to develop and execute new projects, a deding diversity, minorities, etc (102-22). tailed study is performed, evaluating and analyzing the potential risks in each project, this study is conducted by the different Shareholders may not exercise the voting rights corresponding company departments, prior to the adoption of any decision. to their shares if they are subject to any case of conflict of interest as established in Article 190 of Royal Legislative Decree At the initial project analysis and definition stage, information is 1/2010, of 2 July 2010, approving the Consolidated Text of the compiled regarding the energy policies in the company, its exCapital Companies Act (102-25). pected profitability, regulatory stability and local government. Meanwhile, research and analysis are conducted into climate On a supplementary basis, the possibility that different local conditions (wind), environmental, landscaping, urban planning cultures and customs could condition the understanding of cerand archaeological restrictions, and property administration. tain subsections of the Code of Ethics and Conduct has been detected (including conflicts of interest). Once these aspects have been analyzed, a decision is taken whether to suspend the project or move on to the next stage. The process continues with all aspects prior to the implemenFunctions and knowledge of the body tation and financing of the projects. A review is first done of of governance regarding sustainability. aspects connected with the leasing of the space required for its implementation, along with the processing for the issuing of Revision and approval of the Sustainability all permits, licenses and authorizations that will allow for the Report construction and commissioning of the wind farm and its power 102-22 and 102-26 output infrastructure. The functions of the Board of Directors include the approval of At this stage the Environmental Impact Study is performed in and commitment to comply with the standards of the Code of order to receive the approval of local authorities and communiEthics and Conduct, which include the Principles governing the ties, and to comply with the environmental requirements estacompany, covering economic, environmental and social matters. blished in said statements. The Feasibility Plan and the approThe members of the Board are permanently informed regarding val of investment and financing are likewise included. economic, social and environmental aspects, through the vaSubsequently, the company hired to construct the facility, rious internal communication mechanisms, such as: the periodic which includes civil and electrical engineering, electromechanimeetings with the directors of the different areas, the generacal assembly, and the commissioning, is selected and assigned. tion and approval of the Sustainability Report and the various actions and initiatives by Elawan, the Leading the Change corConstruction is performed by means of EPC (Engineering, Proporate Intranet and the other communications. curement and Construction) contracts, using specialist firms that comply with the established requirements and the applicable legal standards, up to commissioning of the facility. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 19 Lastly, during the useful life of the wind farm, the relevant opePerformance. Nature and number of issues ration and maintenance tasks are performed. The facilities are raised at the Board of Directors monitored in real time, which signifies that any incident is detected and managed immediately. The performance of the Board of Directors is not evaluated, as the members are, through their shares, the owners the comSimilarly, in order to improve the performance of the wind farms, pany, and represent all the shareholders (102-28). predictive and preventive maintenance are conducted, with corrective maintenance being applied only where necessary. At the General Shareholders’ Meeting, corporate resolutions are passed by a majority of the votes validly cast, provided that All these actions and the possible risks that may emerge are they represent at least a third of the votes corresponding to the continuously analyzed by Elawan’s management and teams, shares into which the capital stock is divided, with blank ballots serving to detect risks and to implement the required corrective being excluded from the calculation. There have been no chanmeasures in a swift and agile manner. ges to the members or organizational practices. Where necessary, the CEO and the various company departIn accordance with the applicable legislation, the Board of Diments provide the Board of Directors with periodic information. rectors meets during the first quarter to draw up the annual The Board of Directors has responsibility for approving the deaccounts for the previous financial year. velopment of new installations and the measures established to mitigate any kind of risk. In addition to this meeting, the body meets in accordance with operational, business and project approval needs. In specific terms, during 2017 it met on 42 occasions, addressing more than 35 different subjects connected with the projects that Elawan endorses, constructs and operates in various countries around the world through its direct and indirect stake in local companies. The main types of subjects dealt with are shown in the enclosed table (102-34). 2 Annual 26 Investments 8 Corporate 6 General Accounts and financing operations management and aspects Remuneration of the Board of Directors 102-35, 102-36 and 102-37 The members of the Board of Directors do not receive any remuneration for their work as Members, and so indicators 10238 and 102-39 do not apply. > Mini hydro. Mexico 20 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Relevant aspects: Materiality Analysis Our stakeholders: Thus, since the publishing of the first Sustainability Report in 2013 we analyze and update our stakeholders, to improve Identification and communication communication and feedback channels true to their expectations and to orientate the content of the Report in the relevant 102-42 and 102-43 economic, social and environmental areas. The relation with our stakeholders is a primary matter for Various specific communication channels are in place for each Elawan. In this context, we consider any collective that may of the identified stakeholders. This allows us to have an active hold a substantial influence, and that is or could be affected by dialogue, allowing for a faster and more efficient response to our activity. trends and stakeholders´ needs, as summarized below: Stakeholders Dialogue mechanisms 102-40 • Periodic meetings of the Board of Directors Shareholders • Communications with the CEO • Corporate intranet: Leading the Change • Breakfasts (meetings with the CEO) • Interdepartmental meetings, meetings with wind farm supervisors • Grievance reporting channels Employees • Sustainability report • Email • Social media and website • Subcontractor selection criteria: Regular wind farm supervisor oversight Suppliers Monitoring and measurement • Meetings Banks and financial • Financing contracts entities • Periodic reports • Consultation periods in the Environmental Impact Assessments of the facilities Local communities • Environmental and social diagnoses and tenants • Involvement of Elawan in social action • Agreements and partnerships with local authorities Electric • Regulations in each country companies • Reporting and communication requirements • Press room (available on the website) Media • Issuance of press releases • Announcements via social media Local authorities and • Periodic meetings regulatory bodies • Licences, permits and authorisations Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 21 Communications with external stakeholders through networks* are summarised below: LinkedIn YouTube Followers Twitter 112 10,536 TOTAL 2,990 13,638 Total number of contents posted in 2017 381 3 10 394 Visits to our profiles 5,233 3,293 6,444 14,970 *Information about Elawan and ACEK Renewables is included. Materiality study 102-44 Next, we weighed these 19 matters to identify those most relevant to our stakeholders and to the company, from the internal For the ¨Identification of the material matters¨, a benchmarking and external perspective. was conducted on the companies in the sector, and appearances in communication media, reports of analysists regarding For this identification, a survey and its subsequent data and topics relevant to our sector, as well as implementation and deinformation analysis were conducted, counting with the direct velopment in the company (policies, plans, etc.) were analyzed participation of management and employees, through the asand assessed. This served us to group the relevant information sessment of the importance and perception of the matters in 19 matters. identified. The process is shown in the following graph. External Sectorial Press Analysts´ Employees´ benchmark analysis reports opinion Internal CEO Management Press Key opinion opinion analysis aspects The average participation of the surveyed stakeholders was approximately 73% for management and 43% for employees. After this analysis, weighing and revision, a total of 10 global material matters were defined, taking into account the answers of all stakeholders in all countries, as is summarized in the enclosed table (102-47): Material matters at Elawan Reference information 1 Growth and development in different countries General information and Economic dimension 2 Risk control General information and Economic dimension 3 Ethical and anticorruption framework Economic dimension 4 Attraction and retention of talent Social dimension 5 Performance assessment Social dimension 6 Health and Safety Social dimension 7 Social action and local community Social dimension 8 Environmental management Environmental dimension 9 Waste management and circular economy Environmental dimension 10 Biodiversity Environmental dimension 22 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Report profile Contents Significant Changes 102-46 and 102-49 102-10 and 102-49 The report is drawn up under the Global Reporting Initiative In 2017 the scope of the report has been modified due to the GRI-standards and presents the information relative to the year sale of some assets with a total of 372 MW distributed over: 2017, from 1 January to 31 December. • Brazil, where 15 wind farms were sold over the year: C. If any reference is made to information outside this period, it Vermelho I II, P. Rajada I – II, Cabeco Preto I IV, Lanchina, will be clearly indicated in the corresponding section. Similarly, Pelado, P. do Reino I IV, Serra de Santana I, II III y Boa Esfor those indicators in which no information is available this will peranca I. be expressed with ¨not available¨. • South Africa, the Noblesfontaine wind farm. No restatements of information given in the previous year have The wind farms under construction of Copperton (South Africa), been made (102-48). Persimon Creek (Oklahoma) and Hannut (Belgium) have been incorporated. In addition, we have a portfolio of 3,820 MW at the advanced Presentation cycle promotional stage. 102-50, 102-51 and 102-52 There have not been any changes to the supply chain, except The annual report comprises the period between 1 January for those resulting from the new installations. 2017 to 31 December 2017, the 2016 report being the last report drawn up. Conformity with GRI and external verification Report contact 102-54 102-53 The Report is drawn up ¨in conformity with¨ the GRI Standards Any general questions about the report, may be addressed to: comprehensive option, of which the Index of GRI Contents is Elawan enclosed to this report, together with the independent external C/ Ombu, 3. Floor 10 verification report with the company EY. 28045 Madrid Spain rsc@elawan.com This complete document is digitally available in English and Spanish, on the website: http://www.elawan.com/en/sustainability. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 23 Sustainability Report 2017 02Specific Standard Disclosures 26 Economic dimension 36 Social dimension 46 Environmental dimensión Economic dimension Material matters Contents • The renewable energy sector Growth and development in • Balance sheet different countries • Our growth • Our product • Main effects, risks and opportunities (part 1) Risk control • Governance (part 1) Ethical and anticorruption framework • Sustainability, ethics and integrity 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 The renewable Wind energy energy sector Terrestrial (on-shore) wind energy, in 2017, global wind energy capacity increased by over 52 GW, amounting to a cumulative capacity of 539 GW. It is estimated that 2019 will bring significant In 2017, the global renewable energy capacity increased by growth and that the 60 GW milestone will be passed by 2020, rea167 GW, reaching a cumulative capacity of 2,179 GW, which ching a cumulative capacity of 840 GW by 2022. represents an annual growth of around 8.3%. In the renewable sector, photovoltaic solar energy experienced the most substantial growth at 32%, followed by wind energy at 10%. The decrease of prices, technological progress and an increasingly favorable political environment, among others, consolidate this growth. (Source: IRENA). Within this framework, 64% of the new capacity was installed in Asia, compared with 58% last year, China continues having the highest installed energy capacity accounting for almost half of the total, Europe increased its capacity by 24 GW and North America by 16 GW. The general situation of the main sources of renewable energy is summarized below: Wind energy accounted for 11.6% of the energy in the EU, with the highest contributors being Denmark, Portugal and Ireland, accounting for 24%, followed by Spain and Germany at almost 20%. Denmark obtained 44% of their electricity from wind energy and Uruguay over 30%. In the US, there were four states where more than 30% of energy originated from wind, similarly so in the state of South Australia and several states in Germany. (Source: Global Wind Report: Annual Market Update. GWEC). 26 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Marine (off-shore) wind energy, although this type of reHydroelectric energy newable energy currently only represents 3.5% of the total installed wind energy, its growth in recent years has been very This type of energy shows a slight incrementation, Brazil and China significant and predictions show that this trend will continue. stand out and continue to account for most of this growth (12.4 GW or 60% of the total new capacity). The hydraulic capacity in The world currently already has almost 20,000 MW installed Angola and India also increased by over 1 GW. (Source: IRENA). and in 2017, 4,334 new MW were connected. Additionally, its development and presence are increasingly diverse (Finland, Vietnam, USA, Belgium, Korea....). The United Kingdom and Germany have been the two most dynamic European nations increasing their capacity by 1,680 MW and 1,247 MW respectively. (Source: Global Wind Energy Council (GWEC)). Finally, wind energy is positioned as the most competitive technology in many markets. Innovation, improved grid management, storage, environmental and social benefits and the increasingly lower costs (which have reduced by almost a quarter between 2010 and 2017), signal a very positive future development of the sector. Bioenergy Asia accounted for most of the upturn in bioenergy capacity, with gains of 2.1 GW in China, 510 MW in India and 430 MW in Thailand. In Europe, bioenergy capacity increased by 1.0 GW and in South America by 0.5 GW. (Source: IRENA). Photovoltaic energy Photovoltaic solar energy maintains its exponential growth, increasing by 32% in 2017. This growth is primarily due to the significant reduction of costs, estimated to be around 73%. Asia continues to have the highest increase in capacity with a hike of 72 GW, primarily in: China with 53 GW (+68%), India with 9.6 GW (+100%) and Japan with 7 GW (+17%). Other noteworthy new installations are: the US (8.2 GW); Turkey (2.6 GW); Germany (1.7 GW); Australia (1.2 GW); South Korea (1.1 GW); and Brazil (1 GW). The off-grid renewable energy capacity also experienced an Geothermal energy unprecedented growth, with an estimated increase of 6.6 GW. This represents a 10% growth compared with the previous year. Around Geothermal energy capacity increased by 644 MW. Its growth 146 million people are now using renewable energies without a in Indonesia stands out because of the new installation of 306 connection to the grid (Source: IRENA). MW, coming close to a total capacity of 2GW and Turkey which, with an increment of 243 MW, will exceed a cumulative capacity of 1 GW at the end of the year. (Source: IRENA). Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 27 Balance sheet 201-1 and 201-4 Elawan works to continue our international expansion by creaThe Economic Value Retained (VER) in 2017 has been ting value in the communities where we are present. This is pos€37,721K, 12% higher than the previous financial year. sible thanks to our positive balance sheet and correct financing. Likewise, at the closing of the year, the profit before tax was 2017 has been, again, a very significant year for Elawan´s 12,364 thousand euro, with a net financial debt of 403,035 growth, reaching 1,032 MW of operating wind energy capacity thousand euro and equity of 94,982 thousand euro. (895 MW in 2016) at 31 December. Our capitalization is 24%. Elawan has received financial support This milestone has been achieved due to the commissioning of corresponding to capital grants totaling €88MM (US$105MM). 6 new wind farms in Brazil (Pedra Rajada, Pedra Rajada II, CabeThese grants correspond to the construction of wind farms in co Vermelho, Cabeco Vermelho II, Boa Esperanca I and Pedra do the USA. In 2017 no additional grants were received. Reino IV) totaling 130 MW and a mini-hydraulic power plant in Tacotan, Mexico with 6.9 MW. The locations where Elawan is present received a total of €16,884 through taxes, levies and duties, which contribute to In addition, we are building 324 MW in new capacity, 200 MW the improvement of the living conditions and services of the inwill be put into operation in Oklahoma in August 2018, 24 MW habitants of the region. Their distribution is detailed next: will start production in December 2018 in Belgium and the remaining 100 MW, in South Africa, will start operating in 2020. Taxes, rates and levies 2016 2017 In 2018, we start the construction of a 30 MW photovoltaic Spain 2.145 10.646 farm in the town of Torrijos, in Toledo, Spain, as well as two additional wind farms in Turkey with a power output of 57 MW. Brazil 6.426 4.039 USA and Puerto Rico 6.482 1.531 Regarding economic results, we have surpassed our target budget, with a turnover of around €171MM, an EBITDA of Poland 45 479 €100MM and pre-tax profit of €12MM. Mexico 2 7 The main figures are summarized below: Romania 4 4 Belgium 12 18 Economic Value Created (Thousands of Euros) South Africa 785 160 2016 2017 Total 15.902 16.884 Revenues 132,120 171,013 Financial Incomes 1,745 2,332 Regarding the remaining accounting obligations, the compaEconomic Value Created 134,865 173,345 nies that comprise the Elawan Group are, in large part, obligated to produce annual audit reports on their individual annual accounts due to the total volume of their assets, turnover and Economic Value Distributed (Thousands of Euros) average number of employees. 2016 2017 There are no exceptions in said reports. After their approval CAPEX 560,676 493,564 by the corresponding body, these reports are submitted in due time and manner to the Mercantile Registry for each of their acStaff retribution 5,786 5,439 counting periods, the legalization of the official Books and the Payment to providers of capital 51,031 64,707 deposits of the Annual Accounts. In addition, the companies of Operational Cost 25,627 30,089 the Group are up to date with their payments to the Social Security Treasury Office and with their tax obligations. Payment to Public Administration 15,902 16,884 Investment in benefit of 172 ND the community Economic Value Distributed 659,193 610,683 28 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Our growth Wind farms under construction (323MW) Copperton wind farm (South Africa) Elawan Energy signed a 20-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for the construction and operation of the Copperton wind farm in the south African province of Northern Cape, originating from the tender of the 4th round of the South African Energy Plan. For its development, Elawan Energy is established as the majority shareholder along with our local partners. The wind farm will have a power output of 102 MW, with an investment of over €145 million and an estimated annual production of 360 GWh per year. The construction works are expected to start in the second semester of 2018 and the operational start-up of the wind farm is scheduled for 2020. Wind farm Persimmon Creek (Oklahoma) The Persimmon Creek Project is located in the state of Oklahoma (US), close to Woodward county. With a power output of 200MW, it comprises 80 GE and 73 GE116 2.5 turbines as well as 7 GE116 2.5 turbines with a hub height of 90 meters. The project is currently under construction and its launch is scheduled for September 2018. The produced energy will be sold through a 13-year Hedge. The project has a total cost of around 300 million dollars and will be operated by the company Scout, who bought 75% of the shares, whilst Elawan bought the remaining 25%. Wind farm Hannut (Belgium) Elawan Energy is building a new wind farm in Liege, Hannut (Belgium). The wind farm will have a power output of 22MW, divided over 9 aero generators. The investment is estimated to be around 32 million euros. The power purchase agreement (PPA) has been closed for the next 15 years and the sale of the ¨green certificates¨ for the next 10 years. The farm is expected to start operations in March 2019. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 29 Wind farms in advanced promotion (3,820MW) Countries MW in promotion Argentina 301 Belgium 254 Brazil 468 France 183 Mexico 244 Poland 142 Romania 130 Rusia 290 South Africa 308 Spain 650 Turkey 685 USA 165 TOTAL 3,820 Wind farm Chicxulub (Mexico) The search for locations to develop wind projects was started in the State of Yucatán, because of the good wind farm conditions and the energy demand throughout the peninsula. The current projects, which are now in different phases of development, amount to about 300 MW. Photovoltaic park in Torrijos (Toledo) In addition to meeting the company criteria, all environmental, Photovoltaic Plant Torrijos project is located in the towns of Nohistoric and social patrimony regulations are being met. Spevés and Torrijos (Toledo), the power output of which was awarcial care is taken for social regulations because of the presence ded through the auction of Ministerial Order ETU/615/2017, by of the indigenous Mayan population in the state. The goal is the Resolution published in the BOE of 13 October 2017. to integrate the projects with the least environmental impact The estimated output is 35 MWp, and the predicted investment possible, to avoid impacts on the cultural heritage and to bring totals €25 Million. The park is expected to start operations in the social benefit to the project´s area of influence. second semester of 2019. Within this framework, the 64 MW Chicxulub wind farm is the This plant will be the first solar plant built by Elawan, and new most advanced project in our portfolio. We are currently proprojects will follow in years to come. cessing the necessary licenses and permits in order to start construction in 2019, for which we have the interconnection contract signed with the CFE (Federal Electricity Commission) and the wind farm will start operating in 2020. The second phase of the project, known as Chicxulub II, with an output of 80 In Mayan, Chicxulub literally means ¨flea of the MW, is expected to start operating one year after. devil¨ or ¨place of the burning horn¨. It is located in the Looking from a sustainability perspective, Chicxulub will not crater of Chicxulub in the Yucatán peninsula. This is an old only provide renewable energy to high-demand areas like Yucrater caused by a meteorite with a diameter of at least catán and Quintana Roo, but it could also be the first project in 10km. This impact left a crater of more than 180 km wide, Mexico to provide its electricity production directly to the Whocreating one of the biggest impact zones in the world. lesale Electricity Market under the new Electrical Industry Law, The hypothesis that this impact was responsible for the for which the project is financed by the Bank with the highest mass extinction in the Cretaceous-Tertiary period has solvency of the country. recently been reaffirmed. This led, among other consequences, to the extinction of different species, such as the dinosaurs. 30 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Our product Maintenance and management In our business, the aero generators are in movement most of • Predictive maintenance: This is the most complex type of the time. The objective is to ensure these operate efficiently in maintenance. Its objective is the early diagnosis of possible order to produce and sell energy. failures or breakdowns, and so increase the uptime of the aero generators. However, there are pauses at certain times. These may be scheduled on non-scheduled. Corrective maintenance is done for non-scheduled stops. These occur when a malfunction is detected, their duration depends Scheduled stops are established to perform preventive and preon the severity of the malfunction. dictive maintenance at the wind farms. The goal is to extend the generator´s useful life and to avoid non-programmed stops/ Quality is a key element, and for this reason, all our wind farms incidents. For this reason, two types of maintenance are carried have an Integrated Management System implemented, which out: includes the quality system certified under the ISO 9001 norm. • Preventive maintenance: These are activities planned acDue to the specific characteristics of our product, energy, there cording to the intervals defined by the manufacturer of the aren´t any chemical or environmental risks (417-1). Similarly, turbine. This type of maintenance is programmed annually there have been no registered incidents concerning Health and aims to have the least impact possible. For this reason, & Safety because of impacts from our products and services preventive maintenance is done at times when there is less (416-2), nor any resulting from the sale or trade of prohibited or wind and when there is as little impact on production as posdisputed products (102-2), nor for legal violations related to the sible. supply and use of the products (419-1). Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 31 Control Center for Renewable Energies (CCER) For the monitoring and measuring of the energy production, as In these cases, the operation is handled locally by the O&M well as the incidences and stops that may arise in all our wind supervision team and remotely through an automatic remote farms, the company has a Control Center for Renewable Enersystem (CCER). If through these measures it is not possible to gies (CCER) in place, the purpose of which is to optimize the put the aero generator back into operation, the maintenance operation of the wind farms. team is informed so that they can intervene ¨in situ¨ at the wind farm for its revision and start up. Information about the production of the aero generators, electrical lines and substations is available in real-time via the The response time varies in these cases. A ¨checkpoint¨ is acCCER. This allows for the constant supervision and control of tivated and, if the stop occurs outside working hours, the traeach element. It also serves to analyze their performance convel costs for the maintenance team are analyzed as well as tinuously, and to act immediately in case of any incident. the costs that result from the plant’s production losses for the duration of the stop, to finally choose the most cost-effective Aero generator efficiency is a key element for the generation of solution. energy and the profitability of the company, which is why it is made sure that stoppage time is reduced as much as possible. The correct incident management at the farms is part of the For this reason, each time an incident occurs, it is measured and annual objectives of the CCER experts at Elawan and their varegistered, and the mechanisms necessary for its solution and riable remuneration. closing are activated. According to the information and data compiled in 2017, aveThis allows for the comprehensive monitoring of all aero generage stoppage time was 8 minutes, which illustrates the high rators and provides information regarding their performance, in efficiency of its management. order to be able to take immediate action if necessary. > Control Center for Renewable Energies (CCER). Madrid. Spain 32 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Supply chain 102-9 As a part of our Integrated Management System, Elawan has At the end of the year, these NC are submitted to the manathe PS-02 procedure ¨Purchases and evaluation of suppliers¨, gers of the affected departments where these are analyzed through which the correct management of the supply chain and their continuity is assessed. In the event there are no NC is guaranteed in collaboration with all the departments of the registered, the supplier is automatically confirmed as approved. company. The requirements for standardization, evaluation and Suppliers whose situation is deemed ¨critical¨ or those whose re-evaluation of company suppliers are established in this proservices are terminated, are informed by Elawan via an email to cedure. In addition, a conformity and compliance clause concerthe business contact of that account. ning the Elawan Code of Ethics and Conduct is included in the supplier contracts. Due to the nature of services and subcontracted companies, there were no risks identified in 2017 regarding child labor, Purchasing needs are covered through suppliers which are althreats to the freedom of association nor forced labor (401-1, ready included as ¨long-standing suppliers¨ (those which have 408-1 and 409-1). already been registered in SAP). Within this group we find: exclusive suppliers, which include suppliers defined by the limitations/requirements of each project or suppliers defined by equipment manufacturers/maintenance engineers, long-standing Local purchases suppliers and not formally approved suppliers. Elawan encourages hiring and purchasing from local suppliers, In case a not formally approved supplier is required, the suin order to create value in the places we operate in. This is reinppliers are assessed through internal and/or external referenforced in countries where the local government fosters this beces and at least 3 budgets are requested. Whether the supplier havior through incentives. Most of the budget for outsourcing meets the applicable obligations (technical specifications, terand suppliers for 2017 corresponds to local companies, that is ms, price, etc.) is verified through the budgets, and the supplier to say, companies from the same country as where the instathat best fits the stipulated specifications is selected. llations are located. In 2017 the expenditure for local suppliers totaled €30,599 thousand. Its distribution by country is summarized in the foEvaluation of suppliers llowing table (in thousand euro). (204-1) Regarding the evaluation of suppliers, there are two levels established: Expenditure on local suppliers Critical suppliers: Country Thousands of euros These are suppliers that are responsible for the supply of maBrazil 12,965 chinery (aero generators), maintenance and operation of the Spain 3,648 installations, construction of the farms and any supplier exceeding €30,000 in annual invoices. The invoices table is revised Poland 336 yearly, in order to include the possible variations of suppliers in Mexico 387 the ¨Control sheet for critical suppliers¨. Romania 31 For their tracking and control, compliance to the KPIs and the Belgium 785 contract conditions are verified. Turkey 42 South Africa 2,708 Non-critical suppliers: USA Puerto Rico 9,697 These include the remaining suppliers. Their associated conTotal 30,599 trols are coordinated by each Department manager through the Non-Conformities (NC) originating from deviations in the product characteristics or defaults in the services. In case these occur, RCMASST is informed for their registry, and the procedure established is followed. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 33 Sustainability, ethics and integrity 102-16, 102-17 and 205-1 Elawan, via our parent company, features a global corporaDuring 2017, the Ethics Committee received a complaint for te culture that has kept the same values since our beginning, “illegitimate use of office or inappropriate conduct” (406-1), but which have been adapted to the local necessities of each which had already been resolved. It received no complaints on country, the current market conditions and our stakeholder deanti-corruption (205-2 and 205-3) or human rights (102-34). mands. In addition, we have as our objective: Regarding other procedures, ongoing litigations and sanctions • Protecting results and assets over the long-term throuinitiated against the company, there have not been any signigh sustainable and stable growth, always with ethics and ficant cases that have had a relevant economic impact on the transparency towards customers, employees, suppliers, auCompany regarding unfair competition, monopolistic practices thorities and the society in general. and against free competition (206-1), complaints based on • Complying with the laws, regulations and contracts in all the breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data countries we operate in. (418-1), violations related to marketing communications (4173) nor violations of the laws and regulation in the social, envi• Providing employees with an optimal work environment and ronmental and economic areas (307-1 and 419-1). reducing the environmental impact of our activity. Sustainability has become another key element, given that sustainable growth is considered to be the best way to meet our United Nations Global Compact Objectives and stakeholders´ expectations. Since 2014, Elawan has signed and participated with the Global Compact through our parent company. However, after chanCode of Ethics and Conduct ging our company name and after the Global Compact´s change in strategy concerning its partners and signatories, Elawan beSince 2014, the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which is approved comes a direct partner in 2018, renewing our commitment to by the Board of Directors, has been a reference at Elawan for all promote and implement the 10 universally accepted principles the decisions made by our employees. for another year. In addition, we have the following reference guides, which expand on the content of the Code, concerning anticorruption and harassment: Sustainable development goals • Harassment prevention guide and action protocol: This guiAt Elawan, and from our commitment to sustainability and clide incorporates the prevention and reporting measures for mate change, we want to contribute to the mitigation of these possible harassment situations, including the minimum faeffects and to the realization of the Sustainable Development cets that must be respected in order to be able to act hoGoals (ODS), primarily through the following objectives: nestly and responsibly in all the countries we operate in. • Behavioral Guide in Response to the Offering of Incentives, Gifts and Invitations: The goal of this guide is to abide by all the laws and rules regulating bribes and corruption in the countries we operate in, deeming these as illegal worldwide. Goal 7 The Code of Ethics summarizes the guidelines to be followed Ensure access to in the event that any employee or collaborator wishes to make AFFORDABLE affordable, reliable, any query or complaint via the available reporting channels: by AND CLEAN email, telephone or in writing (complaint form). All issues are ENERGY sustainable and analyzed, managed and settled by the Ethics Committee. modern energy for all The Ethics Committee is an internal consulting body, responsible for advocating the company´s values and conduct, as well as for the monitoring, communication, disclosure and oversight Goal 13 of the Code of Ethics, for the processing and support regarding Take urgent action to the settlement of doubts and the response to possible incidents CLIMATE combat climate change or complaints that may arise, through the reporting channels. ACTION and its impacts 34 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 New Integrated Management Policy In 2017, Elawan carried out an exhaustive revision of our maIn this framework we developed, approved and implemented nagement systems, with the aim of adapting them to the new a new ¨Integrated Management Policy¨, which is binding and international standards and customizing their scope to the curepresents the base document of the system. This new policy rrent necessities of the company, certifying the activities and has been disclosed to internal staff as well as to stakeholders. processes for the ¨International promotion, development, operation and sale of renewable energy production facilities¨. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 35 Social Dimension People Material matters Contents • Management focus • Attraction, development and talent Attraction and retention of talent • Employment conditions and human rights • Social benefits and communication Performance assessment • Attraction, development and talent 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Management focus The Elawan team: 102-8 Internationalization and diversity Elawan is formed of a total of 68 employees, 28% less than The Elawan workforce is formed of highly qualified and diverse the year before. This is mainly due to the sale of Noblesfonprofessionals, who are international in nature, with common vataine in South Africa and the sale of most of the wind farms lues that contribute to fostering sustainable growth. in Brazil, where the workforce has significantly been reduced. The Human Resources department works as a change manaOf the total number of employees, 72% are male and 28% are ger and is responsible for managing quality job positions, in a female. The largest age range being between 30 and 50 years positive work environment, with opportunities for growth and old, accounting for 65%, followed by under-30s, at 23%. promotion for all professionals that make up Elawan. The breakdown of the workforce by gender, age and country is detailed below: Men Woman Country <30 >30 <50 >50 <30 >30 <50 >50 Total Spain 6 23 1 4 5 3 42 Brazil 0 1 0 2 1 0 4 USA 2 6 2 0 1 1 12 Mexico 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 Belgium 1 1 0 0 1 0 3 Poland 0 2 1 0 1 0 4 Romania 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Total 10 35 4 6 9 4 68 In regard to the members of the governing body, they all are men; 80% are over 50 years old and 20% are between 30 and 50 years old. 100% of them are local nationals (405-1). 36 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Main figures Gender Age Contract Employment Turnover Training MEN WOMEN 30~50 YEARS PERMANENT TEMPORARY FULL-TIME PART-TIME AVERAGE hoURS 72% 28% 65% 91% 9% 100% 0% 11.8% 1,728 Attraction, development and talent 404-2 and 404-3 In order to continue its expansion plan, Elawan is aware of the for such cases, such as: digital tools, employment listings, job need for a skilled, motivated and committed team. For this reafairs or headhunters. son, Elawan conducts a range of initiatives in the interests of Due to our presence in different countries and to the implemenemployee promotion and retention. tation of new projects, employees may request a transfer and, Hiring and internal promotion therefore, opt for greater professional development in other countries. Elawan is aware that its employees need to grow and evolve professionally. We therefore believe that internal promotion is In 2017, 14 new professionals joined the company, primarily in crucial in order to retain talent. Spain (46%), followed by the US, Mexico and Belgium. In order to fill any specific job vacancy internally, the CEO and the head of the department/area conduct an analysis of the Job stability requirements applicable to the post, establish the appropriate group for the vacancy, and follow the established processes Elawan is aware that in order to promote job stability, it needs until final approval. to show trust in its team. As a result, 91% of the staff have a permanent contract, whilst the remaining 9% are holding temIn the event that the offer is for a very specific profile, or has porary contracts in Spain. Furthermore, all Elawan contracts are not been filled in time, the process is outsourced via the vafull-time. rious communication channels that the company has in place Job stability Type of contract Type of workingday Permanent Temporary Complete Parcial Country M W M W M W M W Spain 25 11 5 1 30 12 0 0 Brazil 1 3 0 0 1 3 0 0 USA 10 2 0 0 10 2 0 0 Mexico 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 Belgium 2 1 0 0 2 1 0 0 Poland 3 1 0 0 3 1 0 0 Romania 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Total 44 18 5 1 49 19 0 0 Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 37 Turnover 401-1 The average turnover rate (considering the total number of ememployees in Brazil (14) and South Africa (3) are not taken into ployees leaving the company) at Elawan in 2017 was 11.8%. consideration, as, after the sale, they became part of the staff of the new company who took over the wind farms. Over the course of 2017, 14 new professionals joined the company: 10 were men and 4 were women. By comparison, 8 emThe following table shows the distribution by gender, age and ployees left the company: 5 were male and 3 were female. The country: Man Woman Country <30 >30 <50 >50 <30 >30 <50 >50 Spain 4 2 1 USA + Puerto Rico 1 Leaving Mexico Belgium Spain 3 2 2 USA + Puerto Rico 1 1 1 Hires Mexico 1 1 Belgium 1 1 Training 404-1 Elawan develops and implements an Annual Training Plan. This plan sets out the training to be delivered on the basis of employee needs, along with opportunities for improvement detected among the various departments. The methodology is set out in the Integrated Management System. The training also aims to offer the employees possibilities of promotion and adaptation to job postings within the company, both locally and internationally. Newly recruited employees undertake an induction course in which they are introduced to the company, informed of the applicable standards and codes, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct. In addition, this year we have reinforced training courses concerning IT security and data protection, with different on-site sessions. In 2017, a total of 1,728 training hours were taught, 28% to women and 72% to men. The average training time received per employee was 25 hours, without differences by gender. Most of these courses took place in Spain (73%), followed by the US (22%), Brazil (3%) and Mexico (2%). It might be concluded that the training offered over the year has been 100% satisfactory and efficient as planned. 38 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Workshop: Security in Wi-Fi Networks These days, it is almost unheard of to not have a mobile device For this reason, workshops focused on providing guidelines for in our hands, searching for an available Wi-Fi network to freely the safe use of electronic devices have been carried out, both in access data. It is not unusual for users to connect to those nework and in personal environments. tworks, without being aware of some important security risks. Performance assessment The objective of the performance assessment is to evaluate employees periodically, qualitatively and quantitatively, with regard to their efficiency in the activities they carry out, the results obtained through their work, and likewise, measuring their individual contribution to the corporate objectives. Due to its dimensions, and considering that most of the staff is located at the headquarters, a formal or structured procedure for the performance assessment is not applicable. The directors of the various departments meet annually with the CEO and the performance of all professionals (100%) is evaluated, assessing the objectives and achievements reached, by both employees and the company. Remuneration 202-1 Elawan is aware that remuneration is an important factor for our professionals. As a result, given the typical profile of its employees, the minimum wage is always higher than the figure established in local legislation. The most representative countries by number of employees are Spain, where 57% of the staff are located, followed by the US at 16%. • In Spain, the ratio in 2017 is 1.82, taking into consideration the minimum wage of the country and the lowest salary at Elawan. • In the US, this ratio is not available as many states establish minimum wages per day which complicates this calculation. > Wind Farm Piraua. Brazil Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 39 Employment conditions and human rights The company is aware that in order to retain our professionals, Diversity a series of positive provisions and conditions must be offered in order for them to develop within an appropriate environment. Elawan believes that the way of thinking of professionals from different origins helps us to achieve positive changes at the orIn addition, we act under a model of ethics, sustainability and ganization regarding our working methods, and increases our respect for human rights, as is reflected in the renewal of our capacity for innovation, giving response to the current market. commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Elawan has not identified at any facility or office, nor at any suppliers, any form of risk related to child and/or forced labor, or brea2017 Employees ches of human rights, nor were our facilities examined or evaluated with regard to human rights, except for those facilities to which the Equator Principles apply (408-1, 409-1, 412-1 and 412-3) In 2017, the Ethics Committee received one complaint for ¨illegitimate use of position or inadequate conduct¨ (406-1), which is already settled. Professional and personal life 28% 72% The balance between the professional and personal life of employees is important for their health and well-being. For several years, flexible working hours have been implemented, allowing arrival and departure times to be adjusted in accordance with the personal circumstances of all employees in Spain. In the remaining countries, this is done individually depending on the requirements of each wind farm, local legislation and the customs of The company considers that by promoting local employment, each country. we help to enhance the dialogue with the local communities, thereby allowing us more precisely to understand their culture, Maternity / Paternity 401-3 and so improve integration. 97% of the employees are therefoIn 2017 only one maternity leave was registered in Spain, re of local origin (405-1). which is currently reincorporated and continues in the company (100%). With regard to the two maternity leaves in 2016, one has already re-entered the company (50%) and the other resulted in a voluntary leave due to personal reasons (50%). > Wind Farm Szerzawy. Poland 40 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Collective labor agreements 102-41 Communication The rights and obligations of all employees are covered by Internal communication collective agreements or similar structures, depending on the country they are working in, and on the local regulations and Internal communication focuses on an international team, for requirements. The situation in 2017 is summarized below: employees located in different countries, with periodic displacements. The most versatile channel is the Leading the Change corporate Intranet. • Handbook: Used in the United States and Puerto Rico, this is the guide where In addition, the CEO periodically meets with all employees to employment conditions, behavioral standards discuss areas of interest to the company and to respond to their and employee duties are specified. This concerns directly. During 2017, two meetings were held,; the represents 17% of employees. first of them halfway through the year and the second one at the end of the year, concurring with the Christmas period. For notifications of operational changes or relevant news, em17% ployees are informed via email. External communication External communication with the other company stakeholders is conducted by means of publications on the website, press releases, meetings, etc. 83% For a more agile communication, social media channels, such as Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube are used in order to provide a more direct insight into significant events at the company on a • Collective agreements: Used in Spain, day-to-day basis. This information is summarized in the Part 1 Belgium, Poland, Rumania, Mexico and of this Report. Brazil, where 100% of the workers are covered under these statutory provisions. This accounts for 83% of employees. Social benefits Social benefits at Elawan vary depending on the country where the company operates (401-2). In Spain, all employees have medical, life and disability insurance. Furthermore, measures are adapted to the Flexible Remuneration Plan, in which employees can include a range of services offering tax benefits within their remuneration package. The distribution of the Flexible Remuneration Plan is summarized below: 33.3% 33.3% 33.3% Transport > Head offices. Madrid Restaurant Childcare voucher voucher voucher As for the US, workers have an insurance policy in accordance with the legal requirements, which includes, among others, both dental and life insurance. In Mexico and Brazil workers have a private medical insurance. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 41 Social Dimension Health and Safety Material matters Contents • Management focus Health and Safety • Training and communication • Tracking indicators Management focus 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Health and Safety represents a key factor to Elawan, playing New preventive management procedures a part in its mission and strategic objectives. It has therefore As part of the reformulation and adjustment of the Managean integrated Management System duly implemented in accorment System to the new approach of the company, new predance with international standards ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001 ventive management procedures that are integrated in the straand OHSAS 18001 for the promotion, development, operation tegic processes of Elawan have been defined. and sale of installations for renewable energy worldwide, which will be recertified in 2018. The management model is based on the integration, on the Hazard identification and risk assessment process map of the company, on the Safety issues and requirements established; and it is underpinned by the principles defiThe process and flowchart for the hazard identification and risk ned in the new Integrated Management Policy of the company, assessment have been updated at all company centers, enof compulsory compliance and which serves as the baseline docompassing the construction and operation phases and aiming cument for the system. This new policy has been disseminated to standardize criteria from a global perspective. Similarly, the both to internal staff as well as to the stakeholders. tracking and control of identified risks is guaranteed through the following mechanisms. Within the master action lines that structure the management system the following should be noted: • Evaluation of legal requirements and other requirements. • Internal audits. • Culture of Health and Safety based on the lessons learned and the ¨0¨ accidents goal. • Safety inspections. • Quality awareness raising and training, adjusted and periodic. • Tracking of indicators. • Internal and external communication through defined and • Checklists in order to verify compliance to the procedures clear channels. defined by the Organization. • Proactive control and analysis of tracking indicators and control points (KPIs). 42 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Supplementary to the updating of preventive procedures, the Responsibilities and functions document base of formats and registries associated to the ma403-1 nagement system have been widened and adjusted, with the primary aim to improve understanding and their applicability. At Elawan there is no legal obligation for Health and Safety Within the updated documents the following should be highlicommittees to be formed, although the QSHE area does receive ghted: all questions and suggestions from employees worldwide. As a result, there is no union representation, nor unitary representa• New Job Safety Analysis format for US centers. tion, nor any safety agreements are carried out. • Revision of periodic inspection reports for PCI equipment, site Even so, the Health and Safety department is entrenched glorevision list and H&S check list for equipment and turbines. bally in all the centers of the company; they have formal procedures in place which compile the responsibilities and functions concerning prevention, and which are integrated in the ManaEmergency preparedness and response gement System. Moreover, in some countries centers rely on Within the control and preparation for emergencies, new action local advisory services with regards to Health and Safety to procedures have been defined encompassing all phases of the guarantee control and compliance to the specific requirements process; from the identification and definition of emergency siof each location. tuations within the different plans; to their communication and Within the new integrated management system, the proceanalysis, with the updating of the incident investigation sheet. dures and channels for Consultation and worker participation are defined and updated; aiming for the final objective of transparency and clarity in vertical and horizontal communications, both internally and externally. > Persimmon Creek Wind Farm Substation. Oklahoma USA Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 43 Training and communication Communication and Awareness-raising Internal communication Training For the internal communication of accidents, the channels Information and training of the Elawan workers is a basic priority established for this purpose are used and included in the Mafor the company and one of the lynchpins supporting the Management System. A two-way communication is conducted, nagement System. It is for this reason that the Training Plan is following the guidelines defined by both Health & Safety superdefined yearly based on the identification of internal needs, as visors and the rest of the staff. well as on technical criteria and demands from the sector; and It is mandatory to follow the communication guidelines establialways searching periodical training adjusted to each position. shed in order to be able to conduct a comprehensive analysis During 2017, a total of 458 training hours regarding health and of each accident and to be able to propose the required improsafety were taught, which accounts for an average of 6 hours vement measures that avoid the repetition of similar incidents. per employee. Among the courses conducted throughout 2017, we highlight For 6 years, Elawan has been receiving incentives granted by the following: the Ministry of Employment for companies contributing to the reduction and prevention of occupational accidents, under the terms of “Royal Decree Law 404/2010, from 31 March 2010, Training of Emergency Brigades regulating the establishment of a system for the reduction of in Mexican Plants professional contingency contributions on the part of compaResulting from the updating of the Civil Protection Plan nies, making a particular contribution to the reduction and preof the hydraulic plants of Tacotán and Trigomil, and with vention of occupational accidents”. the aim of guaranteeing its correct implementation in the facilities, in 2017 a complete schedule for the training of the designated emergency brigades was made, including External communication the staff and outsourced companies. During the training For all accidents (minor, major or fatal) occurring at the comcycle courses on Fire Extinguishing, First Aid and Evacuapany’s facilities, the communication channels established for tion and Communication were included, always based on this purpose will be followed, along with the obligations and the requirements of the Mexican legislation. deadlines imposed by the competent authority of each country. Training on the handling of the forklift truck: Awareness-raising Roth Rock WF To raise the awareness of employees regarding Health & SafeThe training of the staff of the Roth Rock wind farm (USA) ty issues, periodic campaigns and/or relevant information are was expanded to include training on the handling of the disseminated, typically coinciding with significant dates such forklift truck; obtaining the credentials for its handling in as, for example: World Health & Safety Day. accordance with the applicable legislation and guaranIn the same way, and with the objective of fostering employee´s teeing alignment between training received and functions knowledge and information concerning prevention, a common carried out by the workers. directory has been created which serves as a data base for the Integrated Management System and in which all informational and relevant documentation is kept up to date. Supplementary to the defined communication and awareness Protective Equipment and training channels, a renewal of the company´s Health & Safety related signage has been carried out, aiming to improve dissemination Being aware of the importance of the health and safety of its and information of all safety requirements in the facilities for workers, Elawan shows its concern in ensuring that they have external personnel. the proper and required tools in order to perform their activities. As a result, and in connection with the change in the company name, corporate outfits were renewed aiming for their improvement and adjustability always bearing in mind safety and the legally established specifications for each country. 44 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Tracking indicators 403-2 In 2017, the staff of Elawan has not suffered any labor accidents nor incidents concerning Health & Safety. This fact indicates compliance to the Health & Safety protocols established, such as the preventive measures and the good performance and awareness of our employees. This data puts the company´s absenteeism levels far below those of the same industry. There was no occupational illness in 2017 (ratio 0.0). Absenteeism The absenteeism at Elawan is ¨0¨, as there have been no acAccident rates of external personnel cidents, and as a result there was no absenteeism among our Concerning subcontractors, in 2017 there were 3 accidents in employees Brazil which did not result in a medical leave, one of them being Regarding absenteeism for ¨other reasons¨, this is also ¨0¨ in all ¨in itinere¨ and 2 accidents with leave, also in Brazil. countries, except Spain, the result of which is 0,64, which mainFor all accidents and incidents, the relevant investigations were ly corresponds to women. (Rate: number of days in the year x opened and measures were taken to prevent recurrence. 100 / ∑ days per month x workers) > Mini hydro. Mexico Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 45 Social Dimension Society Material matters Contents • Contribution to local development Social action and local community • External initiatives 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Contribution to local reach or their implementation is very costly and complex. Meanwhile, its average useful life is over 30 years and its techdevelopment nological costs have decreased significantly. In addition to the benefits that stem from its activity, Elawan Elawan contributes to local economic development in the coundeems that local initiatives contribute to reinforcing bonds with tries it has a presence in by creating value through its products the community. and services. It should be noted that information on local action has been reThe regions where Elawan is located receive incomes through duced due to the sale of most of the wind farms in Brazil and taxes, levies and duties that contribute to the improvement of the wind farm in South Africa. services and life of the inhabitants of the region. The amount paid in these concepts in 2017 was €16,884 thousand. The wind farm in Punta Lima was also affected this year, which was badly damaged after hurricane Maria. As a result of this, In addition, new business opportunities are generated for local our activity was focused on providing supplies to our emplosuppliers and services, while creating employment in the region, yees and their families, in addition to maintaining their jobs. contributing to the improvement of the local economy. In 2017 the expenses in local suppliers amounted to €30,599 thousand. Corporate (Madrid) No negative impacts on the local community have been identiEach year, since 2013, Elawan supports the Foundation ¨What fied (413-2). Really Matters¨(LQDVI) in the dissemination of universal humane, ethical and moral values through staging motivational conventions. In 2017, in addition to helping the conventions Social action and spreading them among employees, the new book of LQDVI, characterized by its special focus on the environment, was dis413-1 tributed to employees, customers and providers. Elawan aligns its business strategy with the SDG (Sustainable Elawan in Poland Development Goals) through social action, work with different associations, and local authorities, through constant and transThis year Elawan Poland provided local help through three local parent dialogue. donations, which were distributed as follows: We collaborate with non-profit organizations to develop corpo• Golczewo Project: this project helped to subsidize the caterate and local activities. ring for a summer event in Golczewo. By doing so, a greater and better development in rural or iso• Werbkowice Project: Two grants were given to provide sulated areas is made possible through the generation of clean pport for the event ¨Days of Werbkowice¨ and the summer energy, as it is adapted to regions where power lines do not event ¨Harvest Days in Community¨ in the Treszczany municipality. 46 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Elawan in Mexico In 2017, after the earthquake of September, action lines were The wind wind farm of Petersburg donated and auctioned a mochanged due to the urgent necessities that resulted. Elawan in dern lawnmower during a dance and car show, to contribute to the Mexico and its team collaborated selflessly with the families affecupkeep of the fire station. ted by the earthquake, through donations and voluntary work. For the coming year, with the start of the works for the new PE Punta Lima Yucatán wind farm, a social and integration action plan will be This year has been complicated for our facilities in Punta Lima, developed for the Mayan village, which will be elaborated on in which was left inoperative after Hurricane Maria due to the sethe next Report. vere damage it suffered. Elawan proceeded to donate edibles to help our workers and Elawan in USA-Puerto Rico their families at this difficult time; in addition to maintaining their employment in spite of the wind farm not being operaPE Petersburg tional. In Petersburg there is a Voluntary Firefighters Department. This Similarly, we contributed for the third consecutive year to the small local department is maintained through donations and realization of the community activity celebrating ¨Wind Day¨ grants, with which firefighting equipment is bought. For its finanand financed 19 scholarships in the community, to a total of cing, shows are held and funds are collected from companies and 16 young students and 3 students of the graduate school in individuals through donations. Naguabo. External initiatives supported by Elawan 102-12 Elawan contributes to cultural, social and educational integraAssociations and organizations tion by encouraging progress and equality in the society. Social 102-13 action projects are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Elawan participates in different industry associations in the countries it has a presence in, with the aim to contribute and help development, investment and the integration of renewable energy in the WHAT REALLY MATTERS energy mix of each country, as well as other activities concerning What Really Matters (WRM). Elawan has the promotion of the industry. supported the Foundation LQDVI since The most relevant are summarized next: 2013 through its parent Company. • Spain: Spanish Wind Energy Association (AEE) LQDVI is dedicated to promoting dissemination of universal humane, ethical • Poland: Polish Wind Energy Association (PWEA) and moral values, mainly to young • Poland: Wind Energy Association (SEO) people through staging conventions in • Belgium: Edora which personal stories of triumph over adversity and hope for the future are • France: France Energie Eolienne (FEE) recounted. • Rumania: Asociatia Romana pentru Energie Eoliana (RWEA) United Nations Global Compact • South Africa: South African Wind Energy Association (SAWEA) The company´s objective is to pro• Turkey: Turkish Wind Energy Association (TWEA) mote and implement the 10 universal principles on human rights, employment standards, environment and company As indicated in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, Elawan does not business strategies, in addition to the provide financial assistance to governments (415-1). Sustainable Development Goals. On this basis, Elawan subscribed to the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact), and has met the necessary requirements for the commitment´s renewal in 2017. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 47 Environmental Dimension Material matters Contents • Management focus • Environmental performance Environmental management • Energy • Emissions and climate change • Management focus Waste management and circular economy • Environmental performance • Management focus Biodiversity • Environmental performance Management focus 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 The environment is a key point for Elawan throughout the enti• Adjusting the system to the new 2015 version of the refere business cycle. For this reason, we have implemented a Marence norms. nagement System certified under the ISO 14001 norm for the • Reformulating the support and business processes with the international promotion, development, operation and sales of collaboration of the departments involved. installations for renewable energy. • Continue working to reduce losses in production and recover In 2017, the Management System was modified and adjusted produced waste. to the new corporate structure, in addition to changing to the • Continue reducing our environmental footprint (optimization new version (2015) of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards. of work displacements, consumption reduction depending Through this change, the system integration in strategic proon people or the energy produced, awareness and sensitizacesses was improved, adjusting its scope to the new normative tion campaigns, etc.). requirements. In line with this strategy and in accordance with the commitNew process map ment made with the management system, our lines of action regarding the environment have been oriented towards: With the help of the departments involved, a new process map was designed which is better adapted to Elawan´s new mission. Based on this map, new operational and support processes have been established which are adjusted to the new guidelines and the company´s operability. 48 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 New procedure of Environmental Conduct Emergency preparedness and response Con el fin de optimizar los flujos de trabajo y la gestión del With A global Environmental Emergency Plan has been implemented the goal of optimizing our work and environmental managefor all the operating centers of the company. This plan inclument flows, all environmental processes have been included in des the identification of the different emergency situations, as one strategic procedure which defines the guidelines to identify well as their analysis and action procedures through schematic and evaluate environmental matters, to prepare and respond in sheets, which aim to increase their disclosure and understancase of environmental emergencies and incidents, as well as to ding by all staff involved, both internal and external. identify and analyze applicable legal requirements. Similarly, a new environmental Incident Investigation Sheet has been drawn up for the correct management of emergency situations in company centers. In 2017, 3 environmental emergency situations were detected which have been managed and analyzed in accordance with the applicable procedure: • 0.17 m3 oil spill coming from the transformer in Flat Water (USA), which was reported to the competent authority complying with the applicable regulation. • 0.008 m3 oil spill coming from the crane during works in Punta Lima (Puerto Rico). • 0.006 m3 oil spill due to a technical turbine problem in Punta Lima (Puerto Rico). It should be noted that this situation happened after the passing of Hurricane Maria through the Punta Lima wind farm (Puerto Rico), causing numerous structural and environmental damage. In 2017, there were no environmental complaints or disputes (307-1). > Wind Farm Szerzawy. Poland. Environmental matters The identification and evaluation of environmental matters occurs on an annual basis, covering all organizational processes. By doing so, uniform groups are established, differentiated by the classification of centers, offices and production areas (installation), and in the case of the latter, according to their current phase (construction, maintenance or operation). During the decommissioning of an installation, a new identification and evaluation of factors specific to this center will emerge, the associated controls are performed and comply with legal requirements, as well as the obligations derived from licenses, the Environmental Impact Statement and/or each country´s own environmental reports. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 49 Communication, sensitization and stakeholders As part of the new management system change, an analysis has been conducted of each of the stakeholders in each phase and action area of the company; defining, for each of these, the communication channels, the impact on the organization, as well as the requirements for the periodical analysis of the obtained results. The SWOT matrix for the risk and opportunity analysis has been defined in line with the identified internal and external factors. On a supplementary basis, the ¨communication control¨ has been updated through the development of a monitoring matrix, both internally and externally, detailing the channels and people responsible for communication in each instance. No environmental complaints nor queries were collected in the period of the analysis. Amongst the internal communications and disclosures, the ones New environmental signage conducted on specific dates related to the environment should In 2017, and in parallel with the change of the corporate image, be noted, such as: World Water Day, Earth Hour, World Energy the environmental signage was renewed. Among the newly deEfficiency Day and World Migratory Bird Day, etc., as well as the fined formats, the international posters for waste management documented updates of the management system. should be noted, as well as the new informative posters on poisonous animals and insects for the centers in Mexico. > Mini hydro. Mexico 50 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental performance Waste 301-1 The main indicators on hazardous and non-hazardous waste are controlled through the management system, separating Elawan is aware of the importance of respect and care for the waste produced in offices and waste produced on wind farms, environment, and therefore optimizes natural resources and which originates from maintenance work. It should be noted minimizes the impact of its activities through the profound mothat although this is a material matter, our activity generates nitoring of certain indicators, as well as other relevant environvery little waste and is managed in accordance with the legislamental vectors. tion in each corresponding country. Information regarding energy consumption and production is For monitoring purposes, we take into consideration the relative available in the wind farms through CCER. Nevertheless, mainvalues based on the energy production in the wind farms and tenance work is often outsourced and no information is availathe number of employees in the offices in Madrid, with the goal ble in this regard. of comparing the data from different installations. The information is summarized in the following table: WASTE* (301-1) Process-origin Destination Common Waste to Madrid Office Employees 2017 Employees 2016 Paper consumption (packs of 500 sheets) Proposals and presentations 0.58 0.75 Recycling Mouse, Keyboards and Consumption of batteries or accumulators (kg) 0.05 0.05 Recycling Controls Fluorescent (kg) Illumination 0.60 1.20 Recycling Farm waste (maintenance and operation) MW 2017 MW 2016 Recycling. Authorized Consumption of batteries or accumulators (kg) Batteries, walkies, etc. 0.00 0.09 manager per country Recycling. Authorized Generation of contaminated absorbents (kg) All the facilities. 0.24 0.19 manager per country Recycling. Authorized Generation of contaminated metal containers (kg) Maintenance of wind turbines 0.03 0.02 manager per country Recycling. Authorized Generation of contaminated plastic containers (kg) Maintenance of wind turbines 0.06 0.04 manager per country Recycling. Authorized Oil filter generation Maintenance of wind turbines 0.07 0.03 manager per country Re-use. Authorized Generation of used oil (kg) Maintenance of wind turbines 0.05 0.37 manager per country Recycling. Authorized Generation of non-hazardous waste (kg) Metallic elements, wood, etc. 0.05 6.96 manager per country *Includes: Madrid Office, Farms of Spain, USA, South Africa. In the other centres, they are managed directly by the technologist (Poland, Belgium) or the data is not available (Turkey). In Mexico, no waste was generated during 2017 Concerning the transportation of waste (306-4), 100% is transImportant milestones of the year ported by the authorized national operators. Due to its characteristics, no hazardous waste material is subject to the Basel The degree of completion of the determined environmental obConvention. jectives is summarized next: This waste is linked to corrective and preventive maintenance • Energy: The objectives regarding the reduction of energy required by the turbines and equipment that make up the insconsumption in the branches were achieved (302-4). tallation, and its generation is therefore directly conditioned by • Communication and training: The environmental contingenthe maintenance cycles and ranges. cy plan for Brazil has been implemented and disseminated. Similarly, there are other aspects to be controlled in accordance • Water: The objective to reduce water consumption in the with specific legislation of the region or country. Among those, branches, despite not being a significant matter, minimized the following should be noted: its consumption. • Noise emissions: all emissions are within the limits established by the applicable legislation and/or EIS. • Water analysis: BOD5, COD, pH and suspended solids. All values are within the legally established limits. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 51 Biodiversity Environmental impacts 304-1 and 304-2 As part of the integrated management system implemented in On a supplementary basis, all projects are executed guaranteethe company, the identification and evaluation of environmental ing compliance to the requirements defined in the legislation matters and their associated impacts is a key factor throughout and associated environmental permits for the country in questhe development, construction and operation of a project. It is tion, ranging from the initial promotion and development phases for this reason that said listing is performed annually, covering by obtaining permits and licenses and the pursuit of environall productive processes of the company and identifying direct mental impact studies, to the measures associated with the and indirect issues, in the normal operational phase as well as future decommissioning of the centers. in emergencies. By doing so, uniform groups are established, The most frequent negative impacts are summarized next: differentiated by the classification of centers against production areas (installation), and, in the case of the latter, according Land use and degradation to their phase (construction, maintenance or operation). DuThis occurs with the lifting and moving of earth mainly in the ring the decommissioning of an installation, an environmental construction phase. Corrective measures are established in orassessment specific to said center will take place. Associated der to mitigate these impacts such as avoiding work in areas checks are carried out whilst meeting the applicable legal requiwith high sensitivity to erosion, limiting the weight of transporrements and obligations that are indicated, in, for example, the ted loads, and natural water flows. Environmental Impact Statement or its derivatives in the different countries where these may occur. Impacts on flora and fauna The significance of a matter, or lack thereof, is determined baMainly affecting birds and bats due to collisions with the blades sed on the comparative calculations of the year before, if it is of the wind turbines and/or the electrical output lines. Moreoincluded in legal compliance, if there are measurements for its ver, during the construction phase, special care is taken to limit control and its importance to stakeholders. stress generated by noise, vibrations and movement. On direct matters, their generation is established through their Examples of mitigating actions are the installation of anti-collirelation to production or to the number of people in our orgasion elements in areas with high levels of bird-migration and the nization, depending on the type of issue, for the estimate of tracking of birds, and regarding the preservation of vegetation, their yearly figure. The means for control, frequency of use and plague control, control of invasive species and replanting. stakeholders are considered for the assessment of indirect matters. Impact on landscape We work on significant matters, which are based on our actions The implementation of wind farms tends to take place in natural and performance, with the objective of improving ratios and of mountainous or coastal areas, where the strength of the wind reducing the impact we generate as much as possible. Similarly, is best harnessed, but which increases their visual impact. This these are taken into account in the definition of the company´s is one of the most complicated problems to mitigate; a common strategic management objectives. response is to paint the wind turbines white matt so that no reflections are created, and to paint the auxiliary structures in color tones consistent with the colors of the area to better integrate them into the landscape. Noise and dust impact Noise is produced by components of the wind turbine, mechanically as well as aerodynamically. Wind farms are installed in areas sufficiently far away from population centers to avoid disturbances resulting from the noise. Additionally, the measures established in environmental monitoring programmes are also followed. > Damage caused by Hurricane “Maria” in Puerto Rico 52 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Flora and fauna protection 304-3 and 304-4 The monitoring and measuring of biodiversity in conducted based on contractual obligations and on the requirements of the competent environmental authorities, in accordance with the methodologies and technical guidelines outlined for each case. These flora and fauna monitoring studies are especially thorough in areas with protected species. These species and their classification are outlined next: (EN: Endangered, NT: Near Threatened VU: Vulnerable and IE: Special Interest). Spain Brazil USA-PR Country IUCN CNEA IUCN CNEA IUCN CNEA 304-4 NT:3 Birds VU:2 VU:1 EN:1 IE:1 Mammals NT:4 VU:6 VU:1 EN:1 VU:2 VU:1 -IUCN: International Union for Conservation of Nature -CNEA: Catalogo Nacionales de Especies Amenazadas; Lista brasileira de animais ameaçado de extinçao > Wind Farm Flat Water. USA Circular economy Elawan, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy which aims to generate intelligent, sustainable and integrative growth, promotes the concepts and features of a circular economy with the goal of contributing to the change to a low-carbon economy that uses resources efficiently. For this reason, and within the integrated management system, it provides the following instruments: Life • Eco-conception based on the analysis of the life cycle of the company´s activities and processes, identifying the associacycle ted environmental factors and impacts, control criteria and evaluation, and monitoring and measuring stakeholders for each stage of the cycle (purchase/design, transport, use, end of useful life). • Economy of ¨functionality¨, associated with the very concept of renewable energy and prioritizing the generation of clean energy over the consumption of our plants. • Correct waste management prioritizing the circular flow of materials: Reutilization of used oil. Reparation: Corrective and preventive maintenance based on the manufacturer´s range and prioritizing on-site reparations. Recycling and recovery of waste created (fluorescent tubes, metal waste, paper, toner, etc.) Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 53 Energy Elawan has a very low energy consumption level, mainly resulting from maintenance works at wind farms and from the company’s offices. Internal energy consumption 302-1 In 2017, Elawan consumed a total of 7,509 GJ of energy in its Spanish wind farms which did not derive from renewable sources. Country Energy consumption (GJ) Belgium 326 Brazil* 185 Spain 2,124 USA Puerto Rico 2,024 Mexico 0 Poland 0 Turkey 1,660 South Africa* 1,190 TOTAL 7,509 *Information available up to the date of sale of the farms Energy intensity 302-3 Elawan considers that the measurement of our energy intensity > Wind Farm Yahyali. Turkey is a good way to ascertain the efficiency and impact of its activity. For this reason, an annual ratio is calculated by dividing the Renewable energy production internal energy consumption by the total weight of energy sold in each country. The following table summarizes the results: At Elawan, we are aware that climate change is one of the main environmental issues facing the planet, as well as a key point Energy intensity for its stakeholders. Therefore, our activity, the generation of Country (GJ consumed/GD produced) renewable energy, contributes to this fight. Belgium 0.0014 In 2017, a total of 9,409,832 GJ of energy was generated from Brazil 0.0000 renewable sources, the distribution by country being summariSpain 0.0038 zed below: USA Puerto Rico 0.0010 Country Energy production (GJ) Mexico 0.0000 Belgium 234,536 Poland 0.0000 Brazil* 5,645,659 Turkey 0.0027 Spain 563,169 South Africa 0.0047 USA Puerto Rico 1,947,264 TOTAL 0.0008 Mexico 55,417 Poland 97,220 As for external consumption, no information is available regarTurkey 614,088 ding this indicator. Information is expected to be available by South Africa* 252,479 2030 (203-2). TOTAL 9,409,832 *Information available up to the date of sale of the farms 54 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 AFFORDABLE Goal 7 CLIMATE Goal 13 AND CLEAN Ensure access to ACTION Take urgent action to ENERGY affordable, reliable, combat climate change sustainable and and its impacts modern energy for all Energy is key to almost all big challenges and opportunities Climate change affects all countries on all continents. It has a that the world is currently facing. Whether it is for employnegative impact on the economy and on the lives of people, ment, safety, climate change, food production or to increase communities and countries. In the future its consequences will incomes, universal access to energy is essential. be even worse. People are feeling the consequences of climate change firsthand, which include changes in weather patterns, increasing sea levels and more extreme weather events. Greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activity increase this threat. In fact, emissions never have been this high. Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 55 Emissions and climate change 201-2 Because of our activity, the fight against climate change is a key Greenhouse gas emissions feature in our business. Therefore, we actively work on reaching By measuring our carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, Elawan helps the sustainable development goals; primarily goal 7 (Affordable to improve the communication of our impacts and to the collecand clean energy) and goal 13 (Climate Action). tion of specific data with the aim of establishing possible improvement objectives. Benefits of renewable energies For the calculation of CO2 emissions, the following standards have been considered: Green House Gas Protocol (GHG ProtoRenewable energies, specifically wind power, guarantee suscol), Emissions Factors from Cross-Sectors Tools (GHG Protocol tainability due to their non-polluting properties. They are inex– 2014) to calculate fuel emission factors; the IPCC Fourth Ashaustible sources, they reduce the use of fossil fuels, they are sessment Report: Climate Change 2007 to calculate R-22; and an indigenous energy and, therefore, are accessible globally. for electricity consumption, the average emission factors of each Renewable energies do not produce greenhouse gases or pollucountry´s national electricity mix for the period 2009-2011 actant emissions, helping to combat climate change and generate cording to the IEA (International Energy Agency). local wealth and employment. Direct Emissions Scope 1 In addition, it generates practically no waste, nor does it require 305-1 water for the operation, thus contributing to the maintenance of water resources. The company’s production process begins with wind, the main raw material for Elawan. It must, therefore, be kept in mind that For every kWh produced, wind energy has 21 times less envithe company does not generate direct emissions from the conronmental impact than energy produced by oil, 10 times less sumption of other fossil fuels. Meanwhile, no refrigerant gas than nuclear energy and 5 times less than gas (Source: AEE). refills were performed during the period (305-6). The costs of generating energy from renewable energy sources such as wind and solar have reached historic levels, and are Indirect Emissions Scope 2 equal to or even lower than the costs of fossil fuel generation. 305-2 Regarding the costs related to onshore wind energy, these have These emissions correspond to those generated at electricidecreased by around a quarter since 2010 (Source: IRENA), maty power plants for consumption at our facilities and offices. In king them increasingly competitive. 2017, the total amounted to 981 tons of CO2. As a result, investment in renewable energies is a commitment that allows for the development in deprived and rural areas, imCountry tons CO2 produced proving habitats, creating employment, encouraging the impleBelgium 18 mentation of local suppliers, and acting as a spearhead for the Brazil 3 service industry and economy in the region. Spain 172 USA Puerto Rico 283 Mexico 0 Poland 0 Turkey 218 South Africa 287 TOTAL 981 56 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Other Emissions Scope 3 305-3 Other emissions include emissions from corporate trips by air Corporate travel and rail, and this year the emissions resulting from rental cars tons of CO2 were also included. 264,1 Plane Other emissions Type Emissions tons CO2 0,2 Train Corporate trips 292 Employees transport 121 TOTAL 413 28 Rental car CO2 emissions avoided through the production Energy and emission intensity of electrical energy 305-4 305-5 Elawan likewise takes the intensity of emissions into account in Given Elawan´s activities, we barely generate any atmospheric order to measure the efficiency and impact of its processes. The emissions. This represents a way of helping to reduce greenresulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of direct house gas emissions and combat climate change. In 2017, the and indirect emissions by the total weight of the production sold emission of 606,459 tons of CO2 was avoided. in each country. The following tables detail the obtained results: Below is a breakdown of the tons of CO2 avoided per country throughout the year: Emissions intensity Country (tonnes of CO2 emitted Emissions avoided / GJ produced) Country (tonnes of CO2) Belgium 0.054 Belgium 12,769 Brazil 0.019 Brazil 106,640 Spain 0.081 Spain 45,523 USA Puerto Rico 0.140 USA Puerto Rico 272,076 Mexico 0.000 Mexico 6,927 Poland 0.000 Poland 21,064 Turkey 0.131 Turkey 80,514 South Africa 0.241 South Africa 60,946 TOTAL 0.666 TOTAL 606,459 CO2 Produced 1,394 tons CO2/year CO2 Avoided Scope 2 606,459 tons CO2/year 981 tons CO2/year Production of Scope 3 BALANCE renewable energy 606.459 tons CO2/year 413 tons CO2/year +605,065 tons CO2/year Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 57 Sustainability Report 2017 03 Annexes 60 Independent Review Report 61 GRI Content Index 67 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact 68 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies Independent Review Report 60 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Content Index 102-55 External verification: The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. GRI Content Index Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 10 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 √ 102-4 Location of operations 12 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 17 √ 102-6 Markets served 11, 12 √ 102-7 Scale of the organization 13 √ Organizational profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 13, 36 38 √ 102-9 Supply chain 33 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 23 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 16 √ 102-12 External initiatives 47 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 47 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-7 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14 16 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 10, 34 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 34-35 √ Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 61 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-18 Governance structure 17 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 17 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 18 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 18 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 19 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 17 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 19 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 19 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 19 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 19 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 20 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 19 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 19 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 19 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 19 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 18 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 20 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 20 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 20 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 20 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 20 √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 20 √ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 22 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 68 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 23 √ 102-47 List of material topics 22 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 23 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 23 √ 102-50 Reporting period 23 √ Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 23 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 23 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 23 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 23 √ 102-55 GRI content index 61 √ 102-56 External assurance 60 √ 62 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Economic Performance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 √ indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 √ Economic Performance √ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 28 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 55-56 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans NA √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 28 √ Market presence 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender GRI 202: Market presence 39 √ compared to local minimum wage Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 33 √ Practices Anticorruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 34 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 34 √ 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 34 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 34 √ Behavior practices Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 63 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental performance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48 √ Approach. It is applicable to all indicators 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 √ reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48 √ Energy (no material) 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 54 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 54 √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 54 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 51 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Note A √ Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 56 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 56 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 57 √ 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 57 √ Effluents and Waste 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination Note B √ 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 51 √ GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-3: Significant spills 49 √ 306-4: Transport of hazardous waste 51 √ 306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Note B √ Biodiversity 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 52 √ areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 52 √ GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 53 √ 304-4: IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 53 √ in areas affected by operations. Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 34 √ Compliance NOTE A: Not applicable. Our activity is the production of renewable energy.. NOTE B: With respect to water collection and discharge, this is minimal as it only affects offices and is therefore not considered relevant. 64 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36, 42, 46 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 42, 46 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 42, 46 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 38 √ 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI 401: Employment 41 √ or part-time employees 401-3: Parental leave 40 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 43 √ safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 45 √ GRI 403: Occupational absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupa45 √ tion 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions NA √ Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 38 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 37-39 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develo39 √ pment reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 36, 40 √ Equal Opportunity Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 65 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Freedom of Association GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 33 √ Association collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 33 √ Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compul33 √ Compulsory Labor sory labor Human Rights Assessment GRI 412: Human Rights 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 15 √ Assessment clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 46 47 √ GRI 413: Local development programs Communities 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 46 √ communities Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 47 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Note C √ GRI 416: Customer service categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 31 √ products and services Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 31 √ Compliance NOTE C: Not applicable due to the type of product of our company. 66 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate Elawan’s progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Part I. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. General Standard Disclosures Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Part I. rights abuses. General Standard Disclosures Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Part II. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Social Dimension bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Part II. compulsory labour. Social Dimension Labour Rights Part I. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. General Standard Disclosures Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Part I. employment and occupation. General Standard Disclosures Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Part II. approach to environmental challenges. Environmental Dimension Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Part II. Environment environmental responsibility. Environmental Dimension Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Part II. environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Dimension Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Part II. Anti corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Economic Dimension Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 67 Scope considered of Elawan and subsidiaries Scope consolidation.The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2017 Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Elawan Energy, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Puerto Rico, INC. USA ELINCASIOL, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind San Juan, Inc. USA Parques Eólicos Gestinver, S.L. Spain Punta Lima Holding Co., L.L.C. USA Parque Eólico Becerril, S.L. Spain Punta Lima Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Promociones, S.L. Spain Punta Lima Development Services, LLC. USA Gestamp Eólica Promociones 2, S.L. Spain TPW Petersburg, LLC USA Gestamp Eólica Promociones 3, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind North America, INC. USA Gestamp Eólica Promociones 4, S.L. Spain North Buffalo Wind, L.L.C. USA Gestinver Gestión, S.L. Spain Pawnee Wind Farm USA KONESTICIAL, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Indiana USA ERGE Occidente, S.L. Spain GSQ, LLC USA Gestamp HC Eólica, S.L. Spain GSQ 2, LLC USA Gestamp Eólica Castilla La Mancha, S.L. Spain Gestamp Eólica Brasil, S.A. Brazil ERGE Aragón, S.L. Spain Serras Holding, S.A. (*) Brazil Fotovoltaica Torrijos, S.L. (antes AlternatiSpain Gestamp Eólica Baixa Verde , S.A. (*) Brazil vas Eólicas, S.L.) ERGE Levante, S.L. Spain Gestamp Eólica Moxotó, S.A. (*) Brazil Desarrollos Eólicos del Norte, S.L. Spain Eólica Pedra do Reino, S.A. (*) Brazil P.E. Rondavino, S.L. Spain Gestamp Eólica Sobradinho, S.A. (*) Brazil P.E. Salguero, S.L. Spain Eólica Gravatá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Wind Energy North America, INC. USA Eólica Pirauá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Spring Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Lanchinha, S.A. (*) Brazil Nebraska Wind, I, LLC. USA Gestamp Eólica Paraiso, S.A. (*) Brazil Flat Water Holdings, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Lagoa Nova, S.A. (*) Brazil Flat Water Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Serra _Santana, S.A. (*) Brazil Flat Water Development Services, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Seridó, S.A. (*) Brazil Roth Rock Holdings, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Jardins, S.A. Brazil Roth Rock Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Alvorada, S.A. Brazil Roth Rock Development Services, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Agreste S.A. Brazil Macambiras Holdings, S.A. Brazil 68 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2017 Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Gestamp Eólica Macambira I, S.A. Brazil Farma Wiatrowa Kleby Sp. zoo Poland Gestamp Eólica Macambira II, S.A. Brazil Farma Wiatrowa Bukówiec Górny Sp. zoo Poland Gestamp Eólica Pedra do Reino IV, S.A. (*) Brazil Gestamp Wind 13 sp zoo Poland Cabeço Vermelho I, S.A. (*) Brazil Gestamp Wind 14 sp zoo Poland Cabeço Vermelho II, S.A. (*) Brazil Hidroeléctrica de Tacotan, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Pedra Rajada I, S.A. (*) Brazil Hidroeléctrica de Trigomil, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Pedra Rajada II, S.A. (*) Brazil Tacotán Trigomil Servicios SA de CV Mexico Boa Esperança, S.A. (*) Brazil Gestamp Eólica México, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Lagoa dos Ventos Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Eólica Dacia, S.R.L. Romania Coria (PKF) Investments 28 P. Ltd. South Africa Gestamp Eólica Costesti S.R.L. Romania Nobelsfontein Maintenance services (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Gestamp Eólica Costesti S.R.L. Romania Deltrade 67 Propiertary Limited South Africa Gestamp Eólica Berezeni S.R.L. Romania Gestamp Wind Africa (Pty) 2td South Africa Gestamp Eólica Berezeni S.R.L. Romania Modderfontein Wind Energy Project (Pty) Ltd South Africa Gestamp Eólica Raducaneni S.R.L. Romania Copperton Wind Farm (Pty) Ltd South Africa Gestamp Eólica Raducaneni S.R.L. Romania FC Enerji Elektrik Uretim Tikaret ve Sanayi, A.S. Turkey Vientos S.R.L. Romania Sabas Elektrik Uretim, A.S. Turkey Gestamp Eólica Promociones .S.L. Spain Sabas Elektrik Uretim, A.S. Turkey Gestamp Eólica Baixa Verde , S.A. Brazil BAK Enerji Üretimi A.Ş. Turkey Gestamp Eólica Moxotó, S.A. Brazil BAK Enerji Üretimi A.Ş. Turkey Eólica Pedra do Reino, S.A. Brazil YGT Elektrik Üretim SAN. VE TİC. LTD. ŞTİ. Turkey Gestamp Eólica Sobradinho, S.A. Brazil YGT Elektrik Üretim SAN. VE TİC. LTD. ŞTİ. Turkey Eolica Gravatá-Geradora de Energia, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Ruzgar Enerjisi, Ltd. Turkey Eolica Pirauá-Geradora de Energia, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Wallonie, S.A. Belgium Gestamp Eólica Lanchinha, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Wind Feluy, S.A. Belgium Gestamp Eólica Paraiso, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Wind Beaumont, S.A. Belgium Gestamp Eólica Lagoa Nova, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Wind Hannut, S.A. Belgium Gestamp Eólica Serra _Santana, S.A. Brazil Gestamp Eólica Polska sp z.o.o. Poland Gestamp Eólica Seridó, S.A. Brazil Sustainability Report 2017 elawan energy 69 elawan.com
