2017 Annual and Sustainability Report Welcome Proﬁle Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 2 Welcome In this chapter Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 3 Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Introduction The China Construction Bank Corporation (CCB Corporation) is one of the largest financial conglomerates in the world, with US$ 3.02 trillion in total assets (1). Since 2014, it has been present in Brazil in the form of CCB Brasil, with the objective of supporting trade between Brazil and China, fulfilling the role of the conglomerate’s anchor operation in Latin America. Part of this report is dedicated to the initiatives undertaken in Brazil to drive value generation for society and stakeholder groups and to the preparations underway to make the Brazilian operation a benchmark within the conglomerate. (1) Top Global Banks, S&P This report summarizes the institution’s initiatives to generate value in Brazil in 2017. CCB Corporation Headquarters, Beijing China CCB Brasil Headquarters, São Paulo Brazil Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 4 Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Reporting process By means of this Annual and Sustainability forfaiting, that is the acquisition of receivables The institution undertook an internal analysis to Report the CCB Conglomerate in Brazil commufrom small and medium sized companies in the evaluate the importance of the material topics nicates its main performance indicators, data domestic and overseas market. This company’s inside and outside its direct operations. 102-46 and projects for 2017. The document, once data are not included in the scope of the report again prepared in accordance with the Global or in the consolidated balance sheet for Brazil. As a result, the materiality matrix presented up Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, marks the The companies in the conglomerate – the holding until the 2016 report with five macro-topics was transition to the latest version of the methodolocompany and the subsidiaries – are included in updated (see table on following page) to reflect gy Standards – with direct effects on the orgathe information reported. 102-45, 102-46 the current state of the business and its main chalnization of information throughout the text. lenges and opportunities in aspects such as client Worthy of note in this report was the updating of relations, managing human capital, economic perThe purpose of the report, which covers the pemateriality. This involved consulting employees formance and growth strategy, integrated risk mariod from January 1st to December 31st 2017, is and leaders directly to assess the main social, nagement, corporate governance and compliance. to summarize the results on the activity fronts economic and environmental topics for CCB maconsidered most relevant for the business – innagement in Brazil. The online survey received The report was submitted for external assurance by cluding questions addressed in strategic plan106 responses and was complemented by persoa specialized external audit company. Any doubts, ning, relevant subjects for the financial sector nal interviews with executives – including the precriticisms or suggestions related to the content may and topics identified as important for the bank’s sident, vice presidents and directors –, enabling be addressed to sustentabilidade@br.ccb.com. 102-53, stakeholder groups. 102-50 greater depth and thematic alignment. Among 102-56 the areas highlighted by the internal stakeholThe process of building the content involved interders, it is possible to note an increased percepviews with the bank’s leaders and the gathering tion of the relevance of topics such as people of data from diverse business units linked with management (from the employee perspective); the conglomerate. CCB Brasil has a 50% stake in and economic performance and growth strategy BRASILFactors, which works with factoring and from the perspective of the company leaders. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 5 Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Materiality 103-1 The following table shows the connection between CCB’s main material topics in Brazil and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), disclosed by the United Nations Material topics in this report 102-47 Approach SDG GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER DECENT WORK AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND ECONOMIC GROWTH New moment for the bank: measures to value employees; People Management focus on competencies development DECENT WORK RESPONSIBLE PEACE, JUSTICE AND ECONOMIC CONSUMPTION AND STRONG Economic Performance Results equalization cycle and long-term vision GROWTH AND PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS and Growth Strategy aimed at growth RESPONSIBLE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS CONSUMPTION AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS Corporate Governance Maintenance of transparency levels and reinforcement AND PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS and Compliance of compliance GENDER DECENT WORK INDUSTRY, SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE EQUALITY AND ECONOMIC INNOVATION AND CITIES AND ACTION GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE COMMUNITIES Integrated Risk Management Holistic view of the risks entailed in the bank’s operations RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS CONSUMPTION FOR THE GOALS Fresh start: new client profile and new product AND PRODUCTION Client Focus and service offering Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 6 Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Main Indicators CCB worldwide CCB in Brazil Sectors of activity US$ 3.02 trillion 314 million Energy Oil and gas Mining Agribusiness Industrialized goods in total assets clients 362,500 15,000 R$ 1.78 billion 28.52% employees branches net equity Basel index 251 511 R$ 8,663.7 million subsidiaries worldwide employees expanded credit portfolio* *Includes sureties and guarantees. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 7 Introduction Reporting process Main indicators Message from the president Message from the president Prepared for growth 102-14, 102-15 We are now focused on our commitments to ensure We are a global bank, we have a long-term local the bank’s growth in Brazil after having restructured commitment and we want to excel in partnership We may consider 2017 the end of a cycle. We conthe organization, enhanced credit policy; and develowith our clients. In Brazil, the institution will find cluded the organizational restructuring and defined ped a new product and service offering. fertile ground to grow and, as a result, contribute our business plan and long-term strategy. These to the development of the country and commercial initiatives will play an essential role in our future .As We are seeking steady, secure growth. After a carelations with China. a result of this transition, we are now positioned to pital increase elevating its Basel Index to 28.5%, start afresh in Brazil. the bank has the liquidity to undertake a large volume of operations. These conditions make us The institution finalized the reorganization of its stronger and will enable us to achieve our target Xi Zhang commercial and credit areas and has been capitaliof assuming a leadership position among the CCB Executive president, zed. With the integration into the China Construction Group’s international operations. CCB Brasil Bank Corporation network, the Brazilian operation can make an effective contribution to the global inCommitment to sustainability standards is an internationalization process. trinsic part of CCB Brasil processes and practices, which is why adherence to the principles of the UN In parallel, inflation in Brazil ended the year unGlobal Compact and to the Febraban Banking Selfder control, with the interest rate stabilized and Regulatory framework is natural. The development a reduction in economic volatility. Uncertainties we are seeking incorporates the defense of human We are going to focus on growth. We remain in the economic conjuncture, but our perrights, anti-corruption and environmental care. ception is that the worst is now over. Gradually, are a global bank with a long-term business and development of the client portfolio We are confident that the China Construction Bank local commitment. will be stabilized. brand will become better known in the Brazilian market. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 8 Profile In this chapter CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 9 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management CCB Brasil The establishment of an operation in Brazil in currency exchange and overseas trade portfo2014 represents a landmark in the internatiolios aimed at large companies. CCB Brasil has nalization strategy of the China Construction a team of 511 people, whose activities are diviBank Corporation (CCB), the second largest ded between its head office and nine branches publicly traded company in the world, according located strategically around the country. It also to the Forbes magazine international ranking(1). has a branch in Grand Cayman. 102-6, 102-8 Planned to execute a fundamental role in fomen(1) Forbes magazine, 2017 –The Global 2000 List: the World’s Larting business between China and Brazil, CCB gest Public Companies Brasil – registered as the China Construction Bank (Brasil) Banco Múltiplo S/A – has been preparing to operate in the financial segments in demand among large companies with projects of interest to relations between the two countries. 102-1 CCB Brasil, based in São Paulo (SP), has been structured to become one of the main CCB operations outside China and the largest Chinese bank in Brazil. 102-3 Operations focused on large companies In the country, the institution operates in the corporate market through its credit, investment, Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 10 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management BACKED BY THE SECOND LARGEST In its operations, the CCB Corporation has assu100% CONTROL BANK IN THE WORLD 102-7 med four social responsibility goals: to serve the public; to promote financial inclusion; to provide The parent and majority shareholder in CCB Braincentives for the green economy; and to drive After a public offering held in 2015, 0.6% of the stock of the former controller sil, the CCB Corporation is a public bank that has sustainable development. remained in the hands of minority shareholders. Authorized by an extraordinary been in operation since 1954 with the mission of shareholders’ meeting in December 2017, the corporation repurchased all of the supporting Chinese development through the inTo ensure that it generates value for society and for ordinary and preferred shares in circulation. As a result of this process, China tensive financing of infrastructure projects. The its stakeholders, the CCB Corporation’s performanConstruction Bank Corporation consolidated its ownership of 100% of CCB organization has 362,500 employees and a nece is based on security and solidity. In 2017, for the Brasil stock. The full control over the Brazilian operation’s stock is recorded in twork of 15,000 branches in China and overseas. second year the bank was placed second in terms of the 2017 balance sheet. Read more in Business and Outlook. At the end of 2017, it was present on all the conTier 1 capital in a ranking of 1,000 banks worldwide3. tinents with 251 subsidiaries. The CCB Corporation’s entry into Brazil reinforced the process of (1) Wall Street Journal http://quotes.wsj.com/CICHY forging closer relations with Latin America (2) The Banker, English magazine, 2017 World’s Top 1000 Banks. (3) Forbes magazine, 2017 – The Global 2000 List: the World’s Largest Public Companies. CCB shares are traded on the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and the organization ended 2017 with a market capitalization of US$ IN BRAZIL: CENTRALIZED OPERATIONS 272.71 billio1. With 314 million clients, it is the 102-4, 102-7 second largest financial institution in the world2. CCB is focused on ensuring transparency in its activiThe bank plays a decisive role in the Chinese goties, on financial discipline, on managing operational vernment’s international program, the One Belt, risks and on internal controls. After the acquisition of One Road Initiative, aimed at promoting a new a banking operation in Brazil in 2014, and the public economic integration model between countries share offering on September 28th, 2015, CCB becaand continents, with the creation of a broad-bame a closed corporation in the country, fully owned by sed global cooperation platform. the parent company, when the remaining free floating shares were repurchased in 2017. 102-5, 102-10 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 11 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management The CCB head office is in São Paulo and there is a SUBSIDIARIES 102-2 network of nine service outlets around the country two in the city of São Paulo, one each in Rio CCB BRAZIL FINANCIAL HOLDING INVESTIMENTOS E PARTICIPAÇÕES LTDA. de Janeiro (RJ), Belo Horizonte (MG), Curitiba (PR), Brasilia (DF), Fortaleza (CE), Blumenau (SC) and CCB holding or parent company Wholly owned subsidiary of the China Construction Bank Corporation, holding all the CCB Brasil stock. RibeirãoPreto (SP) – plus an international branch in Grand Cayman. The majority of the bank’s employees are concentrated in São Paulo. 102-4 Under the control of CCB Brazil Financial Holding is CCB Brasil, part of a group of subsidiaries speCHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK (BRASIL) BANCO MÚLTIPLO S/A cialized in the product and service segments in CCB Brasil or Bank the Brazilian subsidiary, which has 100% control which the institution operates. The organization is over the subsidiaries. structured as follows: CCB BRASIL CCB BRASIL CCB BRASIL DTVM CCB BRASIL CCB BRASIL CCB BRASIL PROMOTORA DE ARRENDAMENTO DISTRIBUIDORA DE INFORMÁTICA S/A ADMINISTRADORA FINANCEIRA VENDAS LTDA. MERCANTIL S/A TÍTULOS E VALORES DE CARTÕES LTDA. S/A CRÉDITO, MOBILIÁRIOS S/A Provides data processing FINANCIAMENTOS Under the CCB Leasing and technical support Issues and manages E INVESTIMENTOS brand, it is responsible Responsible for securities services for the credit and prepaid cards. for leasing operations for operations. institution. Specialized in payroll businesses. deductible loans for CCB BRASIL individuals. COBRANÇA LTDA. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 12 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Strategy and vision CCB begins 2018 with the new operating and To develop a portfolio of clients who are satisfied market profile defined for its growth cycle in the with the services provided and loyal to the brand; country. The target is to establish the bank as a benchmark in the Brazil-China business corridor To build an environment that stimulates pro(read more in Business and Outlook). (read more fessional excellence; in Business and Outlook) To accelerate the technological modernization The bank’s entry into the Brazilian market coinof the operation; cided with one of the deepest recessions ever experienced by the country. The circumstances To forge closer relations with clients in the created by the crisis demanded additional manaBrazil-China business chain; gement measures that delayedthe implantation of the business model. The main modifications To ensure the internalization of the compliance – adapting the organizational structure to the and risk management culture essential for the new business model and achieving the financial business. balance required by regulatory authorities– were concluded at the end of 2017. A US$ 400 million (R$ 1,258 billion) capital injection by the parent company qualified the bank to work with Corporate profile clients. The main drivers defined by CCB for the Brazilian operation are: Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 13 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Corporate governance ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Remuneration CCB has a Board of Directors, an Executive Board OF COMMITTEES 102-18 General Meeting Committee and a number of advisory committees that are involved in evaluations and decisions about business, policies, processes and risks. Charged with defining Board of Directors Audit Committee the levels of authority and responsibility of the governance structure, the General Meeting oversees decision making processes and the nomination of Executive Board Internal Audit the members of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council. 102-30 A set of policies, fully aligned with legislation and Executive Board Executive Treasury Governance Special Asset Committee Committee Committee Credit Committee Management Committee reviewed annually, is the main instrument guiding management regarding best practices and alignment between the Brazilian operation and Credit Process Information Security the directives of the parent company, as well as Evaluation Committee Committee the expectations of clients, employees and other stakeholder groups. These mechanisms incorporaInternal Controls Sustainability Committee te social and environmental considerations into the Committee planning and execution of the institution’s activities. Ethics Committee Risk Committee The governance structure establishes different levels of authority and the segregation of functions for decision making, and the formation of committees to Operational Committee provide support in technical and strategic matters. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 14 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management BOARD OF DIRECTORS 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, and Remuneration committees. Sustainability102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-29, 102-31, 102-33, 102-34 related topics are brought before the Board by CCB Brasil’s main governance body comprises members of the Governance Committee or the six members, two of whom are independent. The Audit Committee on an annual basis. chairman of the Board is not the CCB Brasil CEO. In December 2017, the General Meeting elected new EXECUTIVE BOARD members to the bank’s Board of Directors. The Executive Board is charged with executing the strategies drafted by the Board of Directors. The diThe two independent members are also on the rectors are responsible for running the business and Audit Committee. monitoring execution to ensure the bank achieves its objectives. The Board members meet every quarter or on an extraordinary basis when necessary. The memThe members of the Executive Board, including the bers are elected by the General Meeting for a CEO, vice presidents and executive directors, are unified two-year term of office, with re-election nominated by the Board of Directors. In accordance permitted. Members are chosen for their broad with the bylaws, the directors’ term of office is up to market vision, solid academic background, expetwo years. rience as executives and clarity about the need for exemption from decision making processes The selection of these executives is based on qualifiwhen conflicts of interest arise. 102-25 cations for the function, business experience and an unblemished reputation. The Board is in charge of drafting business strategy, taking into account economic, social and environmental factors; approving plans and budgets; ensuring alignment with company bylaws; and deciding on questions raised by the Audit Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 15 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Committee structure 102-21, 102-27 Remuneration Committee Executive Treasury Committee – Analyzes maThis committee establishes the specifications of croeconomic and political scenarios for decision BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUPPORTING fixed and variable remuneration policy, as well as making, monitors financial scheduling and alloCOMMITTEES benefits and special programs for recruiting or cates available funds (liquidity). dismissing statutory directors or members of the Audit Committee Board of Directors. Responsible for overseeing the bank’s internal controls, adherence to policies, compliance and recomGOVERNANCE COMMITTEES mendations, as well as for the accuracy of accounting information and the financial statements. The Executive Committees committee is also charged with ensuring the quality and independence of internal and external audits. It Executive Board Committee – Comprising all reports to the Board on the execution of independent the directors, it meets on a monthly basis to defiand external audits, the performance of internal ne strategies and to align the corporate structure controls and risk management. with CCB values. Fiscal Council Governance Committee – Oversees the outputs A non-permanent council whose main function is of the technical committees Operational, Internal to oversee administration activities, evaluate the Controls, Risk, Information Security, Sustainability, financial statements and report its conclusions Ethics and Credit Process Evaluation. It promotes to the shareholders. Members are elected by the a guided and strategic vision of risk, as well as General Meeting. The Fiscal Council was not acmonitoring and assessing the implementation of tive in 2017. sustainability policy. When necessary, it proposes improvements to the Board. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 16 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Technical Committees 102-30 Sustainability Committee – Assesses social, enEthics Committee – Decides on how to disseminavironmental and reputational risks and their te standards of ethical conduct. It monitors the Credit Committee – On a day to day basis, it asimpacts. It is responsible for driving sustainabiapplication of the Code of Ethics, analyzing and sesses proposals and decides on the granting of lity into the bank’s management processes. The investigating breaches or issues involving ethiloans. It allocates funds for the operations and committee issues opinions and reports to the cal principles or disciplinary questions raised by monitors the portfolio. Governance Committee. employees and other stakeholders. It proposes revisions to the Code of Ethics and resolves any Anti-Money Laundering and Illicit Activity Committee Credit Process Evaluation Committee – Establishes doubts concerning the interpretation of the code. – Defines and applies the directives of the Antithe guidelines for credit policy and operatioMoney Laundering, Anti-Corruption and Financing nal standards to identify, analyze and resolve Information Security Committee – It is responsible of Terrorism policy. It establishes management problems affecting the normal course of credit for assessing the results of the security measutools and analyzes suspicious activities or indiprocesses. It establishes evaluation criteria and res implemented. It proposes contingency plans, cations of use of the bank for illegal activities. reports monthly to the Governance Committee, taking into account the security measures adopIt decides on measures to minimize reputational, ted and corporate priorities. It is responsible for operational and legal risk. Risk Committee – Monitors the Treasury’s market approving the rules in the corporate Information risk exposure limits (domestic and international). Security policy. Cayman Branch Anti-Money Laundering Committee It proposes measurement methodologies and li– It has the same attributions as the Brazil committee, mits for client operations. It analyzes legal and in line with Brazilian Central Bank standards and thoproduct image risks, as well as the operational se of the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority. flow (and any weaknesses) in support systems. Internal Controls Committee – Assesses the effecOperational Committee – Manages infrastructure, tiveness of the bank’s internal controls at monrisk exposure and operational limits. It assesses thly meetings, and keeps the Audit Committee revenue projections. It analyzes, guides and moand the Board of Directors informed with respect nitors the creation of new products and services. to compliance with these controls. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 17 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Appraisal and remuneration The process of determining remuneration is in102-28, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 102-38, 192-39 ternal, not involving independent consultants or stakeholder consultation. Further details about CCB conducts an annual appraisal of board remuneration policy are confidential. members and executive directors. This process takes into account the performance of the bank as a whole, of different areas and individuals in relation to targets. The appraisal format is 360° assessment. The institution’s executives are responsible for appraising each director, with the results being sent directly to the CCB Corporation Human Resources area in China. CCB Brasil Remuneration Policy encompasses a fixed salary, benefits and variable remuneration, when applicable. Remuneration criteria for The 360° appraisal directors take into account the individual’s performance in financial and non-financial areas of method is applied the business. The Remuneration Committee is to all directors responsible for appraising performance against the targets established in strategic planning. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 18 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Principles and practices The new version will be more closely aligned commitment to transparency and ethics in busi102-17, 103-2, 103-3 with the transformation underway in the organiness. The channel is a mechanism for reporting zational culture and with global CCB standards. breaches of conduct, conflicts of interest, cases Based on its internal policies and its Code of Ethics, of corruption, fraud and other criminal acts. The CCB Brasil adopts principles of ethics and compliance The document incorporates standards that are channel is independent, confidential and imparin its business and in its relations with stakeholders. A essential for institutions in the financial market tial, and may be used both by staff and outsistructured communication process enables free ex– the Brazilian banking federation Febraban’s ders. It may be accessed via the email address pression, the identification of potential conflicts and Integrity Program; the tenets of Brazil’s Antidenuncia@br.ccb.com or via the bank’s website. the capacity to deal with these properly. corruption law; the tenets of the Sarbanes-Oxley Anonymity and confidentiality are guaranteed in Act (SOX), as well as the principles of the Global handling all contacts. The organizational structure is designed to prevent Compact. The document also addresses the posithe emergence of conflicts of interest. tions of all the organization’s stakeholder groups. Transactions between related parties are reflected In 2017, the Ethics committee did not receive any kind in the financial statements by means of duly docuof report (low, medium or high level risk). There were mented and accessible explanatory notes. The Code no cases of dismissal of employees or rescission of of Ethics addresses questions involving conflicts of commercial contracts stemming from violations. interest, while the Internal Controls area is responsible for monitoring situations in which they may occur. CONTACT CHANNELS 102-17, 102-33 102-25 CCB has several contact channels through which CCB Brasil adopts principles reports on the behavior, conduct and compliance of ethics and compliance in its CODE OF ETHICS 102-16 of employees and people who represent the insThe main document providing guidance for statitution in Brazil may be made. business and in its relations ff, service providers, suppliers and institutional with stakeholders partners, the new version of the Code of Ethics is Report Channel: implanted in 2017, the Report currently being validated by the Executive Board. Channel was created to reinforce the bank’s Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 19 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Managing sustainability 102-20, 102-26, 102-29, 102-31 Ethics Channel: this is a confidential channel for reporting breaches of ethical principles or conduct Aligned with its Sustainability Policy, CCB Brasil is committed to adopting practices that ensure proper management of social and to the Ethics Committee. It is an open channel that environmental risks, fomenting new business standards and promoting sustainable development. The sustainability guidelines are may be accessed via the company’s intranet or via the email comite.etica@br.ccb.com. based on values and principles organized in three pillars: BUSINESS CONTINUITY – To develop, establish and maintain guidelines incorporated into business, credit and procurement RH com Você (HR with You): is exclusively for emstrategy that stimulate commitment to sustainability throughout the bank’s value chain. To adopt principles for managing ployees to make suggestions or complaints, give social and environmental risks at clients and suppliers. praise or clarify doubts in full confidentiality. In 2017, 26 messages were received, addressed and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY – To develop bonds of trust with employees and other stakeholders with a view to answered. Half of the messages received were building lasting relationships based on ethical and transparent behavior in a planned, systematic manner subject to constant related to subjects such as benefits, work shifts, monitoring. payroll, training and time clock records; 27% were complaints. 102-33 ENVIRONMENTAL CARE – To implant best practices that are aimed at minimizing adverse environmental impacts and to align employees with these practices. Sustainability is the responsibility of all areas and levels of the company. On a daily basis, the Sustainability team analyzes and manages social and environmental risk in business and manages the sustainability agenda, proposing the adoption of programs, measures and improvements. All commercial operations, in particular the granting of corporate credit, are submitted to specific mechanisms for assessing social and environmental risk (read more on page 24). Upon conclusion of a project, the team evaluates the effectiveness of the measures implemented and reports the results to the higher levels of governance. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 20 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Integrated Risk Management 102-15, 102-30, 103-2, 103-3 CCB Brasil adopts internal control standards based on the principle of integrated risk management, employing appropriate policies, standards and procedures. In compliance with Brazilian Central Bank Resolution no. 4557, which governs risk and capital management structures, the bank maintains rigorous control standards and frequently updates its processes, methods and platforms. These instruments are compatible with the nature of its operations, the complexity of its products CCB Brasil is committed and services, activities, processes, systems and to constant improvement the dimension of its risk exposure. By means of this system, the institution establishes the basic in controlling and guidelines for its activities in line with its ethical mitigating risks values and standards of integrity. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 21 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Alignment with strategy By means of the Risk and Compliance structure, Working in conjunction with risk management and In addition to identifying and evaluating risks and the bank seeks to ensure that the business done internal controls, the Compliance area is active at opportunities, the integrated risk management at the front line of the business is always comdifferent levels of the organization and has the atstructure is aimed at enhancing decision making patible with the scale of the institution, in line tribution of monitoring the environment and comand performance appraisal. Aligned with the orgawith the level of risk that those responsible for pliance with regulatory requirements. Its attribunization’s strategic goals, the scope of this structure governance are prepared to assume and that risk tions include promoting compliance with the Code encompasses monitoring, controlling and mitigating for clients who invest in the bank is mitigated. of Ethics and Conduct, domestic and international the risks assumed to provide ongoing, sustainable sector regulations and external and internal stansupport for business processes and activities. In this respect, the risk management structures and dards, including those related to sustainability. operational processes were reformulated in 2017 Risk management is a strategic component due in order to align business strategy with Brazilian To be effective, a compliance mindset must perto the growing complexity of the products and Central Bank Resolution no. 4557/17. This reformeate the entire institution in order to promote services offered, the growth in the organization’s mulation was also aimed at internalizing standard the responsibility everyone must assume in this business and the ongoing pursuit of compliance processes adopted by the CCB Corporation. process, in addition to integrity, transparency, mowith local regulations and recommendations from nitoring and control the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Compliance A compliance culture has been disseminated and Risk appetite and tolerance reinforced among employees over the last two yeFor CCB Brasil, risk appetite is an intrinsic part of ars. Training courses on this subject totaled 799 banking activity and its limits should be balanced hours. 205-2 against the institution’s tolerance of risk. Risk appetite refers to an institution’s predisposition The organization has been working on internalizing Risk appetite binds strategic and to assume determined levels of risk exposure, CCB Corporation guidelines and standards on a daily regardless of its capacity to support potential basis. As a result of the work done on reviewing protactical actions to the exposure impacts. Whereas risk tolerance may be defined cesses, risks and controls, as well as policies and limits defined by the parent company as the capacity and resilience to support the maprocedures, adherence to global guidelines is alreaterial impact of a determined risk. dy perceptible in the organization. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 22 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Integrated structure Directly or indirectly, the commitment to risk TYPES OF RISK In the institution’s governance model, the cenmanagement is on the agenda of all levels of tralization of risk management enables a global management. Managers are kept informed about Description vision of the risks the bank is exposed to in funcaudits related to risk, compliance and control tion of the nature of its business. This permits with a view to supporting decision making proCredit it to streamline and improve strategic decision cesses. 102-30 making and ensure compliance with policy. Market Financial Risks There is a specific risk management structure, whiLiquidity ch includes senior management, Internal Audit, Internal Controls and the Corporate Governance Capital Management areas. This framework oversees the independent Socioenvironmental risk management units. The model ensures the necessary segregation of functions between the Operational Internal Audit, Risk Management and Internal Controls teams. This segregation in the hierarchiInformation Security Non-financial Risks cal structure is aimed at ensuring that there are no conflicting attributions and responsibilities, such as Money Laundering, Corruption and Financing the same position or person being responsible for of Terrorism and Illicit Activities authorizing, executing and checking a determined Reputational activity. This requirement also guarantees independence in actions involving mitigation and monitoring potential conflicts of interest. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 23 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Types of risk Capital Management – Verifying that the instituidentify and mitigate legal, operational and imaThe bank is exposed to different types of risk, tion has enough capital to cover its exposure to ge-related risks associated with such illicit acts due either to internal or external factors. credit and market risk. – Establishing control procedures and routines Consequently constant, integrated monitoring aimed at ensuring compliance with anti-money of all risks is indispensable in order to ensure Socioenvironmental Risk – Implementing the laundering regulations and internal standards. security and comfort for all involved. Among the actions set forth in the Sustainability Policy In 2017, 100% of the operations were screened main risks inherent to banking activities, worthy and the Socioenvironmental Risk Procedures for corruption risks, applying standards enabling of note are: Manuals and monitoring compliance (read more the identification of transactions involving people in Socioenvironmental Risk Management). subject to political exposure; the receipt and/or Credit Risk Administering the credit portfolio sending of funds without due cause between the risk management systems. Monitoring of RAROC Operational Risk – Implementing operational parties; people subject to sanctions and/or bla– risk-adjusted return on capital; concentration; risk policies and procedures with a view, among cklisted; the use of cash; media reports of crimes distribution of the portfolio; and value at risk other attributions, to: ensuring the mapping and related to money laundering and corruption. 205-1 (V@R) calculations. It provides information for classification of losses in accordance with the credit risk management models under the Basel definitions of operational risk; formalizing the proReputational Risk – Risk stemming from negative III Agreement. cesses in which risks are present and, periodically, perceptions of the institution on the part of one reviewing them and adjusting them in accordance or more stakeholders. The bank adopts measures Market Risk – This involves monitoring the bank’s with emerging needs. to evaluate this risk based on perceptions of the exposure to price and interest rate fluctuations, market and regulatory authorities. The market’s aimed at limiting any losses to a level that the Information Security Risk – Monitoring systems and vision is derived from the indicators related to the controllers are willing to assume without putting resources in the bank’s technological infrastructure institution’s image in terms of financial results, clients’ investments at risk. to identify vulnerabilities. Monitoring information information in the media, image surveys, institusecurity related risks in processes and in people. tional relations, as well as lawsuits and litigation. Liquidity Risk – Monitoring the bank’s cash situaThe perception of the regulatory authorities is tion and the inflow and outflow of funds, ensuring Risk of Money Laundering, Corruption, Financing linked with compliance with laws and regulations, the institution is able to honor both scheduled and of Terrorism and Illicit Acts – Specific procedures cooperation with these authorities and any evaluaunexpected cash outflows. and responsibilities at all hierarchical levels to tions they may make of CCB Brasil. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 24 CCB Brasil Strategy and vision Corporate governance Principles and practices Integrated risk management Assessment of that draws on relevant information about them in SOCIOENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT IN 2017 FS10 socioenvironmental risk the public domain and in the media. 102-11, 102-15, 408-1, 409-1, FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4 100% of the bank’s clients were submitted to socioenvironmental assessment during the In addition to verifying compliance with legislaregistration process; 96% of the registrations assessed were approved Part of the bank’s Sustainability Policy, socioetion on the use of child or forced labor and on the nvironmental risk management is conducted in environment, the institution imposes additional 93% of the cases assessed by the Sustainability Committee received favorable reports parallel with business and credit analysis. The conditions on companies or clients involved in ac100% of the institution’s suppliers were submitted to socioenvironmental assessment procedures are applicable to all corporate clients tivities subject to restrictions, such as arms and during the approval phase and suppliers at all stages of commercial and tobacco. (see the results of socioenvironmental operational processes, from the time a client is risk assessment in 2017). 100% of the real estate guarantees and stocks of hazardous products were submitted to socioenvironmental assessment; accepted until operations are formalized. Training for the application of socioenvironmental risk 7.9% of the real estate received unfavorable reports due to socioenvironmental issues; assessment is on the course curriculum for all 100% of the surety proposals were screened for socioenvironmental risk, of which 4.5% employees (see chapter Internal audience). 205-2 received unfavorable reports due to socioenvironmental issues. There is a module on socioenvironmental risk in the general client registration system, which in turn is integrated into all the institution’s other business systems. This integration streamlines the assessment process, ensuring security and transparency. 100% of the institution’s clients and suppliers were submitted to socioenvironmental assessments and received a socioenvironmental rating Welcome Proﬁle Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 25 Business and Outlook 102-15, 103-2, 103-3 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 26 The business relations established between Brazil and economic indicators started to show signs of reChina over the last decade have attracted numerous covery. The reduction in inflation and the interest companies from the two countries and boosted the rate, the upward turn in GDP and the expansion of demand for financial products and corporate credit. overseas trade indicate that 2018 will be a year The opportunities that have arisen are at the center of of opportunities and resumed confidence in the the strategic planning drafted for CCB in Brazil. Brazilian economy. 2017 saw the end of a period of profound transAmong the indicators, the Extended Consumer formations in the institution’s business model. Price Index (IPCA), which measures the official Attentive to the opportunities in the Brazilian inflation rate in the country, ended 2017 at 2.95%, market and confident about its recovery in the the lowest annual inflation since 1998. In parallel, coming years, CCB promoted diverse measures the Selic basic interest rate, was reduced progresto boost its financial solidity; it expanded its sively, ending the year at 7% p.a. client credit portfolio in line with the new strategy; it redefined its infrastructure and personnel This gradual recovery in the business environment needs to maintain service standards and levels was reflected in the conglomerate’s area of activity. of efficiency; and it initiated a broad-based restructuring of the product and service portfolio. Trade between Brazil and China reached a record high in 2017, in line with the strategy drafted by MARKET CONTEXT: CCB to operate in this business corridor. The traBRAZILIAN ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT de balance, at US$ 20.17 billion, was the highest After a severe recession in Brazil, which began in the historical series, with exports and imports in 2014 and impacted the industrial, service and reaching US$ 47.49 billion and US$ 27.32 billion financial sectors, at the end of 2017 a number of respectively. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 27 STRATEGIC PLANNING & VISION GOALS AND ACTION FOCUSES FOR THE FUTURE The next five years are aimed at transforming the CCB Brasil is investing in integrating the Brazilian bank into a new institution, positioned to support subsidiary into the China Construction Bank investment and business. Corporation’s global network. Under the command of the Executive Board, this work was aimed at asThe CCB Corporation reiterates its long-term suming control of activities and ensuring prudent commitment to the Brazilian market and remains risk management – gradually shaping a more staconfident about the opportunities the country ble operation with a reduced risk profile, both for presents on a global level. Attentive to sector mathe institution and for its client portfolio. crotrends, China’s investment plans for Brazil and the bank’s profile and structure, the strategic plan The institution drafted a business plan and longsets out the following goals: -term strategy for the operation covering the period from 2017-2021. Five key factors are worthy of note: Repositioning the bank in the market, taking advantage of its main competitive differential The opportunities in the Brazilian market Emphasizing the segments of key importance China’s long-term commitment to the Brazilian between the two countries economy Focusing on the energy, oil and gas, mining, Respect for the cultures of the two countries agribusiness and industrialized goods sectors The achievements and the lessons learned over Diversifying the client portfolio, seeking to priothe last three years ritize companies with annual revenues between The value of a financial institution associated R$ 500 million and R$ 5 billion with CCB brand equity Developing products for the Corporate segment Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 28 STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION IN 2017 Share repurchase Credit operations totaled R$ 7,207.4 million, a deCapital Increase The Extraordinary General Meeting held in December crease of 1.8% compared with the previous year. To support CCB Brasil’s operational portfolios and 2017 authorized the repurchase of all the company’s The extended credit portfolio, which includes sucapitalize the institution for potential expansion, in free floating ordinary and preferred shares remaining reties and guarantees provided, was R$ 8,663.7 October 2017 the Extraordinary General Meeting after the conclusion of the public offering. million (R$ 9,063.8 million in 2016). approved a capital increase in the amount of R$ 1.258 billion. This increase was approved by the Payment to the holders of the remaining shares was The inflow of funds was R$ 12,182.8 million, pracBrazilian Central Bank in December of the same available from January 4th, 2018. With the conclutically stable in relation to the R$ 12,313.6 million year, positioning CCB Brasil’s Basel Index at 28.52%, sion of the cancellation of the remaining shares, the posted in 2016. with Tier 1 at 18.28%. China Construction Bank Corporation Group became the sole owner of CCB Brasil stock. As a result of the capital increase, at the end of Initiatives to improve the bank’s capital structure 2017 the bank’s net equity was R$ 1,788.8 million. had already been taken at the end of 2016, with a RESULTS 201-1 US$ 70 million issue of Perpetual Bonds. On April CCB Brasil ended fiscal 2017 with a net negative reVALUE GENERATION (THOUSANDS OF R$) 201-1 10, 2017, Bacen considered this issue eligible for sult of R$ 749.6 million (R$ 353.4 million in 2016). computing Tier 1 capital. Direct economic value 2,156,279.00 generated (revenue) These results encompass tax credits from fiscal Operational restructuring losses written off and not activated during the Economic value distributed The restructuring of CCB operations in Brazil drove period in the amount of R$ 522.1 million and exOperating costs 1,725,526,00 greater operational efficiency and proximity with traordinary administrative and personnel expenEmployee salaries and benefits 284,574,00 the target market. As a result of this process, the ses associated with the resizing of the physical service network was reduced to nine branches and structure. Payments to financiers 80,421.00 398 employees, compared with 37 and 595 respectively in 2016. Payment of taxes 65,758.00 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 29 Business portfolio FS6 DIVERSIFICATION BY SECTOR OF ACTIVITY BUSINESS PORTFOLIO BY SIZE OF CLIENT (IN THOUSANDS OF R$)% BUSINESS BY REGION (IN THOUSAND OF R$) (IN THOUSANDS OF R$) Dec/2017 Dec/2017 Dec/2016 Consolidated Large company Amount % Amount % 4,188,451 58.11% (more than R$300 million) Dec./2017 Dec./2016 North ––5,158 0.07 Medium company 121,280 Public sector 9,779 33,421 1.68% (from R$ 90 million to R$300 million) North-east 333,088 4.62 578,488 7.88 Private sector 4,558,288 4,880,275 Midwest 53,743 0.75 269,126 3.67 Medium company 174,691 Agribusiness 122,307 231,827 2.42% South-east 3,646,670 50.60 3,957,911 53.91 (from R$ 16 million to R$90 million) Industry 1,746,633 1,952,768 South 434,626 6.02 571,855 7.79 Small company 108,487 1.51% Overseas 2,739,234 38.01 1,959,417 26.68 Commerce 534,166 708,426 (from R$2,4 million to R$ 16 mil-lion) Financial Total 7,207,361 100 7,341,955 100 447 5,157 Micro-company (up to R$2,4 million) 8,252 0.11% intermediaries Other services 2,154,735 1,982,097 Individual corporate clients 2,606,200 36.16% Private individuals* 2,639,294 2,428,259 Total 7,207,361 100% Total 7,207,361 7,341,955 *The personal and payroll-deductible loans are related to CCB Brasil S.A. – Crédito, Financiamentos e Investimentos, the CCB Brasil subsidiary in which operations with private individuals are concentrated. Welcome Proﬁle Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 30 Value chain In this chapter Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 31 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Clients The transition of the business model formalized of service outlets. To modernize and reinforce in 2017 was centered on remodeling the bank’s client services, the institution invested in technoclient portfolio. Anchored in a new plan for the logical resources via the internet, most notably market, the CCB conglomerate in Brazil is conin the implantation of home banking. centrating its banking activities on credit for the corporate segment, whereas CCB Financeira activities remain focused on private individual clients, with emphasis on payroll-deductible loans. In the last two years, one of the main items on the management agenda has been updating the business client portfolio. With the gradual transition from the former portfolio, all new contracts are aligned with the terms of the credit policy implanted in 2017. Client requirements One of the bank’s priorities is reviewing its proshape the review of the duct portfolio in order to meet the requirements of the new client profile. product and service portfolio As part of the new client relationship policy, the option was made to work with a reduced number Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 32 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment CHINA-BRAZIL BUSINESS CORRIDOR The products and services in the portfolio will be MAIN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The bank’s focus is on operations with companies maintained, but they will now be shaped to meet active in the China-Brazil business corridor and with the demands of the new client portfolio profile Foreign exchange and overseas trade which it may contribute to driving the development (read more in Business and Outlook). Loans and financing for exports and imports of the two countries. The construction of the client portfolio is anchored in Chinese companies and the Spot exchange business chains in which they operate. External loans (Law 4.131/1962) Operating in this segment, with the backing of Time deposits (CDB) the CCB Corporation’s expertise, ensures a difAgribusiness credit bills (LCA) ferential in relation to the competition in a highly Mortgage bills (LCI) competitive segment. The commercial area’s target public, as defined in strategic planning, Financial notes includes the full spectrum of bilateral relations Loans and financing between the two companies. Credit assignment Reflecting its repositioning efforts, in 2017 the Sureties bank saw an increase in the number of large corPayment collection porate clients doing business in the China-Brazil business corridor. In 2018, the expectation is that The client portfolio is focused Leasing and direct consumer credit this will continue to grow. on the China-Brazil corridor Swaps (change in index) business chain Forwards, Futures and Options (fixing prices for future dates) For CCB, the main criterion established for the client profile is excellence, which translates into quality in numbers and in financial and operational structure. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 33 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment RESPECT FOR CLIENTS 417-1 , 417-3, FS14, 103-2, 103-3 INDIVIDUAL CLIENTS: SERVICE AND SATISFACTION All CCB client relations are shaped by a series of measures, standards and The bank itself has a minimal individual client In 2017, the Ombudsman received 422 concorporate policies based on the Brazilian banking self-regulatory system and portfolio. Business with private clients is centacts, of which 274 were effective demands. The the legislation in force. tralized in CCB Financeira, one of the companies Central Bank received 1,412 contacts related to in the CCB Brasil Conglomerate, which has its client demands involving the CCB Brasil S/A conCCB Brasil complies with regulatory legislation – including processes head office in São Paulo (SP). The company adglomerate. 102-17 that permeate the business area, such as contracts and rates, adaptation ministers payroll-deductible loan and credit card of products and services to public requirements and transparent, ethical issuance services respectively for 177,594 and treatment that enables the convergence of interests. These include the Conar 50,398 individual clients. (Conselho Nacional de AutorregulaçãoPublicitária) advertising self-regulatory code; the Febraban (Federação Brasileira de Bancos) banking self-regulatory Client relations are aligned with legislation, stanframework; the Procon(Programa de Orientação e Proteção ao Consumidor) dards and the policies determined by the financial consumer protection program and the standards of the Brazilian Central Bank authorities, as well as banking self-regulatory regarding respect for and relations with clients. guidelines. The institution has a complete service structure for handling client contacts (see the list of contact channels). Access is by telephone, email, correspondence or in person. The Ombudsman is the highest channel through which clients may give an opinion or make a complaint. The channel is responsible for receiving, logging, analyzing and responding to complaints not resolved at the primary service levels – branches, relationship and contact centers. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 34 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment SERVICE STRUCTURE PRIVACY AND INFORMATION SECURITY 418-1, 103-2, 103-3 Company and Account Holder Relationship Center: As a financial institution with a database on its The information security processes are supported 0300 408 2333 (Monday to Friday, from 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.) clients and their activities, in common with the by standardized internal processes and training entire financial sector, CCB, has the fundamenand guidance to ensure that employees apply data Payroll Credit and Loan Relationship Center: 0300 010 0242 (Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.) tal responsibility of ensuring privacy for clients protection measures, procedures, standards and and their assets. The conglomerate reports to policies correctly. All employees sign a term of Payroll Credit Contact Center: 0800 725 0048 (Monday to the parent company on progress in projects and responsibility in which they commit to upholding Friday, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.) occurrences related to process automation and these standards. Contact Center: 0800 701 0224 (Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. improvements on a weekly basis. to 6 p.m.) Currently 100% of the credit cards have chips Contact Center for Hearing or Speech Impaired Clients: CCB Brasil has an exclusive IT area for informaand are duly aligned with security requirements. 0800 940 0649 (Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.) tion security which is completely separate from No complaints were received about the cloning of Ombudsman: 0800 725 2242 (Monday to Friday, from 9 a.m. its daily business operations. Actions related to cards with chips. to 6 p.m.) the operation are undertaken by a dedicated area responsible for the framework and intelligence of Credit Card Client Contact Center: 0800 775 7001 the main projects developed for the operation, inCredit Card Relationship Center: 2066 4305 cluding the implantation of home banking and the automation of CCB. In addition to internal audits, the IT area is subject to independent and Central Bank audits, as well as simulated system invasion tests on a six-monthly basis. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 35 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Internal audience 103-2, 103-3 In 2017, the operational context imposed the chalApproximately 40% are women, while 25.8% of lenge of resizing the team and altering the profile management positions are occupied by women. of part of the work force in line with the new reality The headcount also includes 14 interns and five of the client profile and business strategy. apprentices. The Human Resources Policy is the basis for acA total of 454 people work in São Paulo, correstions and labor relations, with adjustments that ponding to 88.8% of the work force. The remaindrive improved management practices and profesder are located in the states of Ceará, Minas sional training. Gerais, Pernambuco, Paraná, Distrito Federal, Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina. The percentage of The institution’s people management policy is unemployees working an eight-hour day is 96.48%, derpinned by three pillars –professional developwith the other 3.52% working part-time. 102-8 ment, appropriate remuneration and the quality of the work environment. Once aligned, these aspects As a consequence of the organizational restrucdrive the attraction and retention of people who turing, the staff turnover rate for the year was seek professional growth and fulfillment, focused 32.5%. The number of admissions at CCB Brasil on the business’s strategic objectives. was 55, while there were 277 terminations. 401-1 At the end of 2017, there were 511 people working in the group, of which 398 in CCB Brasil and 113 in CCB Financeira and CCB Leasing, all employed under Brazil’s CLT (Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho) labor legislation framework. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 36 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment ADMISSIONS AND TURNOVER* 401-1 EMPLOYEES BY GENDER 102-8 By gender Admissions Admission rate * (%) Terminations Turnover** (%) Total % Men % Women % Analyst 318 62.2% 171 53.8% 147 46.2% Men 32 6.2 156 18.4 Commercial 45 8.8% 34 75.6% 11 24.4% Women 23 4.5 121 14.1 Coordination 55 10.8% 36 65.5% 19 34.5% Total 55 10.76 277 32.5 Management 93 18.2% 69 74.2% 24 25.8% Total 511 100% 310 100% 201 100% By age group Admissions Admission rate * (%) Terminations Turnover** (%) Under 30 years 27 5.3 52 7.7 From 30 to 50 years 21 4 145 16.2 PEOPLE IN GOVERNANCE PEOPLE IN GOVERNANCE BODIES Over 50 years 7 1.3 80 8.5 BODIES BY GENDER 405-1 BY AGE GROUP 405-1 Total 55 10.76 277 32.5 7.69% By region Admissions Admission rate * (%) Terminations Turnover** (%) North 0 0 1 0,1 Northeast 1 0.19 47 4.7 46.15% 92.31% Midwest 2 0.38 20 2.2 Southeast 48 9.39 186 22.9 South 4 0.77 23 2.6 53.85% Total 110 10.73 277 32.5 Women Between 30 and 50 years * To ensure greater comparability and adherence to the GRI protocol, the rates are calculated based on the total number of employees at the end of Men Over 50 years the year (511 in 2017). The rates do not take interns into account. ** Turnover calculated based on: (total admissions + total terminations)/2/total employees. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 37 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment GENDER BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY 405-1 AGE GROUP BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY 405-1 Men Women Under 30 years Between 30 and 50 years Over 50 years 0.98% 3.92% 18.36% 55.16% 73.13% 11.94% 30.77% 34.62% 22.26% 9.45% 5.47% 61.97% 9.51% 11.61% 10.16% 10.97% 95.10% 15.38% 19.23% Management Coordination Commercial Analysts Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 38 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment DEVELOPMENT, RECOGNITION AND A key learning and integration tool, the distance sheets and the provision of a virtual library with LEADERSHIP 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 103-2, 103-3, FS4 learning platform EducaRHoje, concentrates the materials addressing subjects such as controlling The institution incentivizes development to ensumain contents for internal training. The constantly spending, paying debts, as well as tips on investre career progression for employees. In 2018, the updated course programming meets the basic traiment, saving and financial health. FS16 performance appraisal process – which shapes ning needs for each function, as well as mandatory development plans, promotions and career advantraining on regulatory questions. The programming ces – will be enhanced, reflecting the new reality includes the mandatory 1st module on sustainaTRAINING IN 2017 404-1 and the competencies necessary for the success bility and the Prevention of Money Laundering, (in hours) Total Men Women of the business model. One of the priorities will be Corruption and Terrorism course. 404-1, 205-2, FS4 the reinforcement of merit in all development and Human rights (412-2) 2,224 1,116 1,108 leadership oriented initiatives. Mandatory training for compliance with CCB Personal finances (FS16) 449 162 287 Corporation standards was prioritized in 2017. This In 2017, 95 employees were submitted to perforwas especially important last year in view of the cusAnti-corruption (205-2) 799 521 278 mance appraisals, down from the 308 appraisals tomization of head office compliance instruments in Sustainability and Socioenvironmental in 2016. Of these appraisals, 68.42% involved men line with the Brazilian reality. The basic concepts Responsibility Module I 402 218 184 and 31.57%, women. The breakdown by functional were replicated and incorporated into the training category was 82.10% managers, 7.36%, coordinaprogram for employees. The breakdown of training Socioenvironmental Responsibility Policy 286 166 120 Module II tors and 10.52%, analysts. by functional category was 22% for managers; 8% for coordinators; 8% for the commercial area; 58% Others 3,905 2,636 1,269 The set of competencies sought to meet the for analysts; 2% for apprentices; and 1% for interns. Total 8,065 4,819 3,246 challenges posed by the business model under 205-2, 404-1 implantation was evident in the admissions for Total hours per employee* 16 16 16 the commercial area. The selected candidates In 2017, in addition to the Personal Finances Total hours per worker ** 15 15 15 fulfilled the requirements of seniority, fluency courses given, CCB Brasil promoted a series of in English and experience in large institutions or financial literacy measures for employees. The *Not counting interns and apprentices. overseas banks. campaign included the distribution of information ** Counting interns and apprentices. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 39 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY is 3.72:1. All employees hired under Brazil’s CLT THROUGH EDUCATION labor regime are eligible for the benefit program, Driving employee awareness of sustainabilitywhich goes beyond legal requirements. Specific -related questions and socioenvironmental risk groups also receive additional benefits, as detaiis one of the bank’s objectives and is undertaken led in the table below: those working night shifts in the form of the two-module Sustainability and have a transportation allowance, which helps enSocioenvironmental Responsibility course avaisure employee safety. lable on the distance learning platform. Women are entitled to maternity leave, breastfeOnline training and awareness activities have eding breaks until their child is six months of age increased employees’ familiarity with socioenand a nursery/nurse allowance. vironmental questions, as well as socioenvironmental risk management and financial education. In 2017, training in these areas totaled 690 hours. The target for 2018 is to launch the third module of the Socioenvironmental Responsibility program and the Compliance module, both in the final stages of development, on the distance learning platform. REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 102-38 For all employees, the fixed and variable remuneration policy is aligned with market standards, as is the benefits program. Currently the ratio of the highest salary (not counting variable remuneration) to the overall average salary in the conglomerate Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 40 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment BENEFITS PROGRAM 401-2, 401-3 BENEFITS PROGRAM INTEGRATION PROGRAM The bank implanted 20 days of paternity leave in line CCB Brasil approached the challenge of integrating Optional health and dental plans extensive to dependents, with the Empresa Cidadã program, to which it is a different cultures – a reality experienced by any including stable same-sex relationships signatory. In 2017, 23 employees took parental leave, foreign institution that starts operating in another Meal allowance of which 12 were women and 11, men. Of the 24 emcountry – by adopting a Sino-Brazilian integration ployees who received this benefit in 2016, 100% reprogram. The bank values the gains to be had from Food allowance (13 months in the year) turned at the end of the leave. After 12 months, 15 of a balanced co-existence and invests in training, exSpecial terms for the bank’s products: loans; credit cards, overdraft these employees (8 women and 7 men) remained in changes and language courses. To simplify routines facilities and car insurance the institution, resulting in a retention rate of 53% for in its international operations, English is widely used Group life insurance and household assistance insurance the men and 46% for the women. Employees who are in day to day contacts, in meetings and in documents. Days off for good attendance terminated are guaranteed the benefits established in Subsidized drugstore purchases the union agreement, such as a professional requaliIn 2017, R$ 243,012 was invested in language coufication allowance – to enable individuals to take rerses. This was because many meetings need to Partnership agreements with language schools, restaurants and gyms fresher courses in their area to assist them in finding be in English, as is the case with a series of docuTransportation allowance a new job – and the continuation of the medical and ments and reports for senior management and the Maternity leave hospital plan contracted by the bank. The duration of CCB Corporation. In all, 67 employees take English this benefit varies in accordance with each employee’s classes and another three are studying Mandarin, Breastfeeding breaks for mothers with children up to six months of age length of service. 404-2 with subsidies varying from 50% to 80% for foreign Nursery/nurse allowance language studies. Similarly, 10 Chinese executives Paternity leave The continuation of the medical and hospital plan and employees are studying Portuguese. The bank benefit is also maintained for retirees. Employees permits use of its premises for the courses before or with less than 10 years service in the company may after working hours. remain in the plan for a period equivalent to the time they subscribed to it as an employee. Retirees with more than 10 years length of service may remain in the plan indefinitely, as long as the company maintains the health plan for its active employees. 401-3 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 41 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment LABOR PRACTICES campaigns and measures aimed at preventive In 2017, CCB Brasil recorded no cases of occupaCCB Brasil guarantees the right to union memhealth care, safety and quality of life within the tional injuries and/or diseases. A number of leabership – 100% of the conglomerate’s employees Health Promotion Program.403-1 ves initiated in 2016 continued into 2017, and new are covered by collective bargaining agreements cases were recorded. A total of 4,046 days lost with the unions that represent them. 102-41 All Members meet on a monthly basis to conduct a was recorded due to non-occupational diseases. communications related to changes in company series of health-related activities such as vaccinaThe number of days lost for men was 1,779, while structure are issued with due prior notice. 402-1 tions, preventive measures against AIDS, breast women missed 2,267 days of work. 403-2 cancer, prostate cancer, stress and smoking, as In 2017, the legal department received 190 well as promoting healthy eating habits. complaints related to labor practices. The total number of cases pending on the last day of the CCB Brasil does not have staff with a high inciyear was 572. Of the 190 grievances received by dence or risk of work-related diseases. On an the legal area, all were addressed and 140 were annual basis, the CIPA organizes an Internal Work resolved. Another 30 grievances pending from Accident Prevention Week. It also coordinates previous years were also resolved, making a total environmental risk prevention and occupational of 170 cases concluded. The increase in labor dehealth medical control programs.403-3 mands is due to the organizational restructuring in 2017. 103-2 The institution observes the collective agreements signed with financial institution workers’ OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY unions, which stipulate occupational health and Responsible for health and safety measures, the safety standards. The accident prevention comThere is no high incidence or Internal Accident Prevention Commission (CIPA mission oversees questions such as AIDS, the exin the Portuguese acronym) incorporates quality tension of medical assistance plans for dismissed high risk of occupation-related of life into its activities. The commission, which employees, professional requalification programs diseases at CCB Brasil formally represents all CCB employees in Brazil, and management/worker commissions to address supports the Human Resources area in executing banking security and equality of opportunity.403-4 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 42 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Suppliers 102-9, 308-1, 308-2, 414-2, 414-1, 408-1, 409-1, 103-2, 103-3 The same integrity and risk assessments sysin the service sector. These suppliers include rating, a media survey and a report by the tems CCB applies to client operations are exservice providers in the areas of consulting, auSustainability Committee for cases identified as tended to supplier relations. The principles of dit, security, maintenance, information technolobeing of high socioenvironmental risk. compliance with the Code of Ethics are incorpogy (IT) and transportation of valuables. rated into the procedures expected of the bank’s Within the risk mapping framework, suppliers are commercial partners. Any breaches or cases of All supplier contracts contain clauses relative assessed regularly with respect to anti-corrupnon-compliance are addressed impartially by the to compliance with environmental and labor tion and anti-money laundering practices (read Ethics Committee. legislation; measures to prevent environmenmore in Integrated Risk Management, page 20). tal crimes, discrimination and corruption; and In 2017, the conglomerate’s supplier network commitments to combat and eliminate the use comprised 167 companies and service proviof child or forced labor in the supply chain. In ders. All are selected in accordance with the the event of non-compliance with legislation or Procurement and Contracting Policy, which priorinon-observance of contract clauses relative to tizes the acquisition of products and services from socioenvironmental matters or bank policy, the local suppliers. The entire network was subject to Procurement area is oriented to terminate the assessment by the Sustainability team. A total relationship with the supplier. of 174 suppliers applied for registration in 2017; from these, three were analyzed and refused by Among the procedures set forth in the 100% the sustainability area and four were refused by Socioenvironmental Risk Assessment, for the of CCB Brasil suppliers were other areas. Thus, 95% of the supplier registration duration of the contract the supplier is subject requests were approved. 102-9, 202-2, 308-1, 414-1 to monitoring relative to the criteria established. submitted to Socioenvironmental In 2017, CCB Brasil continued to enhance the suRisk Assessment Due to the nature of the industry in which it opepplier selection, assessment and monitoring prorates, CCB Brasil’s supplier base is concentrated cess with the inclusion of a socioenvironmental Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 43 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Institutional relations 103-2, 103-3 One of the objectives defined in CCB’s long-term portfolio and pursuing dialogue with suppliers. In PRINCIPLES, STANDARDS AND strategic planning in Brazil is to contribute to the 2017, the institution did not make any donations to COMMITMENTS achievement of adequate levels of prosperity in all political parties. 415-1 Aligned with the principles of corporate citispheres of society. zenship, CCB is a signatory to the Global Compact, On an institutional level, CCB Brasil participates the United Nations (UN) initiative created to stiAs the country’s main commercial partner since in technical commissions, sub-commissions and mulate the international business community to 2009, China has established solid links with insworking groups organized by the Brazilian Banking adopt essential measures for the promotion of titutions and companies in the Brazilian business Federation Febraban, ABBI (Associação Brasileira sustainable development. Linked with this comenvironment. As a question of principle, the bank de Bancos Internacionais), ABBC (Associação mitment are the Sustainable Development Goals complies with local laws and regulations and deveBrasileira de Bancos), the Brazilian clearing house, (SDG), aimed at driving social, economic and envilops relations based on respect for the values and CIP (Câmara Interbancária de Pagamentos), Acrefi ronmental progress in areas such as healthcare, the culture of the society in which it operates. (Associação Nacional das Instituições de Crédito, human rights, labor relations, the environment Financiamento e Investimento), Ibef (Instituto and combating corruption. 102-12 In its routine activities, CCB interacts with the diBrasileiro de Executivos Financeiros) and Anbima verse bodies that control the financial sector in (Associação Brasileira das Entidades dos Mercados Brazil, in particular the country’s financial authoriFinanceiro e de Capitais). 102-13 ties, such as the Central Bank, nurturing close and transparent relations. COMMUNITY RELATIONS CCB Brasil develops some discrete community relaCCB develops relations based To consolidate long-term relations in the Brazilian tionship actions. These include social and educatiomarket, the institution fully exercises its social nal actions such as voluntary contributions benefion respect for the culture of role, paying taxes and charges, granting loans, ting underprivileged children, Christmas campaigns the society in which it operates generating jobs, skillfully managing its client and the Winter Clothing campaign. 102-44 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 44 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment The Banking Auto-regulatory Code is a voluntary CCB also complies with the CRS (Common initiative to promote improved relations between Reporting Standard), instituted by the European financial institutions and their clients. CCB Brasil Community in 2016 with a similar function to is one of the 18 signatories. Based on criteria Fatca. The standard extended the reach of the that go beyond legal requirements, the code is resolutions in the US market, establishing the designed to promote ethics, legality, respect for automatic exchange of tax information on private the consumer, efficient communication and conindividuals and companies between jurisdictions tinuous improvement in banking activities. and signatory countries, as is the case with Brazil and more than one hundred other countries. Another commitment to important standards is CCB Brasil’s adhesion to the new International Financial Reporting Standards, known as IFRS9. The financial balance sheet for the fiscal year ended in December 2017 is compliant with the directives set forth in this standard. The objective of the standard is to standardize the elaboration of financial statements. The institution is aligned with Fatca (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act), a United States government mechanism to promote fiscal transparency, suppress tax evasion, money laundering and financing for terrorism, as well as identifying US financing operations in other countries. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 45 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment Environment A financial institution’s indirect environmental imformulated for Brazil, the bank intends to support pacts are more important than its direct ones (such energy industry segments such as solar, wind and as the consumption of natural resources, greehydroelectric power, as well as biofuels. nhouse gas emissions, among others). For CCB, credit concession, in particular, constitutes one of Although the loans granted by CCB Brasil may conthe most influential indirect impact mechanisms tribute indirectly to social and environmental questhat may enable a society to establish a low-cartions in the country, the institution does not yet bon economy and control climate change. 201-2 have products created to generate specific social or environmental benefits in its portfolio. FS7, FS8 A commitment to being environmentally friendly and driving a low-carbon economy in its credit concession operations and practices, as well as in its assessments of clients and suppliers, is fundamental for the institution. CCB applies environmental risk management criteria to its clients and partners. All business loan applications are subject to the bank’s socioenvironmental risk assessment process, as are supplier registration processes (read more in Socioenvironmental risk assessment). The CCB Corporation promotes financial operations that incentivize businesses engaged in the production of renewable energy. In the strategic planning Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 46 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment CONSUMPTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS 301-1 (m³) 303-1 103-2, 103-3 Material Metric tons In its internal activities, CCB Brasil focuses on Supply from municipal or other utility decreasing its direct environmental impact, mePaper 15.3 asuring its operational processes and striving for 16,536 A3 and A4 bond paper 12.8 improvements in eco-efficiency and performance. The reorganization of the physical and functional Personalized material printed on paper 10.9 12,188 structure of the bank in 2017 led to a change in the collection of data on water and energy con2016 2017 sumption, resulting in a significant reduction in WASTE BY TYPE 306-2 the indicators. Waste Metric tons In 2017, there was a 63% decrease in the conElectronic waste (computers, servers, projectors, laptops etc.) 19.1 sumption of paper and graphic materials compaFurniture Waste 527 red with 2016, totaling 67.1 metric tons. 301-1 Construction waste 70.4 With respect to water consumption, the volume Other waste materials (printer cartridges, batteries, pens, paper 0.5 of water withdrawn from public utility networks clips and staples) was reduced by approximately 26%. The information about total water consumption is supplied by the utility companies. 301-1 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 47 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment CLIMATE CHANGE 201-2, 103-2, 103-3 The Eco-efficiency Manual used by the institution The main scope 1 emission in 2017 was fuel conCCB Brasil follows procedures to mitigate effects establishes procedures for managing the direct sumption related to employee use of gasolinefrom its operations that may be associated with cliimpacts resulting from its activities. The measures -powered vehicles, which corresponded to 94% of mate change. adopted internally include reductions in the conthe emissions within this scope. sumption of water, power, paper and fuel. Regarding indirect impacts, the bank employs Compared with 2016, there was a 3% increase specific credit concession criteria that entail ENERGY AND EMISSIONS in fuel consumption. Stationary combustion from client assessment. All client companies are subIn 2017, CCB Brasil’s activities resulted in total the diesel used in the generator set increased by mitted to a Sustainability Declaration which must emissions of 611.15 tCO2e, the lowest level since 25% (from 4,000 liters to 5,000 liters), however be answered by a commercial manager. This conmonitoring began in 2011, when emissions were the associated emissions of 12.17 tCO2 and biotains specific questions relative to climate chan1,429 tCO2e. genic emissions of 0.96 tCO2 represented only ge, such as management of pollutant emissions, 6% of scope 1 emissions. energy and waste, as well as measures to offset From the 2017 total, 199.79 tCO2e were scope or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. 1; 184.26 tCO2e were scope 2; and 227.10 tCO2e, The scope 2 indirect emissions are the result of the scope 3. consumption of energy acquired from the Brazilian The same procedure is applied to the bank’s active national grid. and prospective suppliers. In comparison with 2016, there was a 4% increase in scope 1 (due to diesel consumption by the In 2017, CCB Brasil consumed 2,070.57 MWh Whenever socioenvironmental and reputational risks generator set), a 13% reduction in scope 2 (be(7,454.05 GJ), resulting in emissions of 184.26 related to climate change are identified during the cause of the closure of diverse service outlets in tCO2e, 30% of the total emissions in the inventory. assessment process, both client loan application and the country) and a 54% reduction in emissions supplier registration processes are referred to the from the supplier chain, notably in the main comSustainability Committee. This body evaluates the siponents of this scope (air travel, cargo transportuation and decides on a positioning for or against the tation and ground transportation), resulting in a continuity of the commercial relationship, stipulating 32% decrease in total emissions in the inventory. the conditions under which it may be maintained. 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 48 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment In comparison with 2016, there was a 20% reBiogenic emissions, that is emissions from burduction in total energy consumption and a 14% ning biofuels such as sugarcane-based ethanol increase in the energy grid emission factor. or biodiesel, totaled 46.78 tCO2 in 2017, compared with 44.98 tCO2 in 2016, in scope 1; and CCB Brasil's indirect scope 3 emissions are signi0.67 tCO2 in 2017, compared with 3.12 tCO2 the ficant, accounting for 37% of the total emissions previous year, in scope 3. 302-1, 302-2 in the 2017 inventory. These emissions are related to employee travel by plane, taxi and bus, air and road transportation of mailbags, and use of motorcycle couriers. The total mileage of air travel was reduced by 17%, while the number of international flights decreased by 45%. Consequently, there was a 17% reduction in travel emissions from 2016 to 2017. Worthy of note during the year were the 60 meetings via videoconferencing, totaling 106 hours. These involved 425 people, an increase of Total emissions in 2017 40% in the number of participants and 50% in the number of hours of meetings compared with were 611 tCO2e, the the previous year. This helped to avoid a further lowest level since 2011 increase in domestic air travel and, consequently, in total GHG emissions. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 49 Clients Internal audience Suppliers Institutional relations Environment SCOPE 1 DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (t CO2 equivalent) 305-1 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (t CO2 equivalent) 305-2 2016 2017 2016 2017 Stationary combustion 9.85 12.17 Direct emissions 191.48 199.79 Mobile combustion 181.63 187.61 (Scope 1) Sub-total 191.48 199.79 Indirect emissions from the acquisition of energy 210.69 184.26 (Scope 2) SCOPE 2 INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS FROM THE ACQUISITION OF ENERGY (t CO2 equivalent) 305-2 Other indirect emissions 492.29 227.10 (Scope 3) 2016 2017 tCO2e tCO2e Total GHG emissions 894.46 611.15 Electricity 210.69 184.26 Sub-total 210.69 184.26 SCOPE 3 OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (t CO2 equivalent) 305-2 2016 2017 Activities related to fuel and energy 189.30 not included in Scopes 1 and 2 Transportation and distribution (upstream) 36.91 6.73 Business travel 266.08 220.37 Sub-total 492.29 227.10 Welcome Proﬁle Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 50 Limited assurance report issued by independent auditors Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 51 To the Board of Directors, Management and Stakeholders Report based on a limited assurance engagement conwhen the independent auditor acknowledges issues China Construction Bank (Brasil) Banco Múltiplo S.A. ducted in accordance with Technical Communication which may lead them to believe that the information São Paulo SP (TC) 07/2012, which was prepared based on NBC TO disclosed in the 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report 3000 (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits taken as a whole could present material misstatement. INTRODUCTION and Reviews), both issued by the Brazilian Federal We have been engaged by China Construction Bank (Brasil) Accounting Council CFC and equivalent to internaThe selected procedures were based on our undersBanco Múltiplo S.A. (“CCB Brasil” or “Company”) to apply tional standard ISAE 3000, issued by the International tanding of the issues related to the compilation, limited assurance procedures on the sustainability inforFederation of Accountants and applicable to Nonmateriality and presentation of the information dismation disclosed in CCB Brasil´s Annual and Sustainability Financial Historical Information. These standards closed in the 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report, Report, related to the year ended December 31st, 2017. require compliance with ethical requirements, incluon other engagement circumstances and also on ding independence ones, and the engagement is also our considerations regarding areas and processes RESPONSIBILITIES OF CCB BRASIL’S conducted to provide limited assurance that the inforassociated with material sustainability information MANAGEMENT mation disclosed in the CCB Brasil’s 2017 Annual and disclosed where relevant misstatement could exist. The Management of CCB Brasil is responsible for Sustainability Report, taken as a whole, is free from The procedures consisted of: adequately preparing and presenting the sustainabilimaterial misstatement. ty information in the 2017 Annual and Sustainability (a) Engagement planning: considering the material Report in accordance with the Global Reporting A limited assurance engagement conducted in accoraspects for CCB Brasil’s activities, the relevance of Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards, dance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) consists mainly the information disclosed, the amount of quantitaand the “Financial Services Sector Supplement”, as of questions and interviews with the Management of tive and qualitative information and the operational well as the internal controls determined necessary to CCB Brasil and other professionals of the Company insystems and internal controls that served as a basis ensure this information is free from material misstavolved in the preparation of the information disclosed in for preparation of the information in the CCB Brasil’s tement, resulting from fraud or error. the 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report and use of 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report. This analysis analytical procedures to obtain evidence that enables us defined the indicators to be checked in details; INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY to reach a limited assurance conclusion about the susOur responsibility is to express a conclusion about tainability information taken as a whole. A limited assu(b) Understanding and analysis of disclosed informathe information in the 2017 Annual and Sustainability rance engagement also requires additional procedures tion related to material aspects management; Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 52 (c) Analysis of preparation processes of the 2017 accepted associated to aspects and topics defined as relevance and accuracy are subject to individual asAnnual and Sustainability Report and its structure material in the materiality analysis of the Company; sumptions and judgments. Additionally, we have not and content, based on the Principles for Defining examined data related to prior periods, evaluated the Report Content and Quality of the GRI Sustainability (f) Comparison of financial indicators with the finanadequacy of the company´s policies, practices and susReporting Standards; cial statements and/or accounting records. tainability performance, nor future projections. (d) Evaluation of non financial indicators selected: We believe that the information, evidence and results CONCLUSION we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to Based on the procedures carried out, described earlier in this • Understanding of the calculation methodology and provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. report, we have not identified any relevant information that procedures for the compilation of indicators through leads us to believe that the information in CCB Brasil’s 2017 interviews with management responsible for data SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS Annual and Sustainability Report is not fairly stated in all preparation; The procedures applied to a limited assurance engagematerial aspects in accordance with the GRI Sustainability ment are substantially less extensive than those applied Reporting Standards, and the “Financial Services Sector • Application of analytical procedures regarding data to a reasonable assurance engagement. Therefore, we Supplement”, as well as its source records and files. and interviews for qualitative information and their cannot provide assurance that we are aware of all the correlation with indicators disclosed in the 2017 issues that would have been identified in a reasonable São Paulo, April 3, 2018 Annual and Sustainability Report; assurance engagement, which aims to issue an opinion. If we had conducted a reasonable assurance engageKPMG Assessores Ltda. • Analysis of evidence supporting the disclosed ment, we may have identified other issues and possible CRC 2SP034262/O-4 F-SP information; misstatements within the information presented in the Eduardo V. Cipullo 2017 Annual and Sustainability Report. Contador CRC 1SP135597/O-6 • Visits to CCB Brasil’s offices for application of these procedures, and items (b) and (c); Nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent limitations KPMG Financial Risk & Actuarial Services Ltda. than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the (e) Analysis of whether the performance indicamethods used to determine, calculate or estimate these Ricardo Algis Zibas tors omission and justification are reasonable to be data. Qualitative interpretation of the data’s materiality, Sócio-Diretor Welcome Proﬁle Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 53 GRI content index Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 54 GRI Content Index 102-55 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational profile GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-1 Name of the organization 9 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 11 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 and 43 102-4 Location of operations 10 and 11 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 9, 35 and 36 102-9 Supply chain 42 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 24 102-12 External initiatives 43 102-13 Membership of associations 43 Strategy GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 7 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 7, 20, 24 and 25 Ethics and integrity GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 18 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concern about ethics 18 and 33 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Governance GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-18 Governance structure 13 102-19 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social 14 topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. 102-20 Executive level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 14 and 19 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics 15 102-22 Composition of highest governance body and its committees 14 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 14 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body and its committees 14 102-25 Conflicts of interest 14 and 18 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 14 and 19 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 14 and 15 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 17 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 14 and 19 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 13, 16, 20 and 22 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 14 and 19 14 and 19. The report is submitted for the formal approval of senior management, 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting which participates in the process in the content construction stage and the materiality review through interviews – including consultation of the independent board member. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 14, 18 and 19 The Board of Directors is the bank’s highest governance body. The topics it 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns addresses are generally also addressed by the Audit Committee. The subjects dealt with by these bodies are confidential. 102-35 Remuneration policies 17 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 56 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 17 102-37 Stakeholder involvement in remuneration 17 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 17 and 39 In 2017, the highest remuneration paid at CCB increased by 2.75% compared with the previous year, while the average increase in remuneration was 7.12%, also in relation 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio to 2016. The growth in average remuneration for all employees was 2.5 times greater than that of best paid individual in the organization Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 In an identification process described in GRI 102-42, the following stakeholder groups were mapped: parent company; market analysts; regulatory authorities; clients; community; 102-40 List of stakeholder groups suppliers; government and society; environment; market; media/press; unions. Other relevant internal stakeholders are employees and service providers. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 CCB’s external stakeholder groups in Brazil were identified based on interviews and 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders meetings with company managers, in a process that was updated and reviewed in accordance with requests from directors and process managers. Diverse interaction channels are adopted at CCB Brasil, such as the disclosure of results and sustainability performance information (Annual and Sustainability Report, releases, alerts etc.); institutional websites for the general external audience (updated annually); intranet and awareness campaigns on topics such as compliance and prevention of 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement money laundering; visits and meetings (one event every six months); online actions on topics such as financial education and informative materials for clients; participation in discussion forums (one event every two months); social and voluntary actions; participation in sector associations; and meetings with specific groups. Page 43. There is no specific engagement program, but rather actions for each group, such as measures for employees (which sometimes include service providers) related 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised to training courses and compliance guidelines; for clients (websites and visits, informative materials, financial education); community (isolated social actions); and suppliers (websites). Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 57 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Reporting practice GRI 102: General disclosures 2017 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 4 and 5 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 4 102-47 List of material topics 5 102-48 Restatements of information None. 102-49 Changes in reporting None. 102-50 Reporting period 5 102-51 Date of most recent report 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 4 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Comprehensive. 102-55 GRI content index 50 102-56 External assurance 4 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 58 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission MATERIAL TOPICS Economic performance GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 GRI 201: Economic performance 2017 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 28 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 45 and 47 due to climate change The institution does not offer 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans employees pension plans. No financial assistance was 201-4 Financial assistance received from government received from government Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2017 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 23 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 21, 24 and 38 and procedures There were no confirmed cases of employees being dismissed or punished for corruption. Neither were there any confirmed cases of contracts with commercial partners being 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken canceled or not being renewed due to breaches related to corruption. No corruption-related lawsuits were brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 59 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Materials GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46 GRI 301: Materials 2017 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 46 Energy GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 GRI 302: Energy 2017 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 47 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 47 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 47 Water GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46 GRI 303: Water 2017 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 46 Emissões GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 GRI 305: Emissions 2017 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 47 and 48 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 47, 48 and 49 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 60 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 47 The institution does not emit 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ozone-depleting substances 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other There are no significant NOx, SOx significant air emissions or other atmospheric emissions Effluents and waste GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2017 Since the water used comes from public utilities it is not 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination possible to determine its source or destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46 Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 308: Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 42 assessment 2017 criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 42 actions taken Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 61 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Employment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 GRI 401: Employment 2017 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 35 and 36 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 40 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 40 Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 and 41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 and 41 GRI 402: Labor/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 41 2017 Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 and 41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 and 41 GRI 403: Occupational health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 41 safety 2017 worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 41 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 41 related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 41 with trade unions Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 62 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Training and education GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 and 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 and 38 GRI 404: Training and education 2017 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 38 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 38 and 40 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 38 and career development reviews Diversity and equality of opportunities GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 and 35 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 5 and 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 5 and 35 GRI 405: Diversity and equality of 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 36 and 37 opportunities 2017 Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2017 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases of discrimination were recorded in the dialogue channels available Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 63 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Local communities GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 Page 33. Disadvantaged people have access by means of specific communication FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for channels equipped with accessibility technology (such as telephone contact center disadvantaged people for the hearing impaired and website reader with voice technology). The physical installations of the branches have all been adapted to enable access for the disabled. Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 42 2017 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 42 taken Public policy GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 415: Public policy 2017 415-1 Political contributions 43 Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 64 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Marketing and labeling GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2017 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and 33 labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There were no cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes service information and labeling related to services in 2017. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing There were no cases of non-compliance in marketing regulations and voluntary codes, communications including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, in 2017. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of 38 beneficiary Client privacy GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2017 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 GRI 418: Client privacy 2017 Page 34. In 2017, CCB Brasil recorded 19 cases of complaints from customers that were substantiated by the organization. These were from credit card holders who contacted 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of CCB alleging that they were unaware of charges made on their cards. There were 12 customer privacy and losses of customer data cases in 2016. The total number of leaks, theft or loss of client data was 29 in 2017, compared with 22 in 2016. The higher number was due to the 39% increase in e-commerce transactions in Brazil. Socioeconomic compliance GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 5 disclosures 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 18 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social In the reporting period there were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for 2017 and economic area non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 65 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number/URL/Considerations Omission Product Portfolio Financial Sector Supplement FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components 24 Product portfolio applied to business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and 24 social risks in business lines FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and Pages 19 and 24. The socioenvironmental risk assessment system is compliant with Central Bank resolutions nº 4.327 and 4.557, providing mechanisms aimed compliance with environmental and social requirements included at identifying, classifying, assessing, monitoring, mitigating and controlling in agreements or transactions socioenvironmental risks in business and in stakeholder relations. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied 24 to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners The interactions are incorporated into the institution’s stakeholder engagement and regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities relationship mechanisms. See the responses to items 102-40,102-42, 102-43 and 102-44. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific 29 region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a 45 specific social benefit for each business line, broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line, 45 broken down by purpose Active ownership Financial Sector Supplement FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Page 24. 100% of the movable assets involved in financial operations with the bank Active ownership institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has were subject to socioenvironmental assessment. Of these, 44% were assessed by the interacted on environmental or social issues Sustainability Committee due to the high associated risk. 100% were approved. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative Not applicable to the reality of environmental or social screening CCB Brasil operations Welcome Profile Business and Outlook Value chain Limited assurance GRI content index 66 Credits PUBLICATION OF THE 2017 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Coordination of publication Marketing and Communication CCB Brasil Coordination of research and content Sustainability CCB Brasil Creation and Production Report Sustentabilidade Collection of CCB Brasil Data Sustainability CCB Brasil Report Sustentabilidade Consulting and Copy Report Sustentabilidade Revision of text and editing Sustainability CCB Brasil Marketing and Communication CCB Brasil Audit KPMG Auditoria Photography CCB Brasil would like to thank Fernando Favoretto Leonardo Wen everyone who contributed to CCB Brasil the production of this report. 2017 Edition Public Rights Reserved to CCB Brasil.
