Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2018 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / About this report About this report How to use this report Our approach and scope Interactivity This Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report When opened in Adobe Reader, this PDF document incorporates several interactive features as consolidates information on our company strategy, corporate indicated below. social responsibility (CSR) activities and fiscal year 2018 performance into one document. It includes all the information previously found in our CSR Report and the editorial pages of our Annual Report. All financial data for fiscal year 2018 is available in our Financial Report. Additional or more detailed information Integrating our reporting in this way enables us to provide stakeholders with a single source of information in key areas. Additional content on the web It also signals that CSR is inseparable from our core business strategy and activities. As you’ll read in this report, our training solutions generate benefits across the three central elements of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. Additional information This report covers our global operations and, unless otherwise stated, presents quantitative and qualitative information for fiscal year 2018 (ended March 31, 2018). Link to content within this document Reporting standards Hyperlink (to external content) This report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. An independent Print this report institution, the GRI provides a standard framework for sustainability reporting across companies and industries. You’ll find an index outlining our alignment with the GRI Standards core reporting requirements and references to other relevant information sources here. All figures in this report are in Canadian dollars unless otherwise Access to previous or next page stated. Feedback Access to the table of contents We welcome your views on the topics covered in this report. Please send your comments, suggestions and questions to media.relations@cae.com. Cover page: CAE employees at Montreal headquarters. 02 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Table of contents Table of contents 02 About this report Corporate social responsibility Feature stories 04 Message to shareholders 33 CSR message 16 Safety in the skies on the rise worldwide 06 Overview 34 CSR governance and oversight 22 CAE’s 70th anniversary 09 Strategy 35 People and safety Celebrating One CAE! 28 Training India’s next generation of 42 Ethics and integrity nurses Business highlights 46 Innovation and customer experience 30 What’s changing at CAE? Our culture. 12 Civil Aviation Training Solutions 50 Community and environment 18 Defence & Security Appendix 24 Healthcare 56 Site certifications 60 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators 67 Non-GRI indicators 03 Message to shareholders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders Opening up new horizons in training Thanks to our talented employees, we delivered a strong performance in fiscal 2018. Our year-overyear revenues grew by 5%, earnings per share by 8% and return on capital employed increased to 12.3%*. We achieved two new annual records: a $3.9 billion order intake and a $7.8 billion backlog. The momentum of our strategic pivot from products to training services is stronger than ever. So are the fundamentals and secular tailwinds in our three core businesses. A noble purpose that thrives Driving this success is CAE’s noble purpose and employees’ Our Defence & Security teams signed $1.4 billion in orders, a commitment to it. What we do generates true societal benefits. record high for the second consecutive year, and generated We help make air travel safer, defence forces mission ready a $3.9 billion backlog. The Royal Australian Air Force, the U.S. and medical personnel better able to save lives. Our mission Navy and the U.K. Ministry of Defence extended their training resonates with customers too; their confidence and trust in us contracts with us. Signing on to deliver comprehensive translated into new and expanded contracts last year. helicopter training systems for both the Brazilian Navy and the Qatar Emiri Air Force, and an end-to end training centre for In Civil Aviation Training Solutions, we retained a 70% global remotely piloted aircraft for the UAE Air Force, reinforces our market share in full-flight simulator sales and expanded our reputation as a leading training systems integrator. leading share of the industry’s training market. Our simulators remain best in class and, following an extensive process In Healthcare, achieving strategic milestones and winning improvement program, are more cost competitive than ever. prestigious awards strengthened our position as a leader in We signed comprehensive long-term training agreements with innovative simulation-based healthcare education and training. AirAsia, Jazz Aviation, Air Transat and Virgin Atlantic Airways. We CAE Juno, a purpose-built, mid-fidelity clinical skills manikin for also won long-term training contracts with business aviation nurses, the sector’s largest market, rapidly gained traction. customers worldwide, including Elit’Avia and Flexjet. Other innovations launched in fiscal 2018 include CAE LucinaAR, the world’s first childbirth simulator with augmented reality. With our longstanding partner AirAsia, we launched CAE Rise™ New partnerships with professional medical associations and (Real-time Insights and Standardized Evaluations), a gameinstitutes increase our reach and ability to help improve patient changing, next-generation pilot training solution. CAE Rise™ outcomes worldwide. Marc Parent puts real-time evidence-based insights in instructors’ hands. President and It fast-tracks each pilot’s development and boosts operators’ Chief Executive Officer ability to deliver standardized training. It also gives us one more *Adjusted before U.S. tax reform impact and net gains on strategic transactions relating to way to help keep the world’s skies safe. our Asian joint ventures 04 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders Driving our culture and CSR evolution Our strategic imperatives— ‘protect’ and ‘grow’—will continue to guide us in maintaining our leadership and growth momentum. For the past three years, we have taken decisive and significant Four strategic priorities will support these imperatives: steps to evolve our culture. You can read more about these delighting customers, driving innovation, bolstering talent and steps in our culture change feature story. Suffice it to say that optimizing our capital. the shift underway in CAE’s culture is tangible, far reaching and empowering for all. At CAE, we are focused on elevating our customers’ experience to ensure that all touchpoints serve to delight them. Our new Employee feedback is front and centre in these changes, from digital strategy and roadmap support our ambition to be the our new company values to engaging new workspaces, from go-to training partner of choice worldwide. Digital represents our streamlined performance management system to short, the latest horizon in our long history of innovation. We are frequent and fun employee engagement pulse surveys. We seizing its tremendous potential to elevate the customer are becoming a more agile, open and people-centric company experience by making it easier to interact with us. It will also where the employee experience is just as important as that of help reinforce our service mindset, differentiate our training the customer. and create new revenue streams. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has also been evolving, Bolstering our talent means recruiting, developing and step by step, along with our culture over the past three years. retaining not only the best but also very diverse talent. Building Last year, we invested in taking our CSR commitment to the a more agile, progressive culture and implementing our new next level. We refined our materiality matrix, revisited our diversity and inclusion initiatives are pivotal to achieving our CSR pillars, developed a new roadmap and objectives, and strategic priorities. empowered our CSR Committee to pursue more challenging goals and objectives. And finally, we will use our strong financial position to pursue growth opportunities. This includes deploying capital Our focus in CSR is now on improving our impact and to generate growth by investing in more training centres, performance in four areas: Ethics and integrity, People and accelerating airline outsourcing and securing more long-term safety, Innovation and customer experience and Community defence training contracts. We will also focus on achieving and environment. double-digit growth in Healthcare and on improving our overall capital efficiency. Maintaining our leadership and growth As we continue to live our values, all these actions are opening up new horizons in training for CAE. This, in turn, creates new While we have significant headroom in large markets, opportunities to act on our noble purpose and make a world of competition from many corners continues to intensify. We difference for all our stakeholders. are turning these challenges into growth opportunities as we bring the full weight of our competitive advantages to bear. These advantages include our reputation as a globally credible, innovation thought leader and the industry’s only pureplay training company. Our independence from all original equipment manufacturers is also a key strength, as is having the highest quality, best-value, end-to-end training solutions. 05 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Overview In today’s world, we increasingly determine a company’s value by what it contributes to society. At CAE, our mission is ultimately about making the world safer. I think it’s fair to say that our ‘raison d’être’ is an essential and noble one. Marc Parent President and CEO, CAE Roots in innovation When Ken Patrick, a former Royal Canadian Air Force officer, founded CAE in 1947, his goal was to “…take advantage of a war-trained team that was extremely innovative and very technology intensive.” By the mid-1950s, we were already creating our first flight simulators. One innovation led to another Training partner of choice. Since 1947. and, by 1982, we had developed a flight simulator so realistic that training on real aircraft was no longer necessary. The rest is history. For seven decades, we’ve sustained our leadership by offering compelling solutions to customers operating in complex, mission-critical environments. Our success reflects our ability It’s all about safety, efficiency and readiness to evolve and rapidly adapt to changing needs and to deliver on Today we’re the training partner of choice in end-to-end virtual-to-live solutions for a growing our promises of quality, reliability and performance. number of aircraft operators, defence forces and healthcare professionals and institutions. Our training network, the world’s largest, spans more than 65 training centres and flight academies Our success is also a testament to our people. Their passion, around the globe. innovation and focus have allowed us to become the best at what we do and to build a brand that’s trusted around the world. We train over 120,000 civil and defence pilots annually and work with more than 300 airlines and major business aircraft operators to increase the safety of air travel. As a leader in training systems integration, we deliver air, land, naval and public safety training to approximately 50 defence forces in over 35 countries. We help ensure these men and women return home safely by preparing them for a range of missions. We’re also a leading provider of innovative healthcare training solutions that enable medical personnel to provide better care. At CAE, our mission is to make air travel safer, allow defence forces to be mission ready, and help medical personnel save lives. We’re confident that Mr. Patrick would be proud of what we’ve become. 06 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Worldwide presence View interactive map online ARCTIC OCEAN ARCTIC OCEAN KARA SEA GREENLAND SEA BAFFIN BARENTS SEA EAST SIBERIAN SEA BEAUFORT SEA BAY NOR WEGIAN SEA B SEA OF OKHOTSK NORTH NORTH NORTH PACIFIC ATLANTIC PACIFIC OCEAN OCEAN MEDITERRANEAN SEA OCEAN GULF OF MEXICO PHILIPPINE BAY OF SEA CARIBBEAN ARABIAN SEA SEA BENGAL SOUTH CHINA SEA SOUTH PACIFIC CORAL SEA OCEAN SOUTH INDIAN ATLANTIC OCEAN OCEAN GREAT AUSTRALIAN Civil Aviation Training Solutions BIGHT TASMAN SEA Defence & Security Healthcare 160+ 35+ 8,500+ Corporate locations countries employees 07 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview FY2018 financial and business highlights $2.83 $7.85 $1.11 billion billion earnings per share annual revenue record order backlog (excluding impacts of the U.S. tax reform and net gains (up 5% year over year) ($318.9 million higher than last year) on strategic transactions related to our Asian joint ventures) 12.3% $3,855 76% Return on capital employed (excluding impacts of the U.S. tax reform and net gains on strategic transactions related to our Asian joint million civil training centre annual utilization rate ventures) total order intake (up $661.6 million over last year) • 50 full-flight simulators sold • Supported the Royal Australian Air Force’s (RAAF) participation in the Diamond Thunder distributed mission training exercise • Acquired the remaining 50% equity interest in our Asian Aviation Centre of Excellence (AACE) joint venture from AirAsia • Signed a contract with Leonardo Helicopters to provide the Qatar Emiri Air Force with a comprehensive NH90 helicopter training solution • Announced the expansion of our North American training footprint in Minneapolis • Obtained a contract from the U.S. Navy to provide the Brazilian Navy with a comprehensive S-70B Seahawk helicopter training system • Inaugurated a new training facility at Gimpo Airport in Korea with Korea Airports Corporation • Renewed the U.K. Ministry of Defence contract to provide aircrew training services at CAE's Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility • Launched the CAE Master Pilot Training Program, a badge of honour (MSHATF) dedicated to elevating the experience of business aviation pilots throughout their career • Formed a partnership with the American Heart Association (AHA) to deliver lifesaving courses in countries currently underserved • Launched our newest pilot training innovation, the CAE RiseTM training system • Launched CAE Juno, a new clinical skills manikin for nursing programs • Signed long-term training contracts with Virgin Atlantic Airways, AirAsia, Air Transat, Flexjet and Elit'Avia • Launched CAE LucinaAR, the world's first augmented reality childbirth simulator 08 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Strategy End-to-end training partner of choice Four areas of strategic priority Our vision is to be the recognized global training partner of Four areas of strategic priority to protect CAE’s leadership position, choice to enhance customer safety, efficiency and readiness. achieve superior growth, and ultimately realize our vision to be the recognized worldwide training partner of choice: Achieving this vision depends on the successful implementation of four strategic imperatives, which will help protect our leadership position and grow our market share. Delight customers Our global leadership stems from our: • Comprehensive training solutions • Highly qualified and passionate employees • Extensive experience and credibility delivering academic, simulator and live-flying training • Industry-leading global training network • Commitment to excellence and innovation spanning more Optimize Partner Drive than 70 years capital of choice innovation • Close collaboration with regulators and policymakers to help shape the future of training • Ability to reduce customers’ environmental impact through simulation-based training Bolster talent 09 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Six pillars of strength Our strategy and investment theses are based on six interrelated pillars of strengths. We benefit from a high degree of recurring business, a strong competitive moat and significant headroom in large markets that are being driven by secular tailwinds. These factors, combined with our culture of innovation, give us the potential to generate superior returns. As we look ahead, we're confident in the strength of our position and the supportive fundamentals of our end markets. High degree of recurring Headroom in Potential for business large markets superior returns We operate in highly regulated Significant untapped market At CAE, we believe we have the industries with mandatory and opportunities exist in our three potential to grow faster than the recurring training requirements growing core businesses. While underlying markets and that our for maintaining professional we lead in the simulation product large backlog and recurring revenue certifications. Our long-term market, we're also pursuing the profile give us greater visibility into agreements with many airlines training market which is several what lies ahead. and business aircraft operators multiples larger than the product and defence forces are also an market. important source of our recurring business. Strong Underlying Culture of competitive moat secular tailwinds innovation Our global training network, The civil aviation and defence Innovation is part of our DNA and unique end-to-end cadet-tosectors are enjoying strong our people make it happen. In captain training solutions, training tailwinds. Air passenger traffic and collaboration with our customers, systems integrator (TSI) expertise, defence budgets are expected to we design and deliver the most unrivalled customer intimacy and continue to increase globally over advanced training solutions. strong, recognizable brand further the next 10 years. strengthen our competitive moat. 10 Business highlights Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Civil Aviation Training Solutions Leading the industry Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business is recognized for its commitment to quality, reliability and innovation. It’s how we’ve built the world’s largest civil aviation training network. It’s also how we’ve become the global training partner of choice for aviation professionals, airlines, business aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers globally. Over the decades, we’ve developed first-tomarket simulators for more than 35 types of aircraft and simulated a total of over 150 aircraft platforms. Today we deliver end-to-end aviation training solutions that address the pilot’s total lifecycle needs, from cadet to captain. And now, our game-changing training system CAE Rise™ is set to significantly elevate every pilot’s training experience. #1 50 + in commercial training centres and aviation aviation training academies 12 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions FY2018 highlights 5% 12% revenue segment operating Year in review growth income growth1,2 Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business performed well in fiscal 2018. It generated a 5% year-over-year increase in revenue and a 12% year-over-year increase in segment operating income. Operating margins improved as well. We sold 50 full-flight simulators (FFSs), our secondbest year ever for FFS sales. Our backlog grew by 20.9% compared to fiscal 2017. 1.44x $2.3 billion Among other highlights, we inaugurated new book-to-sales ratio 3 record order intake training centres in the U.S. and South Korea. We acquired AirAsia's shares in the Asian Aviation Centre of Excellence and signed an agreement to establish a joint-venture training facility in Singapore. We also expanded our cadet training programs in the U.S., India and Spain, and launched both CAE Rise™ and the CAE Master Pilot Training Program for business aviation $3.98 76% pilots. billion utilization rate5 record backlog 4 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of 3 The book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated as total orders divided each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication by total revenue in a given period. of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it 4 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the expected value of orders we by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. have received but have not yet executed. 2 Adjusted before net gains on strategic transactions relating to AACE and ZFTC. 5 Utilization rate is a non-GAAP measure that assesses the performance of our Civil Aviation simulator training network. 13 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions AirAsia: A powerful partnership Expanding our footprint in Asia-Pacific For more than a decade, we’ve been AirAsia Group’s In fiscal 2018, we took several steps to strengthen our global training partner of choice. AirAsia recently presence in Asia-Pacific, one of the industry’s fastestextended our exclusive contract to support all training growing aviation markets. We signed a memorandum for all aircraft types operated by it and its affiliates to of understanding with Singapore Airlines to establish a 2036. AirAsia is the continent’s largest low-cost carrier. joint-venture facility in Singapore. Expected to open in the first half of fiscal 2019, the joint venture will initially In fiscal 2018, we also acquired full ownership of the provide simulator training for Boeing aircraft types. Asian Aviation Centre of Excellence (AACE) from AirAsia. AirAsia and the AACE played a key role in refining the With Korea Airports Corporation, we inaugurated a new training capabilities of our pioneering CAE Rise™ pilot training centre at Gimpo International Airport in Seoul. training system. The AACE training centre, now CAE It supports the growing pilot training needs of Korean Kuala Lumpur, will continue to offer training for pilots, carriers such as Jeju Air, Korean Airlines, Asiana Airlines, cabin crew, maintenance engineers, technicians and Eastar Jet and Air Seoul. ground services personnel. Through our collaboration with Jakarta Aviation Training And congratulations to the first nine AirAsia-sponsored Center (JATC), we deployed the first Indonesia-owned Multi-crew Pilot Licence (MPL) cadets trained by CAE FFS to meet the increasing training needs of regional CAE Rise™ to be promoted to captains. They earned this careercustomers like AirAsia Indonesia. Our Airbus A320 FFS is changing promotion by flying as first officers on the now operational at JATC's training facilities near Jakarta In February 2018, we launched our newest airline’s Airbus A320s since 2011. Soekarno-Hatta International Airport. pilot training innovation, the CAE Rise™ (Realtime Insights and Standardized Evaluations) training system. It represents our latest training breakthrough, addressing the growing demand in Strengthening our U.S. presence Elevating business aviation pilots professional pilots globally. Backed by industryleading technology, CAE Rise™ strengthens Our training centre in Minnesota, CAE Minneapolis, Our CAE Master Pilot Training Program enhances instructors' ability to deliver standardized is now fully operational with six full-flight simulators. business aviation pilots’ platform knowledge, safety training in accordance with airlines’ specific The centre reinforces our ability to meet the increasing awareness and situational response capabilities. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). It also pilot training needs of regional airline customers such Launched in fiscal 2018, it prepares pilots for the enables instructors to objectively assess pilot as Endeavor Air, Compass Airlines and Sun Country broadest range of challenging situations, enabling competencies using live data during training Airlines. them to progress more rapidly and confidently in their sessions. career. The CAE Master Pilot insignia showcases a pilot’s At CAE Phoenix in Arizona, we deployed our latest CAE commitment to excellence. CAE Rise™ improves pilot training quality and 7000XR Series full-flight simulator for the Bombardier efficiency by integrating untapped real-time, CRJ900 regional jet. It offers unprecedented realism data-driven insights. These insights, in turn, thanks to our CAE Tropos 6000XR visual system. The allow customization of training programs to centre is also now equipped with a CAE-built Embraer every airline and every pilot’s unique needs. In ERJ-145 FFS to better support U.S. customers like spring 2018, CAE Rise™ went live with our launch Endeavor Air and Mesa Airlines. customer and longstanding partner AirAsia. Watch the video 14 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Our first Airline Pilot CAE 600XR Series Creating new pilots Boosting our courseware Demand Outlook We launched the CAE 600XR Series Flight In Spain, we expanded our cadet training Acquiring a 45% interest in CanadaOur first-ever Airline Pilot Demand Training Device (FTD), the latest addition network with a new Madrid-based based Pelesys, a leading global provider Outlook was well-received by the to our innovative XR Series training integrated Airline Transport Pilot’s of aviation training solutions and global aviation industry. It provides key equipment suite. The 600XR Series FTD Licence (ATPL) program. The program courseware, was a natural next step in insights on commercial aviation’s future provides the highest training fidelity will enable our Madrid training centre our longstanding relationship. This new need for professional pilots to sustain in today’s fixed-based training market to better support European commercial partnership will allow us to strengthen the industry’s growth and to support and sets new standards for initial and airlines' increasing need for more our courseware offering across our retirements. The outlook identifies a recurrent pilot training. professional pilots in the region. We also global network. global requirement for creating 255,000 signed several new and expanded cadet new pilots and for developing 180,000 training agreements, including with Jet first officers into new airline captains Airways in India, Volotea in Spain and over the next 10 years. Envoy Air in the United States. Demand for trained aviation professionals is driven by air traffic growth, pilot retirements and the increase in active aircraft fleets. As Looking global economies and airline fleets continue to expand, so does the demand for qualified airline personnel. At CAE, we’re partnering with the airline industry to help professional pilots develop faster, learn to master critical situations and adapt ahead effectively to their operators’ culture and Standard Operating Procedures. The launch of CAE Rise™ will further enable us to elevate the training experience for current and future pilots. We’ll also continue working with aerospace regulatory bodies to make the world’s safest mode of transportation even safer. 15 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Safety in the skies on the rise worldwide Feature story Safety in the skies on the rise worldwide At CAE, we believe that it’s our We saw an opportunity to leverage our simulation responsibility to help keep the planet’s skies safe. And now and technological expertise to put a new source of we have a game-changing actionable real-time data at instructors’ fingertips. technology that dramatically We also wanted to mitigate the subjectivity and improves our ability to do just variances between how different instructors grade that. Launched in February 2018, CAE Rise™ takes evidence-based pilots to strengthen the operators’ ability to deliver Captain Torbjörn Wischer training to a whole new level. CAE’s Global Leader of Civil Aviation standardized training. It was from these gaps that Training Strategy It empowers operators and CAE Rise™ emerged. instructors to fast-track pilot development while safeguarding Better than the naked eye passenger safety. CAE Rise™ quickly pinpoints specific learning gaps for individual Passenger safety hinges on pilot pilots. It uses simulator data to deliver real-time analytical insights competency. Today simulationinto aspects of the pilot’s performance that instructors simply can’t based training plays a key role see or aren’t looking in the right place to see. in developing skilled pilots. Yet “In many scenarios, CAE Rise™ is better than the naked eye,” affirms many operators have been using John Billington, CAE’s Director of Civil Aviation Training Solutions. the same paper evaluations “Let’s say a pilot is executing a terrain avoidance manoeuvre to assess pilot flight simulator where the instructor isn’t able to determine visually how much back pressure the pilot is applying to the sidestick controller. performance for over 30 years. The CAE Rise™ system is able to detect the exact degree of back With the CAE Rise™ training pressure and relay this information to the instructor. This level of system, we’re bringing these valuable feedback has eluded us until now.” evaluations into the digital age. Using patented technology, CAE Rise™ detects and tracks manoeuvres from start to finish. The system then provides the instructor with real-time feedback based on evidence-based data, including a suggested score and its explanation. The instructor can also dig deeper and pull up graphical scorecards complete with key milestones. These statistical insights allow the instructor to identify and close pilot proficiency gaps with unprecedented ease. Instructors may even be able to use the system to reduce remedial training time. 16 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Safety in the skies on the rise worldwide Increasing instructors’ focus on soft skills with the pilot,” explains John. “The system even prompts the instructor when an operator has updated an SOP and provides With CAE Rise™ measuring a pilot’s technical skills with the updated version.” unparalleled precision, busy instructors are enabled to focus on other critical key competencies like leadership, communication and decision-making. New global standard John continues: “CAE Rise™ could correctly assess a manoeuvre By generating objective live data dashboards, CAE Rise™ has the as technically excellent but, in the cockpit, the instructor might be potential to rapidly raise the bar on pilot training standardization seeing leadership or communication skills that need improving. and flight safety. Its powerful data analytics not only allows And it’s the instructor who decides the final grade, taking into instructors to immediately see and address a pilot’s true training account both the pilot’s technical and soft skills scores. In this needs, it gives us the capability to identify performance trends, way, the system doesn’t replace instructors; it makes them more both within an operator’s business and across the entire sector. effective and allows them to spend more time assessing crew Now we can help operators evolve their training programs to resource management.” meet the most advanced aviation safety standards. “We intend to continue developing this technology to capture Customized curricula even more objective data on pilot performance,” asserts Torbjörn. “Operators want evidence-based data they can leverage to make CAE Rise™ includes electronic tools for grading, recordingdecisions and that’s what CAE is committed to giving them. keeping and managing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Our goal is to create the world’s first anonymous pilot training The latter feature allows operators to customize their training database, providing operators with access to performance and program by incorporating their own SOPs. This capability lets training benchmarks from hundreds of thousands of simulations instructors deliver training that matches each operator’s specific conducted around the globe.” culture and reality. John sums up: “We’re just scratching the surface of what it can “With CAE Rise™, instructors can prepare for a training session by do. With CAE Rise™, the sky is both literally and metaphorically reviewing the operator’s SOPs prior to getting into the simulator the limit!” Now operators and their instructors have a system that will allow them to reach the highest level of training for their pilots. It makes data-driven assessment grading a reality, which, in the not-too-distant future, could translate into a step change in the standardization of pilot training and assessment around the globe. Captain Andrew Lim CAE’s Regional Head of Training, Asia Pacific Captain Andrew Lim 17 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Defence & Security Helping improve mission readiness worldwide Our Defence & Security business is a world leader in helping defence forces achieve and maintain the highest levels of mission readiness. As a globally recognized training systems integrator (TSI), we develop and deliver integrated livevirtual-constructive (iLVC) training solutions for our air, naval, land and public safety customers. We serve our global defence and security customers through regional operations in Canada, Europe/Africa, Asia-Pacific/Middle East and the United States/Latin America. 72 10,000 + 7,000 + different training platforms live flying training hours simulator training hours in first year at CAE Dothan Training Center 18 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security FY2018 highlights Year in review Our TSI capabilities and robust bid pipeline drove historically high orders of $1.4 billion in fiscal 2018 for our Defence & Security business. 5% 6% Year-over-year revenue increased by 5% and our revenue segment operating book-to-sales ratio was 1.29x. growth income growth 1 Among other highlights, defence forces in the United States, United Kingdom, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) signed or extended aircrew training agreements with us in fiscal 2018. We continue to design and manufacture C-130J simulators for the U.S. Department of Defense. And the U.K. Ministry of Defence extended our contract to provide training at our Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility (MSHATF). $3.87 We also secured our first contract with the 1.29x Qatar Emiri Air Force to develop and deliver a comprehensive NH90 helicopter training billion program. The UAE Air Force contracted us to provide personnel with RQ-1E Predator remotely book-to-sales piloted aircraft training. This training is now ratio 2 underway. Last year, we also delivered the backlog 3 world’s highest fidelity Predator simulator to the Italian Air Force (ITAF). 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of 2 The book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated as total orders divided each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication by total revenue in a given period. of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it 3 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the expected value of orders we by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. have received but have not yet executed. 19 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Excelling at training systems integration In fiscal 2018, we continued to strengthen our reputation as a training systems integrator (TSI) of choice for defence and security forces around the world. Customers are increasingly turning to us for our flexibility and wealth of experience operating and delivering training across a range of business models. Extended RAF helicopter Partnering to deliver iLVC An integrated helicopter Additional C-130J simulators training agreement training training solution in Qatar for U.S. Department of Defense Established nearly 20 years ago, our Given the complexity and expense Leonardo Helicopters and the Qatar Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew of conducting live training missions, Emiri Air Force (QEAF) chose us to design As Lockheed Martin’s longstanding Training Facility (MSHATF), located at RAF defence forces are increasingly relying on and deliver a turnkey NH90 helicopter training partner on the C-130J Super Benson in Oxfordshire, became the very integrated live-virtual-constructive (iLVC) training solution for the QEAF. As the Hercules platform, we’ve signed first military ‘private finance initiative’ training solutions to cost-effectively training systems integrator, we’ll provide additional contracts over the past year (PFI) training program. maintain readiness and prepare for a comprehensive training solution for to deliver a range of C-130J training operational missions. In November 2017, the QEAF’s new fleet of NH90 helicopters. systems. This includes full-mission Due to the program’s longstanding we joined forces with Rockwell Collins simulators and fuselage trainers. We’ll success, the U.K. Ministry of Defence to demonstrate our integrated iLVCThe comprehensive TSI program includes also provide the U.S. Air Force and Air extended this training partnership to enabled capabilities at the Interservice/ designing and building a new training Force Special Operations Command at least 2025. Extending the program Industry Training, Simulation, and facility in Qatar equipped with a suite of (AFSOC) with full-mission simulators ensures that U.K. Joint Helicopter Education Conference (I/ITSEC), the simulators and training devices. Training for several C-130J variants, and the U.S. Command aircrews continue to receive world’s largest military training and support services will include classroom Marine Corps and AFSOC with C-130J agile and innovative synthetic training on simulation event. and simulator instruction as well as fuselage trainers. the CH-47 Chinook, AW101 Merlin, and developing a tactical control centre for Puma helicopters. Together, we successfully conducted managing networked mission training an integrated mission training exercise exercises. using fully networked and secure live, and constructive training elements. The exercise showcased our ability to work with diverse vendors to deliver integrated iLVC training environments that are interoperable and cybersecure. 20 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Introducing the world’s highest fidelity UAE remotely piloted aircraft aircrew Supporting the RAAF’s virtual training Predator simulator training In June 2017, we helped the Royal Australian Air Force In February 2018, the Italian Air Force (ITAF) put into We’re developing and delivering a turnkey training (RAAF) network its various simulation assets across service the world’s highest-fidelity Predator Mission program for the United Arab Emirates Air Force’s the country for a distributed virtual training exercise. Trainer, a simulator we jointly developed with General RQ-1E Predator remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). The exercise highlighted our advanced capabilities Atomics Aeronautical Systems (GA-ASI). We’re also responsible for designing and delivering a in creating integrated, interoperable and immersive comprehensive training centre where we’ll provide environments for iLVC mission training. Equivalent to Level D, the highest qualification for flight classroom, simulator and live-flying training for UAE Air simulators, the Predator Mission Trainer simulator is Force RQ-1E aircrews. During the exercise, the simulation devices flew capable of delivering zero flight time training for RPA simultaneously in the same virtual environment, as pilots and sensor operators. It will allow the ITAF to We’ve started delivering the academic classroom a joint and integrated force, to address air defence conduct extensive training in the simulator, helping training for RQ-1E aircrews. We’ve also partnered with system, ground radar and surface-to-air missile threats. preserve its fleet of RPAs for actual operational missions. the Khalifa Bin Zayad Air College to create and provide the RPA Fundamentals Course for cadets. Over the next year, we’ll deliver additional RPA training devices and high-fidelity RQ-1E simulators to further enhance the training program. With the global emphasis on national security and increasing defence budgets around the world, we see a strong bid pipeline and numerous growth opportunities. Defence forces are making substantial investments in new technologies, networked systems and interoperability, all of which create training requirements aligned with our TSI solutions and capabilities. Looking Our extensive research and development in areas such as integrated live-virtual-constructive (iLVC) training and cybersecure synthetic environments positions us well in this market. So does the growing acceptance by governments and defence forces of outsourcing ahead training services. At CAE, we’re committed to providing our defence and security customers with comprehensive training solutions to optimize their efficiency and effectiveness, and most importantly, help them achieve mission readiness. And we anticipate significant opportunities ahead for forging long-term partnerships with our defence customers. 21 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE’s 70th anniversary: Celebrating One CAE! Feature story CAE’s 70th anniversary Celebrating One CAE! Our 7 0 th anniversary celebrations drove home a Our challenge was to bring 8,500 employees in simple yet compelling truth at 160 sites from 35 countries together. We wanted CAE: together, we’re better! From March 17, 2017 to March 17, the celebrations to increase employees’ sense 2018, employees from around of pride and belonging. Judging by the creativity, the world came together to diversity of celebrations and level of engagement actively and creatively celebrate our 70th. The global team spirit at virtually every site, we succeeded in taking a that emerged would be the envy Hélène V. Gagnon giant step forward in making everyone feel part of something special! Vice President, Public Affairs and of companies across the globe. Global Communications Together, we experienced the power of our new values, in particular One CAE, and that people truly are the heart of our Setting the right tone company. We kicked off the year-long celebration with a humorous video featuring none other than CEO Marc Parent. Marc surprised employees by dropping in on them to quiz them on CAE’s history. The playful video candidly captures the action, ‘bloopers’ and all, sending a clear message that CAE is serious about having fun! Hats off to our global ambassador network CAE’s small but determined communications team quickly realized that numerous pairs of helping hands—160 of them to be exact—would be needed to bring the celebrations alive at every site. The team’s call for local site ambassadors received a thunderously enthusiastic response. Our sites found their ambassador who, in turn, actively championed CAE’s 70th locally Watch the video for an entire year. 22 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE’s 70th anniversary: Celebrating One CAE! With a creative toolkit in hand, each ambassador generated a ‘wow!’ locally that went well beyond expectations. For its slice of genius, a U.K. team convinced the “Extreme Cake Makers” TV show to create a giant flight simulator cake in only three days. The vanilla sponge and buttercream cake featured an edible control panel, functioning LCD monitor and flashing light panel. Our Amsterdam team took a more musical approach, transforming the song “We are the world” into a CAE track entitled “We lead the world in simulation.” Watch for it on the charts this year! Our story continues... Watch the video What better way to celebrate CAE’s history then to ask employees to share a special moment in their history with us. More than 140 employees submitted touching and inspiring tales to the contest. Half of the 10 global winners travelled to Canada, the other half went to the U.K., to celebrate together. In the end, we turned all 140 stories into an e-book that showcases how employees continue to write our history. Because, together, our story is far from over. And based on employees’ enthusiastic feedback, the fun is only getting started too! The communication strategy around our 70 th anniversary festivities earned the Global Communications team two awards from the Canadian Public Relations Society. The team, represented above by Pascale Alpha, Director, Global Communications, received the Gold award for the Best Special Events Project and the Bronze award for Canadian Internal Communications Campaign of the Year. 23 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Healthcare Enhancing patient safety Just as passenger safety is the top priority in civil aviation, patient safety and outcomes matter most in healthcare. Medical errors are the third-leading cause of death in U.S. hospitals. Simulation-based training provides a low-risk alternative for practising lifesaving procedures, rapid response and interprofessional clinical teamwork and major disaster response. Building on our aviation expertise, we launched our Healthcare business almost 10 years ago to enhance healthcare training and education as well as improve patient outcomes in clinical settings. Today we’re a training partner of choice for the healthcare industry, scientific societies and associations worldwide, helping foster confidence, competency and teamwork. We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of healthcare simulation products and solutions along with world-class support. 13,500 + Industry's broadest training products and services portfolio simulators installed worldwide 24 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Year in review In fiscal 2018, we launched two game-changing products: CAE LucinaAR, the first childbirth simulator with augmented reality for clinical team training, and CAE Juno, a newly designed clinical skills manikin for nursing programs. In partnership with the American Society of Anesthesiologists™ (ASA), we also unveiled Anesthesia SimSTAT Trauma, the first in a series of interactive screen-based simulation modules for continuing medical education. To further improve healthcare education and patient safety, we signed a simulation research partnership with the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology (NAIT). We also announced the creation of a network of International Training Sites in collaboration with the American Heart Association (AHA) to deliver lifesaving courses in countries that are currently underserved. Building upon our breadth of technologies and FY2018 highlights simulation platforms, we expanded our custom training solutions for the medical device industry. $8.8 We developed a Microsoft HoloLens augmented reality training solution for the Abiomed Impella™ heart pump system and a custom simulator for $115.2 the Medtronic Micra™ transcatheter pacing system. million million segment operating in revenue income1 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of each segment’s financial performance. This measure gives us a good indication of the profitability of each segment because it does not include the impact of any items not specifically related to the segment’s performance. We calculate it by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. 25 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Limitless learning with augmented reality We’ve integrated Microsoft HoloLens, the world’s first fully self-contained wearable holographic computer, into our portfolio of healthcare simulation products. Our proprietary development framework for Microsoft HoloLens integrates 3D anatomy and modelled patient physiology into a mixed reality learning environment. Using this framework, we’ve created dynamic training solutions that allow clinical learners and practitioners to explore, understand, investigate, perform surgical interventions, and visualize anatomy, physiology and pathologies. To date, our HoloLens-enabled augmented reality solutions include CAE VimedixAR, CAE LucinaAR, Abiomed ImpellaAR and Medtronic MicraAR. Winning awards, advancing medical training We also proudly accepted the 2017 Unity Impact Award for social impact in healthcare and education for our CAE VimedixAR solution. CAE VimedixAR is a groundbreaking simulation-based learning module for training in ultrasound and imaging visualization. It’s also the first healthcare simulation application of HoloLens. VimedixAR enables clinical learners to develop proficiency in identifying anatomical structures as they perform ultrasound examinations and patient assessments. We also received the inaugural Innovation Award of .orgCommunity for the Anesthesia SimSTAT platform we developed in collaboration with the American Society of Anesthesiologists®. This breakthrough in screen-based training features a realistic patient with physiology that enables clinicians to better manage anesthesia emergencies while completing their continuing medical education (CME) requirements CAE Juno: and Maintenance of Certification in Anesthesia (MOCA) courses online. Accessible Our newest manikin from a laptop, Anesthesia SimSTAT also provides users with immediate performance assessments and confidential feedback for deeper learning. Our newest clinical skills manikin, CAE Juno meets the educational requirements for clinical nursing skills, from task training to advanced patient Teaming up with the American Heart Association care scenarios. It provides nursing students and In January 2018, we joined forces with the American Heart Association (AHA) to advance its mission of fostering instructors with consistent learning, effective healthier lives, free of cardiovascular disease and stroke, in more countries around the world. Together, we’re preparation and accelerated mastery of criticalestablishing a network of International Training Sites to deliver lifesaving AHA-accredited courses in currently thinking skills and clinical procedures. underserved countries. Early in 2018, we opened the first authorized AHA International Training Site at the CAE Brunei multipurpose training centre. The site offers AHA emergency cardiovascular care (ECC) courses in basic life support, advanced cardiac support and pediatric advanced life support. At the CAE Healthcare Academy, we’ve been developing and training faculty on AHA-aligned simulator-based curriculum for years. 26 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare Expanding the Human Patient Simulation Network Every Human Patient Simulation Network (HPSN) event offers participants the opportunity to meet, engage, learn and grow. In fiscal 2018, we expanded the network by hosting our first HPSN conference in the United Kingdom as well as four Latin America’s first mobile simulation centre regional SimDays in the United States. In fiscal The University of Costa Rica’s School of Nursing turned to childbirth. The mobile centre easily converts into a 2019, we’ll host China’s second HPSN conference. to us to help establish Latin America’s first mobile classroom where our LearningSpace software helps We’re also planning an HPSN Day in Canada. simulation centre. The centre will help improve patient students debrief and discuss what happened during The HPSN’s mission is “to bring the international safety and outcomes by allowing Costa Rican medical their hands-on simulation experiences. simulation community together, offering professionals and students to train in a controlled The University of Costa Rica also outfitted the centre collaborative workshops, hands-on learning environment. The mobile centre will also play a vital role with the necessary equipment to transform it into an opportunities, resources and technologically in bringing CPR and first-aid training to communities. emergency medical centre on wheels. In the event advanced simulation-based medical education The custom, air-conditioned trailer features a CAE Apollo of emergencies such as natural disasters, the mobile (SBME) solutions that enhance patient safety and and a CAE Juno manikin that, together, simulate more centre can travel to where it’s needed to provide improve outcomes.” than 70 standard clinical procedures. The manikins also treatment including minor surgeries. replicate scenarios ranging from cardiovascular arrest Simulation-based training represents the future of healthcare training and patient safety. The globe’s aging population will increase both people’s healthcare needs and nations’ healthcare costs. New regulations are expected to further stimulate the adoption of Looking simulation-based training in medical schools and for certification purposes. Limited access to real patients during training and the medical technology revolution are also fuelling the growth in simulation-based training. ahead At CAE, we’ll continue to introduce new product innovations and actively pursue new partnership agreements. In fiscal 2019, we’ll launch CAE Ares, our newest mid-fidelity manikin for emergency care providers. It will allow us to make inroads into the global market for mandatory Advanced Life Support (ALS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) training for clinical professionals and hospital teams. Ongoing investment in our Healthcare sales force will also enable us to grow our market share. 27 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Training India’s next generation of nurses Feature story Training India’s next generation of nurses Nurses are on the frontline CAE Juno helps nursing students master of patient care worldwide. critical clinical skills before they interact They’re the only profession that attends to patients’ physical with real patients or participate in and emotional care needs interprofessional team simulations. With around the clock. It’s a complex, CAE Juno, we’re giving a broader audience demanding role that requires a multitude of technical and of healthcare students and professionals non-technical skills. In January access to both enhanced clinical 2018, nursing students at the Dr. Robert Amyot education and patient safety. Bangalore Baptist Hospital President of CAE Healthcare (BBH) in Bengaluru, India, gained a significant edge in preparing for this critical role. She’s called CAE Juno, the latest in simulation-based training and Bridging the gap the first clinical skills training manikin of its kind in the Nursing programs and their students are confronted with an increasingly complex country. reality. They face the challenge of caring for sicker patients at a time when, due to liability concerns, universities and hospitals are reducing the clinical hours available to students for practising their skills. What’s more, nurses deliver intimate personal patient care that isn’t easily practised on a real person for the first time when they’re vulnerable. CAE Juno effectively addresses these challenges by bridging the gap between the classroom and hospital setting. “We’re seeing how CAE Juno transforms the students’ education from abstract to practical hands-on learning,” affirms Leena Raj, Principal of BBH’s Nursing Institute. “CAE Juno turns a one-way lecture into a concrete, enjoyable teaching/learning experience for both the students and the facilitators. We don’t have to wonder anymore if the student got the point. We know right away if they’ve grasped it or not. Leena Raj You can’t fake it with CAE Juno.” Principal of BBH’s Nursing Institute 28 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Training India’s next generation of nurses CAE Juno in action Accelerating the learning At BBH, CAE Juno is challenging nursing students to put their “At first it was pretty unnerving, but with practice I knowledge and skills to the test in a simulated high-pressure became less afraid and more confident in my ability to clinical setting. Students practise their critical thinking skills, use my critical thinking to figure out what to do,” says learning from experience in a safe-to-fail environment. Sheena. “CAE Juno is definitely helping me learn and CAE Juno takes them through a number of Simulated Clinical strengthen my nursing skills faster.” Experiences (SCEs), from simple tasks to more advanced patient care. And no one knows better than Sheena George Leena concurs: “What we’re observing is that the that you can’t fake it with CAE Juno. students who work with CAE Juno make fewer mistakes compared to those with no simulation experience. We’re When the second-year nursing student interacted with so grateful for the funding from Samaritan Outreach CAE Juno one day, she was confronted with the unexpected. Medical Ministries, through a grant from the Butterfield What started as a simple intravenous medication Foundation, that allowed us to acquire CAE Juno!” administration quickly deteriorated into a critical situation when the patient’s vitals plummeted and arrhythmia In addition to helping train 400 future nurses at BBH ensued. In this patient scenario, CAE Juno had an underlying annually, CAE Juno will also be part of the hospital’s condition: she was diabetic. While CAE Juno’s software ran national simulation workshops to share nursing the SCE selected by the facilitator, Sheena had to rapidly simulation education best practices throughout India. assess and analyze the situation, provide the appropriate And to gather conclusive data regarding CAE Juno’s nursing care and then wait to see what happened next. impact on learning, the manikin is currently at the centre of the Fulbright-Nehru Research Flex Grant research With CAE Juno’s software operating the SCE, the facilitator study on the effects of simulation in nursing training. is free to focus on observing the student’s clinical decisionmaking skills as well as how the student communicates with CAE Juno—yes, CAE Juno talks! The facilitator evaluates What’s next for patient care simulators? everything through her tablet. With a simple tweak, she can immediately add another layer of complexity to the situation. “Nurses are one of our largest audiences,” says Wendy Jo Wilkinson, MSN, ARNP, Chief Nursing Officer, CAE Healthcare. “CAE Juno provides this important stakeholder group with a more affordable patient simulator designed just for them. The response has been amazing. Since its launch in June 2017, CAE Juno is now in 33 countries around the world. And she’s only getting better. We’re about to introduce an integrated ultrasoundguided intravenous placement capability, an important new skill nurses need to have today. This will make CAE Juno the world’s first patient care manikin with this capability!” At CAE Healthcare, we also continue to enhance healthcare education for other stakeholder groups. In June 2018, we’ll roll out an emergency care manikin called CAE Ares. CAE Ares fulfills the requirements for emergency care management as well as advanced life support training. CAE Ares is compliant with the American Heart Association’s guidelines for Advanced Cardiac Life Support training. Nursing students at Dawson College in Montreal, “In the 1800s, Florence Nightingale, the mother of modern nursing, stated that nurses’ first job is to do no harm Canada, are also accelerating their learning thanks to patients,” states Amanda Wilford, Group Leader, Adjunct Faculty International, CAE Healthcare. “CAE Juno to CAE Juno. trains nurses thoroughly to help ensure that they do no harm. And as more patient care shifts from clinical settings to the community, this highly portable manikin can go wherever nurses need to be trained, including Watch the video the most remote rural areas. This spells good news for improving both clinical education and patient safety across the globe.” 29 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / What’s changing at CAE? Our culture Feature story What’s changing at CAE? Our culture. Years ago, renowned management guru Peter CAE is pivoting from being product oriented to Drucker famously proclaimed: a service provider with an ambitious vision. The “Culture eats strategy for breakfast.” At CAE, we’ve success of this vision hinges on our employees’ full learned that, in fact, culture engagement, which requires a culture that’s open, impacts virtually everything, progressive and people centric; agile, transparent from employee engagement and customer satisfaction, to and responsive. A culture where our employees’ talent retention and business experience is as important to us as that of our Dan Sharkey results. That’s why evolving our Vice President of Human Resources, CAE customers. culture is a priority that starts at the top. “Culture change takes time and it never succeeds without visible and vocal champions in the senior levels of the organization,” continues Dan. “Our executive management team is actively involved in reinvigorating every aspect of our culture, from our values and workspaces, to the way we share feedback and communicate, to how we recognize and develop employees.” Employees as catalysts of change The actions we’re taking to improve our culture are gaining traction for one simple reason: they create tangible value for both employees and CAE. If a change doesn’t add value for employees, we’re agile and we adjust it based on the input. Employees are clearly at the heart of this culture evolution. When employees expressed their views in 2014 and 2015 surveys, executives listened and took immediate steps to further understand and address the roadblocks to having a positive employee experience. First came the new company values in 2017, developed with the input of some 120 leaders from around the globe, and by leveraging employee feedback. Interactive ‘Making CAE Values Live’ training sessions delivered to executives, directors, managers and group leaders received positive reviews. Executive participation in the leaders’ sessions underscored the new values’ importance. Online training on our values, along with leader discussions with employees, is helping everyone understand the values and make decisions that align with our vision. 30 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / What’s changing at CAE? Our culture We’re never too old to change Rethinking performance management In 2017, all members of the senior leadership team were When employees expressed strong reservations about our traditional asked to change ‘one big thing’ in their behaviour to better performance reviews, CEO Marc Parent didn’t just listen. He promptly align with CAE’s values. To help pinpoint this behaviour, challenged his team to come up with a completely new approach, employees identified, via a confidential survey, a significant more aligned to an agile, progressive and people-centric company. improvement goal they recommend for their direct leader. Following extensive research and benchmarking, people from every level and function came together to develop CAE+me, a lighter, simpler Another sign from last year that things are changing was the process focused on the user experience. way we celebrated our 70th anniversary and the focus we put on employees and having fun together. “With CAE+me, regular feedforward/feedback conversations and coaching foster continuous learning and performance excellence,” “If we’d turned 70 two years ago, we’d likely have marked describes Lisa. “Comments collected from and for employees, the occasion with an email to employees,” smiles Lisa Stedelmanagers and peers fuel reflection and discussions to help employees Smith , Leadership and Organizational Development, Human develop and grow. The focus has shifted to valuable conversations Lisa Stedel-Smith Resources Leader. “Instead, we united as One CAE to mark Leadership and Organizational and sharing of insights versus following a process for the sake of Development, Human Resources Leader the milestone with a year-long celebration that was hugely following a process. Employees and leaders will now connect in onesuccessful and full of activities.” on-one conversations, whether weekly, bi-weekly or monthly, whatever cadence meets their needs. Our approach for setting and adapting professional and personal growth goals has never been so agile.” Sparking a new office vibe Employee feedback also lies at the heart of the engaging new work Walking a new talk environments that are popping up across CAE. A new 26,000-squarefoot workspace in the Montreal head office provides physical evidence Our style of communication is also shifting to a more transparent of the cultural shift underway. Like our other recent office renewal tone, focused on recognizing and celebrating employee strengths and projects, its activity-based workstations, couch lounges and scrum successes. In meetings, leaders now want to know how employees are stand-up meeting tables promote collaboration, teamwork and doing, not just what is happening with the business. A new diversity efficiency. More flexible working-from-home guidelines give employees and inclusion program is being developed to help ensure every even more options. member of our global workforce is respected and celebrated. And that’s not the only way the office vibe is changing at CAE. Employee We’re more adamant than ever about taking the time to acknowledge feedback sparked a complete re-engineering of our performance employee dedication and contribution. That’s the purpose behind management system as well as the launch of our new real-time CAEchampions, an online portal featuring tens of thousands of peer engagement tool. It helps us create a great workplace by keeping our testimonials praising colleagues and teams who embody excellence. finger on the pulse of employee engagement year-round. Dan sums up: “All these changes are embedded in everything we do. “Instead of doing mega surveys every two years, we run short, fun People can see and feel what we’re aspiring to become and that we’re pulse surveys every two weeks,” says Dan. “These frequent fiveactually going to get there. That’s very exciting. The momentum of minute surveys provide immediate insight into a team’s dynamics and these changes is unstoppable. There’s no going back and there’s no mindset. We capture the ebb and flow in employee sentiment and limit to what we can achieve.” facilitate open and ongoing dialogue about what’s working and what’s not.” 31 Corporate social responsibility Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR message Corporate social responsibility CSR message Raising the bar in CSR We took crucial and significant steps in fiscal 2018 to lay the groundwork for amplifying our impact and improving our performance in corporate social responsibility (CSR). From sharpening our materiality matrix by engaging with external and internal stakeholders, to revamping our roadmap and empowering our CSR Committee to raise the bar, we’re taking our commitment in CSR to the next level. Taking the next big step reflects employees’ increased CSR engagement—participated in the survey. Everyone ranked these 30 topics from most to In fiscal 2015, we put CSR soundly on the map at CAE. Since least important to them as well as to CAE’s strategy. then, our company has grown in maturity, engagement and energy around CSR initiatives. We’ve accomplished most of Together with the consultants, the CSR Committee spent the what we set out to achieve back then. Today we view CSR as next few months analyzing the survey’s findings and refining both a business imperative and enabler. When we took stock our materiality matrix. of our CSR journey in fiscal 2018, it became clear that we were ready to take the next big step. Today our new materiality matrix gives us greater confidence that we’re investing in the CSR initiatives that matter most to Taking this step compelled us to look further up the ‘CSR tree’ CAE and its external and internal stakeholders. to seize higher hanging fruit. To set and pursue evermore challenging goals and objectives. It was, in many ways, a natural step because CAE’s purpose is already firmly rooted Revamping our CSR pillars and roadmap in the principles of CSR. Our purpose captures how we make Equipped with this new matrix, the next step was to revisit our a difference in the world by generating economic, social and CSR pillars and roadmap. This important exercise helped us environmental benefits. It also helps us bring our vision to life. reorganize our CSR pillars to sharpen our focus in the following areas: Ethics and integrity, People and safety, Innovation and Validating our materiality matrix externally customer experience, and Community and environment. We invested to reevaluate and validate our materiality matrix With these new pillars in hand, we brought in our business Hélène V. Gagnon with both external and internal stakeholders. Working with CSR units and functions to lay out a new five-year strategic roadmap Vice President, Public Affairs and consultants, we developed an online survey composed of 30 for enhancing our impact and performance across these four Global Communications and material CSR topics. In addition to 50 external stakeholders that pillars. You’ll find our new pillars and their associated goals and Leader of the CSR Committee included investors, customers, partners and non-profit groups, objectives outlined in this report. 1,440 internal stakeholders—a very impressive turnout that 33 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR governance and oversight Strengthening our CSR Committee The last key driver for taking our CSR commitment to the next level entailed We’re proud to have invested in putting these important pieces in place. And we’re strengthening our CSR Committee. While already engaged and active, we knew the fully engaged in ensuring the next phase of our CSR journey helps make our world committee could benefit from greater gender diversity and broader geographic an even safer, cleaner and better place for all. representation. As a result, our new CSR Committee grew from 18 to 23 members and from 5 to 11 women with representation from all functions and business units. CSR governance and oversight Our CSR Committee Customer engagement and satisfaction Product quality and services • Includes members from all functions and business units • Includes three members of our Executive Management Committee Employee engagement Health and Importance for internal stakeholders • Interacts with our various stakeholders (investors, employees, Customer and end-user safety customers, suppliers, aviation regulators, governments, local safety for products and services Leadership to improve communities and universities) Talent retention aviation and healthcare and attraction sector practices • Oversees our four new core CSR priorities Training and Compliance development Ethical business The CSR Committee meets quarterly to review progress and, through conduct Human rights the CSR Committee Chair, reports performance quarterly to the Data privacy and security Executive Management Committee and periodically to the Board of Directors. The Chief Compliance Officer provides monthly compliance Corporate governance and disclosure reports to the Executive Management Committee and quarterly reports Financial participation to the Board. with governments Diversity and inclusion Dues and taxes to governments Materiality matrix Energy and climate change In fiscal 2018, we revisited our materiality matrix following Environmental management consultations with internal and external stakeholders to focus our Contribution to local economy efforts on the issues that matter most. Atmospheric emissions Low Medium High Importance for external stakeholders Community and environment Ethics and integrity Innovation and customer experience People and safety 34 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Corporate social responsibility Our objectives People and safety Be an aviation safety model for the industry in our flight operations • Increase the number of • Perform one or more external, voluntary safety reports by live flight safety reviews 10% annually annually • Reduce the number of incidents with serious injury or material damage by 10% annually Achieve world-class performance in occupational health & safety • Reduce our Injury Frequency • Include H&S as a key indicator Rate (IFR) and our Days Lost in the governance process for Rate (DLR) by 5% annually all our business units • Develop interdependence • Continue investing in our Global behaviours to increase our Near Health & Safety Management Miss Reporting Rate (NMRR) by System to achieve our zero5% annually injury vision Attract and retain the most talented and engaged people around the world • Craft and implement tailored • Continue to maintain and development plans to support create co-op and internship the growth of our people opportunities in Canada every year, including Work-Integrated • Move or promote 20% of Learning (WIL) activities identified high-potential (seminars, industry-led classes, employees to new roles industrial visits, hackathons annually on industrial challenges, Why it matters mentoring, etc.) At CAE, our purpose is all about ensuring the safety and well-being of our stakeholders and Increase diversity and inclusion throughout our workforce our industry. It’s about putting people first. As our company shifts from a product to a training service focus, attracting, developing and retaining the best talent is more crucial to fulfilling • By FY22, ensure 30% of our • Establish a Diversity Council our mission than ever. So is cultivating the highest levels of employee engagement. Board members are women made up of members of CAE’s leadership team • By FY23, improve our gender We’re committed to ensuring that flying stays one of the world’s safest mode of transportation diversity by increasing the • By the end of FY19, benchmark by advancing the highest standards of aviation safety, from the ground up into the skies. number of female employees by current best practices and at least 10% establish targets to increase the recruitment and placement of • By FY23, increase the number Our goal female leaders of high-potential employees in key roles by 20%, with 30% of Be a global employer of choice and a world-class leader in safety. newly identified high-potential employees being women 35 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Aviation safety Aviation safety has always been at the centre of CAE’s fabric. Making the skies safe is rooted in everything we do, from the design of our training products, simulators and computerbased courseware, to the delivery of our training services on the ground and in the air. Over four billion people fly annually on commercial aircraft, a number that continues to rise. Every year through our Civil Aviation and Defence & Security business units, we train more than 120,000 pilots and crewmembers around the world to fly safer, both in airborne aircraft as well as on the ground in flight simulators. We also train aircraft mechanics, flight attendants and managers on the skills they need to keep aircraft flying safely in our skies. Advancing aviation safety Better training to improve safety outcomes Flying is one of the world’s safest modes of transportation. At CAE, we’re committed to At CAE, we’re developing training tools to increase aviation safety performance. We’re ensuring that it stays that way by advancing the highest standards of aviation safety, at the forefront of the following advanced training approaches: from the ground up into the skies. • Evidence-Based Training (EBT) – Training based on evidence from incidents, Our impact on aviation safety is twofold. Firstly, we’re committed to serving as an accidents and undesired aircraft states using data from virtually any resource exemplary safety organization in terms of our own flight operations. Secondly, we but with a primary focus on flight operations supported by training data provide our clients with best-in-class products and services that help ensure the • Training and Operational Management System – Providing diverse means safety of the aviation community at large. to manage and scientifically mitigate safety, regulatory, competency and The following four Safety Management System pillars lie at the heart of our product operational lapses and service development strategy: Committed to continuous improvement • Safety Policy – Clearly defined policies, procedures and organizational structure Our Aviation Safety Program is continuously evolving. In fiscal 2018, we launched an • A “Just Culture” of Safety Risk Management – Formal risk assessment, risk aviation safety program for our Defence & Security business unit. The program seeks identification, blame-free root cause analysis and system monitoring to address the unique challenges of defence force training and of our growing live aviation training activities with defence forces worldwide. • Regulatory Compliance – Meeting or exceeding industry regulations and best practices in partnership with our quality assurance team to continuously The heads of our Civil and Defence aviation safety programs work closely together to improve our products, services and processes share best practices as well as lessons learned. We also partner with clients, regional • Safety Promotion and Education – Continuous communication and education regulators and the industry to help evolve safety in aviation training by identifying, of our stakeholders in terms of our safety-focused values and practices sharing and employing the latest best practices.Ximpore, consedisi Despite these extensive measures, accidents sadly still occur on the very rare occasion. On April 26, 2017, our CAE family was shaken by a fatal crash in Gondia, India, in which one of our flight instructors and one of his students lost their life. The cause of this tragic accident is still under investigation. 36 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Creating a solid foundation in H&S FY2018 highlights To achieve our vision of world-class H&S performance and zero injuries, we’re guided by our: Congratulations to our employees worldwide for reducing our Injury Frequency Rate by 29% and our Days Lost Rate by 52% for the fourth consecutive year. Compared to fiscal 2017, our Near Miss Events Reported increased by 34%. Global Health and Four strategic 2015 Safety Policy H&S pillars 2016 2017 Safety Global Management System H&S team 2018 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 Near Miss Rate (NMR) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Days Lost Rate (DLR) Incident Frequency Rate (IFR) Five-year strategic 10 critical H&S plan H&S standards Per 200,000 hours worked 37 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Fostering world-class H&S performance Mandatory near miss training In fiscal 2018, we developed a near miss training program to raise employee awareness of and accountability for reporting all near misses. Rollout of the mandatory companywide training began in early fiscal 2019. We also produced a series of powerful videos featuring testimonials of employees involved in accidents or near misses and the steps subsequently taken to prevent these Walking the H&S talk Exchanging best practices incidents from recurring. To help ensure a companywide At our second annual Global Health Watch the video commitment to H&S excellence, all site and Safety, Environment meeting, leaders are expected to do a quarterly more than 60 participants from across tour of their sites and encourage our operations gathered in Montreal everyone to walk the H&S talk. In fiscal to exchange lessons learned and best 2018, 88% of our 160 site leaders fulfilled practices in H&S, the environment, safety this expectation. management, security and aviation safety. An improved global H&S Other channels dedicated to sharing team structure best practices include regular conference calls, our H&S recognition To better coach and support our sites awards and our Learn From Incident and operations, we created regional H&S (LFI) communications and action Slip/trip/fall campaign H&S at Global Family Day business partners with each individual plans. Our annual celebration of World overseeing one of the following regions: Day for Safety and Health at Work Also in the spirit of incident prevention, As part of our 70 th anniversary America, Europe/Middle East and Asia/ provides another opportunity for sites we rolled out a global slip/trip/fall celebrations, health and safety matters Pacific/India. We also added a new team to communicate their best and good campaign to address the increasing were front and centre at our Global member to focus solely on our U.S. practices. number of people falling in the stairs Family Day across our 160 sites. operations. across CAE sites. 38 BERING SEA SEA OF OKHOTSK Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN Recognizing H&S excellence PHILIPPINE OF Every SEA year, our H&S recognition program strengthens our Safety First culture by highlighting and celebrating significant H&S contributions in four categories: GAL SOUTH CHINA business division, site, project and individual. SEA Congratulations to the following fiscal 2018 winners: CORAL SEA GREAT AUSTRALIAN BIGHT TASMAN SEA Business Division Site Project Individual D&S Australian region Burgess Hill, U.K. JRA/PPE cart, Minneapolis, U.S. Clément Léonard Team Leader Hardware Installation In Australia, our Defence & Security Our CAE London Burgess Hill training This team had the brilliant idea to H&S committee and team led the way centre’s innovative actions helped put create a portable safety station. The cart Clément is actively involved in improving in taking health and safety to the next health and safety front and centre for features all job risk assessments (JRAs), health and safety measures at both the level by effectively sharing and deploying employees. Among the initiatives, they log-out tag-out (LOTO) procedures and preventative and corrective stages. He our global H&S standards in each site. installed cameras under simulators to personal protective equipment (PPE) finds creative and effective solutions to Effective communication enabled them ensure the safety of the perimeter. They needed to work on a simulator. Useful H&S challenges. Most recently, he helped to efficiently assess and share best also conducted numerous governance and well-received by the site’s technical develop a rigging Standard Operating practices across the regional network. and training sessions to help prevent team, the cart can be wheeled to any Procedure for customers, standardize They also helped the region achieve accidents. location to help employees perform our installations and raise employees' some significant business objectives. tasks safely. H&S awareness. Congratulations to Technical Services Congratulations to Roche Larino and Manager Franco Petrazzuolo and his Congratulations to Harry Jenkins and Well done and thank you Clément! her team for their commitment and team! Scott Nerpel! accomplishments! 39 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Our people Hats off to our employees In the late 1940s, CAE consisted of 18 employees repairing and installing Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) radio equipment from a vacant aircraft hangar in St. Hubert, Canada. Today our 8,500-plus employees work across 160 sites in more than 35 countries delivering sophisticated integrated training solutions. Evolving our culture CAEchampions recognition program Their expertise and passion for excellence fuel our global success as the training partner of choice in civil In 2015, we embarked on a culture evolution journey CAEchampions, our global employee recognition aviation, defence and security, and healthcare. to align with our new vision and strategy. As we pivot program, is now in its second year. It enables us to from being product oriented to a service provider, reward employees for their years of service while we’re taking steps to foster a culture that’s more open, building a culture of peer-to-peer recognition. This Thousands of stories. One CAE. progressive and people centric; agile, transparent and peer-to-peer recognition has quickly become a habit for responsive. hundreds of CAE employees. e-Bravos, an online tool We celebrated our 70th anniversary with our employees that lets employees congratulate and celebrate each throughout the year. We created a network of 160 Our executive management team is actively involved in other for their contributions in real time, is proving to ambassadors and site leaders to engage employees driving our organization forward on this journey. And in be an effective tool for promoting an engaged and highworldwide in fun and creative activities to mark this fiscal 2018, we provided close to 4,900 hours of training performance culture. important milestone. Our 70th anniversary campaign worldwide to support this journey. theme of “Thousands of stories. One CAE.” rallied In fiscal 2018: people around sharing their stories to showcase both Learn more about our culture evolution in our the diversity and unity of the CAE family. Employees feature story. were at the centre of the celebrations. Improving employee engagement Developing talent at CAE 15,143 As part of our culture evolution, we redesigned our e-Bravos In the fall of 2017, we launched a simple and fun fiveperformance management process and tools to sent by employees minute employee engagement pulse survey that runs strengthen our ability to develop and retain talent, today every two weeks. The survey allows employees to and tomorrow. We used an agile approach involving a express themselves and gives leaders real-time valuable team of about 40 employees from all business units, insight into their team’s mindset at any given point. It regions and levels. Working together as One CAE, they also catalyzes more open discussions between leaders, designed a new talent development process focused on 1,191 employees and teams and, where needed, helps them the user experience. work together to address areas requiring improvement. In fiscal 2018, we deployed the first three of five Leaders are able to spot trends over time and focus elements in this process: Continuous Feedback & Service awards bestowed for their efforts accordingly. They’re also encouraged to Coaching, User-friendly Tools, and Differentiation & ≥ five years of service share findings and learn from each other to collectively Rewards. The last two elements, Agile Goal Setting and focus on fostering an excellent employee experience at Measuring Our Success, will follow in fiscal 2019. We work. also provided over 4,500 hours of training for leaders to support this new approach. 40 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Women in Aviation International (WAI) events Women in Aviation International (WAI) events bring young girls into contact with professional female pilots and various types of aircraft. We support the annual WAI event in Lachute, Quebec. We also help sponsor The Sky’s No Limit Girls Fly Too! event in Abbotsford, British Columbia. It enables girls and young women to discover the amazing opportunities available to them in aviation, aerospace, marine & defence and other fields related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Initiatives for talent recruitment Over the past five years, our employees have helped develop Canada’s next generation of talent and Encouraging diversity and inclusion Creating an activity-based work expertise by working side by side with over 1,200 co-op environment students. Diversity and inclusion is an integral part of our overarching value One CAE. In fiscal 2018, we began In fiscal 2018, we continued to deploy our modern and The benefits to both CAE and the students are developing a multi-year diversity and inclusion initiative engaging new workspaces in many locations across the significant. Our employees also actively mentor high focused on culture and talent. Our short-term goals are world. Feedback from employees working in our pilot school students interested in engineering and science to foster an inclusive, gender diverse environment, free project workspace created in 2016 helped us learn and through diverse programs and competitions. of bias, and to develop our female leaders and increase integrate their recommendations into the deployment their numbers. To support CAE’s growth in fiscal 2018, we leveraged of follow-on workspaces. several tools and events to tap into our global pool of Our diversity and inclusion program will seek to: These bright, functional work environments include external candidates. private spaces, scrum areas for daily meetings, coffee • Foster a culture and environment where diversity corners, lounges and team work areas. Our objectives is valued and leveraged are to increase innovation, collaboration and employee • Recruit a gender diverse pool of talent (at all satisfaction by allowing each employee to choose the levels) best work environment for the task at hand. • Develop and retain a talented, dedicated pool of female leaders • Increase gender diversity in senior and managerial positions • Build diversity and inclusion awareness and educate employees • Ensure an inclusive approach in our policies and practices 41 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Corporate social responsibility Ethics and integrity Our objectives Instill and apply an ethics and integrity mindset to all actions and decisions • Ensure CAE lives and works by • Continue to train all its five core values management and key personnel on the CAE Code of Business • By FY19, target 100% Conduct, and by FY21 extend of acknowledgement of the training to all employees compliance with the CAE Code of Business Conduct by all employees Conduct our business with world-class processes to meet and surpass data privacy and export control standards • Standardize data handling • Standardize export control processes in all regions training processes in all regions worldwide to help continually worldwide enhance our compliance processes and maintain stateof-the-art security and controls of controlled data Manage our supply chain in accordance with the highest ethics and sustainability standards • Establish and communicate • Evaluate major suppliers a policy on responsible representing 50% of our annual procurement to suppliers and spend on CSR compliance Why it matters employees Adhering to the highest ethical standards is essential to building stakeholder trust, goodwill and value in today’s world. We expect our employees and business partners to consistently meet these high standards. Our goal Strive to reach the highest integrity and ethical conduct standards across all our activities. 42 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Improving business integrity and ethics Protecting customer and employee data governance The privacy of our customers, employees and business Bribery and corruption are risks faced by virtually all contacts is of the utmost importance. We’re committed to organizations operating globally. Over the past five years, respecting their privacy by handling personal information we’ve taken several significant measures to address these with the necessary level of sensitivity and confidentiality risks and strengthen our compliance program. in compliance with all laws and regulations. Under the leadership of our General Counsel, Chief Compliance Under the leadership of our General Counsel, Chief Officer and Corporate Secretary, we adapted our business Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary, in fiscal 2018 processes and activities to comply with the EU’s new we continued to take pivotal steps to better manage the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). risks posed by foreign representatives. We terminated or didn't renew a number of agreements with foreign Also in fiscal 2018, we created a team of 11 data protection representatives as we expanded our local presence officers. And, as part of our annual training, employees around the globe. Since 2014, we've reduced the number receive regular training on handling personal information. of foreign representatives we use by over 40%. Channelling We also continue to have strong controls to ensure our efforts toward growing our worldwide sales force has, protection of intellectual property and the exportation and in turn, decreased our need for third-party intermediaries. importation of commodities, services and technical data. For fiscal 2019 and beyond, our goal is to continue to reduce the number of third-party representatives we Under the leadership of our Chief Information Officer use. We carefully monitor our foreign representatives (CIO), we aligned our IT policies framework with the U.S.’s activities, conduct detailed due diligence prior to engaging National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or renewing their agreements, and require that they sign 800-053 and 800-171. To further enhance our protection Reinforcing our Code of Business an anti-corruption certification every year. against data security breaches, we continue to invest in the deployment of cyber security controls to comply with Conduct In fiscal 2018, we delivered live training sessions on CAE’s aerospace and defence industry standards. In fiscal 2016, we launched a five-year process Anti-Corruption Policy to the sales, business development, marketing, finance, procurement, program management Every year, all employees participate in mandatory IT to enhance our Code of Business Conduct, and human resources functions across all CAE divisions. security awareness training. We recently strengthened underscoring our commitment to address We improved our Corporate Policies and Procedures this training program to further enhance employees’ major business ethics risks. This included with our new branding and advertising guidelines, and knowledge of cyber risks and information protection integrating our CSR core priorities into the updated our Social Media and Employee Communications measures. We also regularly assess our IT security controls. Code and training our managers on the Policy, our Human Rights Policy and our Donations and Our CIO reports IT security incidents to the Executive Code. Starting in fiscal 2019, all employees Sponsorships Policy. We also created a new Lobbying and Committee and the Board's Audit Committee. He also worldwide are required to read, acknowledge Political Contributions Policy. presents our IT security plan and reports on its progress. and agree to comply with our Code on an annual basis. We also revamped our Code of Business Conduct to make it more succinct We’ll continue to leverage our ongoing compliance review and user friendly. Our new Code of Business to reinforce our governance, risk management and internal Conduct was launched in May 2018. controls. Periodic risk assessments and audits of our areas of risk help us maintain oversight on our practices and Consult the Code of Business Conduct operating guidelines. Our Compliance Office works closely with the internal audit team to perform these audits. The Compliance Office also conducts risk assessments and monitoring on different programs as the need arises. 43 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Global communication and alignment for strategic sourcing In fiscal 2018, the Global Strategic Sourcing team held a seminar to communicate, exchange and align on key initiatives and topics. Representatives from multiple regions were present to discuss and share best practices on topics such as corporate social responsibility, health and safety, and the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Participants identified opportunities for synergies within procurement processes and supplier performance management. Green procurement Suppliers are requested to provide information and appropriate documentation indicating their alignment with our environmental principles. Their responses regarding involvement in environmental initiatives and sustainability strategies are integrated into our approach to green procurement within the supply chain. Export control processes In fiscal 2018, we completely reclassified our digital databank, Responsible supply chain management including 900,000 hardware parts and 700,000 pieces of technical data, to strengthen our export control processes. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we demonstrate We also launched our new digital library which is now fully our commitment to upholding its principles, in part, functional. by taking steps to ensure responsible procurement. We integrate human rights, labour, environment and The new library offers a standardized and robust solution for anti-corruption considerations into our global strategic handling our technical data worldwide. It delivers enhanced sourcing tools and processes. protection throughout the data lifecycle, increased reporting capabilities and standardized business rules for handling An assessment of CAE’s core supply chain validated the technical data. It also minimizes the risk of proliferating and alignment of our strategic suppliers' CSR principles with disclosing technical data to unauthorized parties. those of CAE. Procurement documents such as Request for Proposal, Supplier Survey Report and Purchasing The digital library’s new search capabilities and shorter – General Terms and Conditions include clauses that processing time for approving access are among the new address compliance with laws and ethical business features that improve our export control process efficiency. conduct. Employee health and safety, combatting bribery, prohibiting the use of child or forced labour, hazardous materials, data protection and conflict minerals are among the issues addressed. Social and environmental factors are considered alongside financial factors when making Conflict minerals procurement decisions, and are detailed among the criteria used for supplier selection. We conduct spot verifications on suppliers and their supply chain when necessary. If a verification reveals nonWe continued to communicate our Conflict Minerals Policy to our compliant practices, we suspend all activities with the supplier and demand an immediate action suppliers. Our conflict minerals program, which includes supply chain plan and remediation. If the delinquent supplier implements corrective measures and demonstrates surveys, supports this policy. We suspended or discontinued our compliance with our policy, we then decide whether to resume business with the supplier. We had business relationship with some suppliers who failed to respond to or no reported incidents on supplier practices in fiscal 2018. complete these surveys. We also verify smelters reported in supplier surveys to ensure their participation in the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (formerly the Conflict-Free Smelter Program). 44 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity EthicsPoint: Our third-party anonymous Reporting reporting system Our Chief Compliance Officer provides monthly FY18 highlight EthicsPoint helps us ensure that our local and compliance reports to the Executive Management international business activities meet the highest Committee and quarterly reports to the Board. ethical standards. This website and call centre service provides employees, customers, partners and suppliers with a simple, risk-free way to confidentially EthicsPoint reports 98% of management and of employees report activities that may involve criminal conduct FY18 FY17 or violations of our policies and Code of Business in key functions completed online ISSUES Conduct. Our Whistleblowing Policy protects good-faith training and certification for our whistleblowers from retaliation. Code of Business Conduct CAE property 0 0 We strongly encourage our employees and any party we conduct business with to come forward if they notice misconduct. This enables us to deter non-compliance Computer systems, internet, 0 0 intranet and email and reduce our exposure to unethical behaviour. Confidentiality of company, Most concerns reported in recent years relate to human employee and third-party 0 0 resources issues. We ensure all reports are rapidly United Nations Information and confidentially handled as required by law. Certain violations such as violations to the Code of Business Conduct require disciplinary action which varies depending on the severity of the breach. We make sure Contracts and records 2 1 Global Compact that appropriate incident investigation and corrective actions are taken for all reports. All EthicsPoint inquiries Safety in the workplace 0 1 We became a signatory to the UN are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. Global Compact in fiscal 2016. Since Equal opportunity and then, we’ve aligned key documents In fiscal 2018, the number of whistleblowing reports 10 2 increased year over year as shown in the table on this harassment-free workplace with the UN Global Compact’s page. The most common type of EthicsPoint report Ten Principles and the United relates to equal opportunity and harassment issues Interpretation of the 0 1 Kingdom Modern Slavery Act. We (two in fiscal 2017 and 10 in fiscal 2018). Code of Business Conduct now require vendors to confirm Of the 17 reports received in fiscal 2018, eight were Reporting violations of the 5 1 their commitments to high ethical, determined to be unfounded upon further investigation, two were retracted by the complainant, six were, in the Code of Business Conduct environmental and social standards. end, unrelated to workplace or sexual harassment, and one complaint was resolved amicably between the two Total 17 6 We developed a companywide employees. Human Rights Policy, which was rolled out during fiscal 2018. See all our site certifications 45 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Corporate social responsibility Innovation and customer experience Our objectives Elevate the CAE customer journey with a seamless training experience and delight at every interaction • Implement our digital strategy • Continue to differentiate to enhance our customer our suite of core simulation experience and leverage the products by achieving 95% latest learning technologies or more on our quality and schedule performance metrics • By FY23, provide training to employees on our digital strategy Be a thought leader on the evolution of safety practices in the aviation and healthcare sectors • Continue to invest significant • Partner with a least one amounts in research and important society/regulatory development every year body in new product development • Design and deliver quality and sustainable next-generation • Participate in at least training products and services one research program demonstrating the effectiveness of simulation in healthcare training Why it matters Providing an outstanding customer experience and innovative products and services is key to our competitive advantage. Our strong innovation culture and commitment to best-inclass customer service ensure our industry leadership. They also support our vision to be recognized as the global training partner of choice. Our goal Provide the best products and services in the industry by continually improving the quality, efficiency and safety of our customers’ training experience 46 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience A busy year in customer service Customer service In Civil Aviation, we improved our 24/7 emergency support system by leveraging our new office in Europe. Using European and North American time zones allows us to expand our daytime coverage and eliminate on-call coverage. Our global Customer Service team supports both our Civil Aviation In May 2017, over 100 participants from around the world attended our highly successful CAE User Conference in Training Solutions and Defence & Montreal. Customers provided us with invaluable feedback on our products and services. We gave them a glimpse of our product roadmaps and strategies to resolve industry challenges, along with a chance to experience our latest Security business units. As these technologies. This year, we showcased technologies from our Civil, Defence & Security and Healthcare business businesses grow, so does our need to units. consistently delight an even greater number of customers around the We also sharpened our focus on providing proactive technical communications. In fiscal 2018, the Customer Service team released over 70 technical notices, helping our customers optimize their operations by benefiting from the world. Empowering, training and full capabilities of our products. recognizing our Customer Service employees is key to managing this And since taking care of our team is key to ensuring the best customer experience, we held weekly employee growth and continuing to deliver relaxation and breathing technique sessions. We also launched a stair-climbing challenge where teams worked hard to climb the maximum levels every week. excellent service. Tracking customer satisfaction Executive compensation is tied, in part, to the customer satisfaction scores generated by our annual customer survey. In fiscal 2018, customers ranked our performance as follows: Civil Aviation Defence & Security Healthcare 2/3 99% 4.8/5 of our satisfaction for net satisfaction customer on-time delivery score satisfaction metrics exceeded 99% satisfaction for product quality 47 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Innovating like start-up entrepreneurs Product excellence and In fiscal 2018, for the final round of our Innovation Challenges, innovation the best ideas were submitted to a panel of executives who had to decide whether the company would invest to take these ideas With over 70 years of breakthrough to the next level. innovations, our R&D has paved the The nine teams came well-prepared and the executives made way for leading-edge flight simulators, several recommendations before giving the thumbs up to training systems integration (TSI) proceed to the next step. The concept, inspired by a similar solutions and high-fidelity patient program for entrepreneurs on TV, was a hit and proved, once again, that innovation is stronger than ever at CAE. simulators. Our partnerships with industry organizations, regulatory Sustainable products and services bodies, suppliers and customers help us remain at the forefront of new safety, CAE is the global leader in the sale of full-flight simulators (FFSs), a climate-friendly product. In fiscal 2018, we sold 50 FFSs. operating efficiency and environmental standards and processes. Our simulators save millions of tonnes of CO2 annually. In our Civil Aviation training network alone, the simulators we operate save over five million metric tonnes of CO2 per year. We estimate this number using the number of training hours spent internally on flight simulators and multiply this by the normal burn rate (at cruise) of equivalent A focus on innovation real aircraft. We lead the industry in introducing disruptive sustainable innovations to meet the highest safety standards required by governments, regulatory authorities and airlines. In 2018, we announced the launch of our At CAE, our technological leadership is newest pilot training innovation, the CAE Rise™ training system, with our longstanding partner AirAsia. It promises underpinned by our strong innovation culture, to take pilot training standardization and evaluations to a whole new level. longstanding commitment to R&D and sustainability mindset. We devote over 7% of our global annual revenue to R&D and consistently Design for safety and environment rank as one of the top 20 Canadian companies in Our Global Engineering department designs our R&D investment. simulator technologies and training materials to improve resource efficiency, eliminate hazardous materials and increase our customers’ energy efficiency. We follow numerous standards throughout our $1.5 products’ lifecycle, from the design and manufacturing stages to the end-of-life phase. As an example, we adhere to the Restriction of Hazardous Substances billion (RoHS) directive for the United Nation’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. invested in R&D over the past 10 years In fiscal 2018, we continued assessing the environmental impact of our simulator product line, including the design and development of the CAE 600XR Series The CAE 600XR Series flight training device (FTD), the latest addition to our flight training device (FTD), the latest addition to our innovative suite of XR Series training solutions. innovative suite of XR Series training solutions. 48 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Using neuroscience and big data to FY2018 Innovation Forum: improve pilot performance Beyond outside the box We joined forces with HEC Montréal's Tech3Lab to study “Don’t just think outside the box; make your box bigger!” how biometrics, neuroscience and big data analysis This is just some of the valuable advice we heard from impact behaviour in a training context and to identify Krisztina “Z” Holly, the keynote speaker at our fiscal Paying tribute to our inventors high-performance factors. Tech3Lab is one of North 2018 Innovation Forum. This annual event gathers 40 America’s leading user experience research labs. of our most innovative employees from the Engineering We operate in an industry where securing Technical Career Track. intellectual property (IP) is vital to protecting Our partnership on this project will significantly advance our innovations in an increasingly competitive research on aircraft pilots’ user experience in flight This year, we had the widest representation ever at market. simulators. The partnership was made possible through the forum, including employees from Canada, the U.S., the Institute for Data Valorization (IVADO). the U.K., Germany, Hungary and Australia. During two As of today, we hold 93 patents and 186 patent busy days, employees listened to Marc St-Hilaire, our applications thanks to our creative employees As one of IVADO’s founding members, we take pride Vice President, Technology & Innovation, discuss our and the teams that support them. In fiscal 2018, in helping provide its 900 affiliated scientists with a technology strategy and met the Civil and Defence & we were granted 51 new patents derived from multidisciplinary institute for developing processes Security Product Management teams. They also learned our R&D activities of previous fiscal years. We also to extract trends, metrics and concrete information how to leverage university relationships to further R&D filed 20 new patent applications and rewarded from big data. Experts from IVADO’s talent pool and as well as how they can contribute to CAE’s growing their inventors through our Eureka Program. Tech3Lab will work alongside our subject matter patent portfolio. experts on research projects related to safety, security In fiscal 2018, we contributed to several and efficiency, using data sciences. roundtables with government, industry and other members of the IP community to provide recommendations for the new Canadian IP Strategy. We also partnered with specialized firms and participated in conferences aimed at educating and creating knowledge and awareness around topics related to IP value and protection. We co-wrote and published an article on IP value and protection in the Licensing Journal. 49 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Corporate social responsibility Community and environment Our objectives Reduce our environmental footprint across our operations • By year-end FY19, implement at • By FY22, source 75% of the least one paperless initiative in electricity consumption of each of our sites our European sites through renewable energy* • By FY21, conduct or update energy and waste audits* • By FY23, install LED or energy efficient lights* Support the communities where we operate through our global community investment program Canada Worldwide • In FY19, launch a Canadian • Better promote the CAE scholarship program to cover scholarships offered globally technicians, people wanting to • By FY21, spend at least 40% of become pilots, and students our donations and sponsorships willing to be ambassadors budget on education to promote Work Integrated Learning in Canadian aerospace • By FY23, develop a volunteering companies program for our employees • By FY21, launch a diversity scholarship program to allow women, Indigenous Peoples, Why it matters persons with disabilities and visible minority individuals to We know that we can only be successful if the communities and economies in which we complete their studies and operate are thriving and prosperous. Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations better access positions with a helps protect natural resources, improve employee and community quality of life, and greater representation gap preserve our license to operate. Our training solutions contribute to this wellbeing by • By FY23, collaborate with over increasing aviation safety, strengthening public security and improving patient outcomes. 50 post-secondary institutions and research centres Our goal Create a positive and sustainable impact in our communities and our environment. * At all CAE sites where we have operational control of the building or control on energy sourcing 50 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment A neighbour of choice Investing in local communities and their economies is key to building a reputation for being a neighbour of choice everywhere we operate. It also helps strengthen employee engagement across CAE. In fiscal 2018, our employees made a difference in several ways around the world. Riding to Hurricane relief Flooding FIRST Robotics: conquer cancer effort in the U.S. in Quebec Mentoring youth Student societies Post-secondary Our award-winning and engineering and scholarships Centraide campaign commerce competitions 51 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Engaging with stakeholders Donations and sponsorships in FY2018 We proactively engage with a diverse range of stakeholders on a broad number of issues. This engagement takes the form of In fiscal 2018, we donated a total of $13.5 million (cash and in-kind) to local and regional initiatives worldwide. conferences, sectorial and cross-sectorial initiatives, partnerships with government and educational institutions as well as direct FY18 cash donations dialogue with various community groups. Communities $491,373 Innovation, research $577,398 Contributing to fundamental and applied research and development organizations Environmental initiatives $1,000 Over the past eight years, we’ve contributed talent and more than $9 million to Arts and culture $36,671 collaborative projects with universities and research institutes. Projects range from basic research to product, process and service commercialization. Health $341,505 Examples include: Education $442,018 $186,344 • Founding member of IVADO (Institute for Data Valorization) Civil Aviation • Operational Research Chair at École Polytechnique de Montréal Defence & Security $185,848 Trade, industry associations • Healthcare partnership with Université de Montréal and events $123,145 $0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000 Women in Engineering Chair Kids Code Jeunesse (KCJ) at University of Ottawa We’re committed to STEM learning in We continue to advocate for more Canada through community outreach. women in engineering through In 2017, we continued to support KCJ Supporting local economies professional networking, training and thanks to employee volunteers who dedicate their time to provide coding Through our presence in more than 35 countries around the world, we’re employment at CAE and across the workshops in elementary schools. helping create economic growth by delivering goods to our customers, jobs for industry. We also participate in various STEM our employees, payments to our suppliers, investments in communities and We’re donating $20,000 annually for education classes and scientific literacy value to our investors. Here’s a snapshot of how we supported local economies a period of three years, for a total of training for children as well as introduce in fiscal 2018. $60,000 toward establishing a fund for children to existing and emerging the promotion and advancement of girls technologies as a way to open the door FY18 revenues $2,830.0 and women in science and engineering to the possibility of a career in STEM. Total operating costs $2,369.0 at the University of Ottawa’s engineering faculty. The fund will finance activities Salaries and other short-term employment $908.2 and initiatives that encourage girls Corporate income taxes paid $36.4 to consider studies and careers in Community investment and charitable donations $2.3 engineering and provide them with positive female role models. In-kind donations $11.2 Amounts in millions 52 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Shrinking our environmental footprint Monitoring our environmental performance Reporting Our global presence spans 160 sites and training In fiscal 2018, we met our electricity and waste reduction targets for the locations in over 35 countries. Our Environmental Policy second consecutive year. We reduced both our electricity consumption Environmental performance and ISO-14001-inspired Environmental Management and our non-hazardous waste disposal by more than 1%. reports are presented to the Board System (EMS) guide us in managing our environmental of Directors on a quarterly basis. impact across these sites and locations. An increase in Our very own KWh busters! Every site manager is responsible inter-site communication and best-practice sharing is for tracking performance against helping accelerate improvements in our environmental The KWh Busters from Global Real Estate environmental targets as well performance. are determined to equip all our sites with as for compliance with local 100% energy-saving LED lighting. They’re environmental regulations and Here’s a summary of our top five environmental well on their way to achieving this goal requirements. achievements in fiscal 2018, in line with our objectives: and, in fiscal 2018, played a key role in enabling us to achieve our 1% energy • For the third consecutive year, we celebrated reduction target. Training our leaders on Earth Day across our sites with a focus this year on sharing water conservation initiatives and best environmental issues The KWh Busters also joined forces with Global Environment to identify practices. ways to reduce energy consumption when designing new facilities or All company executives, group • At sites where we have operational control over improving existing ones. With the assistance of our environmental leaders and environmental non-hazardous waste and energy, we reduced officers and local management, their efforts allowed us to save about officers must participate in our: $700,000 in energy costs in fiscal 2018 alone. our corporate environmental • Global electricity consumption by more awareness program. The program than 1% Madrid’s paperless initiative and Green Pledge win explains the basic elements of good environmental management • Non-hazardous waste disposal by more In Spain, our Madrid training centre has than 1% principles, the environmental a number of environmental initiatives responsibilities of all employees • We held our second annual Global Environment, underway. One of the centre’s goals is to and the actions to be taken in Health and Safety meeting in Montreal. be as paperless as possible. Some of the the event of an environmental • We issued three “Best Practices Guides” for employee initiatives to help achieve this emergency. Environmental training managing energy, waste and water to help sites goal include: programs are also developed improve their environmental footprint and meet on an ad-hoc basis and made corporate targets. • Having 90% of suppliers • Setting printer/copier available to all employees through send their invoices by email default to double-sided our intranet. • We implemented carpooling at our Montreal printing headquarters, an environmental initiative • Switching to paperless bill submitted as part of our Innovation Challenges payment • Replacing faxes with an app campaign, and continue to seek sustainable that converts incoming faxes • Switching to paperless bank commuting opportunities. to PDFs and emails or files statements (except when them for the user paper documents required for storage by legislation) • Reducing the physical space used to store documents • Sharing documents and videos onscreen at meetings and presentations to avoid print handouts 53 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Growing employee engagement Across CAE, we're increasingly sharing best practices and initiatives that cover all our environmental aspects, including energy efficiency and waste reduction. Enviro-News, our global internal environmental newsletter, is sent monthly and provides Family Day Every day is Earth Day! #CAEmoments updates on best practices and initiatives taking place across the During Family Day in Montreal, we In keeping with the environmental On April 19, 2018, we combined Earth company. This communication presented our global environmental initiatives it established on Earth Day, Day with our new monthly initiative tool enables us to share corrective initiatives to employees and their our Seoul site decided to go the extra CAEmoments, inspiring employees from actions and stimulate continuous families. We also held a contest to get mile by installing a wall of plants in its around the world to share pictures of improvement. Regular quarterly people to guess the weight of a bag full lobby with the slogan “Every day is Earth their environmental actions both at work conference calls with the sites also of recycled products. Day.” and home. help us learn from each other. Environmental protection Carpooling: Are you on board? Promoting solar energy To improve its waste disposal, our Sao To support our new carpooling initiative, we launched an advertising campaign “Are Whenever possible, we encourage the Paulo site (Guarulhos) built a recycling you on board?” to help Montreal employees carpool together. To date, more than 450 use of energy-saving equipment and station to collect and recycle electronic employees have registered for carpooling. Other existing initiatives, such as electric processes. We're also using solar panels components, paper, oily rags, lights and vehicle charging stations, reserved parking spaces for carpoolers, financial support in our Dubai (United Arab Emirates) site. bulbs. to offset public transit costs and our Bike-to-Work club, are also helping employees find more environmentally friendly ways to commute to work. 54 Appendix Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications Site certifications ISO 9001:2015 Quality management systems – Requirements CAE Montreal Headquarters CAE Cold Lake CAE Mirabel CAE Military Aviation Training 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 4 Wing Cold Lake, P.O. Box 4999, Station 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Quebec, NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Canada, H4T 1G6 Forces, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, T9M 2C2 Canada, J7N 1H3 Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, Scope: Design, manufacture, service and Scope: Maintain and service flight training Scope: Provide capacity-service support for Canada, S0H 0N0 maintenance of simulation products and devices; provide supply support and the entire system lifecycle including systems training solutions. provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ engineering and software and integrated Scope: Provide ground school training, aircraft software support; provide data and records logistic support. maintenance repair and overhaul, engineering 400 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, management. support and technical management activities. Quebec, Canada, H4T 1N8 CAE Trenton NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Scope: Storage, handling and warehousing. CAE Greenwood 426 Squadron, 20 Buffalo Avenue, 8 Wing Building H10, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, 404 Squadron, Building 250, 14 Wing Trenton, Astra, Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 105 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, T9M 2C5 Greenwood, Greenwood, Nova Scotia, Quebec, Canada, H4T 1S6 Scope: Maintain and service flight training Canada, B0P 1N0 Scope: Provide egress training and aircraft devices; provide supply support and Scope: Assembly and test of simulation maintenance. Scope: Maintain and service flight training provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ products. Storage, handling and warehousing. devices; provide supply support and software support; provide data and records CAE India Private Limited CAE Ottawa provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ management. 1st Floor, Survey No. 26 & 27, 350 Legget Drive, 2nd floor, Ottawa, Ontario, software support; provide data and records 46 Yukon Avenue, 8 Wing Trenton, Astra, Bandaramanahalli Village, Uganavadi Post, Canada, K2K 2W7 management. Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 562 110, Scope: Provide software development, systems Karnataka, India CAE Gagetown Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators, engineering, system integration, ISS, operational 403 Squadron, Building L24, 403 Squadron, aircraft maintenance training devices and Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, systems, enterprise training and consulting CFB Gagetown, Oromocto, New Brunswick, associated training equipment; provide onsite manufacturing, integration, installation, services for the entire system lifecycle, including Canada, E2V 4J5 hardware/software support; manage spares commissioning, maintenance and support of integrated logistics support. This also includes and inventory; coordinate and schedule simulators and engineering systems solutions Scope: Maintain and service flight training aircrew training (including computer-based training time; provide aircrew training services; for aerospace, defence and power sectors. devices; provide supply support and training), egress training, aircraft maintenance develop and maintain courseware and training provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ repair and overhaul, aircraft engineering documentation; provide data and records CAE USA – Tampa software support; provide data and records support and technical management, Training management. 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, Florida, management. Centre Operations, and simulation products USA, 33634 maintenance for defence, aerospace, healthcare CAE Petawawa CAE Halifax Scope: Provide design, integration, testing and and public safety applications. 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron, Building 36 Solutions Drive, Suite 200, Halifax, Nova installation of simulation devices for military CC12C8, 450 Mattawa Trail, Garrison Scotia, Canada, B3S 1N2 training. CAE Moose Jaw Petawawa, Petawawa, Ontario, Canada, K8H 15 Wing Moose Jaw, P.O. Box 30, Bushell Scope: Provide software development, 2X3 5411B Pioneer Park Drive, Tampa, Florida, Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, S0H 0N0 systems engineering, systems integration, USA, 33634 Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators in-service support, operational systems, Scope: Maintain and service flight training and associated training equipment; provide Scope: Provide assembly and testing. enterprise training and consulting services for devices; provide supply support and onsite hardware/software support; manage defence, aerospace, public safety and security CAE USA – Orlando provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ spares and inventory; coordinate and schedule applications. 2603 Discovery Drive, Orlando, Florida, USA, software support; provide data and records training time; provide aircrew training services; management. develop and maintain courseware and training 32836 documentation; provide data and records Scope: Provide assembly and testing. management. 56 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CAE USA – Sherwood 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility Building 868, 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Base AS9100C Quality 2402 Wildwood Avenue, Suite 501, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia Sherwood, Arkansas, USA management systems Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, maintenance support for simulation training maintenance support for simulation training Requirements for aviation, implementation and evaluation of integrated devices; provide training services using devices. space and defence training solutions. simulation training devices. organizations CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 CAE USA – Altus Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia CAE Montreal – Headquarters 203 North 6th Street, Building 179, Room 154, Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, Altus, Oklahoma, USA, 73523 Scope: Provide systems engineering and Auckland, 0618, New Zealand 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, maintenance support for simulation training Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide systems engineering and devices; provide training services using Scope: Provide design (hardware and installation, maintenance and training. maintenance support for simulation training simulation training devices. software), manufacture, repair and overhaul devices. CAE Australia Pty Ltd Level 15, 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD of the Magnetic Anomaly Detection (MAD)/ 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, AIMS equipment. Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold 4000, Australia Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering, training Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide maintenance support for services and project management for maintenance support for simulation training CMMI-DEV V1.3 Capability simulation training devices. simulation training devices; develop growth opportunities within the business. devices. Maturity Model Integration Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, NSW 2541, Australia Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF CAE Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (CMMI) for Development, Scope: Provide maintenance support for Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD Lot PT25B, Jalan S5, Southern Support Zone, Version 1.3 4810, Australia KLIA, 64000, Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia simulation training devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide training for commercial pilots, CAE Montreal – Headquarters simulation training devices. cabin crew, ramp, guest services and aircraft 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival maintenance. Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield Australia Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and CAE Germany – Stolberg Security. Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222-D maintenance support for simulation training maintenance support for simulation training Stolberg, Germany CAE Mirabel devices; provide training services using devices; provide training services using 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Scope: Provide operation, development, simulation training devices. simulation training devices. Quebec, Canada, J7N 1H3 manufacturing, technical and logistic Unit 40, Slough Avenue, Silverwater, NSW RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, support for training equipment and synthetic Scope: Maturity Level 5, Operational Systems 2128, Australia Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia environments, systems and software and In-Service Support (OS & ISS). applications (mainly flight and tactical Scope: Provide systems engineering and project Scope: Provide systems engineering and simulators); provide associated training CAE USA – Tampa and program management for simulation maintenance support for simulation training programs. 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, training devices; develop growth opportunities devices. within the business. Florida, USA, 33634 CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington CAE Germany – Bückeburg Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia CAE Services GmbH, Bäckerstr. 18, 31683-D Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Obernkirchen, Germany Security. Scope: Provide maintenance support for simulation training devices. Scope: Provide maintenance, support and CAE Australia Pty Ltd operation of training equipment and synthetic Unit 40, Slough Avenue, Silverwater, NSW environments (mainly flight and tactical 2128, Australia simulators; provide associated training as required. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Engineering. 57 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CMMI-SVC V1.3 Capability ISO 14001:2015 Environmental management systems Maturity Model Integration Requirements with guidance for use (CMMI) for Services, Version 1.3 CAE Military Aviation Training 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building 868, CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, CAE Montreal Headquarters Scope: Provode engineering and maintenance Scope: Provide maintenance support for PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, support for simulation training devices; provide simulation training devices. Canada, S0H 0N0 Quebec, Canada, H4T 1G6 training services using simulation training 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, ground devices. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Customer Services Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia school training and airfield operations. for Defence and Security. RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 Scope: Provide systems engineering and F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia CAE Australia Pty Ltd maintenance support for simulation training CAE Australia Pty Ltd 15 Tench Street, Kingston, ACT 2604, Scope: Provide systems engineering and devices. Unit 40, Slough Avenue, Silverwater, NSW Australia maintenance support for simulation training 2128, Australia devices; provide training services using CAE New Zealand Ltd Scope: Provide systems engineering, Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security simulation training devices. Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF maintenance support, project and program Training Operations (Maintenance). Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, management for simulation training devices; Level 15, 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD Auckland 0618, New Zealand provide training services using simulation 4000, Australia CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd training devices; develop growth opportunities Scope: Provide systems engineering and 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave., Scope: Provide systems engineering, training within the business. maintenance support for simulation training Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand services and project management for devices. Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold simulation training devices; develop growth Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia opportunities within the business. 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Training Operations (Maintenance). Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Provide maintenance support for Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF simulation training devices. Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD Scope: Provide systems engineering and 4810, Australia maintenance support for simulation training Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, devices. NSW 2541, Australia Scope: Provide maintenance support for simulation training devices. CAE United Kingdom Scope: Provide maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield CAE Burgess Hill (UK), Innovation Drive, services using simulation training devices. Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia Burgess Hill, West Sussex, RH15 9TW, United Kingdom Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival Scope: Provide systems engineering and Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, maintenance support for simulation training RNAS Culdrose (UK), Building D51, Helston, Australia devices; provide training services using Cornwall, TR12 7RH, United Kingdom simulation training devices. RAF Brize Norton (UK), 24 Sqn HQ, Carterton, Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, Oxfordshire, OX18 3LX, United Kingdom devices; provide training services using Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia CAE Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew simulation training devices. Training Facility (UK), RAF Benson, Scope: Provide systems engineering and Unit 40, Slough Avenue, Silverwater, NSW maintenance support for simulation training Wallingford, Oxfordshire, OX10 6AA, United 2128, Australia devices. Kingdom Scope: Provide systems engineering and project and program management for simulation training devices; develop growth opportunities within the business. 58 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications OHSAS 18001:2007 AS/NZS 4801:2001 Occupational health and safety management systems Occupational health Specification with guidance for use and safety management systems Requirements CAE Australia Pty Ltd RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd 15 Tench Street, Kingston, ACT 2604, F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF Australia Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, CAE Military Aviation Training Scope: Provide systems engineering and Auckland, 0618, New Zealand NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Scope: Develop growth opportunities within the maintenance support for simulation training Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, business. devices; provide training services using Scope: Provide systems engineering and PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, simulation training devices. maintenance support for simulation training Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold Canada, S0H 0N0 devices. Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia Level 15, 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, 4000, Australia 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Scope: Provide maintenance support for ground school training and airfield Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand simulation training devices. Scope: Provide systems engineering training operations. services and project management for Scope: Provide systems engineering and Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, simulation training devices; develop growth maintenance support for simulation training NSW 2541, Australia opportunities within the business. devices. Scope: Provide maintenance support for Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF simulation training devices; provide training Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD services using simulation training devices. 4810, Australia Simulator Facility, Building 375, Percival Scope: Provide maintenance support for Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, simulation training devices. Australia Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield Scope: Provide systems engineering and Oakey, QLD 4401 Australia maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using Scope: Provide systems engineering and simulation training devices. maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using Unit 40, Slough Avenue, Silverwater, NSW simulation training devices. 2128, Australia RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, Scope: Provide systems engineering and project Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia and program management for simulation training devices; develop growth opportunities Scope: Provide systems engineering and within the business. maintenance support for simulation training devices. 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building 868, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide maintenance support for devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. simulation training devices. 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training devices. 59 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators 1 GRI standards FY18 GRI 100 – UNIVERSAL STANDARDS Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization page 1 Civil pages 12-15 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Defence & Security pages 18-21 Healthcare pages 24-27 102-3 Location of headquarters page 7 102-4 Location of operations page 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form MD&A pages 102-104 102-6 Markets served pages 6-7 102-7 Scale of organization pages 6-7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers See GRI standard 401-1 102-12 External initiatives page 52 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker page 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities MD&A pages 35-41 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour page 5 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics page 45 Governance 102-18 Governance structure page 34 102-19 Delegating authority page 34 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics page 34 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics page 34 1 Our GRI tables include only FY18 results, as we developed a new roadmap and ajusted our indicators to the new GRI standards. Results from previous fiscal years are available in our FY17 Annual Activity and Social Responsibility Report. 60 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 100 – UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy pages 30-31 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics page 34 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting page 34 102-35 Remuneration policies See Proxy Circular Section 7 Executive compensation 102-36 Process for determining remuneration See Proxy Circular Section 7 Executive compensation 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration See Proxy Circular Section 7 Executive compensation Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups page 33 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 43 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements 16% Reporting practices 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries pages 33-34 102-47 List of material topics page 34 102-49 Changes in reporting pages 33-34 102-50 Reporting period page 2 102-52 Reporting cycle page 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report page 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI standards page 2 102-55 GRI content index page 60 Management approach People and safety pages 35-41 Ethics and integrity pages 42-45 103-2 Management approach and its components Innovation and customer experience pages 46-49 Community and environment pages 50-54 61 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 200 – ECONOMIC TOPICS Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Direct economic value generated ($M) 2,830.0 Cost of sales ($M) 1,953.1 Research & development expenses ($M) 182.7 Selling, general & administration expenses ($M) 380.8 Finance expenses net ($M) 76.2 Income tax expenses ($M) 29.1 Economic value retained ($M) 275.9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change MD&A page 38 Market presence 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans ($M) 200.6 201-4 Financial assistance received from government ($M) 29 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community1 Canada 99% US 79% Other 92% Overall 94% Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Australia 77% Asia 78% Europe 47% Middle East 83% North America 63% South America 80% Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 0 1 Director and up, citizenship in the country in which they work 62 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (MWh) 272,2231 Natural gas (MWh) 16,0511 Electricity (MWh) 182,9301 Diesel, heating oil, propane, fuel for aircraft and cars, hot and chilled water (MWh) 73,2421 302-3 Energy intensity (MWh/$million revenue) 96.19 Water2 303-1 Water withdrawal by source (m3) 4,756,976 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 24,0223 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2 location based) (tCO2e) 83,232 GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2 market based) (tCO2e) 88,743 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method (Montreal only) Waste generated absolute (tonnes) 1,603 Total weight of hazardous waste (tonnes) 62 Total weight of non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 1,541 Non-hazardous waste recycled (%) 864 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant fine 1 Conversion rates vary for each country and province. Estimates were done for sites for which information was not yet available based on data from sites with the same type of activities. 2 For sites where we have operational control of the building. 3 Opening our new training centre in Dothan increased jet-fuel consumption. 4 Includes composting. 63 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Total employees 8,704 Total number of employees CAE 7,973 Total number of employees in our joint ventures 731 Employees by gender Number of employees (female) 1,701 Number of employees (male) 6,272 % of female employees 21% % of male employees 79% Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Number of employees 1,700 % of employees 21% Number of non-unionized employees 6,273 Employees by contract Number of employees (permanent) 7,800 Number of employees (part-time) 173 Number of employees (temporary) 1,197 New employee hires Total number of new employee hires 1,246 New employee hire rate (% of total employees) 16% Age group New employee hires below 30 years old 340 New employee hires 30-50 years old 605 % new employee hires 30-50 years old 49% Contractors Number of contractors 2,359 64 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Employee turnover number 636 Employee turnover rate (% of total employees) 8% Age group Employee turnover below 30 years old 137 % employee turnover below 30 years old 14% Employee turnover 30-50 years old 351 % employee turnover 30-50 years old 9% Employee turnover above 50 years old 39 % employee turnover above 50 years old 1% Gender Employee turnover for women 147 % employee turnover for women 9% Employee turnover for men 489 % employee turnover for men 8% Occupational health and safety 3 most frequent types: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related Slips/trips/falls 33% 403-2 fatalities1 Struck by/on 23% In contact with 20% Incident Frequency Rate (IFR)1 0.39 Days Lost Rate (DLR)1 1.35 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 1 0.16 Near Miss Rate (NMR) 1 1.21 Work-related fatalities 1 Training and education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 77%2 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 18% 1 Per 200,000 hours worked 2 Based on Performance Feedback and Development Plan 65 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken page 45 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions 0 Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Conflict minerals page 44 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling 0 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 0 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 0 Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations related to socio-economic matters 0 66 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Non-GRI indicators Non-GRI indicators GRI standards FY18 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Non-discrimination Number of foreign agents we hire page 43 Report on training completion and Code of Business Conduct acknowledgement completion page 43, page 45 PEOPLE AND SAFETY Flight safety Number of voluntary reports (per 10K flight hours) 70.0 Number of incidents >$50K in damage (per 10K flight hours) 0.39 Live flight aviation safety reviews external 1 Live flight aviation safety reviews internal (per training location) 1 People Internal promotion vs external hires 78% internal promotion vs 22% new hires1 Number of internships 214 Our Professional Women's Network group has a Diversity mentorship program mentorship program for women. In FY18, 7 employees took part in this program. Initiatives for talent development 9 major initiatives including training sessions % of students hired into a full-time position following a CAE co-op experience 9%2 INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Investments in research & development ($M) 182.7 Number of patents requested 20 Number of patents obtained 51 Customer satisfaction: for on-time delivery (RFT on-time), product quality, etc. (survey – Civil and D&S) page 47 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT Renewable energy programs and targets page 50 Charitable donations and sponsorships page 52 1 Based on management level 2 Number of co-op students hired as regular employees vs total number of co-op students during fiscal year 67 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2018
