2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the future Letter from the CEO At the service of the team Efficient management to accompany growth A diverse, professional team Training for professional growth Presentation of the report Safe working environment Materiality analysis Goals 2017 in figures At the service of the community Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the future Involved with the country Training, the key to the future Socio-economic impact Culture, within everyone’s reach Closer to people Addressing social needs Goals Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Dedication to service: our essence Worldwide activity and presence Responsible corporate governance At the service of the environment Quality and excellence in banking practice Responsible environmental management PDF Energy efficiency and emissions Optimizing consumption and improving waste management Goals At the service of the customer pdf The customer, the key Technological solutions for more satisfied customers Investments that provide value Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table Service and commitment Goals of Contents and Table of the Principles of the Global Compact web link Materiality analysis Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development Goals Table of contents from the GRI Table of contents of the Global Compact video photo gallery 02 Committed to the future Letter from the CEO Letter from the CEO Again this year, we are presenting 2017 by the publication The Banker, We celebrated Fundació Crèdit our Corporate Social Responsibility from the Financial Times Group, and Andorrà’s 30th birthday this year. The Presentation of the rexport Report to provide an account of especially the recognition we have Fundació is the tangible expression of our performance in the social, received for the fourth year in a row our desire to contribute to people’s 2017 in figures environmental, economic and corporate from the Global Banking & Finance welfare and progress through specific Committed governance areas. As a new feature, Review for our social responsibility initiatives in the areas of education, to the future this edition of the report has been activity. culture and social action. Through the Crèdit Andorrà prepared according to GRI standards, Bank, we continue to supplement this Financial Group We are what we are thanks to our commitment through initiatives aimed at the latest version of the Global customers. They are our reason for the business sector and the promotion At the service Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. of the customer being. Our goal is to remain close to of activities that foster economic At the service We are an organization with a deep them, because they are our present progress and environmental protection. of the team sense of responsibility toward the and our future. That is why we owe At the service societies where we operate and with a them the best service and offer them In the environmental area, we are fully of the community true desire to contribute to the common technological solutions to ensure involved in sustainable mobility and At the service of good. We are aware that intangible their maximum satisfaction. We the fight against climate change, these the environment assets are the key to differentiation in are committed to an omni-channel being key aspects for the country. Appendix. the medium and long term, the main approach and to improving customer Internally, we continue to implement Materiality, GRI trigger for change for the sustainable experience, and we innovate in improvements for more sustainable Table of Contents and Table of the development that is essential for our differentiated products and services. buildings and measures to minimize our Principles of the society. As participants in the United To that end, the launch of Merkaat, environmental footprint. Global Compact Nations Global Compact, we are also Andorra’s first digital investment advisor, We have the desire to continue to be a committed to contributing to fulfilling stands out in particular. driver of change for the development the Sustainable Development Goals to We have a team of 840 qualified, and progress of our industry and our ensure the balance between business committed people, an essential aspect country. We will continue working to growth, personal progress and respect to ensure the smooth running of the contribute the best we can to transform for the environment through our Group, as well as to successfully the world and earn the trust of everyone sustainability road map. respond to the challenges of the who relies on us. Josep Peralba Duró, CEO One of the focuses of our strategy is banking and financial sector in the © Eduard Comellas based around continuing to be a bank coming years. This year, we have with a solid reputation, built by the committed to promoting innovation efforts made since we were established. within the Group to generate growth, Josep Peralba Duró This reputation is backed by various make our processes more efficient CEO distinctions we have been awarded, and drive cultural change within the such as Andorran Bank of the Year organization. 03 Committed to the future Presentation of the report Letter The 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is the 14th edition of the from the CEO publication by Crèdit Andorrà and covers the period between January 1 and Presentation December 31, 2017(*). of the report This report has been prepared according to the GRI Standards, for which it has 2017 in figures achieved the most demanding qualification: “In accordance – Comprehensive”. Committed to the future The main objective of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report is to provide a comprehensive view of the economic, social, environmental and corporate Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group governance performance of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group to respond to any issues of interest to the persons and groups with whom we associate. At the service of the customer At the service of the team At the service Criteria and principles of the community Following the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines in At the service of the environment the comprehensive version and of the Accountability AA1000 standard, in 2015 we carried out the analysis of the material aspects for our stakeholders, which Appendix. Materiality, GRI continues to be valid according to the two international standards of reference in Table of Contents and Table of the the area of CSR. Principles of the Global Compact The report includes these material aspects with specific information from the perspective of management and indicators. Furthermore, information related to non-material issues is reported according to GRI G4 as this enables the group’s CSR performance to be explained in a more detailed manner. (*) Except for the quantitative data in the environment section, which go from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. 04 Committed to the future Letter from the CEO Scope Presentation of the report The information presented corresponds to the different companies in the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group, excluding the data regarding the customer and 2017 in figures environment sections, which refer exclusively to the Group’s companies located in Committed the Principality of Andorra. to the future The economic and financial information included was obtained from the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group consolidated financial statements. At the service of the customer Materiality analysis At the service of the team At the service of the community At the service of 1. Identification the environment The topics identified were divided into six categories: Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table of Contents Sector People and Table of the Principles of the Global Compact Business strategy and economic management Team management Ethics and integrity Environment Good corporate governance and compliance Environmental management Service Relationship with society Customer relations and product responsibility Social action and involvement with the country (*) Except for the quantitative data in the environment section, which go from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. 05 Committed to the future Letter 2. Prioritization. from the CEO Presentation The degree of importance was determined for each of the relevant aspects–results of the report set out in the materiality matrix–following the Accountability and AA1000SES 2017 in figures standard principles regarding stakeholder relationships. Committed On the one hand, this shows the degree of importance the Group gives to the to the future topics considered relevant and, on the other, the importance for the stakeholders Crèdit Andorrà to finally determine that any topics with high importance both for the entity as well Financial Group as for its stakeholders, high-medium and medium-high and high-high, respectively, At the service are all material topics. of the customer At the service of the team At the service of the community 3. Validation At the service of Crèdit Andorrà also considered it important to determine the following aspects as the environment material: internationalization, efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, Appendix. water, etc.), CO2 emissions, managing risk and opportunities derived from climate Materiality, GRI change, and managing and minimizing the waste generated. Table of Contents and Table of the Principles of the Furthermore, information related to non-material issues is reported according to Global Compact GRI G4, as this enables the group’s CSR efforts to be explained in a more detailed manner. 06 Committed to the future Leadership in Andorran banking Sustained and sustainable economic results Helping customers to make better informed financial Comprehensive management of business and operational decisions risks Compliance and adaptation to regulatory and legislative Letter changes from the CEO Operating with maximum transparency, creating trust High and credibility Presentation of the report Business ethics and prevention of corruption, money 2017 in figures laundering and fraud Ensuring the correct behavior the entity's governing Committed bodies to the future Quality and efficiency in customer service Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Ensuring the privacy and security of customer data At the service Promoting initiatives of value to customers and society Proactiveness and innovation in products and services of the customer Responsibility in purchases from suppliers Creating employment and managing the working environment for employee satisfaction Medium At the service of the team Offering products and services designed to provide environmental or social benefit Management of talent, training and the personal Relevance for stakeholders At the service improvement of employees of the community Universality in care and service for all customer segments Promotion of social progress with initiatives driven by At the service of Fundació Crèdit Andorrà the environment Inclusion of social and environmental aspects in the group Business diversification Internationalization Appendix. strategy Benefit programs for employees Materiality, GRI Table of Contents Consideration for social and environmental criteria in operations Contribution to Andorra’s economic development and the and Table of the Technological innovation to improve customer service economic development of the countries in which the group Principles of the Global Compact operates Performance and professional effort assessment methods Promotion of equality and balance between work and personal life Assurance of health and safety and wellbeing at work Low Local contracting and competitive salaries Management and control of environmental impacts Efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, Sector water, etc.) Ethics and integrity CO2 emissions and management of risks and Service opportunities resulting from climate change People Management and minimization of waste generated Environment Relationship with society Consideration of environmental criteria in the construction and remodeling of offices Material aspects in bold. Establishment of links and alliances with territorial entities 07 Low Medium High Relevance for stakeholders Committed to the future 2017 in figures Letter from Balance sheet (thousands of euros) Customer funds Loan investments the CEO 2017 2016 Presentation 13.564 13.583 13.068 13.658 2.983 2.993 of the report Assets 5,459,917 5,762,112 2.817 2.608 Customer loans 2,607,806 2,733,717 2017 in figures Customer deposits 4,112,796 4,333,872 Committed to the future Customer funds 13,658,407 13,150,903 Crèdit Andorrà Net equity 421,098 262,103 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Financial Group At the service of the customer At the service Result (thousands of euros) of the team 2017 2016 At the service Financial margin(*) 42,441 47,316 of the community Ordinary margin(**) 198,987 245,205 At the service of the environment Operating margin(***) 59,393 106,222 Pre-tax profit/loss 56,219 28,921 Appendix. Materiality, GRI Attributable profit 50,194 31,532 Table of Contents and Table of the (*) Interest income interest expenditures share capital expenditure refundable on demand + dividend Principles of the income. See the corresponding table in the income statement in the audited financial statements.. Global Compact (**) Total net operating profit/loss + share in profit or loss of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. See the corresponding table in the income statement in the audited financial statements.. (***) Total net operating profit/loss + share in profit or loss of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates administration expenses depreciation. See the corresponding table in the income statement in the audited financial statements.. Solvency ratio vs. legal minimum Liquidity ratio vs. legal minimum Ratios (%) 2017 2016 Solvency ratio 16.15 14.33 Liquidity ratio 61.02 59.03 Default ratio 5.7 5.9 16.15% 10 61.02% 40 Efficiency ratio 64.0 51.0 08 Note: The information set out in the tables is an extract from Crèdit Andorrà’s consolidated financial statements, approved by the General Shareholder’s Meeting of April 26, 2018 and available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com In the event of any discrepancy between the two, the version of the consolidated financial statements approved by the General Shareholder’s Meeting of April 26, 2018 will prevail. Committed to the future Employees Staff in Andorra International Permanent Women on our Staff who Average A team of professionals 475 people staff contracts staff received training investment in 365 people 92% 50% 96% training Letter from committed to the bank’s values, who are proactive and €694/ the CEO employee motivated with our customers... Presentation of the report 2017 in figures Committed to the future Crèdit Andorrà Customers Loan Channel contracts Loan studies Unicef Card 16PUNT30 Youth Financial Group investments (e-Crèdit and €0.8m 851 Card ...whom we offer high-quality €2.612m Contact Center) +4.5% At the service of the customer products and services so they +3.5% users users users recognize us as the bank of Contribution by Crèdit Our stakeholders At the service Andorrà + customers of the team reference in the Andorran marketplace. € 38,715.11 At the service of the community At the service of the environment Appendix. Materiality, GRI Community Initiatives to boost the local Initiatives 36% Table of Contents economy to support Investment in society and Table of the ...because we are committed Principles of the 67.17% the community Investment in culture Global Compact to the company’s economic 32.83% Investment in education and social growth, and we act responsibly wherever we are 35% present, around the world... 29% Environment Power consumption Paper consumption CO2 from energy CO2 per employee -14% consumption from travel ...a world we want to be -3% 1,376 tons 235 tons more sustainable, because we are committed to the future. 09 Committed to the future Committed to the future Letter from the CEO Since 2016, Crèdit Andorrà has been Presentation a participant company in the United of the report Nations Global Compact, making 2017 in figures us responsible for the impact our activity has on people and the social, Committed to the future economic and political development in Human rights Labor standards Environment Combating all the regions where we are present, Businesses must Businesses corruption. Crèdit Andorrà 1 Businesses 3 7 Financial Group in addition to assuming the defense of, must endorse uphold freedom should support 10 Businesses and respect the of association and a precautionary must work At the service respect for and compliance with the protection of effective recognition of approach to against all forms of the customer 10 principles of the Compact. internationally the right to collective environmental of corruption, challenges. 10 recognized bargaining. including extortion 5 6 At the service We are also committed to promoting fundamental and bribery. 4 1 2 of the team 4 Businesses must 8 Businesses the achievement of the Sustainable human rights support the should undertake 3 within their area of At the service of the community Development Goals by ensuring the influence. elimination of all forms of forced labor initiatives to promote greater 1 2 3 HEALTH AND 4 HIGH-QUALITY EDUCATION balance between business growth, WELLBEING Businesses must or labor carried out environmental At the service of personal progress and respect for the 2 ensure that they under duress. responsibility. 3 the environment environment through our sustainability do not act as 4 Businesses must Companies must Appendix. Materiality, GRI road map. accomplices in the violation of human 5 support the 9 encourage the 9 8 WORK DECENT AND ECONOMIC 5 development and Table of Contents and Table of the Our responsible business strategy rights. eradication of child labor. dissemination of 8 13 CLIMATE ACTION GROWTH 6 Principles of the and the projects aimed at driving environmentally7 1 Global Compact Businesses must friendly sustainability enable us to have a 6 support elimination technologies. 2 direct impact on the 17 SDGs, six of which we have identified as relevant. of discrimination in employment. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 3 9 4 5 8 6 7 7 9 8 10 Committed to the future Socio-economic impact Through our activity, we have a series of impacts that are the result of our relationship with the economic and social agents around us, which go from the Letter from economic activity we generate among our customers to the contribution to the the CEO solidity and dynamism of the economic system, including support for the country’s Presentation business and social fabric. of the report 2017 in figures Committed to the future Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Value added statement At the service of the customer 14% At the service of the team At the service of the community Shareholders Employees Suppliers 28% Provisions, depreciation, reserves and Worker remuneration Purchases and At the service of dividend payments (salary and other payments services hired from the environment and extras) third parties Economic value 28% Appendix. Materiality, GRI 22% created: Table of Contents and Table of the 31% 22% 230.519 31% Principles of the Global Compact million euros 5% Customers Community Interest paid for products taken out by Investment in social action, internal customers (deposits, pension funds, environmental improvements 22% retirement plans, etc.) and taxes 14% 5% 11 Committed to the future Letter from the CEO Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Presentation of the report 2017 in figures Committed to the future Crèdit Andorrà is the benchmark financial group in the Principality Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group of Andorra. Since 1949, we have offered the financial products and services typical of private banking and asset management, At the service of the customer of commercial banking and insurance. At the service of the team At the service € 16.266m of the community At the service of the environment in business volume Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table of Contents and Table of the Solvency ratio of 16.15% Principles of the Global Compact Recognition for banking activity 12 Committed to the future Dedication to service: our essence Our motto, At your service and the service of the country, conveys our essence, which has defined us since the bank was founded. Crèdit Andorrà This willingness to serve is our real competitive advantage, together with our Financial Group capacity for leadership and innovation in management, a business model founded Dedication to on firmness and solidity, as well as the commitment of a team of over 800 service: our essence professionals present in the main financial centers around the world. Worldwide activity and presence The values of Crèdit Andorrà’s cultural model Corporate governance At Crèdit Andorrà, our actions are guided by our motto At your service and the Quality and service of the country and by the values that come from our cultural model. excellence in banking practice Proactive Goal-oriented and innovative CustomerLeadership oriented People Teamwork Fully customer-oriented, dedication to service and management commitment to sustainability are the central focuses that guide our actions. Clear, transparent communication 13 Committed to the future Worldwide activity and presence 06 Banking 07 Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group and financial services 03 01 Crèdit Andorrà Dedication to 02 Banco Alcalá (Spain) service: our essence 03 Banque de Patrimoines Privés (Luxembourg) 04 Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama) Worldwide activity and presence Asset management and wealth management 10 Corporate 05 Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management governance 06 Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management Luxembourg Quality and 07 Crediinvest Sicav / Investcredit Sicav excellence in banking (Luxembourg) practice 08 CA Life Insurance Experts (Spain) 11 09 Gesalcalá, SGIIC 10 Private Investment Management (Switzerland) 11 Beta Capital Wealth Management (Miami) 12 12 CA México Asesores Patrimoniales en Inversiones Independientes (Mexico) 04 13 CA Perú Sociedad Agente de Bolsa (Peru) Insurance 14 Crèdit Assegurances 13 15 Financera d’Assegurances 16 CA Vincles Actuarial Consulting 17 ERM Risk Management (Spain) 18 CA Life Insurance Experts (Spain) 19 CA Actuarial Consulting (Chile) 19 Social activity 20 Fundació Crèdit Andorrà 05 08 09 16 21 Partner companies 02 18 01 15 14 23 21 ENSISA/NEVASA (Grandvalira) 17 20 22 SEMTEE (Caldea/Inúu) 22 23 Crèdit Iniciatives 14 Committed to the future Corporate governance In 2017, we continued to work to adapt to the new regulatory and normative framework as regards transparency, cooperation and approval of the services and Crèdit Andorrà processes according to international standards, against a backdrop of changes Financial Group and restructuring in the banking sector, in Andorra and on a global scale. Dedication to The corporate governing bodies of Crèdit Andorrà are the General Shareholders’ service: our essence Meeting, the Board of Directors, the Board Delegated Committee and the Executive Committee. Worldwide activity and presence Corporate governance Quality and General Shareholder’s Meeting excellence in banking practice Board of Directors The entity’s full representation body. It has all the powers needed to govern the bank and, in particular, to analyze and approve the basic guidelines for action, in addition to assessing the strategies and policies related to risk, internal control and regulatory compliance. Board’s Delegate Committee Executive Committee The entity’s management and coordination body. Prevention Risk Investment Assets, Liabilities Communication Ethics of Money Senior Credit Coordination Strategy and Risks Coordination Committee Laundering Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 15 Committed to the future Governing bodies Board of Directors Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Dedication to service: our Antoni Pintat Mas Jaume Casal Mor Josep Peralba Duró essence Chairman Vice-chairman CEO/Secretary Worldwide activity and presence Daniel Arqués Rosa Pintat Tomàs Corporate governance Maria Reig Moles Santolària Vice-secretary (non Member of the Board Member of the Board member) Quality and excellence in banking practice Management team Division directors Sílvia Ramon Cunill Calvet José Ignacio Josep Lladós Bernaus Innovation, Marketing García Fernández Corporate Services and New Channels Private Banking America Peralba Duró(*) CEO Martí Alfonso Simón José Luis Agustí Xavier Andorra Banking Dorado Ocaña Garcia Puig Business Investments General Secretariat Cornella Castel General Manager Francesc Josep Josep Jordà Blanes Brunet Niu Escoriza Martínez Management Risk and Insurance Group Media Financial Planning Christophe Esteban Jorge Canler Estévez Zurita Risk and Regulatory Private Banking Europe and (*) Not a member of the Executive Committee. Compliance New Regions Note: March 31, 2018 16 Committed to the future Organization chart Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Dedication to service: our essence Boardof Directors Worldwide activity and presence CEO Corporate Josep Peralba Duró governance Quality and excellence in banking General Manager practice Xavier Cornella Castel General Technical Internal Audit Department Secretariat Division Lluís Montoliu Picolo Agustí Garcia Puig Corporate Services Division Ramon Lladós Bernaus Private Banking Europe Innovation, Marketing Management Media Private Banking Banking Business Investment Insurance Loans Regulatory and New Regions and New Channels Risk Division America Division Andorra Division Division Group Division Compliance and Division Division and Financial Josep Escoriza José Ignacio García Esteban J. Estévez Zurita Martí Alfonso Simón Sílvia Cunill Calvet José Luis Dorado Ocaña Josep Brunet Niu Martínez Xavier Soro Ventura Internal Control Fernández Planning Division Division Christophe Canler Francesc Jordà Blanes 17 Committed to the future Comprehensive risk management and transparency Crèdit Andorrà Group’s corporate governance system is structured by a framework that defines the responsibilities in risk management following the three lines Crèdit Andorrà of defense (3LD) model recommended by the Basel Committee on Banking Financial Group Supervision and Supervisory Practices in its “Corporate governance principles for Dedication to banks.” These lines of defense are divided hierarchically and work with sufficient service: our independence and coordination between them. essence Worldwide The organization also has a comprehensive policy regarding investment and risk activity and management, a policy on prevention of money and asset laundering and terrorist presence financing, a policy on investor protection, a policy on personal data protection and Corporate a standard for automatic exchange of tax information to meet obligations under the governance Law on automatic exchange of tax information, in force since January 1, 2017. Quality and excellence in banking practice The first line of defense is formed by the business units and supporting divisions (including those specializing in risks), which check that the management and exposure by risk type are appropriate. Business units 1st line The second line of defense is formed by the division specializing in the area. Thus, the Risk and Regulatory Compliance Division, through the Departments Risk and Regulatory of Internal Control, Regulatory Compliance and Prevention of Money Compliance Division 2nd line Laundering, ensures that risks are effectively monitored and managed with the level of appetite for risk defined by the Board of Directors. The division director reports to the Board of Directors, through the CEO. Internal Audit Finally, the Internal Audit Department acts as a third line of defense, regularly 3 line rd verifying that the policies, methods and procedures are suitable and checking their effective implementation. Set up as an area of independent activity, it is hierarchically dependent on the Board of Directors’ Delegate Committee. 18 Committed to the future Ethics in banking practices The Code of Ethics and Conduct represents the essential tool for forming the ethical criteria of all the professionals and companies in the Group, and together Crèdit Andorrà with the Code of Conduct in the Securities Markets, it establishes common Financial Group principles and requirements of transparency and honesty in banking practice that Dedication to must be fulfilled by all the people and companies linked to the Crèdit Andorrà service: our Group. essence Within the area of compliance Worldwide The Regulations on the Board of Directors of Crèdit Andorrà and other group and conduct risk, the activity and subsidiaries adhere to the same lines of ethical responsibility. bank’s Board of Directors is presence responsible for approving the Andorran Banking, the Andorran Banks Association (ABA), approved its new Corporate governance Code of Conduct in 2017. The text is coordinated in line with the Andorran main policies to be applied legal framework, the international principles in this area and at the same time throughout the Group. These Quality and excellence supplements the regulations on prevention of money laundering and terrorism are currently as follows: in banking financing and the global recommendations of the international Financial Action practice Task Force. • The Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. • The Code of Conduct in the Securities Markets. • The Policy for Prevention of Money or Asset Laundering and Terrorist Financing.. • The Regulatory Compliance Policy. • The Comprehensive Policy on Investment and Risk Management. • The Investor Protection Policy. • FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act)/CRS (Common Reporting Standard) Policy. • Personal Data Protection Policy. • Automatic Exchange of Tax Information Standard. • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. 19 Committed to the future Quality and excellence in banking practice Crèdit Andorrà Banking practices Comprehensive commitment to society Financial Group Dedication to service: our essence The Banker Andorran Bank of the Year 2017 Worldwide activity and First bank in Andorra to be a signatory presence of the UN Global Compact Corporate WE SUPPORT governance PWM/The Banker Best bank in Andorra in private banking First private institution in Andorra to Quality and excellence sign up to the SDGs to contribute to in banking achieving the United Nations 2030 practice Agenda Global Banking & Finance Review Best bank in Andorra in private banking Best Andorran Bank 2017 in corporate social responsibility High levels of solvency Quality in procedures and financial strength and management First bank in Andorra to enter the Quality management top 1000 banks in the world for Crèdit Andorrà Investments Division: capitalization Departments of Treasury and Capital Markets, and Crèdit Andorrà Market Administration and Control. Ratings: BBB (long term) / F3 (short Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management term with a stable outlook) Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management 20 Committed to the future At the Letter from service of the the CEO Presentation of the report 2017 in figures Committed customer to the future Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group At the service of the customer At the service The values of Crèdit Andorrà 6 10 Retail banking 5 of the team 4 1 2 satisfaction index #Customer-oriented 8.21 At the service 3 of the community #Proactiveness and 1 2 AND WELLBEING 4 EDUCATION 3 HEALTH HIGH-QUALITY At the service of the environment innovation 3 Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table of Contents #Goal-oriented 9 8 DECENT WORK 4 5 56% and Table of the of customers with Principles of the Global Compact 8 13 CLIMATE ACTION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 6 digital banking 13 7 1 2 12 RESPONSIBLE 9 INNOVATION INDUSTRY, Merkaat, CONSUMPTION AND AND PRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE 3 9 4 first digital 8 6 5 advisor platform 7 7 9 8 21 Committed to the future The customer, the key We want to support customers throughout their financial life cycles, with the use of channels appropriate to their needs and with a comprehensive range of At the service products and services that promote a satisfactory relationship in the long term, in of the customer accordance with professional and ethical criteria. The customer, the key The value of innovation Customer types as driver of improvement Satisfaction, an ongoing challenge Digital Exclusive transformation Customers who only with differentiated work with Crèdit products and services Net Promoter Score (NPS) Andorrà 73% 75% Service and commitment Goals Linked Customers for whom Recommendation Loyalty Satisfaction Crèdit Andorrà 14% 15% 8.34 8.71 8.21 is their first bank. Shared Customers with another 13% 10% institution as their first bank, but who are 2015 2017 also Crèdit Andorrà customers. NPS survey of 1,549 customers. 22 Committed to the future The value of innovation as a driver of improvement The innovation and digitalization process we are carrying out allows us to give more The integration of the At the service added value to the business model, drive the omni-channel approach and improve of the customer our customer service. various channels allows The customer, the key Crèdit Andorrà’s aim is to be at the cutting edge of new technologies and customers to control The value of accessible to our customers. We provide them with the channels and knowledge and decide which ones necessary to manage their finances in a responsible and informed way, and we they want to use and innovation as driver of offer them the financial solutions that best fit their requirements. when to use them. improvement Digital transformation with differentiated products and services Service and Omni-channel approach and commitment improving user Goals Free “Secure e-Commerce” Launch of the new Internationalization of experience service for cards in online payments. site for the insurance online banking with the extension of group. the e-Loan services to the subsidiaries Banco Alcalá, Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama) and Banque de Patrimoines Privés. Launch of the new Business e-Crèdit. Improvement of the e-Crèdit services with the inclusion of “My Manager”. This is a new service aimed at private banking customers that gives them a closer relationship with the manager, since they can use it to exchange messages, ask questions or answer queries, as well as submit any documentation in a secure and 23 confidential environment. Committed to the future Innovation in products and services Value Investing At the service of the customer In 2017 we signed a strategic agreement with Francisco García-Paramés’ management The customer, firm Cobas Asset Managementfor financial advice on European equities from certain the key collective investment bodies managed by the Crèdit Andorrá Group. This agreement will The value of enable us to offer our customers exclusive and differentiated services and products within innovation our value management range. as driver of improvement Crediinvest SICAV Global Equity Dividend Digital transformation with differentiated products and services This is an open-end fund incorporated in Luxembourg that invests in Service and companies with a high yield per dividend, above the average for the stock commitment indices. Goals Francisco García-Paramés, at the talk he gave. © Eduard Comellas 24 Committed to the future Digital transformation with differentiated At the service of the customer products and A closer look The customer, the key services The value of The essential characteristics for the innovation evolution of the new banking model as driver of include, beyond the ongoing focus on Merkaat, Andorra’s improvement innovation, the provision of services first digital investment advisor Digital transformation on different platforms and omniwith differentiated dimensional marketing, as well as other products and services services that will cement customer This is a new service that adds technology and innovation the advisory loyalty and business performance. services the bank offers. This innovative service, accessible via Service and commitment e-Crèditonline banking, allows customers to have a fully digital experience, Goals is adapted to the new habits of financial consumers and is open to new customer segments. It enables customers to comprehensively manage their investments. It offers them personalized advice, provides them with investment suggestions based on their risk profile and also enables them to immediately execute purchase and sale orders for investment funds held by Crèdit Andorrà. Merkaat is different from other automated because it benefits from a team of experts who constantly monitor customer portfolios, and because it offers Crèdit Andorrà customers investment suggestions based on a selection of boutique funds that can be fully personalized and from an open architecture perspective, taking into account the best investment criteria and analyzing all the managers independently. Merkaat has been recognized by Efma as a banking innovation 25 Committed to the future Digital transformation Crèdit Broker, an innovative investment At the service of the customer management portal The customer, This platform, integrated within the e-Crèdit portal, allows users to invest in the key equity and investment funds easily, visually and intuitively. Users can have The value of innovation total control over their investment using e-Crèdit online banking, in as driver of improvement terms of both their portfolio, using the “My Portfolio” option, as well as the Digital financial markets, with this new tool. transformation with differentiated products and services Service and commitment Goals There is no stopping the digitalization of services in the financial market and it is also one of our main strengths. We are working to become our customers’ financial partner to leave behind the traditional role of banking services provider. Financial education We have launched the Research blog as a new platform for financial content. This is an online platform open to the public that brings together the information generated by the Group. It includes general interest content about finance and financial news. 26 Committed to the future Service and commitment Our customers can benefit from the direct value provided by sponsorships and collaborations with third parties in the form of discounts, promotions and At the service drawings. of the customer The customer, the key The value of innovation as driver of improvement Digital transformation with differentiated products and services Service and commitment Goals Club Piolet Andorra Carnet Jove Andorra Automòbil Club Unicef Andorra With the Piolet savings card, which only Thanks to the partnership agreement with Andorra Crèdit Andorrà makes an annual allows you to make deposits, children the Carnet Jove Andorra Association, The ACA Master card makes it contribution to the fight against the use under the age of 12 can also enjoy renewed this year for 10 years, the bank possible to shop and pay for services of child soldiers by armed groups, in various benefits and promotions, in order is offering the 16PUNT30 Youth Card, in establishments in the safest and addition to 50% of the income from the to introduce them to financial savings with a total value of €3,000 in savings,in most convenient way, as well as fees for using this card. Customers culture. addition to special discounts and benefits to deposit cash at any ATM. Users make an annual donation of €30. on banking products and services for benefit from discounts and benefits young people. in more than 6,000 establishments linked to the RACC network. Contributions from 38,751.11 the Unicef card 29,499.65 29,346.85 28,572.74 1,806 users 6,363 users 420 users 2014 2015 2016 2017 27 Committed to the future Goals At the service of the customer 2017 The customer, the key Improve the mechanisms used to learn about and relate to customers (CRM). In progress The value of innovation Promote value offering (launching campaigns, products and services, and sponsorship management). Achieved as driver of improvement Incentivize the use of multiple channels by customers. Achieved Digital transformation with differentiated Digitalize products and services. Achieved products and services Digitalize customer relationships. Achieved Service and commitment Implement a system to manage and track commercial sales (Salesforce). Achieved Goals 2018 Expand e-Crèdit operations. Implement mobile payment. New e-Crèdit app. Expand the e-Commerce functions (online contracting and deferred contracting). Launch the new investment app. Launch the new website of Fundació Crèdit Andorrà and Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama). Put the new e-Crèdit communication program into operation. Consolidate the system to manage and track commercial sales. 28 Committed to the future At the Letter from service of the the CEO Presentation of the report 2017 in figures Committed team to the future Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group At the service of the customer At the service The values of Crèdit Andorrà 6 10 Staff in Andorra 5 475 of the team 1 4 2 At the service #People management 3 people of the community #Proactiveness 1 2 3 HEALTH AND WELLBEING 4 HIGH-QUALITY EDUCATION At the service of the environment and innovation 3 % women in executive Appendix. #Leadership 4 and intermediate roles 22% Materiality, GRI 9 Table of Contents and Table of the 8 DECENT WORK 5 and 8 13 CLIMATE AND ECONOMIC 45% Principles of the ACTION GROWTH 6 Global Compact 7 1 2 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND 9 AND PRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE 5 4 3 €694 Average investment 8 7 7 6 in training per employee 9 8 29 Committed to the future Efficient management to accompany growth Having a qualified and committed team of human resources is essential to ensure At the service of the team the smooth running of the Group, as well as to successfully respond to the Efficient challenges of the banking and financial sector in the coming years. management to accompany growth Innovation culture A diverse, professional team Innovation is one of the values of Crèdit Andorra's cultural model, and the digital Training for transformation project stemming from it extends across the entire group. Focused professional on employees and customers, and making use of new technologies, it seeks growth to generate growth, more efficiency in processes and a cultural change within Safe working the organization. A new culture that has people at its heart and that requires environment involvement and openness to new ways of working that are more participative, Goals flexible and transversal, to pose new challenges. The first Hackathon took place in 2017, a new innovation method where participating employees looked for the best solution to a business challenge during a different and unconventional day. A total of 27 employees took part in this first edition, advised by a team of experts in the field of innovation who provided them with the tools and resources to help them throughout the process. Employees who participated in the first Hackathon organized by Crèdit Andorrà. 30 Committed to the future Committed to internal and future talent Talent management is a strategic focus for facilitating and strengthening the growth and development of current and future employees, placing them at the At the service center of the action. Internally, we are moving toward a model that will guarantee of the team the identification of key talent to cover the Group’s new needs, alignment with the Efficient business and professional development. management to accompany With the aim of promoting education, creating a link between university and the growth working world and identifying junior talent, a total of 42 young people in higher A diverse, education (college degree, postgraduate degree or master's) have had the chance professional team this year to work in different offices and departments of the bank. Training for professional growth Team-building activities outside of work Safe working environment We encourage employee participation in team-building activities. This year we took Goals part in the Jocs Interempreses – L’Olimpíada Empresarial (Intercompany Games Team of young people who joined Crèdit Andorrà for the summer months. © ANA – The Charity Business Olympics), an event combining sport and solidarity. These games are established as a platform to bring together people from different sectors and different regions, using sport as a tool for communication, cohesion and development of interpersonal relationships. As part of the Oportunitats internes (Job Social benefits of value Posting), program, 28 vacancies were We offer social benefits, both for employees and their families, that go beyond posted in 2017, 19 of which were filled by the legal requirements. Group employees. 31 Committed to the future A diverse, professional team In 2017 we continued the process to resize the structure of our human resource team, to adapt it to the Group’s current market context and to increase operating At the service efficiency. of the team 2015 2016 2017 Efficient management to accompany Number of Crèdit Andorrà Financial growth Group employees 813 880 840 A diverse, Number of Crèdit Andorrà employees professional team (companies based in Andorra) 481 510 475 Training for professional growth Note: The subsidiary in Paraguay ceased operations in 2015 and the Portuguese branch Banque de Patrimoines Privés was added in 2016. The subsidiary Banco Alcalá was set up in Valencia in 2017 and the Crèdit Andorrà and Banco Crèdit Andorrà (Panama) representative offices in Uruguay ceased operations, as well as the Banque de Patrimoines Privés branch in Portugal. Safe working environment Goals Distribution of employees by Luxembourg 9.0% country Andorra 56.5% Switzerland 1.4% Spain Miami (USA) 16.8% 4.5% Mexico 3.7% Panama 6.4% Peru 1.3% Chile 32 0.2% Committed to the future 840 employees 92% Staff with permanent 17,6% Staff turnover rate At the service contracts of the team 93 8.8% Efficient management 98% New hires Voluntary staff departures to accompany Staff working full time growth A diverse, professional team 50% 17% 13,31 New employees hired Years at Crèdit Andorrà on Staff between 36 and Training for in Andorra average (11.46 years for professional 50 years old growth men and 15.07 years for women) Safe working environment Goals 75% Retention rate after maternity or paternity leave (82% female and 67% male) 31% 50% Employees with Female staff Andorran nationality 57% 22% Employees from companies 54% Females in Employees from the executive roles established rest of Europe in Andorra 45% 35 56% Females in other roles Executives from the Different nationalities local community of on staff country where the 58% subsidiary is located Females in other roles 33 Committed to the future Training for professional growth Our training policy promotes the continuing development of employee abilities and skills, identifying and responding to the current and future training needs of the 514 employees participated At the service different collectives within the Group. in the legal training, which totaled of the team The training programs and actions are in line with the business strategy, actively over 3,250 training hours. Efficient management participating in the transmission of culture, values, knowledge and strategic to accompany challenges. growth A diverse, In 2017 we focused our training activity on priority topics taken from the current professional team regulatory context. Training for Type of training given professional growth Skills development Safe working environment Crèdit Andorrà data (companies based in Andorra) in 2017 Legal 1% Goals 13% Management 1% Commercial and sales 1% Prevention of occupational and other hazards 5% Financial Organization and and banking applications 21% 6% Languages 52% 34 Committed to the future Average training hours per employee according to gender and working category 2017 At the service of the team Men Women Senior Intermediate Other staff Senior Intermediate Other staff Both genders Efficient management management roles management roles to accompany growth Andorra 51.24 52.91 52.05 A diverse, Spain 7.78 3.57 0.83 0.00 3.33 3.33 22.61 professional team Training for Luxembourg N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 18.61 professional growth Mexico 0.00 1.25 10.00 10.00 1.00 1.25 1.79 Safe working Miami (USA) 11.67 11.88 9.75 23.71 2.67 2.25 11.32 environment Peru 5.00 Goals Switzerland 3.00 3.00 0.00 3.00 48.00 3.00 7.09 Panama 18.60 10.67 12.41 37.60 17.33 12.29 15.72 Chile Extension of performance management to 96% Staff who subsidiaries received training The performance evaluation system we have in place is an annual process that Staff whose identifies the people with the best performances within the Group. The aim is to offer a complete and objective overview of the professional competencies or skills performance is €694 evaluated Average investment in training of each employee, providing information with added value that will make it possible per employee to develop skills and performance, and emphasizing the corporate values. 100% in Andorra 23% Training given during working 81% hours in the Group overall 35 Committed to the future Safe working environment We are committed to ensuring the At the service of the team safety and protection of our employees, Prevention of occupational hazards and absenteeism indicators Efficient working toward their wellbeing and management occupational health, minimizing hazards 2017 to accompany growth and allocating the necessary resources Andorra Spain Luxembourg (*) Mexico Miami (USA) Peru Switzerland Panama Chile to develop preventive activities. A diverse, Hours of professional team In 2017 we adapted the workplaces training in Training for with specific ergonomic materials ORP 742 21 0 0 3 2 0 0 0 professional growth in order to prevent pathologies and Sick leave Men 34 11 150 0 5 1 0 0 0 improve day-to-day work in the according to Safe working environment office. As part of the prevention and gender Women 68 27 267 0 3 0 0 0 0 physical safety policies for customers Days lost due Men 1,470 87 150 0 68 263 0 9 0 Goals and employees, we carried out first to sick leave aid training and since 2016 we have according to gender Women 2,551 557 267 0 39 0 0 197 0 been certified as a cardio-protected company. Men 3.9% 0.30% 4.71% 1.39% 6.61% 0.00% 0.00% 0.56% 0.00% Absenteeism Since 2012 we have been certified for rate Women 5.0% 0.74% 12.61% 1.33% 5.79% 0.00% 0.00% 3.65% 0.00% indoor environmental quality for the Ròdol d’Escaldes-Engordany * The data from Luxembourg only include Banque de Patrimoines Privés. Note: The absenteeism rate includes occupational accidents, accidents on the way to or from work, illness-related and long-term temporary disability. Sick leave due to maternity or paternity leave is excluded. building in accordance with UNE 100012 standards: • Cleaning of air-conditioning systems. • UNE 171330-1: Indoor Environmental Quality Assessment. • UNE 171330-2: Indoor Environmental Quality Assessment Inspection Procedure. 36 Committed to the future Goals At the service of the team 2017 Efficient Description, valuation and establishment of the professional classification of Crèdit Andorrà subsidiaries. In progress management to accompany growth Deployment of the project to resize and improve the competitiveness of the Group and subsidiaries. Achieved A diverse, professional team Alignment of the variable remuneration policy with the levels of professional classification. In progress Training for professional Deployment of the Employee Portal on the intranet across the Group, and WeCrèdit, with the U Talk application on all employee Achieved growth phones. Safe working environment Goals 2018 Extension of the cultural model to all geographical locations using performance assessment. Description, valuation and establishment of the professional classification of Crèdit Andorrà subsidiaries. Alignment of the variable remuneration policy with the levels of professional classification. Ongoing review of the Group’s size. 37 Committed to the future At the Letter from service of the the CEO Presentation of the report 2017 in figures Committed community to the future Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group At the service of the customer At the service The values of Crèdit Andorrà 6 10 FUNDACIÓ of the team 5 1 4 2 CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ At the service #Leadership 3 AND WELLBEING 4 EDUCATION 3 HEALTH of the 2 HIGH-QUALITY community #Clear, transparent 1 At the service of the environment communication 3 Appendix. #Proactiveness and 4 Materiality, GRI Table of Contents innovation 9 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 5 and Table of the Principles of the 8 13 CLIMATE ACTION GROWTH 6 Global Compact 7 1 CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ 2 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 3 €2.8m invested in the community 9 4 5 8 6 7 7 9 8 38 Committed to the future Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community The involvement in the development and progress of Andorran society through At the service of the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà is supplemented by initiatives promoted from the bank community aimed at making the business fabric more dynamic, developing the country’s Consolidated economic drivers and protecting the environment. global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the Economic, institutional and environmental initiatives country Training, the key to the future 30.59% 25.84% 29.24% 68.36% 73.55% 67.17% Culture, within 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 everyone’s reach Closer to people Addressing social needs Goals Education Society Culture Other Economic Sports Environment stimulation sponsorships 25.20% 33.99% 39.43% 1.38% 58.07% 41.93% 3.60% 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 29.05% 34.72% 35.33% 0.90% 47.35% 52.65% 0.61% 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 22.51% 43.64% 33.73% 0.13% 56.77% 43.23% 1.05% 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 39 Committed to the future At the service of the community Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Committed to Andorra Training for the future Dedication to service Contributing to the development Promoting training and the disseResponding to the needsof Fundació Crèdit Andorrà of Andorra and its citizens minationof knowledge as values the regions where the Group is for generating progress present. Committed to the country Training, the key to the future Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Fundació Crèdit Andorrà began its social work in 1987 with the creation of a scholarship Culture, within program for young people and, later, it broadened its activity with initiatives in the areas assumes a leadership everyone’s reach of culture and social action. In 2017 it celebrated 30 years as the country’s main private role in our commitment Closer to people foundation, both in terms of the resources allocated as well as the number of programs to Andorran society, Addressing social it carries out. needs Goals Investment in 2017 which has led it to become the country's Culture most important private 39.43% foundation, both in terms of resources Education as well as initiatives 25.20% promoted. Others projects 1.38% Society 33.99% 40 Committed to the future Committed to the country We are firmly committed to the main drivers of the Andorran economy, a commitment that takes shape through different sponsorship programs At the service and collaborations. of the community Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà #CrèditAndorràWithTheSnow Committed to the country Training, the key to the future The sponsorships and agreements renewed with the main agents in the sector represent a significant Culture, within everyone’s reach investment that takes shape from three perspectives: strategic (we hold shares in Ensisa and Nevasa), Closer to people competitive (we sponsor high-level sports events and Addressing social support the Andorran Skiing Federation) and training needs (with agreements with ski schools). Goals • Promotional agreement and sponsorship for the ski resorts of Grandvalira, Vallnord and Naturlandia. • Sponsorship of the Andorran Skiing Federation (FAE) and economic collaboration with the Alpine skiers who meet the requirements established by the FAE (three skiers in 2017). Presentation of the Andorran Skiing Federation team. © ANA 41 Committed to the future Commitment to In cooperation with At the service of the community Consolidated multifaceted promotion the business fabric global investment of Crèdit Andorrà of tourism We support the business world • Collaboration with Automòbil in the community Tourism and commerce are also through ongoing involvement in Club d’Andorra. Fundació key economic sectors of the private and public initiatives that • Sponsorship of the European Crèdit Andorrà Andorran economy. At Crèdit contribute to the main business and Dialogs in Andorra series, in Committed Andorrà, we support these sectors association sectors in Andorra. collaboration with the Spanish to the country by collaborating on events that are • Andorra la Vella Fair 2017. Embassy. Training, the key to the future tourist attractions and benchmark • Sponsorship of the 68th World • Second Conference on Innovation initiatives to promote them. In Congress of the International Real and New Technologies in Andorra Culture, within everyone’s reach addition, from a strategic perspective, Estate Federation (FIABCI). (INNTEC). Crèdit Andorrà holds shares in Caldea Closer to people • Collaboration with the Pyrenees • Sponsorship of the 3rd Conference and Grandvalira. Business Meeting Association and on Investment and Business in Addressing social For the second year we promoted sponsorship of the 28th Pyrenees Andorra, which took place in needs the El meu cor botiga per Andorra Business Meeting, Strategies for a Madrid. Goals campaign among stores in Andorra, changing framework. through which the bank does a • Collaboration with Andorran Family monthly raffle for €1,000 out of all Business and sponsorship of the the purchases made in the country. 16th Forum, The Strength of Values, The campaign is designed to support and the 19th Family Business commerce and to reward shoppers. and Quality Series, Technological Changes and Social Entrepreneurship. 42 Committed to the future Training, the key 5th Calvó Armengol International Prize to the future Awarded to Professor Melissa Dell, Julen Bacou Sanz from Harvard University Master of Science in Investment Young people, At the service of the & Wealth Management, Imperial community College Business School, Consolidated tomorrow’s guarantee London. global investment of Crèdit Andorrà The promotion of training and the in the community dissemination of knowledge are the Fundació aims that motivated the founding of Crèdit Andorrà Fundació Crèdit Andorrà. David Font Bernet Committed to the Master’s in Contemporary Melissa Dell. country Technological and Performance Art, University of the Basque Training, the key to the future Country, Bilbao. Culture, within Fundació Crèdit Andorrà everyone’s reach Scholarships Closer to people  ollaboration with the C Addressing social Since 1987 Bryan Dennys University of Andorra Giménez González needs 197 students Master’s in Law, University of the Balearic Islands, Collaboration with the higher Goals awarded professional studies cycle Palma de Mallorca. scholarships and support for the Andorran Postgraduate in Law, midwife training and other seminars from the University of Andorra. €5m invested David Pereiro Cortés Master of Science in Motorsport 155 students Engineering, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford. Clàudia Valdés Tomàs Master’s in Law, ESADE Law School, Barcelona. 43 Committed to the future Business people and entrepreneurs, the country’s driving force We offer business people and entrepreneurs a wide range of talks and conferences At the service featuring the participation of experts in various areas of economic current affairs of the community with the aim of improving the skills and knowledge of Andorra’s business fabric. Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the country Training, the key to the future Talks Educational conferences Culture, within • Andorran tax regulations: • Introduction to Solvency II everyone’s reach implications and classification of Conference, organized by CA Closer to people tax offenses, by Antoni Bisbal, Vincles Actuarial Consulting with economist and managing partner the collaboration of the Actuaries Addressing social at Crowe Horwath Andorra, and Association of Catalonia, aimed needs Joan Iglesias, ex-inspector from the at professionals in the insurance Goals Spanish Treasury Department and sector to provide information partner in the tax department at about the fundamentals of the new Crowe Horwath Spain. legislation and how they affect the • Sponsorship of TEDx Andorra la management of insurance entities. Vella. • Sponsorship of the Andorra • Practical Aspects of Related Statistical and Statistics Conference, Transactions, by Antoni Bisbal, promoted by the Andorran Sciences economist and partner in the tax Society (SAC). department at Crowe Horwath Alfa Capital, and Jordi Bech, economist partner in the tax department at Crowe Horwath Spain. • Investing in Value: A philosophy to achieve sustained yields, by Francisco García Paramés, CEO of Antoni Bisbal and Joan Iglesias, during the talk Andorran tax regulations: implications and classification of tax offenses. COBAS Asset Management. 44 Committed to the future Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organizations and Humanism, at IESE The Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organizations and Humanism was created At the service together with IESE Business School in 2006 to foster interaction between the of the community business and university worlds and promote the exchange of experiences and ideas to contribute to social and economic progress. Under the direction of Consolidated global investment Professor Josep Maria Rosanas, the Chair organizes and promotes talks, seminars of Crèdit Andorrà and publications. in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the country Training, the key to the future Culture, within everyone’s reach Closer to people Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum Addressing social This annual series of talks was born out of the desire to give the general public needs of Andorra the opportunity to hear prominent speakers provide analysis of the Goals current reality while looking to the future. The aim is to encourage a space for knowledge, debate and opinion on economic current affairs and social, educational, technological, cultural, health and tourism topics, among others. Franz Heukamp. Carlos Martínez Mongay. • The World in 2017: Critical executive skills in a changing environment, by Franz Heukamp, Dean of IESE. • How to Survive Disruption and Move Forward in the Digital age, by Genís Roca, partner and Chairman of RocaSalvatella, a business consulting firm specializing in the digital transformation of organizations, their processes and business models. • Economic Situation and Institutional Debate in the Euro Zone, by Carlos Martínez Mongay, Director of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs, responsible for monitoring the economies and policies of new Member States. • Listening to educate, by César Bona, teacher, writer and Global Teacher Prize finalist. Genís Roca. César Bona. © Eduard Comellas 45 Committed to the future Culture, within everyone’s reach Musical creation At the service of the community 24th season of the Andorran National Classical Orchestra Ordino Festivals Association Consolidated Foundation (ONCA) global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community During its 24th season, the Andorran National Classical Orchestra Foundation • Ordino and Fundació Crèdit • Narciso Yepes Festival in Ordino, (ONCA) continued to work to bring music to as may people as possible. Andorrà New Year’s Eve sponsored by the Crèdit Andorrà Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Concert. Foundation. Committed to the • Creating high-quality productions. country •S  trengthening the Andorran National Youth Chamber Orchestra (JONCA). 488 attendees 1,200 attendees Training, the key to the future • Promoting an educational and appealing project based on creative Culture, within workshops. everyone’s reach 18th edition of the Orgue&nd •D  eveloping the Community and Social Impact socio-educational project . Closer to people International Festival Addressing social needs 13,272 attendees 8 Goals 1,350 attendees concerts Basket Beat initiative as part of the Community and Social Impact project. (C) ANA Miguel Poveda at the Narciso Yepes Festival. © Jean-Luc Herbert 46 Committed to the future At the service Promoting theatrical arts of the community Consolidated global investment Again this year we supported the of Crèdit Andorrà Andorran National Cultural Foundation, in the community an entity dedicated to promoting the Fundació performing arts in this country. Its 10th Crèdit Andorrà season brought together textual theater, Committed to the new stage formats, theater education country and family shows. Training, the key to the future 10th season of the Andorran Culture, within everyone’s reach Closer to people National Cultural Foundation 6 performances Addressing social needs Goals 1,164 attendees Promoting publications We promote publications with economic content and about specific aspects of Andorra. • Quaderns d’Estudis Andorrans (Andorran Studies Workbooks) (10th volume), promoted by the Cercle de les Arts i de les Lletres (Arts and Humanities Circle) with the aim of encouraging the study and dissemination of the history and art of Andorra. • El país en xifres 2016 (The Country in Figures 2016), a publication Vertical dance. that brings together the main © ANA macroeconomic data for Andorra. 47 Committed to the future Closer to people Sports for personal development At the service of the We continue to promote sports by sponsoring popular initiatives framed community within different disciplines: skiing, mountain sports, motorsport, golf and others. Consolidated global investment of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the country Training, the key to the future Culture, within everyone’s reach One of the winners at the last edition of Ultra Trail. © ANA Closer to people Addressing social needs Senior citizens are an asset Goals L’Espai is the activity and community center for senior citizens from Fundació Crèdit Andorrà, where the majority of initiatives are focused to promote an active lifestyle and the welfare of this age group. The 10th Senior Citizens’ Conference was held in 2017, an initiative of the Escaldes-Engordany community and Fundació Crèdit Andorrà. 1,213 registrations 418 volunteers at AVIM 1,088 teaching hours 48 Guided tour of the Romanesque Andorra Interpretation Center. © Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Committed to the future Addressing social needs At the service Up-to-date health of the community Consolidated The Fundació Crèdit Andorrà’s Up-to-Date Health program is aimed at collaborating in the improvement of the health and quality of life of the population 3 global investment talks of Crèdit Andorrà through informational and training activities aimed at people affected by problems in the community and diseases with a great social impact. Fundació 323 Crèdit Andorrà attendees > Collection of preventative guides for parents and children. 1 Committed to the country >T o Your Health educational program. >W orkshop for people affected by cancer and one for their families. new guide for Training, the key to the future >M ultiple sclerosis workshops. Continuity in the project. young people and adolescents Culture, within everyone’s reach Closer to people Addressing social Càritas Andorrana Breaking down Concòrdia program needs Goals Food Bank barriers We continue to support the program 308 women to donate units of umbilical cord blood. registered Our support for this entity comes in the We sponsor the Special Olympics In 2017, the first unit of cord blood form of a supply of food, personal hygiene Andorra Federation to make the obtained through the Andorran and household products. athletes’ social integration possible. program was delivered for transplant. > Participation of the Andorran delegation in the World Winter 175 Games in Austria. umbilical cord 98 > Sponsorship of the 8 International th units collected families who benefit from the Skiing Trophy. Food Bank > Sponsorship of Special Territory. 57% of women who gave 398.59 kg birth were registered of food collected for the program 49 Committed to the future Goals At the service of the 2017 community Consolidated Offer good practices for young people and adolescents through the publication of a preventive guide on eating Achieved global investment disorders. of Crèdit Andorrà in the community Fundació Continue to contribute new content to current educational, social and cultural programs.(*) Achieved Crèdit Andorrà (*) Continuous goal Committed to the country Training, the key to the future 2018 Culture, within everyone’s reach Publish a guide on drug use. Closer to people Addressing social Broaden the collaboration with health bodies and organizations to improve care for the ill. needs Goals Define the ONCA Social educational program. 50 Committed to the future At the Letter from the CEO service Presentation of the report of the 2017 in figures Committed environment to the future Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group At the service of the customer At the service The values of Crèdit Andorrà 5 6 10 Collaboration with the of the team 4 1 2 United Nations Environment At the service #Goal-oriented 3 Programme Finance Initiative: of the community #Proactiveness and 2 3 HEALTH AND WELLBEING 4 HIGH-QUALITY EDUCATION UNEP FI 1 At the service of the environment innovation 3 #Teamwork 4 Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table of Contents 9 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC 5 Sponsorship of the and Table of the Principles of the 8 13 CLIMATE ACTION GROWTH 6 first hybrid bus Global Compact 7 1 2 12 RESPONSIBLE 9 INDUSTRY, 100% CONSUMPTION INNOVATION AND AND PRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE 3 4 9 5 of outdoor signs with LED 8 6 7 7 9 8 51 Committed to the future Responsible environmental management Environmental management is a part of the Crèdit Andorrà’s responsibility activity, in terms of minimizing the most significant impacts on the environment and fighting At the climate change. service of the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental Strategic environmental goals management Energy efficiency and emissions Optimizing consumption and improved waste management Goals Energy saving The fight Sustainable Waste Responsible Environmental Offer products and efficiency against mobility minimization purchase and training and that provide climate change and reuse consumption of awareness for environmental materials employees, benefits clients and society 52 Committed to the future At the service of the environment Sustainable mobility and fight Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental against climate change management In order to reduce travel during the working day, we equipped rooms to facilitate Energy efficiency and emissions the use of video conferencing, while we also continued to sponsor the first hybrid bus in Andorra and the electric mobility conference organized by FEDA and the Optimizing consumption and Automòbil Club d’Andorra (ACA) to provide information about more sustainable improved waste methods of transportation. management Goals In addition, with the aim of promoting initiatives to fight against climate change, we have the Crèdit Cotxe Verd (Green Car Loan), designed for purchasing electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, as well as the Regenera Loan, for projects that meet the criteria of the Andorra Regenera certification, to foster sustainable and energy efficient construction or renovation. Improvements for more sustainable buildings We continue working to incorporate environmental improvements in refurbishments and remodeling, in accordance with the environmental criteria established in the construction criteria report. 53 Presentation of the electric mobility conference organized by FEDA and ACA. Committed to the future Institutional commitment At the service of the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s Crèdit Andorrà sponsored the 5th Pyrenean Symposium on Snow and Avalanches, environmental which took place in Ordino. This is a meeting point where structured talks and management posters were presented on mountain meteorology, snow and water resources, Energy efficiency climate change, avalanche prediction, avalanche cartography, avalanche dynamics, and emissions prevention and protection, safety in mountain activities and dissemination. Optimizing consumption and improved waste management Goals Sustainable investments Evolution of the Crediinvest SICAV Sustainability The Crediinvest SICAV Sustainability fund makes it possible to invest in funds that meet corporate social responsibility criteria. The main areas of investment are 19 focused on companies linked to water management and companies dedicated to the production of efficient materials for construction and transport, which contribute 18 to reducing energy consumption. With total fund assets of 3.38 million, the yield in 17 2017 was 8.56%. 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 54 Committed to the future Energy efficiency and emissions At the service of the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s Total energy consumption environmental management Energy dropped by 13.2%. • 100% of the outdoor signs with Energy efficiency Energy consumption fell significantly in 2017 thanks to the implementation of the LED-type lighting: allowed for and emissions digital transformation project through the Salesforce platform and reducing the data savings of 25 MWh, representing Optimizing centers, which entailed the reduction of electricity consumption due to the lower 34.72% in consumption. consumption and requirements for cooling and uninterrupted power supplies (UPS). Moreover, it is improved waste • Eliminating one of the two data management worth noting that the change in the sign lighting system was completed this year, centers for the ICA building allowed Goals switching to an LED lighting system. The drop in diesel consumption is due to for a savings of 19.41% on energy lower air-conditioning demand in the offices. consumption. • Reduction of the space occupied by the data center at headquarters, which has meant a drop in cooling demand, reducing the building’s Ròdol and ICA buildings, branch offices and Headquarters energy consumption by 20%. 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend MW h 4,909 5,115 4,509 -11.9% kWh/m2 of office space 258.7 269.58 237.64 -11.8% Electricity consumption kWh/employee 9,262.5 9,175.3 8,897.1 -3.0% MW h 2,473 2,600 2,187 -15.9% Diesel consumption kWh/m2 of office space* 181.39 198.82 167.24 -15.9% Total energy consumption kWh/m2 of office space* 7,382 7,715 6,696 -13.2% Note: Data from October to September. *Includes facilities air conditioned using diesel. 55 Committed to the future At the service of the environment Emissions Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental CO2 emissions management Energy efficiency 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend and emissions Direct CO2 emissions (scope 1) Optimizing consumption and Diesel (t of CO2) 654.45 688.04 577.92 -16.0% improved waste Indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) management Electricity (t of CO2)(*) 795.28 905.40 798.09 -11.9% Goals Other indirect emissions (magnitude 3) Business trips 153.35 189.24 234.68 24.0% Waste generation (paper, cardboard, newspapers, plastic and toners) 9.43 5.17 4.10 -20.7% Paper consumption (internal and for customers) 116.24 115.65 41.64 -64.0% Water consumption 3.57 4.09 2.18 -46.6% Toner consumption 13.64 13.35 11.75 -12.0% Note: Data from October to September. (*) Source: Data from FEDA’s 2016 sustainability report. Intensity of CO2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend t of CO2 stemming from energy consumption//100 m 2 of office space 7.6 8.4 7.3 -13.6% t of CO2 stemming from energy consumption/employee 2.7 2.9 2.7 -5.0% Note: Data from October to September. 56 Committed to the future Optimizing consumption and improved waste management At the service of the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental Water management Energy efficiency and emissions Optimizing Ròdol and ICA buildings, branch offices and Headquarters The replacement of the consumption and improved waste air-conditioning system management 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend with cooling towers at the Goals m3 9,029 10,358 5,529 -46.6% headquarters with a variable refrigerant flow (VRF) system m3/m2 of office space 0.48 0.55 0.29 -46.6 % allowed for a 67% savings Water consumption m3/employee 17.04 18.58 10.91 -41.3% on the building’s water Note: Data from October to September. consumption, representing a 46.6% reduction in water consumption across Crèdit Andorrà. 57 Committed to the future At the service of the Materials environment In 2017 there was less paper and toner consumption, mainly due to implementing Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental technological improvements in the offices and corporate buildings, as well management as reducing mailings to customers thanks to the improvements in document Energy efficiency management offered by the e-Crèdit online service. and emissions Optimizing consumption and Consumption of materials improved waste management 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend Goals t 45.75 45.52 39.13 -14.0% Paper(*) kg/employee 86.31 81.64 77.19 -5.5% Units 1,430 1,399 1,231 -12.0% Toners Units/employee 2.7 2.51 2.43 -3.2% Note: Data from October to September. (*) Includes paper consumed internally and given to customers. 58 Committed to the future At the service of the Waste environment The initiatives that made it possible to reduce paper consumption also entailed a Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental reduction of paper waste. This reduction has not be reflected in the case of toners, management since the replacement of equipment—resulting from technology updates—meant Energy efficiency switching toner models and, consequently, more waste was generated. In the case and emissions of fluorescents, the increase is associated with the maintenance plan. Optimizing consumption and improved waste management Waste generated Goals 2015 2016 2017 2016-2017 Trend Treatment kg 11,600 14,575 12,200 -16.3% Recycling. Office paper kg/employee 21.9 26.14 24.07 -7.9% Specialized manager kg 3,112 4,636 4,358 -6.0% Recycling. Cardboard kg/employee 5.9 8.32 8.60 3.4% Specialized manager kg 2,120 2,596 2,830 9.0% Recycling. Newspapers kg/employee 4.0 4.66 5.58 19.9% Specialized manager kg 1,727 1,589 1,631 2.6% Plastics and light Recycling. packaging kg/employee 3.3 2.85 3.22 12.9% Specialized manager Units 613 278 330 18.7% Recycling. Toners Units/employee 1.2 0.50 0.65 30.6% Specialized manager Units 1,835 575 937 63.0% Units/100 m of office 2 Recycling. Fluorescent lamps space 9.7 3.03 4.94 63.0% Landfill Note: Data from October to September. (*) Includes paper consumed internally and given to customers. 59 Committed to the future Minimizing environmental impact At the service of the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental 39.1 t management Energy efficiency and emissions 4,509 MWh Electricity consumption Paper consumption 2,187MWh 1,376 t Optimizing consumption and improved waste (-11.9% vs. 2016) (-14.0% vs. 2016) 12.2 t management Goals Diesel consumption CO2 emissions, scope 1 and 2 (-15.9% vs. 2016) (-13.6% vs. 2016) Office paper waste (-16.3% vs. 2016) 5,529 m3 Water consumption (-46.6% vs. 2016) 60 Committed to the future Goals 2017 At the service of the 30% reduction in energy consumption associated with data centers at the headquarters and the ICA building. Achieved environment Crèdit Andorrà’s Replace the air-conditioning system with cooling towers at the headquarters with a variable refrigerant flow (VRF) system. Achieved environmental management Replacement of monitoring software (consumption of water and electricity) at the headquarters to have a tool that allows for more In progress Energy efficiency accurate management and improving and optimizing consumption. and emissions Optimizing Analyze the feasibility of offsetting Crèdit Andorrà’s carbon emissions thorough a country project promoted jointly with interested Not achieved consumption and improved waste companies. management Goals Analyze and adapt the Encamp office to obtain Regenera certification for efficient construction. In progress Eliminate the cleaning products used at the headquarters and replace them with an ozone disinfection system. In progress Continue the internal campaign to raise awareness of CO2 emissions both internally and externally. Achieved Promote actions to contribute to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal regarding Climate Action. In progress 2018 For 2018, in addition Prepare a study to reduce to the minimum the paper associated with our customers’ face-to-face transactions. to continue working to achieve the goals Carry out a study to assess the possibilities of reducing the communications sent on paper to customers. that are in progress, we are setting out the Define an environmental volunteering program that will foster the human resources’ involvement in improving the environment. following: Reduce the CO2 emissions and air pollution generated by the conventional vehicles in the Crèdit Andorrà fleet. Reduce the electricity consumption of Crèdit Andorrà’s data processing centers. 61 Committed to the future Appendix. Materiality, GRI Table of Contents and Table of the Principles of the Global Compact Appendix Materiality analysis This appendix supplements the content of the Crèdit Andorrà Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017. It is the fourteenth Crèdit Andorrà report of its kind published by Crèdit Andorrà and covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, except for the and the Sustainable quantitative data in the section on the environment, which covers the year from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. Development Goals The report covers the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. Crèdit Andorrà SA is the dominant company of the subsidiaries listed in the Corporate Activities Report (page 15). In this regard, the information presented corresponds to the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Table of contents from Group, excluding the data in the customers and environment sections, which refer exclusively to the Group’s companies located the GRI in the Principality of Andorra. The economic and financial information included was obtained from the consolidated financial statements. Table of contents of the Global Compact 62 Committed to the future Materiality analysis A materiality analysis was carried out for the 2015 edition of the Corporate 2. Prioritisation Appendix Social Responsibility Report to determine which issues are relevant to Crèdit Andorrà. Since there were no significant operational changes in 2016 and For prioritisation of the aforementioned issues, and following the principles Materiality analysis 2017, the results are considered current and valid. of accountability and Standard AA1000SES (2011) in our relationship with stakeholders, we carried out a specific investigation using an online survey Crèdit Andorrà and the to rate the diverse issues based on their level of importance for the Group’s Sustainable Development 1. Identification sustainable development. This evaluation involved the participation of all of the Goals group’s internal and external stakeholders. After the statistical analysis of the This exercise involved carrying out a sectoral benchmarking study on CSR best responses received, the level of importance of each issue was determined and Table of contents from practices on a global scale. Furthermore, on an internal level, the main strategic shown on the materiality matrix. Once the process was concluded and the the GRI lines and values of the cultural model were considered, and on an external topics and level of importance determined, all issues with high importance for Table of level, the following reference standards for sustainability were considered: the organisation and its stakeholders (high-medium and medium-high and contents of The Global Reporting Initiative and Asset Management, Commercial Banks, medium-medium, respectively) were considered material. the Global Compact Insurance and Investment Standards of Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Governance & Accountability. 3. Validation The topics identified were divided into six categories: The results obtained were analysed in detail in order to ensure that we offer • Sector (business strategy and economic management). a reasonable and balanced vision for the sustainable and responsible • Ethics and integrity (good corporate governance and compliance). development of Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group internally and with the • Service (customer relations and product responsibility). participation of managers and the departments and areas most directly related • People (team management). to the strategic issues of CSR As a result of this vertical analysis, we also • Environment (environmental management). considered it important to determine the following aspects as material: • Relationship with society (social action and involvement with the country). internationalisation, efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, water, etc.), CO2 emissions, risk management, opportunities derived from climate change, and the management and minimisation of generated waste. Furthermore, information related to non-material issues according to GRI G4 is reported as this enables the group’s CSR efforts to be explained in more detail. 63 Committed to the future Materiality matrix Low Medium High Leadership in Andorran banking Sustained and sustainable economic results Appendix Helping customers to make better informed Asset and operations risk control and financial decisions comprehensive management Relevance for stakeholders Materiality analysis Compliance and adaptation to regulatory and legislative changes Crèdit Andorrà and the Operating with maximum transparency, creating trust Sustainable High and credibility Development Business ethics and prevention of corruption, money Goals laundering and fraud Table of Ensuring the correct behaviour of the organisation’s contents from governing bodies the GRI Quality and efficiency in customer service Table of Ensuring the privacy and security of customer data contents of the Global Promoting initiatives of value to customers and society Proactivity and innovation in products and Compact Responsibility in purchases from suppliers services Offering products and services designed to provide environmental Creating employment and managing the Medium or social benefit working environment for employee satisfaction Universality in care and service for all customer segments Management of talent, training and the personal improvement of employees Promotion of social progress with initiatives driven by Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Relevance for stakeholders Inclusion of social and environmental aspects in the Group strategy Business diversification Internationalisation Consideration for social and environmental criteria in operations Benefit programs for employees Technological innovation to improve customer service Contribution to Andorra’s economic development and that of the countries in which the Group Performance evaluation and professional performance methods operates Promotion of equality and balance between work and personal life Assurance of health & safety and wellbeing at work Local contracting and competitive salaries Low Management and control of environmental impacts Efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, water, etc.) CO2 emissions and management of risks and opportunities resulting from climate change Management and minimisation of waste generated Consideration of environmental criteria in the construction and remodeling of offices Establishment of links and alliances with territorial entities Low Medium High 64 Relevance for Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group Sector Ethics and integrity Service People Environment Relationship with society (Material aspects in bold) Committed to the future Material topics and coverage Appendix Coverage and limit Materiality Internal External analysis Asset management Partner companies Crèdit Andorrà Social activity and wealth and the Banking and Customers Sustainable Insurance Suppliers Development financial management Society Goals Category and subject Topics services Table of contents from SECTOR the GRI Sustained and sustainable economic results Economic performance Table of contents of Leadership in Andorran banking Andorran banking leadership (*) the Global Asset and operations risk control and comprehensive Audit Compact management Internationalisation Risk control and management (*) Proactivity and innovation in products and services Internationalisation and business diversification (*) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Compliance and adaptation to regulatory and legislative Regulatory compliance Society changes Regulatory compliance Product responsibility Operating with maximum transparency, creating trust Information transparency for markets and customers (*) and credibility Business ethics and prevention of corruption, money Combating corruption laundering and fraud Business ethics (*) Ensuring the correct behaviour of organisation’s Good governance (*) governing bodies SERVICES Helping customers to make better informed financial decisions: Labeling of products and services communicating with transparency and clarity, and providing Financial education (*) financial education Quality and efficiency in customer service Quality and efficiency in customer service (*) Ensuring the privacy and security of customer data Health and safety reviews IT security (*) 65 Committed to the future Coverage and limit Internal External Asset management Partner companies Appendix Social activity and wealth Banking and Insurance Customers Suppliers Materiality financial management Society analysis Category and subject Topics services Crèdit Andorrà and the PEOPLE Sustainable Development Creating employment and managing the working environment Employment Goals for employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction (*) Table of contents from Management of talent, training and the personal improvement Training and education the GRI of employees Performance and professional effort assessment methods Training and education Table of contents of Benefit programmes for employees Benefits (*) the Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Efficiency in resource consumption (electricity, paper, water, Materials etc.) Energy Water CO2 emissions and management of risks and opportunities Emissions resulting from climate change Management and minimisation of waste generated Effluent and waste RELATIONSHIP WITH SOCIETY Promotion of social progress with initiatives in educational, Local communities social and cultural areas driven by Fundació Crèdit Andorrà (*) Additional topics not included in the GRI Standards. 66 Committed to the future Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development Goals Appendix Relevant SDGs Key initiatives Materiality • Clau Visa Unicef project to combat HIV-AIDS in Africa analysis • “A la vostra salut” (To Your Health) educational programme Crèdit Andorrà • “La força dels grans” (The Strength of Senior Citizens) project (in L’espai) and the • “La salut al dia” (Up-to-date Health) programme Sustainable Development • “Concòrdia” programme for obtaining units of umbilical cord Goals • Collaboration with patients’ associations • Sponsorship of mass sporting events Table of Guaranteeing a health life and promoting contents from well-being for everyone at all ages • Collection of preventative guides for parents and children the GRI • Insurance and other health products (Pla Integral d’Assistència Mèdica (Comprehensive Medical Healthcare Plan), Crèditsalut) Table of • Support for the Biotech fund (private equities) contents of the Global • Fundació Crèdit Andorrà grants programme for young people Compact • Esquí Estudi programme • Student funding products (Crèdit Estudis (Study Loans), CrèditPla Estudiant Dinàmic o Assegurat (Dynamic or Insured Student Credit Plan), Estudiant Piolet Plans, University of Andorra loans) • Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organisations and Humanities at IESE and Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum • Regular training talks and workshops for business people and entrepreneurs in economics and finance • Contracting student interns (summer work placement with Crèdit Andorrà) • Career guidance workshops • Cooperation with the University of Andorra (postgraduate degree in law, professional improvement cycle, training for midwives) Guaranteeing inclusive, equal and quality • Publications of interest on economics, legal and other topics education and promoting life-long learning opportunities for everyone • Calvó Armengol International Prize • Cooperation with ONCA and the education project and social-educational programme “Comunitat i impacte social” (Community and Social Impact) • Collaboration with the Special Olympics Andorra • Colaboration with the Nostra Senyora de Meritxell Specialised School • Research: financial content platform open to the public • Support and collaboration with initiatives linked to the country’s main economic motors (tourism, commerce and snow) • Promotion and sponsorship of the Grandvalira, Vallnord ski resorts • Collaboration with the businesses and associations in Andorra • Sponsorship of the “Diàlegs europeus a Andorra” (European Dialogues in Andorra) programme • Agreement with the Agentas Employment Agency Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive • Sponsorship deals to promote tourism and commerce in Andorra (Grandvalira, Vallnord, skiing championships and courses, Fira d’Andorra la Vella) employment and decent work for everyone • Online retirement simulator 67 Committed to the future Relevant SDGs Key initiatives • Collaboration with Inntec Andorra conferences • Collaboration with Andorra clusters to create new economic sectors for the country • Participation in workshops with people linked to innovation and new technologies Appendix Materiality analysis Building resilient infrastructures, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation Crèdit Andorrà and fostering innovation and the Sustainable • Adherence to the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Development • Environmental quality certification for the interior of the Operational Services Central (OSC) buildings Goals • Environmental risk analysis for bank products Table of • Crediinvest Sicav Sustainability Funds contents from the GRI • Guide to good environmental practices (Sustainable Banking Guide) Guaranteeing sustainable forms of consumption and production Table of contents of • Sponsorship of the hybrid bus the Global Compact • Regenera loan • Cotxe Verd credit • Participation in producing the UNEP FI guide on Greenhouse Gas Accounting for the Financial Sector • Electric/sustainable mobility conference Adopting urgent measures to combat climate change and its effects • Fifth Pyrenean Symposium on Snow and Avalanches 68 Committed to the future Table of contents from the Global Reporting Initiative (102-54) “Compliance Exhaustive” option based on GRI Standards. Appendix Materiality analysis Basic general content Crèdit Andorrà GRI and the Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG Sustainable Development Perfil de l’organització Goals 102-1 Name of the organisation 12 Table of contents from 102-2 Activities brands, 12, 14 the GRI products and services The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group offers financial products and services belonging to private banking, retail banking and corporate banking. All the products and services it offers, including insurance and asset management, can be accessed by the public at our Table of branch offices or via the www.creditandorragroup.com website. contents of the Global Andorra Compact • Commercial banking. We deliver our motto, At your service and the service of the country, by providing solutions to customer needs and our willingness to provide a service with innovative and advanced products. With our new Retail and Corporate divisions, we’re responding to the demands of each kind of customer, offering personal service with a friendly smile thanks to the most extensive branch network in the country. • Private banking. We define ourselves as a boutique service with the support of a global financial framework in the area of wealth management, with premium services for our customers and differentiated and specialised treatment. The solidity of the Group in Andorra, reinforced by our presence in the financial markets of both Europe and America, helps us to establish long-term relationships with our investors. • Asset management. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management is the Group’s investment fund management and the oldest bank in the country. It offers discretionary, personalised management of portfolios and investment advice for private banking and wealth management customers, as well as the management of a wide range of investment funds. • Insurance Group. The Crèdit Andorrà Insurance Group is a leader in the Principality of Andorra, with products suitable for both individuals and companies. We’re present in the Andorran market via Crèdit Assegurances, the parent company which offers a wide range of life, risk and savings products, as well as the actuarial consultancy Vincles. In the world • Wealth Management. We offer global solutions for international private banking and wealth management, with an open architecture guided by our international financial platform: Andorra, Spain, Luxembourg, Switzerland, the United States (Miami), Mexico, Panama and Peru. With our boutique concept of banking, we provide a tailor-made customer service which is independent, specialised, multi-booking, flexible and includes personalised attention. • Insurance Group. We have a presence in Spain with ERM holding, offering comprehensive risk management as well as insurance services via CA Life Insurance Experts. We also have a presence in Chile with CA Vincles. 69 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-2 Activities brands, Social activity products and services • Fundació Crèdit Andorrà. It was founded in 1987 with a grant programme at its core. Since then, it has progressively broadened (cont.) its range of activities incorporating projects in three large thematic areas: education, culture and social programmes. It is currently Appendix the country’s main private foundation, both in the number of programmes carried out and in resources assigned. Materiality • Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organisations and Humanities at IESE. Created in 2006 and under the direction of Professor analysis Josep Maria Rosanas, its aim is to foster interaction between the business world and academia, as well as to encourage research, the social responsibility of business and corporate governance. Crèdit Andorrà and the 102-3 Location of Av. Meritxell, 80 Sustainable headquarters AD500 Andorra la Vella Development Principat d’Andorra Goals 102-4 Location of operations 14 Table of contents from 102-5 Ownership and legal Crèdit Andorrà SA is a public limited company whose corporate purpose is banking activities, which operates in the field of commercial the GRI form and private banking and is subject to the rules and regulations governing all financial institutions operating in Andorra. Crèdit Andorrà SA is the parent of the Group and along with its invested companies, they make up the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. Table of contents of 102-6 Markets served 14 the Global For further information, see the www.creditandorragroup.com website. Compact 102-7 Scale of the 8-9, 32 organisation Corporate business report (page 15). All products and services can be looked up on the www.creditandorragroup.com website. 102-8 Information on 9, 29, 32, 33 employees and other workers Workforce at 31 December 2015 2016 2017 Andorra 481 510 475 Spain 124 141 141 Luxembourg 62 66 76 Mexico 26 30 31 Miami (USA) 36 36 38 Peru 10 12 11 Switzerland 12 12 12 Panama 53 60 54 Chile 9 5 2 Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 813 880 840 70 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce with permanent contract employees and other workers (cont.) 2015 2016 2017 Appendix Andorra 91% 89% 88% Materiality analysis Spain 100% 97% 98% Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg 98% 100% 96% and the Sustainable Mexico 100% 100% 100% Development Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% Goals Peru 100% 100% 100% Table of contents from Switzerland 92% 100% 100% the GRI Panama 100% 97% 100% Table of contents of Chile 44% 100% 100% the Global Compact Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 94% 93% 92% Workforce working full time 2015 2016 2017 Andorra 100% 100% 100% Spain 89% 94% 98% Luxembourg 87% 88% 91% Mexico 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% Peru 100% 100% 100% Switzerland 92% 83% 75% Panama 98% 98% 100% Chile 100% 100% 100% Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 97% 98% 98% 71 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce according to gender and working category employees and other workers (cont.) 2015 2016 2017 Appendix Men 452 460 422 Materiality analysis Senior management 113 119 115 Crèdit Andorrà Intermediate positions 77 78 67 and the Sustainable Rest of the workforce 262 263 240 Development Women 361 420 418 Goals Senior management 22 26 32 Table of contents from Intermediate positions 43 51 54 the GRI Rest of the workforce 296 343 332 Table of contents of the Global Women on the workforce and in roles of responsibility Compact 2015 2016 2017 On the In roles of On the In roles of On the In roles of workforce responsibility workforce responsibility workforce responsibility Andorra 43% 23% 48% 26% 49% 27% Spain 52% 24% 53% 21% 55% 22% Luxembourg 34% 0% 38% 10% 43% 16% Mexico 58% 67% 60% 67% 61% 100% Miami (USA) 42% 60% 39% 56% 45% 55% Peru 40% 67% 58% 75% 64% 75% Switzerland 33% 25% 25% 33% 25% 33% Panama 51% 38% 52% 53% 56% 58% Chile 22% 0% 20% 0% 0% 0% Crèdit Andorrà 44% 25% 48% 29% 50% 32% Financial Group 72 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce according to gender and age group employees and other workers (cont.) 2015 2016 2017 Appendix Men Women Men Women Men Women Materiality analysis ≤ 25 years 452 361 460 420 422 418 26-30 years 16 23 18 25 13 22 Crèdit Andorrà and the 31-35 years 43 47 34 51 43 54 Sustainable Development 36-40 years 58 58 50 65 43 67 Goals 41-45 years 70 69 73 82 64 78 Table of 46-50 years 64 76 77 80 72 83 contents from the GRI 51-55 years 75 36 65 60 65 58 56-60 years 61 29 70 32 73 35 Table of contents of > 60 years 43 17 47 17 31 17 the Global Compact Workforce according to nationality 2015 2016 2017 Andorra 31.5% 30.6% 30.6% Rest of Europe 53.3% 54.3% 54.5% Africa 14.6% 14.3% 14.3% America 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% Asia 0.6% 0.6% 0.4% Oceania 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% 73 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Directors from the country (by subsidiaries) employees and other workers (cont.) 2015 2016 2017 Appendix Andorra 59% 54% 61% Materiality analysis Spain 100% 100% 100% Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg 5% 5% 6% and the Sustainable Mexico 100% 100% 0% Development Miami (USA) 0% 0% 0% Goals Peru 25% 0% 0% Table of contents from Switzerland 25% 25% 33% the GRI Panama 54% 67% 56% Table of contents of Chile 0% 50% 0% the Global Compact Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 55% 55% 56% Note: The 2015 and 2016 data for Panama also include Uruguay. 102-41 Percentage of Crèdit Andorrà currently has no collective agreements. Collective agreements must be launched by the workers, a situation employees covered by that has not yet arisen. collective agreements. 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain management is carried out in accordance with our corporate values. It anticipates all aspects connected with corporate social responsibility and is based on transparency and mutual benefits so as to ensure safe, efficient and quality service provision. The Group’s main suppliers include companies that provide rented and owned property, office material, marketing and advertising, computer equipment, technological and communications services, security services and specific professional services, among others. In order to extend our commitment to the environment, the Bank anticipates green purchase options, as well as geographical location, price and quality. Likewise, it prioritises suppliers from the Principality of Andorra (local suppliers), as well as other local suppliers from the territories where it operates. In 2017, the approximate value of purchases made by the Group amounted to 49,246 thousand euros. 102-10 Significant changes to There were no significant changes in the location of suppliers. the organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle 18 or approach As a banking institution, global risk management is essential for Crèdit Andorrà. Therefore, risks are identified, measured and assessed and always taken into account with regard to all business decisions, always within a framework that strengthens the quality of customer service. Likewise, this management aims to safeguard the Group’s solvency and guarantee mechanisms and consolidate it as one of the most dependable in Andorra. 102-12 External initiatives 54 74 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-13 Membership of Crèdit Andorrà: Andorran Banking, Andorran Business Confederation, Andorra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Services, associations Andorran Family Business, Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección (APD), Trobada Empresarial del Pirineu, United Nations Global Compact and United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives (UNEP FI). Appendix Banque de Patrimoines Privés: Association pour la Garantie des Dépôts Luxembourg (AGDL), Association des Banques Materiality et Banquiers (ABBL) and Association Luxembourgeoise des Fonds d’Investiseement (ALFI). analysis Banco Alcalá: Asociación Española de Banca and Asociación de Instituciones de Inversión Colectiva y Fondos de Pensiones Crèdit Andorrà (INVERCO). and the Sustainable Beta Capital Wealth Management (Miami): Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Securities and Exchange Development Commission (SEC), National Futures Association (NFA), Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), Municipal Securities Goals Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and NASDAQ. Table of CA México Asesores Patrimoniales: Asociación Mexicana de Asesores Independientes de Inversiones (AMAII) and Club Catalán contents from de Negocios. the GRI CA Perú Sociedad Agente de Bolsa: Bolsa de Valores de Lima (BVL), Cavali (Registro Central de Valores y Liquidaciones Table of del Perú), Superintendencia de Mercado de Valores (SMV), Asociación Peruana de Finanzas (APEF), In Perú and Marca País Perú. contents of the Global Strategy Compact 102-14 Statement from senior 3 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, 3 and opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 13, 19 standards, and norms Crèdit Andorrà applies the ANIF Code of Ethical Conduct, which regulates all financial institutions in the Principality of Andorra with of behaviour the aim of preventing certain undesirable practices and increasing the transparency and credibility of the Andorran financial system internationally. The Bank is also subject to Law 8/2013 on the organisational requirements and operating conditions of organisations operating in the financial system, the protection of investors, abuse of markets and financial collateral arrangements. The aims of this law are to protect investors’ interests, guarantee that investors know the products and services they acquire and the associated risks, and promote transparency and effectiveness. It is a law that gathers the principles established in the community directive known as Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and regulates the way in which financial institutions provide their investment services, the purpose of which is within a framework of high-level protection for the investor. The law regulates the provision of investment and supplementary services, hence it directly affects all persons and organisations that work in the financial markets. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice Crèdit Andorrà has an Ethics and Deontology Committee to promote best practices and ensure compliance with the organisation’s and concerns about Code of Ethics and Conduct, which is available to all employees. This committee is responsible for managing and resolving any ethics doubts or queries that may arise related to the practical interpretation or application of the code. In 2017, the Ethics and Deontology Committee received 23 consultations or requests for assessment from employees. The Ethics and Deontology Committee is the body that receives cases of possible violations of the code of conduct. It is responsible for analysing unethical conduct and conduct that is beyond the scope of the established framework. It also has the power to approve, reject and issue penalties. The Ethics and Deontology Committee directs investigations of cases, which may entail the involvement of other bodies in the organisation. In all cases, the confidentiality of the reporting party is guaranteed, except when this 75 information is essential for conducting the investigation. In 2017, the Ethics and Deontology Committee reviewed a total of six cases. Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG Governing bodies 102-18 Governance structure 15-17 Appendix The management and control of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group is distributed among the following bodies: Materiality • The General Shareholders’ Meeting is the body in which shareholders participate, which, when duly assembled, has the analysis competence to deliberate and adopt agreements by majority vote on matters submitted for its approval that the law and the corporate statutes have allocated to this body. Crèdit Andorrà • The Board of Directors is the highest governing body of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. This body is responsible for directing, and the Sustainable administering and representing the Group. Development • The Board of Directors’ Delegate Committee, which includes the chairman, vice-chairman and CEO, is responsible for dealing with Goals the most important matters in the management and operation of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. Table of • The Advisory Board adds value as part of the international expansion process and performs advisory functions. contents from The Executive Committee is the body responsible for defining and overseeing the Group strategy and performing the functions of the GRI management, direction and administration. Table of 102-19 Delegating authority The CEO, under the supervision of the Board of Directors, is responsible for strategic supervision of the Group and overseeing contents of execution of decisions made by the Board of Directors. The Bank’s General Management and Executive Committee are responsible the Global for executing decision made by the Board of Directors and managing economic, environmental and social policies adopted by the Compact Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. 102-20 Executive-level All business lines and areas of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group are represented in the Executive Committee. Members of this responsibility for committee have the power to make decisions on the operational and organisational aspects of the organisation. The organisation’s economic, highest governing body is kept up to date on all economic, environment and social matters which affect the group. environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting The Board of Directors determines information and communication policies according to shareholder input, the markets and public stakeholders opinion. on economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the 15-17 highest governance Members of the Board of Directors do not carry out executive functions. These functions are the responsibility of the CEO body and its and the general manager. committees 102-23 Chair of the highest The functions of the chair and the CEO are different and complementary, with a clear division of responsibilities. The chair is the governance body highest representative of the organisation and the leader of the Board of Directors on which the CEO also sits. The CEO holds the highest executive office responsible for executing the strategy of the Group. 102-24 Nominating and For board members to be appointed, they must meet legal and statutory requirements required for the office in question, and have selecting the highest appropriate professional knowledge and experience to exercise the duties of the office and for good governance. The regulations governance body of the Board of Directors stipulate that a minimum of one third of total board members must be Andorran citizens or residents with associated economic rights. Furthermore, all members must be people with recognised reputations as honourable professionals and businesspeople. Aspects such as diversity and independence are not taken into consideration. 76 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-25 Conflicts of interest 15 The corporate governance policy and established procedures are set out in the regulation of the Board of Directors of Crèdit Appendix Andorrà, approved 19 November, 2008. This regulation is based on the legal framework, establishes the acting principles of the governing body and its functions, specifies the rights and duties of the directors and their personal responsibility when exercising Materiality the duties of their office, and clarifies conflicts of interest. analysis The regulation of the Board of Directors also establishes norms and guidelines to follow to ensure that board members do not enter into situations of conflict of interest. Crèdit Andorrà and the To ensure all actions are carried out in strict compliance with established legal and company requirements, the Group uses its risk Sustainable management and control model as an internal framework to ensure operational efficacy and efficiency based on appropriate control Development of risks and prudent business conduct that guarantees the reliability of financial information communicated internally and externally. Goals Conflicts of interests that affect workers in relation to the organisation and customers are mainly regulated in the Code of Ethics and Table of Conduct, the Code of Conduct in the Securities Markets and the Internal Policy on Conflicts of Interest. contents from 102-26 Role of highest In 2015, Horitzó 2020 was approved, conceived as the basis and guideline for the Strategic Plan 2015-2018. the GRI governance body in The Board of Directors analyses and approves basic acting directives, determines the degree of compliance with strategic plans Table of setting purpose, values, and proposals, and ratifies the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. contents of and strategy the Global 102-27 Collective knowledge of Information is provided in meetings of the Board of Directors on the primary issues to address and related to strategic business, Compact highest governance economic, environmental and social matters. body 102-28 Evaluating the highest There is no formal evaluation process. However, at least once per year, a report is submitted to the Board of Directors on the status governance body’s of the Bank’s policies, strategies related to the corporate social responsibility policy and other matters. performance 102-29 Identifying and The organisational structure permits economic, environmental and social matters reported to the Board of Directors to be supervised managing economic, by the different management bodies and areas of the Bank. The management of these includes supervision of risks and environmental, and opportunities as well as compliance with international agreements, codes of conduct and principles. To assist these bodies in social impacts performing their duties, support is provided by independent external advisers and by information from the organisation itself, from meetings with Crèdit Andorrà directors. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk The Board of Directors is responsible for evaluating strategies and policies on risk, internal control and regulatory compliance. management Specifically, it defines the level of risk the organisation is willing to accept, approves policies on risk management, internal controls processes and compliance, supervises compliance and adopts appropriate measures to correct problems. 102-31 Review of economic, Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has a Regulatory Risk and Compliance Unit and Internal Audit Department, which report directly to environmental, and the CEO. The Delegate Committee is also responsible for analysing all risks at all levels from all perspectives that affect the social topics organisation’s activities on a quarterly basis, including economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities. 102-32 Highest governance The General Technical Secretariat, part of the Corporate Communications Office, is responsible for coordinating and preparing the body’s role in Corporate Social Responsibility Report, including the materiality process. This report is reviewed by members of the management sustainability team responsible for handling issues related to human resources, the environment, customers and marketing, and community reporting relations (the Foundation’s activity). One of the functions of the General Technical Secretariat is to monitor the performance of the organisation in relation to CSR issues and to submit any proposals deemed appropriate on these matters to the Board of Directors. 102-33 Communicating critical The Executive Committee is responsible for reporting annual planning to the Board of Directors, including any critical issues it deems concerns relevant or opportune. The Executive Committee meets monthly. 77 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-34 Nature and total Critical issues of any nature (economic, financial, environmental, social, etc.) may be brought to the Board of Directors on a recurring number of critical basis if deemed necessary. The degree of progress in the Strategic Plan and results in economic, social and environmental matters concerns are evaluated in meetings of the Executive Committee and meetings of the Board of Directors. Based on this evaluation, decisions Appendix are made to continue or alter strategy. Materiality 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration policies are planned by members of senior management. Senior management has a remuneration policy that includes analysis fixed and variable parts based on achieving quantitative objectives and performance and attitudes in accordance with Crèdit Andorrà’s cultural values model. Severance compensation is subject to applicable law. Crèdit Andorrà and the 102-36 Process for determining Criteria set out in the remuneration policy are followed to determine the amount of compensation to be received. The company uses Sustainable remuneration the Hay Job Evaluation method to assess job roles by profile and pay scale and to classify all positions and categories and salary Development ranges associated with these. Goals 102-37 Stakeholders’ Criteria set out in the remuneration policy, which establishes remuneration according to professional qualification, are used to Table of involvement in determine the amount of remuneration. contents from remuneration the GRI Table of contents of 102-38 Annual total This the Global compensation ratio information Compact is confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in This annual total information compensation ratio is confidential. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder The stakeholders the Group has included are: employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, communications media and the local groups community. 102-41 Percentage of Crèdit Andorrà currently has no collective bargaining agreements. Collective agreements must be launched by the workers, a employees covered by situation that has not yet arisen. collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and The stakeholders identified by Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group are as follows: customers, the focus of the business’ decisions; selecting stakeholders shareholders, the Group’s owners; employees, the Group’s most important asset, essential for achieving objectives; the local community, where the Group wants to drive progress, and economic and social development; suppliers, for their importance in ensuring top-quality and reliable service; and the media, for their capacity to inform and influence society. 102-43 Approach to 32 stakeholder engagement 78 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-44 Key topics and 32 concerns raised Stakeholders’ expectations Crèdit Andorrà Financial Appendix Channels of communication regarding the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s expectations Stakeholders and dialogue Financial Group regarding stakeholders Materiality analysis • General Shareholder’s Meeting • Business and benefits that • Support for the development • Annual and quarterly reports increase the value of the Group of business projects Shareholders Crèdit Andorrà and the • Meetings • Transparency of corporate •G  ood image, perception Sustainable and financial information and and reputation • Board’s Delegate Committee accountability Development •K  nowledge and involvement Goals • Best practices of corporate with the Group governance Table of contents from • Intranet (WeCrèdit) • Compliance with contractual • Operating with quality standards the GRI agreements • Committees •C  ontributing to the creation of Table of • Meetings • Ethical and responsible value for the Group and attaining contents of behaviour objectives efficiently • Special agreements Employees the Global • Professional development •P  rofessional development Compact and recognition •P  roactivity, innovation and adapting to change •C  ompliance with contractual commitments •C  ommitment to the values of the Group • Corporate website and • Personalised and friendly service • Satisfaction commercial websites • Clear and transparent language • Loyalty • Press room (corporate website) • Financial education • Collaboration • Social media • Ethical and responsible • Office/managers’ networks behaviour • Online banking • Compliance with regulation • Customer services • Satisfaction for services and Customers • Internal and external surveys products provided • Regular training talks and • Resolution of incidents workshops for businesspeople • Compliance with current and the general public regulations • Advertisement and commercial • Involvement with the country communications • Contractual communications • Email and SMS • Blog Research 79 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-44 Key topics and Stakeholders’ expectations Crèdit Andorrà Financial concerns raised (cont.) Channels of communication regarding the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s expectations Appendix Stakeholders and dialogue Financial Group regarding stakeholders Materiality • Corporate website • Contributing to the country’s • Reputation Community (associations, analysis • Press room (corporate website) economic and social •C  ompliance with accorded development and that of the commitments Crèdit Andorrà • Social media general public and the • Regular training talks and foundations, academia, public • Respect for the environment Sustainable workshops and the local area Development • Meetings with sector • Compliance with commitments Goals associations and associations bodies, etc.) from the region • Transparency and responsible Table of behaviour contents from • Blog Research the GRI • Compliance with applicable regulations Table of contents of • Business processes • Collaboration for mutual benefit • Compliance with contractual agreements Suppliers the Global • Compliance with contractual Compact agreements •R  espect for Group commitments to corporate social responsibility • Corporate communications • Transparency and accountability • Adequate transmission and provision of information The media • Press releases and conferences • Complete information and content • Meetings with media • Interaction •C  ontinuing collaboration • Social media • Interaction • Press room (corporate website) Reporting practice 102-45 Organisations included 5, Appendix (page 1) in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content 5, Appendix (page 2) and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 7, Appendix (page 3) 103-1 Explanation of the Appendix (pages 4-5) material topic and its boundary 80 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 102-48 Restatements of No relevant restatements took place involving information contained in previous reports. In case any data have been reformulated, information said fact is highlighted by the addition of a note explaining the cause for the reformulation. Appendix 102-49 Changes in reporting There were no relevant changes in scope or coverage with regard to previous reports. Materiality 102-50 Reporting period 4, Appendix (page 1) analysis 102-51 Date of most recent 2016 Crèdit Andorrà report and the Sustainable 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Development 102-53 Contact point for comunicacio@creditandorragroup.com Goals questions regarding the Table of report contents from 102-54 Claims of reporting in 4 the GRI accordance with the Table of GRI Standards contents of 102-55 GRI content index Appendix (pages 8-35) the Global Compact 102-56 External assurance The report has not been subjected to external verification. Material topics Economy GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 103: Management approach 2017 103-1 Explanation of the 4 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 11, 31, 52-53, 55 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 11, 31, 52-53, 55 management approach 81 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value 11, 39 Appendix generated and distributed Materiality analysis Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development Goals Table of contents from the GRI Table of contents of the Global Compact 201-2 Financial implications Crèdit Andorrà believes that the risks of the direct impacts of climate change are minimal. Climate change has financial implications and other risks and for Crèdit Andorrà. Financial implications are considered to be the direct consequences for Group organisations as banking, opportunities due to financial, insurance and asset management institutions, and costs are considered to be investments or expenditures to improve climate change environmental performance and to respond to the challenges of climate change. The risks are the impacts of climate change on Andorra and their repercussions on the country’s economy and risk from improper environmental management. The main opportunities are considered to be offering products to counter climate change and having a good reputation in the event of attaining environmental excellence. 201-3 Defined benefit plan 31 The obligations and other economic retirement value of the plans benefits is confidential information. 201-4 Financial assistance As a banking entity, Crèdit Andorrà does not receive public assistance. received from government 103-1 Leadership in Andorran 13, 29, 38, 40 103-2 banking 103-3 82 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 103-1 Risk control and 18 103-2 management 103-3 Appendix 103-1 Internationalisation 32 Materiality 103-2 analysis 103-3 Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development Environment Goals GRI Table of contents from Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG the GRI GRI 103: Management approach 2017 Table of 103-1 Explanation of the 5 contents of material topic and its the Global boundary Compact 103-2 The management 51-61 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 51-61 management We have identified the principal eco-efficiency indicators resulting from our activities. These will be measured and controlled so that approach the measures needed to achieve the highest level of eco-efficiency in our environmental efforts can be implemented. Among other aspects, this translates into minimising consumption of materials, mainly paper, and minimising consumption of water and energy in offices and corporate facilities. GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by 58 weight or volume 301-2 Recycled input There has been no consumption of recovered materials. materials used 83 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumed Data is from direct meter measurement. All fuel comes from non-renewable sources. Appendix within the organisation No energy consumed comes from renewable sources. Materiality 302-2 Energy consumption 55 No data is analysis outside of the External energy consumption, consumption that takes place outside the bank’s facilities in which the energy is not provided through available for organisation an agreement, comes primarily from the transport of employees to the workplace (commuting to and from work and corporate energy Crèdit Andorrà consumption and the travel). outside the Sustainable bank. Development Goals 302-3 Energy intensity 55 Table of 302-4 Reduction of energy 55 contents from consumption the GRI 302-5 Reduction of energy 60 Table of requirements of The products and services of Crèdit Andorrà are not subject to energy requirements. However, several initiatives are underway in the contents of products and services offices and corporate buildings to lower energy consumption: installing LED lighting systems in certain bank buildings and offices, the Global Compact reflective vinyl has been installed in the offices of the company headquarters to improve the workplace environment, and acquiring more efficient office equipment such as cooling equipment. GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by 57 source Data is from direct meter measurement. All the water consumed comes from a municipal water system. 303-2 Water sources Since Crèdit Andorrà has its offices in urban areas, all water is collected and discharged through the urban water network. significantly affected by For this reason, no impact on water sources or ecosystems is foreseen. withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and Crèdit Andorrà does not recycle or reuse water. Waste water is discharged into the public sewer system. reused 84 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 36 Appendix emissions Materiality 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 36 analysis 2) GHG emissions Crèdit Andorrà 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 36 The and the 3) GHG emissions calculation of Sustainable greenhouse Development gas Goals emissions does not Table of include contents from the GRI messenger services. Table of 305-4 GHG emissions 36 contents of the Global intensity Compact 305-5 Reduction of GHG 53, 60 There is no emissions The Bank promotes different actions to prevent CO2 emissions, such as videoconferencing, which minimise the number of trips data for by car, train and airplane. reductions of GHG emissions resulting from these initiatives. 305-6 Emissions of ozoneCrèdit Andorrà does not emit substances that destroy the ozone layer, including those in the annexes of the Montreal Protocol. depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 NOX, SOX and other Crèdit Andorrà does not produce NOX, SOX or emissions. significant air emissions 85 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 306: Effluent and waste 306-1 Water discharge by 59 Not Appendix quality and destination Since Crèdit Andorrà has its offices and facilities in urban areas, all water is collected and discharged through the urban water applicable network. Materiality analysis 306-2 Waste by type and 59 disposal method Crèdit Andorrà and the 306-3 Significant spills Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorrà’s business activities, no significant spills have taken place. Not Sustainable applicable Development Goals 306-4 Transport of hazardous Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorrà’s business activities, no waste considered hazardous according to the Basel Convention Not waste is generated. applicable Table of contents from 306-5 Water bodies affected Due to the nature of Crèdit Andorrà’s business activities, water discharges do not affect water resources. Not the GRI by water discharges applicable and/or runoff Table of contents of the Global Compact Labour practices GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 103: Management approach 2017 103-1 Explanation of the 5 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 29-37 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 29-37 management GRI Standards: reporting whether there are formal claim and/or complaint mechanisms for the material topics. approach 86 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires 33 Appendix and employee turnover New employee hires by gender and age group Materiality analysis 2017 Crèdit Andorrà Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg and the Miami (USA) Switzerland Sustainable Andorra Panama Financial Group Development Spain Mexico Chile Goals Peru Table of contents from Men 17 5 6 2 4 0 1 4 0 39 the GRI < 25 years 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 6 Table of 26-35 years 11 1 1 0 2 0 0 1 0 16 contents of the Global 36-45 years 1 2 4 1 0 0 1 1 0 10 Compact 46-55 years 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 1 0 6 > 56 years 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Women 14 16 10 3 5 0 0 6 0 54 < 25 years 6 2 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 11 26-35 years 5 8 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 18 36-45 years 2 2 6 2 1 0 0 5 0 18 46-55 years 1 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 7 > 56 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 31 21 16 5 9 0 1 10 0 93 Turnover rate according to gender 2017 Crèdit Andorrà Andorra Luxembourg Mexico Miami (USA) Switzerland Panama Financial Group Spain Peru Chile Men 22.5% 17.5% 9.3% 33.3% 23.8% 25.0% 0.0% 20.8% 50.0% 20.4% Women 15.2% 17.9% 12.1% 15.8% 11.8% 0.0% 0.0% 13.3% 0.0% 14.8% 87 Both genders 18.9% 17.7% 10.5% 22.6% 18.4% 9.1% 0.0% 16.7% 50.0% 17.6% Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 401-1 New employee hires Voluntary resigning from the workforce and employee turnover (cont.) 2015 2016 2017 Appendix Andorra 2.5% 3.5% 7.8% Materiality analysis Spain 12.9% 7.8% 9.9% Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg 3.2% 15.2% 10.5% and the Sustainable Mexico 11.5% 10% 22.6 Development Miami (USA) 13.9% 11.1% 18.4% Goals Peru 0% 16.7% 9.1 Table of contents from Switzerland 0% 0% 0.0% the GRI Panama 5.7% 6.7% 13.0% Table of contents of Chile 44.4% 40% 50.0% the Global Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 5% 6.1% 8.8% Compact Note: The 2015 and 2016 data for Panama also include Uruguay. 401-2 Benefits provided to 31 full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 88 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 401-3 Parental leave 33 100% of employees of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group have the right to maternity or paternity leave. Appendix Retention rate after maternity or paternity leave Materiality analysis 2017 Crèdit Andorrà People who and the People who have People who have continue in the Job Sustainable taken parental returned to their company after 12 reincorporation Development leave job after leave months rate Retention rate Goals Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Table of contents from Andorra 9 14 9 14 9 14 100% 100% 89% 93% the GRI Spain 5 1 5 1 2 0 100% 100% 40% 0% Table of Luxembourg 1 1 0 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 0% contents of the Global Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Compact Miami (USA) 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Switzerland 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Panama 0 1 0 1 0 1 – 100% – 100% Chile 0 0 0 0 0 0 – – – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 15 17 14 16 10 14 93% 94% 67% 82% Note: The 2015 and 2016 data for Panama also include Uruguay. 89 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation Crèdit Andorrà does not have occupational health and safety committees. Appendix in formal joint management-worker Materiality health and safety analysis committees Crèdit Andorrà 403-2 Types of injury and 36 and the rates of injury, Sustainable Development occupational diseases, Goals lost days, and absenteeism, and Table of number of workcontents from related fatalities the GRI 403-3 Workers with high Crèdit Andorrà’s business activities do not entail a high risk of occupational hazard for its employees. No position has been Table of incidence or high risk identified that has high risk of occupational diseases. Prevention awareness campaigns are conducted. contents of of diseases related to the Global their occupation Compact 403-4 Health and safety Crèdit Andorrà does not have trade unions. topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 90 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of 35 No data Appendix training per year per are available employee Training activity by gender Materiality and analysis Average investment in training occupational Workforce who received training per employee (€/employee) Training within working hours Crèdit Andorrà category for and the 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Andorra, Sustainable Spain or Development Andorra 100% 100% 100% 1,077 754 752 24% 30% 14% Luxembourg. Goals Spain 76% 73% 87% 379 506 635 9% 0% 44% Table of Luxembourg 95% 97% 99% 1,085 1,123 876 97% – 86% contents from the GRI Mexico 31% 100% 90% 228 55 125 100% 100% 100% Table of Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% 436 599 578 38% 67% 47% contents of the Global Peru 70% 8% 9% 279 600 2,695 61% 100% 100% Compact Switzerland 100% 100% 92% 317 333 1,091 100% – 100% Panama 98% 98% 100% 522 416 252 51% 92% 94% Chile 100% 20% 0% 420 1,200 0 78% 0% – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 93% 93% 96% 886 688 694 27% 26% 23% Note: The 2015 and 2016 data for Panama also include Uruguay. 404-2 Programmes for 34 upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 91 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 404-3 Percentage of 35 employees receiving regular performance Workforce subject to the effort evaluation system Appendix and career 2017 Materiality development reviews analysis Senior management Intermediate positions Rest of the workforce Crèdit Andorrà Global Men Women Men Women Men Women and the Andorra 100% 66 10 27 24 151 197 Sustainable Development Spain 67% 10 1 7 2 33 42 Goals Luxembourg 9% 1 0 2 0 2 2 Table of contents from Mexico 58% 0 1 3 7 4 3 the GRI Miami (USA) 13% 0 2 2 0 1 0 Table of contents of Peru 100% 0 0 1 3 3 4 the Global Switzerland 92% 3 1 5 1 0 1 Compact Panama 100% 5 5 3 6 16 19 Chile 50% 1 0 0 0 0 0 Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 81% 86 20 50 43 210 268 Society GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 103: Enfocament de gestió 2017 103-1 Explanation of the 5 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 27, 38-50, 53-54 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 27, 38-50, 53-54 management approach 92 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local 27, 38-50, 53-54 Appendix community engagement, impact Materiality assessments, and analysis development Crèdit Andorrà programmes and the 413-2 Operations with The management and control of risks is one of the priority objectives of the Group, and, as such, the Group has the required Sustainable significant actual and infrastructure, methods and internal controls. Policy and risk limits are established by the Assets, Liabilities and Risks Committee. Development potential negative Goals impacts on local Table of communities contents from the GRI 103-1 Access for low Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has no activity in low population density or disadvantaged areas. 103-2 population density and Table of 103-3 disadvantaged areas contents of the Global 103-1 Initiatives to improve 40 Compact 103-2 access to financial Crèdit Andorrà promotes different initiatives with the aim of improving the financial knowledge and culture of different groups 103-3 services for in society, including senior citizens. disadvantaged groups. GRI 2015: Combating corruption 205-1 Operations assessed The active struggle against corruption (including preventing money laundering, financing terrorism and other considerations) is part for risks related to of the organisation’s corporate culture and is pursued by means of mechanisms extending to all of the Group’s corruption business units. Analysis of risks related to corruption is regulated by law. The organisation also has an internal audit department, which is part of the regulatory and audit compliance unit, and manages risk. 205-2 Communication and 34 training about anticorruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of No confirmed incidents of corruption have taken place. corruption and actions taken GRI 2016: Unfair competition 206-1 Legal actions for There have been no actions related to monopolistic and anti-competitive practices. anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 93 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 419: Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with There have been no significant fines or penalties for failure to comply with the law in the provision and use of products and Appendix laws and regulations in services. the social and economic Materiality area analysis Crèdit Andorrà Product responsibility and the Sustainable Development GRI Goals Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG Table of GRI 103: Management approach 2017 contents from 103-1 Explanation of the 4 the GRI material topic and its Table of boundary contents of 103-2 The management 19-28 the Global Compact approach and its The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group acts in accordance with the values outlined in its Cultural Model. It is committed to designing components and developing products and services to meet the needs and demands of customers while providing universal and non-exclusive customer service aimed at financial inclusion. The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group offers its customers a wide range of financial products and services of the highest quality, based on studying the real market situation and the needs of different customer segments. In its relations with customers, it offers fair, personal and local service based on trust, transparency and the confidentiality of information in accordance with current legislation and our internal rules and procedures for customer care. The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group also provides reliable, professional and transparent counseling services founded on listening actively to customer needs. The Group is committed to promoting products through sales and marketing campaigns that respect human dignity and best business practices. The information on products is subject to ANIF regulation. Descriptions are available for all products that define characteristics and provide detailed information, including general risks. Descriptions of investment products, which clearly entail some risk for the customer, have a section specifically on risk. At Crèdit Andorrà, we pay special attention to the security of our offices, customer operations and confidentiality in our management of personal data. To ensure the security of IT systems we have a series of internal action standards to efficiently protect information in a preventative manner. The Information Security Department strives to minimise risks of non-compliance and ensure coordination between the different areas of the group. The purpose of this department arises from the firm commitment to extend all our acquired knowledge in the area of IT security to the remaining criteria related to documented information which must be considered as a critical aspect within the Group’s operations. 94 Committed to the future GRI Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG 103-2 The management Our governing principles are: approach • Confidentiality: ensures that information can only be consulted by authorised persons, and legal standards and requirements and its components related to personal data protection and data privacy are complied with at all times. Appendix (cont.) • Integrity: ensures that stored information is complete and corresponds with the real situation at all times. Materiality analysis • Availability: ensures that information is available on demand when needed to carry out required queries or operations. Furthermore, the bank has a personal data protection and privacy policy which includes internal management protocols and Crèdit Andorrà procedures that ensure compliance with legal requirements on the subject of e-commerce and the processing of personal data. and the The provision of services is in compliance with Andorran legislation in general, and more specifically according to legislation on Sustainable financial and banking services and products, under the supervision of the corresponding regulators. The remaining Group Development companies provide their services in compliance with the legislation applicable at the time and in the country in which the service Goals is provided. Table of Crèdit Andorrà promotes responsible, transparent and clear communication and information. This is one the Bank’s key priorities contents from and one of the most important considerations for customers and regulatory agencies. The objective of this is to help the customer the GRI make well informed financial decisions. Table of We apply all current legislation on transparency and clarity of information to help our customers and to protect them. We offer contents of all relevant information to our customers in a manner that is easy to understand and protect their interests at all times. the Global We are firmly committed to helping customers make more informed financial decisions, providing transparent information, Compact accurate characteristics and conditions of our products and services, and providing financial education. Therefore, the bank’s advertising rigorously complies with the standards of the respective countries in which we operate, considering aspects such as the protection of customer rights, advertising ethics and the use of advertising offering a clear and understandable message. Our commercial websites offer additional information on products and services to aid their comprehension. Aware of the importance of relying on a society with suitable financial knowledge, we hold different talks and conferences on economic and financial subjects intended for business owners, entrepreneurs and different groups of society in order to promote financial education. Some specific examples demonstrating this idea are talks on personal income tax, to solve any queries from senior citizens on the application of the new tax or the income tax simulator for pensions. 103-3 Evaluation of the 19-28 management approach GRI 416: Health and safety reviews 416-1 Assessment of the 19-20 health and safety The Group’s quality management systems are ISO 9001 certified to ensure the quality of services provided for products sold. impacts of product and service categories Our offices have security systems in place to minimise the risk of robbery and theft (equipment to capture and record digital images, exclusive access doors, etc.). The Group also has a director of security position. 416-2 Incidents of nonThere have been no incidents of this type. All products provided are supervised by the Product Committee and the Assets compliance concerning and Liabilities Committee by means of the institutional framework for the supervision of investment. the health and safety impacts of products and services 95 Committed GRI to the future Standards Content Page name or URL Omissions SDG GRI 417: Labeling of products and services 417-1 Requirements for The Bank’s products and services are subject to ANIF regulation on information and how products and services are marketed product and service and sold, which guarantees the transparency of these procedures. information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of nonThere has been no failure to comply with regulations or voluntary codes related to information and labeling of products and Appendix compliance concerning services. product and service Materiality information and labelling analysis Crèdit Andorrà and the GRI 418: Customer privacy Sustainable Development 418-1 Substantiated Crèdit Andorrà has an obligation to protect its customers’ and employees’ most personal and private information as stated Goals complaints regarding in its code of ethics and applicable laws on privacy, data protection and banking secrecy. concerning breaches of There have been no complaints about respect for privacy or loss of customer data. Table of customer privacy and contents from losses of customer data the GRI GRI 419: Compliance Table of contents of 419-1 Non-compliance with There have been no significant fines for failure to comply with the law in the provision and use of products. the Global laws and regulations in Compact the social and economic area 103-1 Audit Crèdit Andorrà strives to attain the best performance to risk ratio, and to prevent, minimise and mitigate factors which may pose a 103-2 risk for the environment or the community as much as possible. It endeavors to ensure that its business activities are always in line 103-3 with its corporate values, codes of conduct and the general principles of risk. 103-1 Innovation in products 10, 23, 30 103-2 and services 103-3 103-1 Information 13, 18, 19 103-2 transparency for 103-3 markets and customers 103-1 Financial education 26 103-2 103-3 103-1 Quality and efficiency in 13, 20 103-2 customer service 103-3 96 Committed to the future Table of contents of the Global Compact Appendix Links to the 10 Principles of the Global Compact Materiality analysis Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Pages or direct response GRI Standards Crèdit Andorrà Human rights and the Sustainable Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 18-19 GRI 406, GRI 407, GRI 408, GRI 409, GRI 410, GRI 411, GRI 412, GRI 414 Development proclaimed human rights within their area of influence. GRI 413 Goals Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human 18-19 GRI 406, GRI 407, GRI 408, GRI 409, GRI 410, GRI 411, GRI 412, GRI 414 Table of rights abuses. contents from the GRI Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Crèdit Andorrà does not currently G4-11 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. have a collective agreement. 102-41 Table of Collective agreements are a contents of possibility that must be promoted GRI 402 the Global by the employees themselves, GRI 407 Compact and up to now this has not been the case. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced At Crèdit Andorrà, there are no GRI 409 and compulsory labour. operations that might pose a risk of generating incidents of forced labor or work under duress. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. At Crèdit Andorrà, there are no GRI 408 operations that might pose a potential risk of child exploitation. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect 19 102-8 of employment and occupation. Crèdit Andorrà’s human GRI 401, GRI 402, GRI 403, GRI 404, GRI 405, GRI 414, GRI 103 resource policies guarantee GRI 406 respect for diversity, equality of opportunities and nondiscrimination on the basis of sex, age, disability or any other circumstance. The principle of equality is present in the relationship we maintain with our employees: recruitment, training, promotion, working conditions, including remuneration, among others. 97 Committed to the future Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Pages or direct response GRI Standards Human rights Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 51-61 GRI 301, GRI 302, GRI 303, GRI 304, GRI 305, GRI 306, GRI 307, GRI 308 challenges. Appendix Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 51-61 GRI 301, GRI 302, GRI 303, GRI 304, GRI 305, GRI 306, GRI 307, GRI 308 Materiality environmental responsibility. analysis Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of 51-61 GRI 301, GRI 302, GRI 303, GRI 304, GRI 305, GRI 306, GRI 307, GRI 308 Crèdit Andorrà environmentally friendly technologies. and the Sustainable Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 18-19 GRI 205, GRI 415 Development extortion and bribery. Goals Table of contents from the GRI Table of contents of the Global Compact 98 Design and layout: www.cegeglobal.com Legal deposit: AND.113-2018 ISBN: 978-99920-4-059-1 © Crèdit Andorrà WE SUPPORT www.creditandorragroup.com
