Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Global Compact Communicating on Progress AS Uglands Rederi has traditionally had and has a strong focus on sustainable business practice. Safety has always been the number one priority, but other key elements such as environmental and social impact as a consequence of conducting our business have received increased focus. Knowing that company activities affect society in many ways, and that the company is affected by its surroundings, it is important for AS Uglands Rederi to contribute to creating and maintaining a positive and sustainable shipping environment. As a consequence of the above, AS Uglands Rederi joined the UN Global Compact during 2012. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This has been integrated, as part of the AS Uglands Rederi company policy, and the corporate culture. As a member of this initiative an annual “Communication on Progress” is required, and has been submitted, which is available on the Global Compact website. This is a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the ten principles. THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS (GRI reference) Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally G4-HR 3, 5 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR 3, 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective G4-10, 11 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-LA 1, Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory G4-HR 3, 4 labor; Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor; G4-HR 3, 4 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of G4-10, 11 employment and occupation. G4-LA 1,G4-HR 3 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental G4-EN-3, 6, 8, responsibility; and 15*, 19*, 21*, 23, Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 24 friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion G4-SO 3 and bribery. *Partly reported **Note, GRI references above are standard disclosures and core elements only. Implementation of the UN Global Compact ten principles 2017 The most important corporate social engagement is to provide a safe, sustainable and long term business and work environment for the employees, business partners and the local community. AS Uglands Rederi (UR) supports several initiatives in various communities, believing that social engagement in communities where business is conducted, contributes to creating shared value for both the company and society as a whole. UR is engaged in different social activities both in Norway and in the Philippines, seeking to continually renew and improve its approach to the local community. In 2017, in accordance with ISO standards, efforts to ensure continuous improvement in safety and environmental performance were made. Continued focus on reducing energy consumption and seeking environmentally friendly technologies are important, both for the company and its stakeholders. During 2017, 3 newbuilds eco design supramax bulk carriers (MV Livita, MV Olita, MV Belita) were delivered and went into operation. A further 3 newbuilds of similar eco design are on order for delivery in 2019 and 2020. UR supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and as a consequence, the Supplier Declaration process is remains in use (a questionnaire to suppliers related to Quality, Environment, Social Responsibility, Transparency and Health & Safety). The supplier declaration provides guidance when choosing suppliers identifying those that support a precautionary approach to environmental and social challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UR through policy and procedures strives not to contribute to any kind of forced labour, child labour and discrimination in respect of employment, occupation, gender, age and culture. UR has procedures and guidelines in place related to averting corruption through gifts and other more specific office related subjects. Anti-corruption efforts continue to be a point of focus with training and reporting in line with the anti-corruption procedure. The said procedure has been implemented, strengthening the existing routines, enabling an enhanced and systematical stance against corruption. Experience from 2016-2017confirms the usefulness of said procedure heightening the threshold for resisting corruption attempts, and employee awareness. Employees are trained in accordance with recommendations from UNODC, Global Compact and The Norwegian Shipowners' Association (NSA). UR collaborates with NSA in combating corruption on specific cases as they arise. Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative, as the moste wideliy applied standard for reporting on the ten principles of Global Compact, has been chosen as the companie’s reporting framework. The objective of the Global Reporting Initiative is to create a platform where the reported information is transparent, reliable, comparable and precise. The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) vision is that disclosure on economic, environmental, and social performance is as commonplace and comparable as financial reporting, and important to organizational success. Sustainability reports based on the GRI framework can be used to benchmark organizational performance with respect to laws, norms, codes, performance standards and voluntary initiatives; demonstrate organizational commitment to sustainable development; and compare organizational performance over time. UR is through its improvement cycle continuously seeking best practice. UR has performed a materiality analysis identifying aspects that have the most material value for the company. Improvement initiatives have focused on these aspects. The three aspects that warrant the company's focus are as follows: Environment, Anti-Corruption and Supply chain. A materiality analysis can be described as a CSR checklist. It enables the company to perform a selfevaluation as well as an evaluation by external stakeholders: owner, employees, clients/main suppliers, partners/financial and insurance institutions, local community(ies). To facilitate the materiality analysis, stakeholders were identified. “Stakeholder” is a term for those parties that are affected by or affect the company. They may also have constructive feedback/criticism worthwhile for the company to listen to and take action accordingly. For UR the following five stakeholders have been identified and indirectly engaged; Owner Employees Clients/Main Suppliers Partners/Financial Institutions Local Community(ies) The above process was an agenda item and confirmed in the latest Management Review, a key stone part of the annual improvement cycle. In connection with the transition to ISO 9001 2015 rev, presently on going, the subject of “stakeholders” is a topic, which may result in an updated list for 2018. The company has engaged the five stakeholders as follows; Owner: The Owner participated in the decision to become a UN Global Compact company and to report in line with GRI. The Owner is also part of the board of directors. Employees: As a result of an external audit, an internal working environment questionnaire amongst the employees was recommended and executed during May 2013. In addition, through Department Management review, Master review and Management review processes employees are able to voice their opinions and suggest improvements. Clients/Main Suppliers: Clients are requested and encouraged to give customer satisfaction feedback in line with ISO 9001. In addition, offshore related tenders require the companies’ CSR status to be given. The company’s main suppliers have also been requested to read and return the supplier declaration signed and/or commented. 80% of said suppliers have responded. Partners: Cooperating Partners such as financial institutions, insurers and partners in ownership are well informed of the company’s CSR activities and have the opportunity to voice their opinions and thoughts in regular meetings and other formal and informal points of contact. In addition, they are receivers of the annual report and are through this informed of the company’s CSR position and work. Local Community: UR has a long reputation in supporting and working interactive with the local community. The term “JJ Ugland Companies” has often been used as the sponsoring entity. General reference is made to the JJUC.no home page. Through sponsor meetings and participation, opinions and viewpoints are exchanged. The last and still valid materiality analysis for both the internal company and stakeholder highlighted three aspects that warrant the company’s focus as follows: Environmental work Anti-Corruption work Supply chain with a special focus on labour conditions These three aspects will then be reported in the GRI 4 report as core aspects. The aspects are of material value both for the company and society at large and as such are viewed without boundaries’. The AS Uglands Rederi Global Reporting Initiative report is structured as a matrix naming the GRI element/indicator and referenceing the documents and page where relevant information is publicly noted. When not referenced, specific information may be noted.. For further information and details, please review the company’s home page www.jjuc.no. This report has not ben subjected to verification by an external body nor submitted specifically to GRI for verification purposes. The report is made and published in an honost and open manner representing the status of CSR and the Global Compact – GRI status for 2017. For full reportand further details and information, please view the company homepage www.jjuc.no GRI Element / Indicator Page/Reference (Annual report/other) Indicator PROFILE Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Annual Report page 5 organization Letter-of-Commitment G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3, 4 Annual Report page 5, 6, 8-12 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization AS Uglands Rederi G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Shipowner, management chartering and operations, Annual Report page 6, 8-12 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Grimstad, Norway G4-6 Report the number of countries where the Norway, Brazil, the Philippines and organization operates, and names of countries where Canada (worldwide) either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Family owned (Note 11, Annual Report) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic Annual Report, Note 7 and page 6, 9, breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers 11 & 13. and beneficiaries). G4-9 A. Report the scale of the organization, including: Annual Report page 6, 8-12, Note 7, Total number of employees Note 11 Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 A. Report the total number of employees by Annual Report page 12 employment contract and gender. B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by Labour collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 2, Supplier Declaration G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting Nothing to report period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to External Initiatives G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach Company Policies or principle is addressed by the organization. Ref. annual improvement circles. Accessible in manual for all employees. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental Global Compact-GRI-ISO9000and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to ISO14000-OHSAS18001 which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry The Norwegian Shipowner’s associations) and national or international advocacy Association (NSA), Nordisk Defence organizations in which the organization: Club (Nordisk) Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views memberships strategic G4-17 A. List all entities included in the organization’s Annual Report, Note 1 & 5 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 A. Explain the process for defining the report content 3 and the Aspect Boundaries. B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process 4 for defining report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 4 outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information GRI G4 Core provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting GRI G4 Core periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the 3 organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of 3 stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder 3 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised 3 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Calendar/fiscal year information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Deputy Managing Director Arnt Olaf report or its contents. Knutsen G4-32 A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization Annual Corporate Social Report 2017 has chosen. B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 A. Report the organization’s policy and current 4 practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, About us including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, Company Policies standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Specific Standard Disclosures G4-DMA A. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the 3 impacts that make this Aspect material. B. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. C. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach The Environment G4-EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Environmental Report 2017 A. Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. B. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. C. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption D. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold E. Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. F. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G. Report the source of the conversion factors used. G4-EN6 REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Environmental Report 2017 A. Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. B. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. C. Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. D. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. G4-EN8 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, Environmental Report 2017 INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS A. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. These may include: Changing the productivity of organizations, sectors, or the whole economy Economic development in areas of high poverty Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions Availability of products and services for those on low incomes Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities Economic impact of the use of products and services B. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE Environmental Report 2017 1) A. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. D. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. E. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. F. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. G. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). G4-EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Environmental Report 2017 A. Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. B. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). C. Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. d. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. E. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Environmental Report 2017 A. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: NOX SOX Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Particulate matter (PM) Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations B. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. C. Report the source of the emission factors used. G4-EN23 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL Environmental Report 2017 METHOD A. Report the total weight of hazardous and nonhazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Reuse Recycling Composting Recovery, including energy recovery Incineration (mass burn) Deep well injection Landfill On-site storage Other (to be specified by the organization) B. Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor G4-EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT Environmental Report 2017 SPILLS A. Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. B. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: Location of spill Volume of spill Material of spill, categorized by: Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) Other (to be specified by the organization) C. Report the impacts of significant spills. Employment G4-LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE Labour HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION A. Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. B. Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Human Rights G4-HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN A. Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. B. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: Incident reviewed by the organization None reported incidents Remediation plans being implemented Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action G4-HR4 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH 2, Supplier Declaration THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS A. Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk B. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. G4-HR5 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED AS HAVING 2, Supplier Declaration SIGNIFICANT RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOR, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR A. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor Young workers exposed to hazardous work B. Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk C. Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Society G4-SO3 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS 2, Anti-Corruption ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS IDENTIFIED A. Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. B. Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment.
