UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018-2019 NTCC • NTCC The New Trading and Contracting Company S.A.L was established in 1996 in Saida, Lebanon. • NTCC was nourished by the quality service that it has provided, and it is the clients who have given it this kind of reputation that it has. Our Mission • To become Leader in Lebanon in the fields of garbage collection, sweeping and recycling. Our Vision • To achieve customer satisfaction and response with zero percent defect, become as well a valuable member in the social community. • NTCC continues to support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. • In this report we elaborate on the progress made in each of the following : 1. Human Rights 2. Labour Standards 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption • NTCC supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • NTCC provides a fair treatment for all staff. • NTCC promotes Gender Equality where no position is restricted to any. For instance, we opened doors for Truck Driver female applicants. • NTCC offers positions for people with disabilities. • NTCC restricts employment of children (below 18 years old). • NTCC secures the health and safety of its employees. • NTCC prevents discriminations based on sex, color, language, national or social origin, religion and political beliefs. • NTCC does not tolerate any kind of workplace harassment . • NTCC ensures that its wages and working hours meet national standards. • NTCC supports Equal Employment Opportunity; recruitment policy & procedure allows for internal recruitment as much as external recruitment where any employee can apply for an open vacancy. • Employees at NTCC have Freedom of Association and Complain. In 2017, drivers requested rescheduling of shifts and it was granted to them. • NTCC offers Salary Advance (Non-interest short term loan) for employees to support their living needs. • NTCC provides immediate no-cash medical treatment for employees at certain affiliates at company expense. Employee pay 5% only when NSSF pay back. • NTCC covers University Tuition for employees continuing Masters Level education. • Employees at NTCC are paid Bonuses at the end of each year. • Annual Lunch is done for all NTCC employees, where grants and trophies are distributed based on years of service at NTCC. • NTCC holds an e-service interaction tool which has reduced the usage of paper where employees use the portal for several purposes such as managing annual leaves, tracking payroll transactions, submitting claims or requests. • NTCC started a new project concerning recycling “‫ ” صيدا بتعرف تفرز‬in collaboration with Saida and Zahrani union. The project is based on sorting Organic and Nonorganic household wastes. • Our fleets were inspected by Environmental Experts under the order of Environmental District Attorney and reported 100% compliance. • NTCC bring in new technologies to assure a cleaner city. For instance, Beach Cleaning machines were bought to filter beach sand from small residues. • NTCC supported and participated in many cleaning projects and campaigns: ‫ حملة احياء االحياء‬-‫ حملة الشاطىء االزرق الكبير‬International Green Day – Beach Cleaning Day • NTCC installed Water Filtration Systems to ensure its employees are getting a clean water. • NTCC certainly works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • NTCC strictly follows the Lebanese Labor Law and NSSF Law. We applied and got approval for NTCC by Laws to the Ministry of Labor to cover all the unmentioned points. This act promotes transparency. • NTCC has an audit team that reports any violation to the top management. • NTCC has installed GPS to all vehicles to control their location and time. Sustainable Development Goals • Believing in our employees and creating an excellent experience for them. • Encouraging our employees to continue their education and covering the tuition fees. • Promoting equality and diversity in culture • Installing Water Filtration systems all over our offices and field to ensure sanitation and clean water. • Producing all types of Bins and maintaining them. • Respecting all employees and treating equally everyone regarding of their race, gender, age. • Supporting environmental sustainability by participating in various cleaning projects. • Tackling corruption in all its forms. • Main Sponsors: Lebanese Scouts Association – Culture and Science foundation • Sponsoring events held by different organizations: • Sidon Orphans Association • Red Cross • Sharhabeel Youth Association • Rotary Club • Al Bahr Mosque Foundation • Zakat • Ahluna • Rotaract club of Saida • Sidon International Festivals • Saida International Marathon
