Global RESPONSIBILITY 2018 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Table of contents 1 Introduction 9 Our Food 17 Our Planet 1 Letter to stakeholders 9 Overview 17 Overview 2 Company overview 10 Health and wellness 18 Climate change 3 Highlights in 2017 13 Food safety 23 Water stewardship 4 Materiality 14 Consumer education and marketing 25 Ecosystems 7 Stakeholder engagement 16 Transparency 28 Human rights 7 Public policy 16 Biotechnology 28 Responsible sourcing 37 Our Workplace 43 Our Community 49 Appendix 37 Overview 43 Overview 49 Environmental Data Summary 38 Workplace safety 44 Food security and hunger 52 Global Reporting Initiative index 39 Ethics and compliance 47 Sustainable agriculture 60 United Nations Global Compact Principles 40 Diversity and inclusion 47 Hometown communities 41 Employee development COVER PHOTO: Cheerios sources high quality oats from Canada, one of the world’s largest producers of oats and a significant source of oats for our products. The cover photo was taken in Manitoba at Patterson Grain, a valued supplier of General Mills. Photo courtesy of Joe Dickie. ©2018 General Mills. INTRODUCTION To our stakeholders: For 150 years, General Mills has been making free producer in the U.S. We are introducing new nongovernmental organizations. We support food people love and making the world around products like Oui yogurt and EPIC meat snacks, key global efforts to advance the sustainability us better. I am humbled to take on the role of and investing in innovation partnerships through agenda, including the United Nations Global Chairman of the Board and CEO, and remain our venture capital arm, 301 INC. To build trust Compact, which we joined in 2008 and committed to General Mills being one of the with our consumers, we continue to increase continue to endorse. world’s most responsible food companies. transparency about our ingredients, where This report describes General Mills’ strategies they come from and how our food is made. We’re facing unprecedented change in our and performance across four key areas: Our industry and on our planet, and expectations of We know that feeding a growing global Food, Our Planet, Our Workplace and Our Jeffrey L. Harmening food companies have never been higher. This population depends on a healthy planet, so we Community. We have focused on the topics Chairman, Chief requires transformation at every level, from are committed to treating the world with care. We that are most important to our stakeholders Executive Officer how we source ingredients to how we make have taken bold actions to advance sustainability, and to our business. While we’re encouraged General Mills our products to how we engage with our including driving progress toward our ambitious by the progress we’ve made, we know there consumers. While transformation brings with goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by is much more to be done and are excited it many challenges, we also see opportunities 28 percent across our value chain by 2025 and about the opportunities that lie ahead. for leadership, innovation and growth. sustainably source our top 10 ingredients by 2020. Thank you for your interest in our programs We embrace our responsibility to help achieve First and foremost, we must understand our and performance. As always, we welcome a stable climate, clean water, healthy soil, strong consumers’ needs and deliver what they want. your questions and comments. ecosystems and thriving farming communities. Consumers increasingly demand food that Sincerely, reflects their values, from a company they Of course, we can’t do this alone. Transforming trust. We have greatly expanded our offerings our global food systems requires collaboration in recent years, becoming the second-largest and transparency across our supply chain, organic food producer and third-largest glutenand with businesses, governments and Jeff General Mills has long recognized that We reached $1 billion in net sales from natural n B uilding a more sustainable business strong returns for our shareholders are and organic products in the U.S. in fiscal 2017, helps attract and retain the best employees, built on successfully serving all our up almost 50 percent in the last two years. and supports the communities in which stakeholders – our consumers, customers, n S  ustainably sourcing ingredients, protecting we do business. employees and communities. Throughout at-risk watersheds and enhancing soil health General Mills has been a public company for our history, we’ve prioritized financial, increases the supply longevity of key product almost 90 years, and our shareholders rely on us environmental and social performance as inputs. This helps to ensure we can make to provide strong, stable returns. Transforming important measures of value and values. the food people love far into the future. our business model to be even more financially, The initiatives described in this report are not n R  educing our natural resource usage environmentally, and socially sustainable is one Donal L. Mulligan Executive Vice President; just for purpose, but also for profit. Given the saves money while decreasing our of the ways we are doing that and will help us Chief Financial Officer transformation in our industry and consumer environmental footprint. Since 2005, we continue to deliver value for years to come. General Mills behavior, the success of our business depends have saved more than $200 million Sincerely, on our ability to drive value in new ways, such as: through proactive sustainability initiatives, such as energy efficiency, transportation n D elivering healthy products that meet diverse efficiency and packaging reductions. consumer needs creates market opportunities. GRI 102-12, 14 Don GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 Company overview Our purpose At General Mills, we serve the world by making food people love. We do this by embracing our five pursuits, which are at the heart of our company. Key metrics Net sales by segment, fiscal 2017* Carbon footprint, fiscal 2017 Total giving, fiscal 2017 (percentage of total) (percentage of total) (dollars in millions) n Agriculture and transformation 50% n North America Retail 65% n Packaging supply chain 8% n C orporate contributions US$67 n C onvenience Stores and n Producing 10% Foodservice 12% n F ood donations US$46 n Shipping 6% n E urope and Australia 12% n Foundation grants US$26 n Selling 6% nA  sia and Latin America 11% Total: US$139 million n Consuming 20% Total: US$15.6 billion Total: 15.4 million metric tons CO2e *Does not include US$1 billion of net sales from joint ventures. Our brands General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. NEW COLOUR LOGO ™ GRI 102-2 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Highlights in 2017 At General Mills, we work to create holistic value throughout our supply chain, from agriculture to operations to our consumers. Below are some highlights of our progress in fiscal 2017. Our value chain Upstream General Mills Downstream Improving the lives of farmers who Making food people love in a workplace Continually enhance our products by grow ingredients for our products while that promotes safety, quality, diversity and improving nutrition, expanding variety, protecting the natural resources upon which environmental responsibility and increasing sustainability our business and communities depend 2017 highlights 100 percent of facilities worldwide 76 percent of our 10 priority 80 percent of our U.S retail sales volume FETY ingredients were sustainably sourced FOO D SA audited and/or certified for food nutritionally improved since 2005 safety by independent third parties Increased the number of acres from Signed a 15-year, 100-megawatt which we source organic ingredients virtual power purchase 2nd largest U.S. organic food producer 225% by 225 percent since 2009 agreement for wind energy Invested over US$3.25 million in 47 percent of management 3rd largest U.S. producer of soil health initiatives through 2017 positions in the U.S. held by women gluten-free products Planted nearly 4,000 acres US$139 million in corporate 30 million meals enabled through of pollinator habitat giving worldwide food donations around the world Across our value chain, our greenhouse gas emissions footprint decreased 11 percent in 2017 compared to 2010 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 Materiality* TRANSFORMING PACKAGING AGRICULTURE PRODUCING CONSUMING This table summarizes the issues that are most material to our global responsibility strategy, including several priority issues ranked SUPPLY CHAIN SHIPPING SELLING highest by our stakeholders. This is based on a materiality assessment conducted in 2013 and updated in 2015. These assessments evaluated the impact each issue has on General Mills as well as the importance to external stakeholders for our company to address each one. This report also includes information about several other issues that we believe have recently increased in importance, such as soil health, pollinators and biodiversity, and organic farming. We plan to update this assessment as needed to reflect our business and our stakeholders’ evolving expectations. We include information about our approach to and progress on these issues throughout the report and in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index. CIRCLES NOTE VALUE CHAIN PHASES FOR WHICH EACH ISSUE IS RELEVANT Climate change Advance strategies to reduce GHG emissions and help mitigate the effects of climate change in agricultural and food production systems Commodity availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs through sustainable sourcing PRIORITY ISSUES Corporate governance and ethics Operate with integrity and with the highest standards in oversight, ethics and compliance Diverse consumer needs Meet changing consumer needs and diversify our product offerings based on geography, culture, values and economic means Food safety Set and maintain high standards for food safety and quality Health and nutrition wellness Improve the health profile of products and engage in public discussions on healthy and nutritious lifestyles Transparency Communicate openly with key stakeholders on material issues, including through brands Water stewardship Manage water resources strategically throughout the value chain Animal welfare Ensure the ethical treatment of animals raised by suppliers Biodiversity Conserve biodiversity through sustainable sourcing practices Biotechnology Meet consumer demand for increased information on genetically modified organisms Employee well-being Help employees lead healthier lives through education and support OTHER MATERIAL ISSUES Energy use Manage energy usage and costs throughout the value chain, including agriculture, production, transportation and distribution Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population Food waste Address food waste and loss from field to table Human rights Respect the human rights of all workers Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging Responsible marketing Adhere to internal and industry guidelines regarding consumer communications Smallholder farmers Support smallholder farmers’ capability and capacity to maintain viable operations Supply chain relationships Build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain Workforce management Provide competitive benefits, foster a diverse and inclusive culture, and invest in training and development opportunities Workplace safety Maintain a safe workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors, with a focus on zero accidents and injuries *In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills’ significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility GRI 102-46, 47 strategy. We are not using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Priority issues: goals and performance Progress Issue Commitment/Goal 2015 2016 2017 Food safety Ensure all facilities worldwide are audited and/or certified by independent third parties using globally recognized food safety criteria 90% 100% 100% (% of facilities) Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative certification of all General Mills-owned facilities by 2020 (% of facilities) 72% 80% 82% Health and nutrition Continue to improve health profile of U.S. retail products* (%) 77% 79% 80% wellness Our food Comply with global industry front-of-pack calorie labeling Ongoing (see page 14) Diverse consumer Continue to expand wellness offerings to meet consumer needs needs n Gluten-free retail products in North America (number of products) 980 1,000 920 n Protein-rich retail products in the U.S. (number of products) 225 230 250 n Lower-calorie retail products in North America (number of products) 1,000 1,300 1,300 Reach US$1 billion in net sales from natural and organic products in the U.S. by 2019 (US$ million) $700 $750 $1,045 Climate change Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28 percent by 2025 and 41-72 percent by 2050 (compared to 2010)** NA -5% -11% (% change compared to 2010) Reduce energy use by 2 percent annually*** (% change) -1% 0% 3% Reduce production solid waste generation by 3 percent annually*** (% change) 6% 21% 11% Achieve zero waste to landfill at 30 percent of our owned production facilities by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025**** (%) 17% 12% 14% Water stewardship Champion the development of water stewardship plans for the company’s most material and at-risk watersheds in its global value Ongoing (see pages 23-24) chain by 2025 Reduce water use by 1 percent annually*** (% change) 3% 10% -5% Commodity Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020***** (%) NA 69% 76% Our planet availability Cocoa (%) 28% 46% 59% Vanilla (%) 45% 22% 22% Oats (%) 40% 50% 61% U.S. wheat (%) 24% 36% 61% U.S. sugar beets (%) 47% 68% 81% U.S. corn (dry milled) (%) 26% 33% 67% U.S dairy (raw fluid milk) (%) 20% 38% 83% Fiber packaging (%) 99% 99% 99% Sugarcane (%) 59% 67% 58% Palm oil (%) 100% 100% 100% * Represents percentage of U.S. retail sales volume that has reduced calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by at least 5 percent per serving or increased beneficial nutrients (including vitamins, minerals and fiber) by at least 10 percent per serving, compared to fiscal 2005. ** This contributes to the company’s 2050 goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 41-72% by 2050 (compared to 2010), to achieve sustainable levels in line with scientific consensus. *** Applies to all General Mills-owned production facilities. Normalized to production. **** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of each fiscal year. ***** Represents 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases. Aggregate percentage is based on the percentages sustainably sourced for each ingredient, weighted by spend. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals At the beginning of 2016, the United Nations launched the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of 17 broad goals and 169 more specific targets to drive the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development globally. General Mills supports this effort. We focus on the goals that most closely align with the company’s priority issues and areas of long-standing commitment, investment and progress. MATERIAL ISSUES  ood security n F n D  iverse consumer needs  ater stewardship n W n C  limate change n B  iodiversity n F  ood waste n F  ood safety Learn more. n C  ommodity availability n D  eforestation n H  ealth and n H  ealth and n E  nergy use n S  oil health nutrition wellness nutrition wellness n P  ackaging footprint Learn more. Learn more. Learn more. Learn more. Also refer to our GRI index for a mapping to SDGs. Oversight The General Mills leadership team The Chief Executive Officer also SUSTAINABILITY has ultimate accountability for the convenes the Sustainability Governance GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD company’s global responsibility programs Committee three times per year. The CEO, CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD and performance. The team includes role of the Committee is to approve EVP, CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN OFFICER AND GLOBAL Jeff Harmening, Chairman and Chief and monitor strategy, policy and key BUSINESS SOLUTIONS EVP, INNOVATION, Executive Officer; John Church, Executive investments related to sustainability. TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY Vice President, Chief Supply Chain EVP, CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN EVP, INNOVATION, SVP, HUMAN Additional details about leadership SVP, GLOBAL CHIEF OFFICER AND GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES Officer and Global Business Solutions; MARKETING OFFICER BUSINESS SOLUTIONS AND QUALITY and governance related to specific Peter Erickson, Executive Vice President, global responsibility issues are included Innovation, Technology and Quality; in relevant sections of this report. and Jacqueline Williams-Roll, Senior GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL HEALTH GENERAL MILLS WORKPLACE FOCUS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY & NUTRITION FOUNDATION Vice President, Chief Human Resources See GeneralMills.com/Investors to Officer. The team meets regularly learn more about the company’s r This graphic outlines governance and management of and receives input from internal and broader corporate governance global responsibility focus areas at General Mills. external experts. The Board of Directors’ structures and processes. Public Responsibility Committee GRI 102-19, 20, 26, 32 provides oversight and receives regular updates from the operating teams. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 rs Cust plie om ers Sup Stakeholder engagement n A  nimal  uman n H welfare n I ndustry partnerships rights At General Mills, we engage with to shape standards across the consumer  ustainable S  roduct n P innovation Ind n ust agriculture n S  ustainability stakeholders to accelerate progress packaged goods industry, which ry ers collaboration as so um on social and environmental initiatives. elevates overall sector performance. cia ns Co Our approach includes open dialogue, tio n F  ood safety n C  onsumer feedback/ We engage on issues that are material n Pns  ublic policy concerns collaboration and transparent n  ustainable agriculture S n E and  ducation to our global responsibility strategy responsible marketing disclosure. This strengthens our ability n P  roduct needs and where we can have a substantial and preferences to balance business and societal positive impact. When engaging with interests; build robust relationships stakeholders, we assess potential n P  ollinators and n E  mployee satisfaction globally across sectors; and ultimately, biodiversity alignment on objectives, organizational n E  mployee well-being n S  oil health identify innovative solutions that n D  iversity and inclusion expertise, capacity, influence and Emp n W  ater stewardship T  raining and NGOs n create shared, sustainable value. loyees development willingness to collaborate. We are working to address shared issues – GRI 102-40, 42, 43, 44 such as health and nutrition wellness, n D  isaster relief n F  inancial performance climate change and water stewardship – n E  mployee volunteerism n G  overnance so collaboration is essential to achieving n F ood security n R  eporting n Sustainable n B  iotechnology long-term, enduring progress. We work agriculture n C  limate change with other companies and organizations Co m n P  ackaging s This graphic un m n R  esponsible or marketing st it i es nve illustrates the I range of issues on which we engage Regulators and public policymakers with stakeholders. w Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public to support the Paris Accord; a national n H  ealth and nutrition wellness: As a that information online, a practice policy issues that are important climate and energy policy in the U.S.; member of the International Food and that we have already adopted. In to our company and stakeholders. and state climate and energy policies, Beverage Alliance (IFBA) and other 2017, we engaged with the U.S. We conduct these activities in an including in California and Minnesota. organizations, we support efforts to Department of Agriculture to ensure accountable and transparent manner. advance self-regulatory frameworks that the implementation of this n P  ackaging: General Mills promotes Focus areas include the following: related to health and wellness. In new law will establish consistent policies to effectively and efficiently 2017, General Mills engaged with the transparency nationwide. n C  limate change and renewable increase packaging recycling rates U.S. Food and Drug Administration energy: We believe that a and reduce waste. In the United States, We comply with all lobbying regulations as it continued to implement the comprehensive, national climate policy we are a leader in the American where applicable. General Mills is revised nutrition facts panel. is needed to unleash the incredible Institute for Packaging and the registered as a lobbying entity at innovation of the marketplace. Federal Environment (AMERIPEN), which n F  ood labeling and GMOs: General the U.S. federal level for the House policies that provide proportionate conducts research and advocates Mills actively supports the National of Representatives and Senate and clear guidance are essential to for policy changes to achieve Bioengineered Food Disclosure Law. and in the states of Minnesota and supporting the large-scale investments these goals, including in California, This will require food companies to California. We file regular reports on required to address this challenge. Connecticut and Michigan during 2017. include information about GMOs our lobbying activity (see links). During 2017, General Mills continued on product labels or reference GRI 102-12, 13, 44 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Political contributions and memberships Our civic policy describes our The General Mills Political Action n I nternational organizations such memberships annually in our Civic approval process for corporate Committee (G-PAC) is run by as EuroGlaces and the Brazilian involvement reports. We do not belong political contributions. The Public employees and uses employee funds Association of Food Industries. to, or make payments to, any tax-exempt Responsibility Committee of the Board to make political contributions to organizations in the United States that n U  .S. public policy-focused of Directors oversees the company’s federal and, in limited cases, state write and endorse model legislation. organizations such as the Grocery political activities, including our policy, candidates. No corporate treasury Manufacturers Association and the Accountability: In 2017, the Center for disclosure of corporate political funds are used for federal candidate American Bakers Association. Political Accountability rated General contributions, membership in major contributions, but as allowed by law the Mills in the top five of the CPA-Zicklin n S  tate or provincial agencies, local trade associations, and independent company pays G-PAC administration Index of Corporate Political Disclosure political expenditures (although the costs. Information regarding G-PAC chambers of commerce and and Accountability, and the top company has not made any). transactions is available on the Federal manufacturing organizations, such as food company. This ranking, which Election Commission website. the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce During 2017, we made US$1,000 in includes all companies in the Standard and the California Manufacturers direct political contributions. For more General Mills also advances its mission & Poor’s 500 index, maintained our & Technology Association. details and historical information, see our by partnering with trade associations performance from past years. 2005-2017 Civic involvement reports. and other independent organizations We report additional details about GRI 415-1 that share our goals, including: our largest U.S. trade association About this report The General Mills Global Responsibility Report describes our commitments, goals, Report scope Stakeholder input as well as the Food Processing Sector Supplement. See the GRI index n T  he scope covers the company’s For the last several years, General Mills programs and performance across a broad for details. range of issues. The company’s Global global operations in fiscal 2017 has engaged Ceres – a coalition of n G  eneral Mills endorsed the principles of Sustainability Team has responsibility for (52 weeks ended May 28, 2017), investors, environmental organizations the UN Global Compact in 2008. This the development of the report. Ultimate except where noted otherwise. and other public interest groups working report serves as the company’s annual accountability lies with the General with companies to advance their n E  nvironmental data related to Communication on Progress. See the Mills leadership team (see page 6). environmental and social performance General Mills’ production facilities UN Global Compact index for details. and disclosure – to provide input on our This year, to further increase the presented in this report and in annual Global Responsibility Report. usefulness of the report, we restructured the Environmental Data Summary Feedback the document to more closely and is reported on a May-April basis This year, nine stakeholders, including We welcome your comments about explicitly align with the company’s (through April of the year noted). investors, NGO representatives, this report. Please send any feedback material global responsibility issues. corporate practitioners and industry n O  ur Scope 1, Scope 2 and a portion of to Corporate.Response@genmills.com. experts, provided feedback on a The Global Responsibility Report is our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions detailed report outline. We value this GRI 102-49, 50, 53, 54, 56 an important part of a broader set of have been verified by Bureau Veritas. input and have incorporated much disclosures that provide stakeholders n U  nless otherwise noted, data in this of their feedback into the report. a multifaceted description of General report is not externally verified and Mills’ performance, including the company’s annual report, SEC filings may occasionally be restated due Reporting standards to improvements in data collection n T  his report references the GRI 2016 and annual proxy statement. methodology and/or accuracy. Sustainability Reporting Standards, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 Our Food At General Mills, our purpose is to serve the world by making food people love. IN THIS SECTION Health and wellness Food safety Consumer education and marketing 80% 100% 2nd In fiscal 2017, 80 percent 100 percent of our General Mills is now of U.S. retail sales volume facilities worldwide are the second-largest U.S. Transparency met our Health Metric audited and/or certified organic food producer. nutritional criteria. by independent third parties using globally Biotechnology recognized food safety criteria. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Health and wellness Nutrition u Material issue | GRI 416-1, FP4, 6, 7 Our approach profile of our products and help us better understand the impact n H  ealth communications to customers, nutrition communities and consumers. Expertise within Innovation, Technology and Quality and regularly updates the Our goal: Our goal is to provide people of food on health and wellness. Public Responsibility Committee of the Learn more on the Bell Institute with nutritious, convenient food that Board of Directors on the company’s website and in the food safety can help them live healthier lives. We health and wellness strategy. content later in this report. are committed to making food with Health and Wellness Advisory passion and putting people first by Leadership and governance: Council: Since 1989, we have improving the variety and health Operationally, responsibility for product benefited from the guidance of our profile of our products while adhering development and marketing lies within Bell Institute of Health, Nutrition and global Health and Wellness Advisory to high standards of food safety. the R&D and marketing organizations. Food Safety: General Mills’ global Council, a group of leading external The Executive Vice President of Investment in research: We invest Bell Institute of Health, Nutrition and health and nutrition experts who Supply Chain and the Executive Vice in research and development (R&D) Food Safety is the company’s source provide perspective from academia President of Innovation, Technology and to continuously improve the health for scientific health, nutrition and food and research institutes. The council Quality are responsible for consumer safety expertise that creates value meets twice a year and challenges 75% health and safety, and product and growth for General Mills. The us to continually advance health and labeling. Responsibility for marketing Bell Institute influences General Mills’ wellness strategies and practices. communications is held by the Chief Since 2004, we have product development through: Marketing Officer. The Bell Institute increased R&D spending n N utrition science research. of Health, Nutrition and Food Safety on health and wellness n I nsights on regulatory issues. reports directly to the Vice President by 75 percent. n C ollaboration to advance food safety. of the Integrated Global Center of Health impacts across our North American portfolio Whole grain Fiber Protein Cal Calories n 1 00 percent of our Big G cereals n 1 9 percent of our North American n 1 4 percent of our U.S. retail product n 6  3 percent of North American product deliver 10 or more grams of whole products contain at least 10 SKUs (more than 250 products) SKUs (more than 1,300 products) have grain per serving. percent of the recommended provide at least 10 percent daily 150 calories or less per serving. n O ne in seven of our products across daily value of fiber per serving. value of protein per serving. n 3  0 percent of North American product North America delivers at least 8 n 6 0 Canadian retail products are a SKUs (more than 650 products) have grams of whole grain per serving. source of protein. 100 calories or less per serving. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Global health U.S. Health Metric Cereal Partners improvements In fiscal 2017, 80 percent of our U.S. retail sales volume was composed of Worldwide products that had met Health Metric* criteria since its inception in 2005. In 2005, General Mills began the journey Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) toward improving the health and nutrition U.S. retail Health Metric achievement joint venture with Nestlé makes and of our products with the implementation FY05-FY17 markets cereals such as Fitness, Cheerios, of our U.S. Health Metric. Over the Chocapic and Nesquik globally outside More than 1,400 products included in FY05-FY17 past several years, we have expanded North America. CPW is the secondour efforts, applying similar criteria largest cereal provider in the world. to encourage health improvements 79% 80% 76% 77% 73% Goal: As part of its Global Nutrition globally. Here are some highlights of 68% 64% Commitment, CPW announced specific nutritional improvements worldwide 60% targets in October 2012 for nutritionally since 2005 (fiscal 2005-2017 results). 45% improving about 6 billion portions of 40% We increased these beneficial nutrients: 33% breakfast cereals popular with kids and teens in more than 130 markets n W  hole grain – We introduced more than 21% 16% by boosting the amount of whole 280 products that provide at least 8 grain, increasing calcium, and reducing grams of whole grain per serving and sugar and sodium in its recipes. These reformulated more than 50 products to FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 cereal reformulation targets included: increase whole grain by at least 10 percent (key categories include cereal and snacks). n M ore whole grain than any n F  iber – We introduced more than 290 Drivers of nutritional improvements other ingredient. products that provide a significant U.S. retail sales volume FY05-FY17** n 9 grams of total sugars or less source of dietary fiber per serving and per serving. increased dietary fiber in another 30 n 1 35 milligrams of sodium or less products by at least 10 percent (key per serving. categories include cereal and snacks). n A t least 15 percent of the n V  itamins and minerals – We introduced FY2017 U.S. retail Health Metric volume: recommended daily allowance more than 550 products that are sources of key vitamins and minerals, such as yogurt, cereal and snacks. 20% 35% 45% of calcium per serving. Progress: 85 percent of net sales of Products with increase Products with Products with in positive nutrient(s) both increase in decrease in kids and teens brands worldwide We reduced these nutrients of concern: n Whole grain positive nutrient(s) nutrient(s) of concern achieved the commitment in 2017, and n S  odium – We reduced sodium by 5 to n Fiber AND decrease n Sodium n Saturated fat in nutrient(s) more than 90 percent of recipes in n Vitamins/minerals n Sugar n Total fat 25 percent in more than 450 products, n Protein of concern n Trans fat the scope of this commitment have including soups, dry dinners, canned whole grain as the first ingredient. tomatoes, Chex Mix and cereal. n S  ugar – We reduced sugar by 5 to 30 percent in more than 300 products, including yogurt, snacks and cereal. *U.S. Health Metric criteria: Reducing calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by 5 percent or more per serving; increasing beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent or more per serving; n T  rans fat – We reduced trans fat to formulating products to include 8 grams of whole grain or at least a half-serving of fruit, vegetables, or low or 0 grams labeled per serving in 270 nonfat dairy; formulating/reformulating products to meet specific internal requirements, including limiting calories, and meeting health or nutrition claim criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). products, including baking mixes, **The information on this diagram shows the type of efforts we have made to improve the nutrition profile of our refrigerated dough and pizza products. products over the 13 years we have implemented our U.S. Health Metric. Divested products are not included. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Diverse consumer needs u Material issue Our approach Natural and organic Sustainable supply: We are also taking steps across our supply chain to No artificial General Mills offers a variety of Since 2000, we have steadily expanded ensure a long-term supply of organic ingredients products to meet the diverse needs our natural and organic business, ingredients. Learn more about how we As we continue to innovate and modify and preferences of consumers around including through brand acquisitions, to are building our organic capacity in our products to meet consumer the world, who are increasingly meet growing consumer demand. We the Our Planet section of this report. preferences, many of our brands focused on the role of food in their offer a mix of certified organic cereals, have removed artificial flavors and overall health and wellness. The yogurt, vegetables, fruit products, graphic below outlines the wide range snacks, meals and baking products. Gluten-free colors from artificial sources. of benefits across our portfolio. We offer gluten-free products across For example, in November 2017, our Our progress: our portfolio, including baking, brownie, Foodservice business introduced a n S cale – General Mills is now cake and cookie mixes, frostings, portfolio of baking products with no the second-largest U.S. refrigerated baked goods, cereal, artificial flavors or colors from artificial Organic organic food producer.* sources, under the Gold Medal and flour, granola, oatmeal, pasta, soups, Plant-based Natural snacks, vegetables and yogurt. Pillsbury™ brands. These products help protein n P roducts – One out of every 10 bakeries, restaurants and foodservice products in our North American Our progress: operators meet consumer demand for portfolio is certified organic or made AntibioticNo artificial n T hird-largest – General Mills is the items made with simpler ingredients. free ingredients with organic ingredients; nearly 550 third-largest producer of glutenOur progress: organic product SKUs are available free products in the U.S.** throughout the U.S. and Canada. n N early half of our U.S. retail products Limited Glutenn O ne in four of our North American ingredients n G rowth – We committed to are labeled as containing no Cal free products is labeled as glutengrowing our natural and organic artificial flavors, colors from artificial LowerProteinfree. In 2017, we offered more sources or artificial preservatives. calorie rich food business to US$1 billion in than 900 gluten-free product net sales by 2019, and reached SKUs in North America. US$1.045 billion in fiscal 2017. Our natural and organic brands ® ® *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through June 18, 2017. **Nielsen, total of U.S. – all channels, 52 weeks ending Dec. 2, 2017. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Investing in new food innovations Our approach: Today’s fast-changing food stage brands to make their food products Partners: As of early 2018, we have eight partners: industry requires rapid innovation and a accessible to more people. By combining the steady stream of new ideas. In October 2015, vision and passion of these entrepreneurs General Mills began to invest in small food with General Mills’ extensive capabilities start-ups through 301 INC, the company’s in areas such as product development, business development and venture capital supply chain, marketing, operations and unit. The 301 INC team helps expand the channel development, we believe we can vision of entrepreneurs with promising earlymeet consumer needs faster than ever. Our progress: We grew our portfolio by 50 percent in fiscal 2017. Food safety u Material issue | GRI 416-1, 2, FP5 Our approach n P rocesses – Food safety is integrated into all our processes, suppliers’ systems to ensure they meet our traceability requirements. Policy signed by our Chief Executive Officer. This corporate policy is Safety is a priority for our company beginning with R&D and extending supported by 16 detailed policies Training: We provide food safety and central to our culture. Leading with across our supply chain. with accompanying standards and training to employees through our safety – both in the workplace and guidance documents. These global n R isk mitigation – We conduct global centers of excellence and online the food we make – is one of the key policies cover a broad range of food internal risk-based surveillance and training academy. In fiscal 2017: operating principles that guides our work. safety areas, including regulatory food safety testing at all General n O  ur food safety team included compliance, trace and recall, labeling, Investment: We invested US$15.2 million Mills facilities to identify and more than 2,000 trained claims, physical, chemical and in food safety in fiscal 2017; 8.5 percent prioritize specific areas of risk. quality professionals. biological hazards, transportation, of essential capital investment in 2017 n A udits – Our Global Internal Audit was for projects related to food safety. n W  e conducted Auditor Academy and good manufacturing team periodically audits the practices and sanitation. training sessions attended by 14 Collaboration: Food safety leadership effectiveness and efficiency of participants from three countries. n L  eadership – The Senior Director is a differentiator for General Mills, but food safety controls and operating These sessions help improve our of Food Safety and Quality has not an area of competition. We freely procedures. Results are reported to ability to identify and fix issues, direct responsibility for food share our best practices, emerging the company’s Global Governance as well as prevent food safety safety. The Global Internal Audit areas of concern and collaborate Council and Board of Directors. problems from occurring. team periodically validates that with industry peers and regulators to n T raceability – Our inventory control help raise standards industrywide. Governance: our food safety processes and and supplier management systems controls are operating effectively. Systems: Our global food safety include the ability to trace the sources n D  etailed policies – Governance The company’s Global Governance systems focus on prevention, of our ingredients, which is key to of General Mills’ food safety and Council conducts a quarterly review intervention and response: isolating risks in the event of food regulatory matters begins with a of risk, which includes food safety. safety concerns. We evaluate our corporate Food Safety and Regulatory GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Performance Recalls: When we learn about illnesses that may be linked to our products, we we continue to expand the number of supplier and co-producer audits  2 n 6 co-producer audits were conducted in 2017. Our goals: take quick action. We collaborate with we conduct globally. We perform n 6  0 percent of our global n 1 00 percent of General Mills facilities health officials to investigate the situation, direct audits and also encourage co-production sites and 91 percent third-party audited and/or certified. communicate with consumers and issue third-party audits and/or certification, of our North American ingredient voluntary product recalls to remove such as through GFSI, as an additional vendor sites are GFSI certified. n 1 00 percent Global Food Safety affected products from store shelves, preventive control measure. Initiative (GFSI) certification of all n 5  00+ suppliers were trained through when appropriate. We conducted nine General-Mills owned facilities by 2020. n S  upplier training – We bring together supplier schools and webinars in 2017. voluntary product recalls globally in fiscal our suppliers around the world to Our progress: External verification and n 6  50+ supplier representatives 2017 (compared to 10 in fiscal 2016), share food safety knowledge and certification of our facilities includes: including three related to flour as well as participated in training sessions in communicate food safety expectations. recalls of snack bars, onion cream soup, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Spain, n 1 00 percent of our facilities worldwide We conduct supplier training in paprika, pancake and baking mix, yogurt Taiwan, Thailand and the U.S. since 2011. are audited and/or certified by classroom settings tailored to the needs independent third parties using and vegetarian curry frozen entrees. of each market. The seminars address globally recognized food safety criteria. topics such as biological and physical n 8 2 percent of our company-owned Suppliers hazard controls, allergen management production facilities are GFSI Our approach: and production facility sanitization. certified, indicating they meet global n A  udits – To help ensure the safety of Our progress: standards for food safety management the raw materials (ingredients and n 9  12 supplier audits were recognized in more than 150 countries. packaging) we use in our products, conducted in 2017. Consumer education and marketing Consumer education GRI 417-1, FP4, 8 Our approach: General Mills provides the labeling of calories on front-of-pack. with local regulations and includes the n E  urope – All General Mills useful, fact-based information on This initiative was implemented globally energy icon on the front of packaging. package information complies packages to help consumers make during 2015 to inform consumers about with European Food Information n A  ustralia – The majority of our informed dietary choices. Our specific product nutrition attributes. to Consumers Regulation. products displayed nutrition intake product packages display accurate Our progress: Around the world, information on front-of-pack n U  .S. – The majority of our U.S. nutrition labeling as prescribed by our product labeling meets local labeling in fiscal 2017, consistent products now feature front-ofregulations in the country of sale. regulatory requirements while remaining with the Australian Daily Intake package labeling. Learn about date Our commitment: As a member of consistent with our global approach. Guide and IFBA requirements. labeling changes to reduce food the International Food and Beverage Examples of our compliance with local waste through clearer guidance for n C  anada – All General Mills package Alliance (IFBA), General Mills has made a and regional guidelines include: consumers about food shelf-life in the information complies with Health commitment to adopt a common global Our Community section of this report. n A  rgentina and Brazil – All General Canada and Canadian Food Inspection approach to nutrition information on Mills package information complies Agency labeling requirements. packaging that includes, at minimum, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Responsible marketing u Material issue | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: We believe children Director General of the U.N. World that we advertise to children under the should be encouraged to consume Health Organization in September 2014 age of 12. Additional regional and local lower-calorie, nutrient-dense foods communicating a set of enhanced global commitments include compliance with that support their growth and commitments that included responsible the following initiatives and guidelines: r General Mills is a charter member of IFBA activity. Our marketing policies and marketing and advertising initiatives. and supports its responsible marketing and n A ustralia – Responsible Child commitments support this philosophy. These standards encompassed advertising initiatives. Marketing Initiative of the Australian commitments around product Policies: General Mills’ marketing policies Food and Grocery Council reformulation and innovation as well as ensure that our child-directed advertising n B razil – Enhanced Commitment a common global approach to providing promotes only lower-calorie, nutrientnutrition information on packaging, at to Responsible Advertising dense products and respects three the point of sale and through other to Children pledge key steps to healthier living: balance, channels by the end of 2016. The n C anada – Canadian Children’s r The Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising moderation and physical activity. We enhanced commitments included an Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) is a voluntary program of the take particular care around the content expansion of IFBA’s global marketing Council of Better Business Bureaus. and nature of advertising directed to Initiative guidelines policy, in place since 2009, which children – including pre-screening of n E urope – EU Pledge guidelines specified that members would only our ads by the Better Business Bureau’s advertise products that meet better-forn S ingapore – Singapore Food and Children’s Advertising Review Unit you criteria or refrain from all product Beverage Industry Responsible in the United States. We update our marketing to children under 12 years old. Advertising to Children Initiative marketing policies annually to reflect r General Mills is a founding member of the EU n U .S. – CFBAI guidelines Pledge covering advertising to kids under age 12. current standards and practices. The 2014 commitments strengthened that policy in three core areas: media, General Mills’ marketing policies are marketing and harmonized criteria. The reviewed and updated annually by policy covers virtually all media and our company’s Responsible Marketing certain marketing techniques directed r As a founding member of CFBAI, General Mills Council. These policies are reviewed at children under the age of 12. Members upholds its child advertising nutrition standards. annually with the company’s Chief have committed to working toward Executive Officer and the Chief harmonizing global nutrition criteria to Operating Officers of our U.S. and ensure that better-for-you foods are International operating units. We adhere based on robust common standards. to strict internal and industry guidelines – that in many cases are more demanding In addition to our global commitment to r The Singapore Food and Beverage Industry Responsible Advertising to Children Initiative is than local regulations – in producing comply with the IFBA pledge, General a pledge promoted by Food Industry Asia. and reviewing ads to ensure they are Mills follows the Children’s Food and appropriate for the intended audience. Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) nutrition standards in markets where Global commitment: As charter other regulatory or self-regulatory members of IFBA, we joined other standards do not exist. We apply the leading food and nonalcoholic beverage CFBAI nutrition standards to products r The Responsible Child Marketing Initiative companies in a public letter to the is a program of the Australian Food and Grocery Council. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Transparency u Material issue | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: At General Mills, we are our company and brand websites, on our n A  nnie’s shares stories about its n I n the U.S., we provide product committed to increasing transparency brands’ social media channels and on contributions to a better food system details through SmartLabel™, an about our food. We recognize that third-party sites, such as e-commerce through its website (including industry initiative that seeks to share consumers, regulators, investors and and transparency platforms. the Farm-to-Yum framework and digital product information with other stakeholders seek information Why Organic, Ingredients and Soil consumers. As of January 2018, we Our progress: Some examples about our products and processes. Matters pages), published media have over 100 products listed on of our current transparency Consumers want to know what’s in pieces and social channels. smartlabel.org and we will continue initiatives are outlined below. their food, where it comes from and to add more. This information also n W  e provide consumers with answers n O n social channels, Cheerios and how it is prepared. They also want can be accessed by downloading to questions about our food at assurance that food has been grown Nature Valley are leading the the SmartLabel App and scanning askgeneralmills.com, including and harvested in a responsible and digital way to show how General a participating UPC or SmartLabel frequently asked questions, videos, sustainable manner that respects Mills is working with suppliers and QR code (if available on packaging). blogs and other content. The people, animals and the environment. farmers to sustainably grow oats site includes 545 topics ranging Responsible sourcing: Details about used in our products. Learn more. As we continue our journey to increase from food ingredients to glutenour ingredients, how they are sourced Many of our natural and organic transparency, our focus is on providing free products and use of GMOs. and how we engage with farmers are brands use social media to share information to key stakeholders when More than 41,000 users visited included in Responsible sourcing content information about practices to and where they need it. For example, to the site during the 12-month in the Our Planet section of this report. expand organic farming and improve help consumers learn more about what period ending November 2017. pollinator health, including Liberté, is in their food, we provide information Cascadian Farm and Muir Glen. in multiple ways – on packages, through Biotechnology u Material issue | GRI FP8 Safety: Safety is our highest value that can enhance human health of our major product categories We’re pleased that we now have a priority, and we find broad global and development. Incumbent with any in the U.S. Learn more. national standard for GMO disclosure consensus among food and safety technology use is the need for supply in the U.S., and we look forward to In the spirit of transparency, we’ve regulatory bodies that approved chain stakeholders to regularly review, reviewing the U.S. Department of enrolled 500 products – especially GMOs are safe. Learn more. identify and address issues associated Agriculture (USDA) regulations once our organic products – in the U.S. with the technology, including pest they are proposed. Our approach: We agree with the UN Non-GMO Project, a nonprofit and weed resistance. Learn more. World Health Organization (WHO) organization that provides information that the development of genetically Alternatives: We respect consumers’ to consumers and third-party modified organisms (GMOs) offers varying views on the use of verification for non-GMO food and the potential for increased agricultural biotechnology. We offer organic products. productivity and improved nutritional and non-GMO alternatives in most GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Our Planet Our sustainability mission is to treat the world with care. IN THIS SECTION Climate change Water stewardship Ecosystems Human rights 11 % 76 % $ 3.25 million + Responsible sourcing Our greenhouse gas 76 percent of our We have invested over emissions footprint 10 priority ingredients US$3.25 million in decreased 11 percent in were sustainably soil health initiatives 2017 compared to 2010. sourced in 2017. through 2017. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Our approach annual performance objectives and impacts his compensation. The Chairman SUSTAINABILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD We promote environmentally and and CEO convenes the Sustainability COMMITTEE CEO, CHAIRMAN socially responsible practices across Governance Committee three times each OF THE BOARD our value chain to protect the resources year to review and approve strategies, EVP, CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN OFFICER AND GLOBAL and people upon which our business programs and key investments. BUSINESS SOLUTIONS EVP, CHIEF SUPPLY EVP, INNOVATION, CHAIN OFFICER AND depends. The areas of greatest TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY GLOBAL BUSINESS Oversight of the company’s sustainability SOLUTIONS environmental impact in our supply GLOBAL CHIEF work is provided by the General Mills MARKETING OFFICER chain – including more than two-thirds Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility of GHG emissions and 99 percent of Committee, which regularly reviews water use – occur outside General Mills’ the company’s sustainability objectives, operations, primarily in agriculture. We strategies and performance. work to reduce those impacts through CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY VP, GLOBAL VPs, SUPPLY CHAIN our climate ambition goals, water The company’s Vice President and OFFICER SOURCING stewardship program, ecosystems Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) commitments and sustainable sourcing stewards the company’s sustainability initiatives. We advance responsible work, reporting to the Executive sourcing practices that respect human Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Ratings and rankings in 2017 rights, expand economic opportunities Officer, and working closely with n C  DP Climate: An F TSE4Good Index: member and protect animal welfare. the Vice President of Sourcing and n C  DP Water: B n J UST Capital: No. 3 of 34 in industry other key business leaders to develop, Leadership and governance: At General n C  orporate Human Rights n M SCI: AA rating coordinate and execute programs Mills, our Chairman and Chief Executive Benchmark: No. 8 of 35 in industry n N ewsweek Green Rankings: No. 34 to achieve companywide targets. Officer has ultimate accountability for n C  orporate Responsibility magazine's sustainability, which is included in his GRI 102-9, 26 100 Best Corporate Citizens: No. 19 Climate change u Material issues: Climate change; energy use; packaging footprint | GRI 301 2-3, 302 1-4, 305 1-5, 306-2 Climate change presents risks to adaptation, disclosure and advocacy, providers, retailers and consumers. We industries and our broader society. We humanity, our environment and our establishes a framework to track drive progress through partnerships participate in the following initiatives: livelihoods. Changes in climate not only and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) and key initiatives, such as our work n S  cience Based Targets initiative (SBTI) affect global food security but also emissions across our value chain. with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) n B  usiness for Innovative Climate & impact General Mills’ raw material supply. to develop a soil health roadmap or Collaboration: We directly control This influences our ability to deliver with Field to Market: The Alliance for Energy Policy (BICEP) coalition only a small portion of our value chain, quality products to our consumers Sustainable Agriculture. See Agriculture n W  e Mean Business so driving transformation across the and value to our shareholders. and transformation for more details. entire system requires leadership and n N  ew York Declaration on Forests Policy: Our General Mills Policy on collaboration with suppliers, farmers, Combating climate change also n U  N Caring for Climate Declaration Climate, which focuses on mitigation, packaging producers, product transport requires collective action across GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Science-based goal: Reduce absolute We plan to accelerate recent progress “gates” during this process, we have started We are also building and integrating GHG emissions across our full value to reach our emissions-reduction goals. to assess a product’s environmental simpler, more user-friendly ecochain by 28 percent by 2025 (compared Our ongoing challenge is to decrease our characteristics, including through life-cycle design tools, which will enable nonto 2010). Our longer-term goal is to footprint while growing our business. assessment. We launched this initiative specialists to make environmental achieve sustainable emission levels in late in fiscal 2016 in our Yoplait brand footprinting a mainstream part of See the Appendix for details on our GHG line with scientific consensus by 2050. in Europe, and added the Häagen-Dazs product development. We began emissions calculation methodology. For brand during fiscal 2017. Through the implementing these tools into Performance: In 2017, our GHG information on the risks and opportunities end of the fiscal year, we assessed 91 packaging design in the U.S. in 2015. emissions footprint decreased 11 percent General Mills faces due to climate projects to determine the GHG emissions compared to 2010, while net sales rose change, see our CDP submission online. Value chain: The sections on impact of various product changes, 6 percent. This reflects sales of lower the following pages break down Product environmental footprint beyond the effect on typical attributes GHG emissions intensity products, our footprint by value chain evaluation: Considering environmental such as cost and quality. Twentyas well as improved efficiency in phase and describe our efforts impacts in product design and four of these projects demonstrated manufacturing and logistics. Our GHG to improve performance. development is essential to improving opportunities for improvement. We have emissions fell 6 percent versus 2016, our carbon footprint and overall implemented 15 so far, saving 3,000 while net sales decreased 6 percent. environmental performance. At specific metric tons CO₂e on an annual basis. The path to 2050* 20 2025 goal**: Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full 17.3 value chain by 28 percent 16.4 15.4 28% 2050 goal**: Reduce absolute 15 GHG emissions across our full value chain to sustainable levels 12.5 in line with scientific consensus Million metric tons CO2e 4172% 10 7.5 5 Consuming Selling Shipping Producing Packaging supply chain Agriculture and transformation 0 2010 2016 2017 2025 2050 * General Mills worked with Quantis, a sustainability and life-cycle assessment (LCA) consulting firm, to calculate our company’s GHG emissions footprint. The calculation methodologies align with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Relative size of value chain segments for 2025 and 2050 are based on 2010 data. Differences compared to the data reported last year are due to updates to the underlying ecoinvent database and enhancements to calculation methodologies and accuracy. ** Compared to 2010. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Agriculture and transformation (50% of total value chain GHG emissions) 8.88 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Growing and transporting 7.91 7.76 6.39 crops, and turning them into food ingredients * Wheat, dry corn, oats ROW CROPS* DAIRY MEAT OTHER** ** Cocoa, soybean oil and 2010 2016 2017 2025 36% 27% 7% 30% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: sugarcane represent about MEDIUM EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) one-third of this amount Agriculture and transformation Our approach: in similar ways with oats growers other factors. See the Sustainable represents the largest source of GHG through the Canadian Fieldprint sourcing section for details on our n S oil health – Healthy soil has significant emissions across our value chain, so Initiative. We then hold workshops row crop and dairy initiatives. potential to sequester carbon. For it is central to our reduction efforts. and collaborate with local, trusted a discussion of our work in this n D  eforestation – Healthy forests play agronomists to identify and implement Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions area, see the Ecosystems section. a critical role in storing carbon, so we continuous improvement practices. in this category decreased 13 percent n R ow crops – In the U.S., we partner are working to address deforestation in 2017 compared to our 2010 baseline. with Field to Market and our suppliers n D airy products – Dairy management in our fiber, cocoa and palm oil This was primarily due to a reduction in to help growers of wheat, sugar contributes to GHG emissions, due to supply chains. See the Sustainable purchasing of several ingredients such beets and corn gather data on the feed production, methane emissions sourcing section for more details. as sugar, wheat and fats/oils. Emissions impact of their farming practices, from digestive processes, manure, fell by 2 percent from 2016 to 2017. including GHG emissions. We engage processing, transport of raw milk and Packaging supply chain (8% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Producing and transporting 1.35 1.39 1.17 0.97 packaging materials FIBER METAL PLASTIC OTHER 2010 2016 2017 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 49% 25% 25% 1% We continually innovate to reduce the packaging. A 16 percent decrease from than 99 percent in 2017. See the External collaboration: We partner with environmental impact of packaging 2016 to 2017 was due largely to declining Sustainable sourcing section for industry and community organizations through better design – by decreasing sales in our soup business, which uses a more details. such as the Sustainable Packaging materials use, switching to lower impact substantial amount of steel packaging, a Coalition (SPC) and The Association Recycled and recyclable materials: We materials (including renewable) and material that is GHG emissions intensive. of Plastic Recyclers to improve continue to increase our use of recycled improving truckload packing efficiencies. recycling effectiveness and availability. Sourcing: General Mills has a target and recyclable materials. In 2017, recycled To promote recycling, two-thirds Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions to source 100 percent of our fiber content represented about 43 percent of of our products with large enough in this category decreased 13 percent in packaging by 2020 from recycled General Mills’ product packaging weight packages now include How2Recycle 2017 compared to our 2010 baseline. This material or from virgin wood fiber in the U.S. Approximately 88 percent of labels, developed by the SPC. was due to design improvements and a regions that do not contribute to our packaging in the U.S. was recyclable.* shift toward products with lower impact deforestation, and we achieved greater *According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2017. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60 percent or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Producing (10% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Making our products 1.69 1.63 1.50 1.22 (mixing and cooking) ELECTRICITY FUEL OTHER 2010 2016 2017 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 40% 17% 43% The amount and type of energy Step Energy Reduction Process, by support our environmental objectives. percent. Main factors included wastewe use are the key drivers of GHG working with our manufacturing Examples include anaerobic digestion intensive changes in operations, moving emissions from our operations. plants to establish energy programs, (which captures and uses methane to production lines between facilities and conduct energy analyses, develop generate electricity), burning oat hulls overall decreases in production. During Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions and execute improvement plans, and other bio mass, and solar arrays. In the year, 84 percent of our production in this category decreased 11 percent and validate results. This process June 2017, General Mills signed a 15-year solid waste globally was recycled, 13 in 2017 compared to our 2010 baseline, historically focused on facilities with virtual power purchase agreement with percent was disposed* and 3 percent primarily due to our ongoing progress significant spending on energy. We Renewable Energy Systems (RES) for was processed for energy recovery. in energy efficiency and reductions in have recently evolved it to include all 100 megawatts of the Cactus Flats wind the average GHG-emissions intensity Worldwide, at the end of fiscal 2017, General Mills manufacturing facilities, project in Concho County, Texas. This of the electricity we purchase. seven General Mills production facilities by focusing improvement efforts on will generate renewable energy credits (14 percent of the global total) met Energy use: In addition to our GHG common systems such as compressed that we will apply to our U.S. electricity our zero-waste-to-landfill criteria.** We emissions reduction goal, each General air, lighting and steam/hot water. footprint to drive progress toward continue working to meet our target Mills production facility has a target to our GHG emissions reduction goal. In fiscal 2017, we completed more than 76 to achieve zero waste to landfill at 30 reduce energy use by 2 percent annually, energy efficiency and reduction projects Waste reduction: We also work to percent of our owned production facilities normalized to production. During fiscal across the company. These saved over decrease waste, which saves money and by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025. 2017, this rate increased by 3 percent 21 million kWh, delivered US$2 million in materials and decreases our overall GHG compared to the prior year, largely due To view additional data about GHG cost savings and avoided nearly 15,000 emissions. Each General Mills production to the movement of production lines emissions, energy usage in our metric tons CO₂e of GHG emissions. facility has a target to reduce production between facilities. However, absolute directly controlled operations, and solid waste generation by 3 percent energy use decreased by 5 percent. Renewable energy: We have water and solid waste, see the annually, normalized to production. In implemented numerous renewable Environmental Data Summary. We identify and implement fiscal 2017, this rate increased by 11 energy initiatives at facilities worldwide improvements through our Fivepercent, while absolute waste rose by 2 that meet financial guidelines and *Disposal includes landfill and incineration without energy recovery. **These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Shipping (6% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Transporting ingredients to our facilities and our 1.14 1.11 0.96 products on to stores 0.80 FUEL OTHER 2010 2016 2017 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 80% 20% GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY We work with our suppliers, co-packers, more efficient transport modes and n C  ollaborating with suppliers our transportation spend is with transportation providers and customers improvements in truck fuel efficiency. and customers to increase SmartWay certified carriers. to reduce the environmental impact of capacity utilization and providing n I mproving logistics planning, Strategies: shipping our products around the world. customers incentives to use our regionally sourcing products, filling n O ptimizing transportation modes, Direct Plant Ship program. trucks more completely and using Performance: Greenhouse gas including moving loads to modes with emissions in this category decreased n P  rioritizing shippers with strong load optimization software. less impact, such as from truck to rail. 14 percent in 2017 compared to environmental credentials. In n U sing innovative technologies our 2010 baseline, due to shifts to North America, 85 percent of such as lightweight truck cabs. Selling (6% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Making food available for purchase and daily 0.95 1.03 0.93 0.68 operations of our business STORAGE AT RETAIL EMPLOYEE COMMUTE BUSINESS TRAVEL OTHER 2010 2016 2017 2025 62% 19% 3% 16% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) We support the efforts of our customers in 2017 compared to our 2010 baseline, business travel. We continue to reduce our U.S. sales fleet by 28 percent per who are working to reduce energy use largely due to a decrease in the volume impacts in this area through increased mile driven. By the end of 2016, all of our and associated GHG emissions related to of products that require cold storage. use of virtual meeting technologies and U.S. sales fleet vehicles were upgraded storing and refrigerating our products. upgrades to more efficient fleet vehicles. to more efficient 2016 and 2017 models. Sales and marketing: This category From fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2017, we Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions also includes General Mills activities that reduced the CO₂ emissions intensity of in this category decreased 2 percent support sales and marketing, such as Consuming (20% of total value chain GHG emissions) 3.34 3.29 3.10 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY17) Enjoying food (shopping, 2.40 preparing and eating) and disposing CONSUMER TRIPS HOME COOKING HOME STORAGE END OF LIFE TO STORE 2010 2016 2017 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 50% 23% 13% 14% Consumer transportation to and from Performance: Greenhouse gas that do not require cooking or waste. In 2017, we enabled 30 million stores determines the largest part emissions in this category decreased refrigeration as well as less GHGmeals for food-insecure people of emissions in this phase, followed 7 percent in 2017 compared to our intensive consumer transport. around the world through food by product characteristics such as 2010 baseline, reflecting a shift donations. Learn more in the Our n F  ood waste: General Mills supports preparation and storage requirements. in our portfolio to more products Community section of this report. several initiatives to combat food GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Water stewardship u Material issue | GRI 303-1, 2, 3 Water is essential for life – for drinking health requires extensive collaboration and sanitation, and to grow food, to protect the water quality and generate power, support commerce and supply that benefit our growers, Feeding Ourselves Thirsty nurture ecosystems. Agriculture uses 70 communities and the environment. In the 2017 update of its Feeding how companies are responding to water percent of global freshwater withdrawals, Ourselves Thirsty analysis, Ceres ranked risks in governance and management, Our goal: Champion the development of General Mills No. 4 of 21 packaged food direct operations, manufacturing supply and the food sector faces increasing risks water stewardship plans for the comcompanies (and No. 5 of 42 food sector chain, and agricultural supply chain. related to water quality and availability. pany’s most material and at-risk watercompanies overall). The study assessed This underscores the leadership role that sheds in its global value chain by 2025. General Mills and other food companies must take to address water stewardship Risk-based approach: Water issues are local, so we take a risk-based approach in phase 3 (collaboration) and one has 2017, absolute water usage related to issues. We focus on water usage from to address the specific challenges advanced to phase 4 (transformation). our manufacturing processes equaled watershed to production, identify facing targeted geographies. We follow 14.4 million cubic meters, 17 percent opportunities to increase efficiency and To determine locations, in 2016 we our four-phase approach to develop less than in fiscal 2016. Main factors conservation, and continually improve updated a risk assessment of the and implement watershed health included reductions in the number performance and enhance resiliency. watersheds that support our business strategies in eight priority watersheds of facilities and overall production. globally. We assessed 15 key ingredients Policy: The General Mills Water Policy across our worldwide operations (see in 36 sourcing regions and 66 facilities To view additional data about provides a framework for engaging watersheds map on the next page). (including 17 supplier partners), water usage in our directly with stakeholders and improving the Five of those watersheds are in phase 2 covering 41 watersheds globally. This controlled operations, including health of watersheds that are critical (analysis and action planning), two are process, which updated the analysis we withdrawal by source, see the to our business. Improving watershed conducted with The Nature Conservancy Environmental Data Summary. in 2013, included factors such as water General Mills’ water footprint* quantity, water quality and baseline water stress. We used the World Wildlife Packaging supply chain (14%) Fund (WWF) Water Risk Filter and the Reducing materials use and using World Business Council for Sustainable lower impact materials (such as Development (WBCSD) Global Water recycled content) are the main Tool as well as facility water consumption strategies that positively impact Agriculture and water use related to packaging. data and irrigation intensity data transformation See the Packaging supply chain from the University of Minnesota. (85%) section for more information. Water use in operations: Although this We focus on the highest-risk Producing (1%) category only represents about 1 percent watersheds that we Although this represents a small of our water footprint, every General impact globally. See part of our footprint, we control this Mills production facility has a target to the map for details. phase directly and are committed decrease water use by 1 percent annually, to continual improvement. See the Producing section for details. normalized to production. In fiscal 2017, this rate decreased by 5 percent, due *Water consumption data is from 2012. Data in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was mostly to elevated levels the prior year considered to be immaterial. associated with facility closures. In fiscal GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Four-phase approach to sustainable supply chain water use PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and Collaboration Transformation A study of key operation and growing action planning Establish multi-stakeholder water Implement water stewardship program region watersheds, using external stewardship plan to implement identified Deep-dive analysis of at-risk growing areas, with public education and advocacy, standards and building on work completed improvements in conjunction with external experts funding, and monitoring and reporting with The Nature Conservancy General Mills’ priority watersheds Yongding He HEBEI/SANHE (BEIJING), CHINA Growing region (dairy), facility Snake RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH IDAHO, U.S. PHASE 2 Growing region (wheat, potatoes) We are in the process of implementing RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH the Alliance for Water Stewardship PHASE 3 (AWS) standard at our facility and the We support TNC to help farmers surrounding catchment. implement water management and soil health practices that reduce groundwater Huang He (Yellow) withdrawals and address declining water SHANGDONG, CHINA levels and watershed health in this area. In 2017, the Natural Resources Conservation Growing region (dairy) Service (NRCS) allocated $5.2 million to RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH promote and implement irrigation and PHASE 2 water saving projects through its Regional Added in October 2016. This Conservation Partnership Program. TNC watershed is in the analysis phase. also received a grant from the NRCS to help develop the business case for Yangtze (Chang Jiang) farmers to reduce water use. Learn more. Also see Field to Market: The Alliance for Rio Grande/ SHANGHAI, CHINA Sustainable Agriculture and the TNC soil Rio Bravo Facilities health roadmap. NEW MEXICO, U.S. RISK LEVEL: HIGH PHASE 2 Facility San Joaquin RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH We are in the process of implementing the Alliance for Water Stewardship CALIFORNIA, U.S. PHASE 4 (AWS) standard at our facilities and We contribute to the Rio Grande the surrounding catchments. Growing region (dairy, nuts, Water Fund’s work to help advance fruits and vegetables), facility water conservation and education RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH PHASE 3 efforts in the Albuquerque community, Ganges including restoring forests to reduce MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA General Mills is supporting TNC to catastrophic wildfires that threaten the develop risk-mapping frameworks, area’s water supply. Growing region (wheat) leading management practices and tools RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH to help ensure that groundwater PHASE 2 dependent ecosystems and streams in South Florida Basins General Mills is supporting TNC California are included in sustainable FLORIDA, U.S. to complete a deep-dive groundwater management. Through the assessment into the watershed, California Water Action Collaborative, we Growing region (sugarcane) farming practices and the share resources and information with RISK LEVEL: HIGH opportunities for improvement. other food and beverage companies, PHASE 2 suppliers and conservation organizations General Mills is tracking The Central to improve water security in the San Everglades Planning Project (CEPP) Joaquin watershed. General Mills also is that is currently being implemented funding research conducted by according to the Integrated Delivery Sustainable Conservation, an NGO Schedule, a collaboration created supporting farmers in California’s Central with multi-stakeholder input. Valley, to enable groundwater recharge on active farm fields. Risk levels are based on the WWF Water Risk Filter, customized to General Mills. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Ecosystems u Material issues: Biodiversity; climate change | GRI 102-12, 13, 201-1, 304-2, 3 We are committed to improving the food we make. Our efforts are to advance biodiversity; strive to ingredients; and support efforts to the health of ecosystems in our multifaceted. We collaborate to address deforestation in our supply help farmers control weeds in the supply chain, which benefits farmers, improve soil health; plant pollinator chain; work to more than double the most ecologically sensitive manner. communities, wildlife, the planet and habitats and support bee research organic acreage from which we source Soil health The world’s rising population places increasing demands on land to produce Supplier and grower Midwest, including cover cropping, low or no tillage and extended rotation. Perennial crop more food. Soil conservation practices, partnerships investments including planting cover crops, rotating Field to Market: General Mills has Research investment Advancing organic Kernza: In 2017, crops and reducing tillage, can improve been working with Field to Market, Cascadian Farm, a pioneer in the organic Soil health roadmap: General Mills and soil health and reduce erosion. This our suppliers and growers since food movement, and parent company TNC unveiled ReThink Soil: A Roadmap increases productivity for farmers, 2010 to expand use of the Fieldprint General Mills launched a project with The to Soil Health in November 2016. The improves water quality and biodiversity, Calculator to capture data about soil Land Institute (TLI) to help commercialize document makes the case for soil health and helps to address climate change. conservation, soil carbon and other organic Kernza, a perennial grain with management practices as the primary According to The Nature Conservancy, sustainability impact metrics. Learn deep roots (and a wild relative of annual way to achieve conservation outcomes adopting soil health practices on all U.S. more in Sustainable sourcing. wheat), that shows promise to increase on U.S. working lands in the agricultural corn, soy and wheat croplands could soil health, carbon sequestration, Midwest Row Crop Collaborative: supply chain. The roadmap outlines 10 deliver nearly US$50 billion in social and water retention and surrounding We participate in the Midwest Row key steps, spanning scientific, economic environmental benefits annually. We wildlife habitat enhancement. General Crop Collaborative, a multi-stakeholder and policy priorities, to achieve work with farmers, NGOs and industry Mills also approved a US$500,000 engagement to enhance soil health and widespread adoption of adaptive soil partners across our supply chain to make charitable contribution to the Forever protect air and water quality in North health systems on more than 50 percent progress toward healthier soil and more Green Initiative at the University of America. The initiative works to accelerate of U.S. cropland by 2025. Download the sustainable agriculture. Through 2017, Minnesota, in partnership with TLI, to use of environmentally preferable executive summary or the full paper. General Mills has invested more than support related efforts. Learn more. agricultural practices across the Upper US$3.25 million in soil health initiatives. Pollinators and biodiversity Thirty-five percent of crop production Diverse native populations of bees and pesticides, and have other environmental Many of our products contain honey, around the world relies on honey other insects are a sign of healthy and benefits as well. Hedgerows planted fruits, nuts, vegetables and other bees and other pollinators to produce productive ecosystems. Maintaining for pollinators contribute to healthier ingredients that require pollination, so fruits and seeds. Each year, bees pollinate diverse insect populations can soil by preventing erosion and healthy and abundant bee populations more than 100 types of U.S. agricultural benefit farmers financially through drought, while helping address climate are a priority for General Mills. We crops, valued at nearly US$15 billion. additional yield and reduced need for change by sequestering carbon. work with our suppliers and leading GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY conservationists to conserve and expand efforts to expand pollinator habitats Research: During fiscal 2017, the General laboratory setting, enables scientists to bee habitats and fund research to better throughout our supply chains. For Mills Foundation provided a US$100,000 address issues that impact bee health— support the recovery of honey bees. example, our Yoplait business in grant to the University of Minnesota Bee such as pathogens, pesticides and France has a strategic partnership Lab, to support cell culture research nutritional deficiencies—at the cell level. Since 2011, General Mills and our brands with OFA (Observatoire Français on honey bees. This approach, which Our support included funding for five have invested US$6 million to support d’Apidologie) to protect pollinators. involves growing honey bee cells in a researchers from Argentina, Australia, pollinator and research efforts. China, the U.K. and the U.S. to attend Partnerships for pollinators: In fiscal 2017, we launched a five-year project Brand commitments to pollinator habitats in 2017* a two-day workshop in Minnesota to learn the latest techniques in this area. with the U.S. Department of Agriculture Brands Funding Commitment Progress Neonicotinoid pesticides: General (USDA) and the Xerces Society for Mills recognizes the concern about the Invertebrate Conservation to protect 8,000 acres of pollinator unique role of neonicotinoid pesticides and establish healthy pollinator habitats. habitat on 100,000 Achieved acres of organic supplier 2,200 acres in pollinator health decline and supports General Mills is donating US$400,000 US$2.8 million farmland by 2020 further study of this important issue each of these years, matched by the over 5 years as outlined in the Pollinator Research Natural Resources Conservation Service 3,300 acres of pollinator Action Plan. Consistent with our (NRCS) division of the USDA for a total Achieved historic commitment to integrated pest of US$4 million. General Mills funding habitat on 60,000 acres of 1,700 acres supplier farms by 2020 management (see below), we advocate includes US$1.25 million in corporate for the responsible use of neonicotinoids contributions and US$750,000 from 5 miles of hedgerow and US$400,000 in our supply chain and expedited U.S. Annie’s. This commitment will help wildflower strips on supplier’s Complete over 3 years Environmental Protection Agency review. to plant more than 100,000 acres 2,500-acre almond ranch of pollinator habitat through 2021. See page 54 of the General Mills 2017 US$15,000 for habitat 20 acres of habitat in year one Global Responsibility Report for a timeline In addition to our commitment with (in addition to the on 500 acres of land owned by Complete of our historical pollinator projects. the USDA, we are scaling up our USDA commitment) two organic dairy suppliers *Based on calendar year 2017 progress. Integrated pest management Integrated pest management (IPM) Natural Resources Conservation Service In fiscal 2017, we received results from very high in corn, which has strategies – such as biological control, on a project launched in June 2015 to from an analysis we commissioned multiple pests, to very low in oats. changing farmer behavior, and the use of improve IPM practices for corn and soy. by the IPM Institute of North America These results inform our approach resistant varieties – minimize the threat In fiscal 2017, the initiative concluded to assess the scope of IPM adoption for IPM adoption across our supply of pests and the need to use pesticides with publication of the report “Making and pesticide use throughout our chain. Through our Field to Market on crops. General Mills has been a leader Decisions About Neonicotinoid Seed North American supply chains for engagements, we help growers in supporting IPM practices for decades. Treatment Use in Iowa.” This document five major crops: corn, oats, soybeans, capture information about pesticide We fund IPM research, share results and provides guidance about which corn sugar beets and wheat. The study use, including energy used in the work with our suppliers and conservation and soybean pests may be targeted determined that current levels of application of pesticides and embedded organizations to drive progress. effectively with neonicotinoid seed IPM adoption are low in corn, slightly GHG emissions, and apply those treatments, when scouting should occur higher in soybeans and much higher We collaborated with the Xerces Society, findings to improve sustainability. to inform related decisions and how to in sugar beets, oats and wheat. Iowa State University and the USDA scout for these early season pests. Reliance on pesticides ranges GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Organic farming General Mills is dedicated to increasing Soup, and brand acquisitions, including Collaboration: In 2017, we launched and organic field crop sector in Canada, the capacity of our organic supply Cascadian Farm, Muir Glen and Annie’s. hosted two meetings of the Organic while increasing quantity and quality. chain and the long-term supply of & Regenerative Agriculture Transition Organic Center of Excellence: Research: We support the Organic ingredients. We have committed Council, which brings together sustainable To support rapid growth, we are Farming Research Foundation’s efforts to more than doubling our organic agricultural leaders, farmers and industry developing capabilities and processes to encourage widespread adoption acreage from 120,000 acres to stakeholders to advance organic and that connect us to our ingredients’ of organic farming practices through 250,000 acres between 2015 and regenerative agriculture practices. points of origin, building the supply research, advocacy and education. 2019, and achieved 200,000 acres chain to increase capacity and We work with other organic companies Through Annie’s, we also have longthrough 2017. These efforts align with promoting organic farming practices. to increase the supply of organic grain. standing relationships with the Midwest our growth objectives while meeting Our Organic Center of Excellence We participate in the US Organic Organic and Sustainable Education consumer demand and benefit the continues to develop sourcing Grain Collaboration, an industry effort Service, which helps farmers adopt environment in areas such as soil health, relationships for our products directly led by the Organic Trade Association and improve organic practices, and biodiversity and carbon sequestration. with farmers, and we are working with (OTA) and the Sustainable Food Lab. The Organic Center, which provides Since 2000, General Mills has steadily growers to optimize production and We financially support the Prairie evidence-based research on the grown our organic business with new quality, adopt sustainable farming Organic Grain Initiative, aimed at environmental and human health products, such as Progresso Organic practices and accelerate supply. building resiliency and stability in the impacts of organic food and farming. Scaling up our organic business top 2 225% 10 34,000 General Mills is now the General Mills is among the We have increased the General Mills’ organic ingredients We are working with Gunsmoke second-largest U.S. organic top five organic ingredient number of acres from which represent 10 percent of our U.S. Farms LLC to convert 34,000 food producer.* purchasers in the North American we source organic ingredients retail business ingredients by acres of conventional farmland packaged foods sector. by 225 percent since 2009. volume as of November 2017. to organic acreage by 2020. *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through June 18, 2017. General Mills supports organic acreage transition of 34,000 acres in South Dakota In fiscal 2018, General Mills and Gunsmoke Our investment will help fund the transition rotation and rotational livestock grazing. the farm operators on leading practices in Farms LLC signed an agreement to convert of conventional acreage in Pierre, South These practices build resilient landscapes, soil management that will help sequester 34,000 acres of conventional farmland to Dakota, previously used to grow conventional create vibrant farming communities and carbon and regenerate the land. In addition, organic acreage by 2020. The purchase wheat, corn and beans, to organic farmland. help reverse the impacts of climate change. upwards of 3,000 acres of pollinator habitat agreement will secure the long-term Gunsmoke Farms will be certified organic will be planted throughout the farm in As part of this agreement, General Mills supply of organic wheat that General and will employ continuous improvement cooperation with the Xerces Society. has partnered with Midwestern Bio Ag Mills plans to use for its Annie’s pastas. through advanced organic and regenerative (MBA) to provide on-farm mentorship to practices such as cover cropping, crop GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Deforestation We are concerned about the Fiber: General Mills has a target a letter of intent to join the World negatively impact the communities that deforestation of the world’s rainforests to source 100 percent of our fiber Cocoa Foundation's new Cocoa depend on them, we have sourced 100 and the resulting impact on biodiversity, packaging by 2020 from recycled and Forest Initiative (CFI), involving percent of our palm oil from responsible endangered species and the broader material or from virgin wood fiber suppliers plus leading cocoa and and sustainable sources since fiscal 2015. environment. Deforestation is a major regions that do not contribute chocolate companies, to address See the Sustainable sourcing contributor to global climate change, to deforestation and achieved deforestation in cocoa supply chains. section for more details about our accounting for an estimated 15 percent of greater than 99 percent in 2017. Palm oil: To help ensure our palm efforts in each of these areas. global greenhouse gas emissions. We are Cocoa: In March 2017, General Mills oil purchases do not contribute to working to address deforestation in our was one of 35 companies that signed deforestation of the world’s rainforests or fiber, cocoa and palm oil supply chains. Human rights u Material issue | GRI 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 Societies, economies and businesses purpose and values, and helps us and Ethical Sourcing Policy, and manufacturers focused on thrive when human rights are protected meet customer and other stakeholder Supplier Code of Conduct responsible sourcing and respected. In addition to our expectations while addressing possible n E ndorsement of the United n S  upport of the Consumer Goods efforts within our own workforce, we risks and protecting our reputation. Nations (UN) Global Compact Forum's Forced Labour Resolution are striving to achieve measurable The following commitments underpin and Priority Industry Principles n S ignatory to the UN Women’s improvement in the protection of human our approach to human rights: rights through supply chains where Empowerment Principles See Responsible sourcing below n G eneral Mills Policy on Human Rights, and Our Workplace for details about our company can have a significant n M embership in AIM-PROGRESS, impact. This aligns with our company Slavery and Human Trafficking our policies and programs related a forum of consumer goods Statement, Workplace Standards to human rights in each area. Responsible sourcing u Material issues: Animal welfare; commodity availability; human rights; smallholder farmers; supply chain relationships | GRI 102 12-13, 40, 42-44 General Mills is committed to making base by risk and uses audits to our top 10 ingredients, while reducing n T  hrough our Animal Welfare Policy our products with high ethical standards confirm compliance with our supply chain GHG emissions. and programs, we advance the and respect for workers and the Supplier Code of Conduct. humane treatment of animals n W orking with diverse suppliers environment. Our responsible sourcing associated with ingredients in our food. n T hrough sustainable sourcing, we benefits our business, provides efforts include four key areas of focus: work to improve the environmental, underrepresented firms economic n O ur new supplier responsibility social and economic impacts of raw opportunities and achieves a supplier program segments our supplier material sourcing, with a focus on base that better mirrors our customers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Supplier responsibility program u Material issues: Human rights; supply chain relationships | GRI 412-1, 3 Our supplier base is large, complex and about 25 percent of the total, compared risk assessment and segmentation of develop corrective action plans to global, so we pursue a multipronged to 73 locations the prior year. Frequency 2,300 first-tier direct supplier* facilities address identified non-compliances. approach to addressing responsible of assessment is based on each worldwide, we identified about 1,200 Governance and integration: Our sourcing issues. This includes General site's performance in past audits. facilities that have inherent risk, based supply chain and sourcing executive Mills’ owned locations and co-packers, on analysis of environmental, social and When significant issues arise in audits, a leadership teams have accountability and an expanded approach for firstgovernance factors. We also assessed Critical Finding Alert email is issued to key for our responsible sourcing tier suppliers launched in June 2017. suppliers that provide raw materials or General Mills team members, including programs. These teams meet at least ingredients covered by our sustainable Owned locations and co-packers: regional leadership, division counsel twice a year to review progress. sourcing goals, as well as natural and Since 2009, third-party firms have and subject matter experts. This group organic products. During fiscal 2018, we To ensure alignment across the function, conducted independent audits of gathers to review the relationship with the plan to assess additional direct suppliers all sourcing employees complete online our owned locations and co-packers, facility, discuss the findings and determine and also include indirect suppliers. learning on our Supplier Code of Conduct. which cover health and safety, business next steps. A regular check-in meeting integrity, human rights and environmental occurs to review progress the facility Beginning in fiscal 2018, we will require We are integrating supplier responsibility responsibility. (These are separate has made until the issue is resolved. facilities identified to have inherent into our global sourcing standards from food safety audits.) We require risk to complete a self-assessment and and processes. As of fiscal 2018, First-tier suppliers: During fiscal 2017, corrective action plans and resolution provide supporting documentation all General Mills buyers: we worked with Bureau Veritas (BV) for any identified non-compliances. In on policies, procedures and previous n I nclude a standardized supplier to expand and elevate our responsible fiscal 2017, 62 of our owned locations and audits (when available), to provide responsibility review in their sourcing program in our first-tier supplier co-packers were audited, representing further visibility regarding potential risk category strategies. base. After conducting a high-level exposure. Depending on the results, n E valuate the risk of prospective some facilities will also be required to Audit results in fiscal 2017 suppliers, using due diligence guidance. undergo an onsite third-party audit, n I nclude language in contracts Type of Number of % % in based on the Sedex Members Ethical Number of audits location non-compliances resolved process related to social and environmental Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol, covering Owned 16 (7 North America, performance, if appropriate. locations 9 international) 12 91% 9% health and safety, business integrity, n A ssess suppliers’ success human rights and environmental 46 (31 North America, in meeting expectations and Co-packers 31 71% 29% responsibility. Those facilities will 15 international) provide ongoing feedback. Sustainable sourcing u Material issues: Commodity availability; human rights; smallholder farmers; supply chain relationships | GRI 102-12, 13, 203-1, 2, 204-1, FP4 We focus on improving the environmental, the link between the food they purchase fiscal 2017, we achieved 76 percent, up To drive progress toward our 2025 social and economic impacts of raw and its origin. Using limited resources from 69 percent the prior year. We move goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions material sourcing. This helps ensure and natural systems more efficiently is our supply chain toward sustainable across our full value chain by 28 percent availability of the ingredients we need essential to feeding a growing population. sourcing through origin-direct investment, (compared to 2010), we are increasingly to make our products and aligns with We continue to make progress toward our continuous improvement and verification looking at our full global raw materials our core values. It also helps us meet our goal to sustainably source 100 percent efforts with farmers and supplier partners, purchasing through a climate lens. customers’ growing desire to understand of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020. In connected data partners and NGOs. *Direct suppliers provide ingredients or commodities used in our food products or packaging. Indirect suppliers provide products or services such as office supplies, telecommunications, and travel that support our business more generally. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Performance dashboard: Sustainable sourcing Commitment: Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by Progress: 76 percent of these raw materials were 76% 2020, representing 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases. sustainably sourced in fiscal 2017. Progress* (% of volume sustainably Primary focus** sourced as of May of the year noted) Strategy Sustainability definition Raw material/ingredient FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Environmental Social Cocoa 10% 28% 46% 59% Direct investment at origin to improve smallholder farmer livelihoods and ingredient quality Vanilla 45% 45% 22% 22% Origin-direct investment Documented continuous improvement using Oats 35% 40% 50% 61% industry-based environmental metrics with at least 25 percent of acres under measurement*** U.S. wheat 15% 24% 36% 61% Documented continuous improvement using Field U.S sugar beets 34% 47% 68% 81% to Market framework or comparable metrics with at least 25 percent of acres under measurement*** Continuous improvement U.S. corn  6% 26% 33% 67% (dry milled) Documented continuous improvement as U.S. dairy  20% 20% 38% 83% outlined in the ICUSD’s Stewardship and (raw fluid milk) Sustainability Framework for U.S. Dairy**** Recycled material or virgin wood fiber from Fiber packaging 99% 99% 99% 99% regions not contributing to deforestation Sourced from independently verified lowSugarcane 42% 59% 67% 58% risk regions, or compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards in high-risk regions Verification RSPO mass balanced, segregated sustainable Palm oil***** 83% 100% 100% 100% palm, or PalmTrace Credits *Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. All numbers calculated based on volume except fiber packaging, which is based on percent of spend sustainably sourced. Aggregate percentage is based on the percentages sustainably sourced for each ingredient, weighted by spend. **Our efforts are focused on areas of significant challenge at the point of origin where we can have the greatest impact. ***Compared to 10 percent for Field to Market requirements. ****Measured using the NMPF’s Farmers Assuring Responsible Management (FARM) Environmental Stewardship module (formerly called FarmSmart). *****Palm oil target 100 percent by fiscal 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Origin-direct investment We rely on farmers and farming communities for our ingredients. When farmers can earn a good living and take care of the local environment, their lives are better and their communities are more stable. We invest in smallholder farmers and their communities to improve livelihoods and the sustainability and quality of our ingredients. More than 90 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in West Africa. Cocoa Status: 59 percent of the cocoa In Ghana, we are working with cocoa supplier Cargill In Côte d’Ivoire, we partner with General Mills purchased in fiscal and humanitarian NGO CARE in 20 communities to form cocoa suppliers Barry Callebaut village cooperatives and provide technical assistance and 2017 was sustainably sourced.* and Cargill to help smallholder educational support to more than 2,300 smallholder farmers. farmers. Our support of the Cargill Cocoa Promise program with Challenges: CARE in Côte d’Ivoire benefits 10 communities. Our support of n E  conomic viability – ensuring Barry Callebaut’s Cocoa Horizons In Nigeria, participating farmer communities will be provided smallholder farmers earn enough from program helps farmers in 65 with a comprehensive support package reflecting our vision cocoa cooperatives improve and the Olam Livelihood Charter principles of finance, improved growing cocoa to support their families. productivity through training, yields, labor practices, market access, quality, traceability, social n D  eforestation – due to the expansion support and financing.* investment and reduced environmental impact. of cocoa plantations in some areas. *Impact from General Mills funding and donations from other companies combined for maximum impact in the Cocoa Horizons program. n L  ow productivity – low yields, crop loss due to pests or disease, of Conduct, which prohibits forced and and degraded soil fertility. child labor. In addition, we are a member Cocoa sustainability scorecard n C  hild labor – helping families of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), Location Focus area Impact keep children in school. which works with the food industry to Côte Farmer incomes* 52,600 registered farmers in 628 villages address social and environmental issues d'Ivoire Progress: In 2017, we expanded our Farmer training* 24,700 farmers trained in Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in the cocoa supply chain. In March 2017, work with key suppliers to provide Traceability* 43,800 metric tons of Cocoa Horizons beans traced from the farm to General Mills was one of 35 companies direct support to cocoa-growing our supplier that signed a letter of intent to join the communities in West Africa. Women's empowerment** 1,500 people educated (70 percent women) on gender issues WCF’s new Cocoa and Forest Initiative Children's education** 700 school kits and backpacks provided to vulnerable children Since January 2017, 100 percent (CFI), involving suppliers plus leading Nutrition** 1,200 people educated on essential nutrition of our powdered cocoa has been cocoa and chocolate companies, to sustainably sourced. During fiscal 2017, Ghana Farmer training* 234 farmers attended Farmer Training Day address deforestation in cocoa supply we also transitioned an additional Traceability* 100 percent of cocoa beans traced from the farm to our supplier chains. During November 2017, the CFI 25 percent of the chocolate we collaboration was officially launched and Women's empowerment** Women's Empowerment Index increased 17.2 percent purchased into sustainable sourcing General Mills joined 22 other companies Children's education** Primary school enrollment rate increased from 95.6 to 99 percent programs. We brought our three in endorsing Frameworks for Action Nutrition** 25 percent decrease in average months of household food insecurity main chocolate suppliers into for Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana, developed Nigeria Farmer incomes* Solar dryers installed in 17 cocoa growing communities sustainability programs globally and through an extensive, multi-stakeholder Farmer training* 6,700 farmers received harvest training; 630 farmers attended Farmer added sustainable sourcing as a process. As a part of this commitment, Business School requirement for cocoa in all contracts. we will develop a company specific action *Côte d’Ivoire data based on overall results for Barry Callebaut Cocoa Horizons program, Sept. 2016 – Mar. 2017. Ghana Collaboration: We work directly with plan by the end of calendar 2018. This data based on collaboration with Cargill, fiscal 2017. Nigeria data based on collaboration with Olam Cocoa, fiscal 2017. **Results specific to communities benefiting from General Mills philanthropic funding of CARE programs. Côte d'Ivoire our suppliers to address systemic initiative will also drive progress toward data are Dec. 2016 May 2017 (first item) and calendar 2017. Ghana data are Sept. 2014 – Aug. 2017. challenges and enforce our Supplier Code our 2025 GHG emissions reduction goal. *Cocoa includes chocolate as well as cocoa powder, converted into cocoa bean equivalents. See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 30. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Progress: During fiscal 2017, our our key vanilla suppliers, to bring on The majority of the vanilla we purchase Vanilla progress was flat. This was due to a new NGO partner, Positive Planet, is grown and cured in Madagascar’s a combination of pressures from a to help us scale our programs. Sava region. Status: 22 percent of the vanilla General Mills purchased in fiscal 2017 peak vanilla market and a Category Collaboration: Our key partners include was sustainably sourced.* 4 tropical cyclone that wiped out a our supplier Virginia Dare and industry substantial amount of available volume. group Sustainable Vanilla Initiative. We continue working on innovative Challenges: opportunities in Madagascar to produce n E conomic viability – the ability of enough sustainable vanilla to achieve 1 smallholder farmers to earn enough our commitment. During fiscal 2017, from the crop to support their families. we worked with Virginia Dare, one of 1 Madagascar Continuous improvement Row crops and dairy are among the most resource intensive of our 10 priority ingredients. To source these raw materials sustainably, we measure year-on-year progress in field-level resource efficiency and drive continuous improvement over time with farmers in our supply chain. Strategy: We partner with farmers in our key sourcing regions using Increasing sustainability across North America frameworks developed by Field to Market and the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy in the U.S. and the Canadian General Mills’ priority Fieldprint initiative in Canada. For SASKATCHEWAN ingredients sourced from MANITOBA U.S. row crops, we collaborate with these regions: third parties such as Agrible and NORTHERN RED PLAINS Syngenta, that integrate Field To Market RIVER VALLEY Oats environmental indicators into their farm management software platforms to SNAKE REED CITY, U.S. wheat MICHIGAN RIVER CENTRAL streamline data collection. For U.S. raw WISCONSIN U.S. sugar beets fluid milk, our dairy partners deploy the EASTERN CORN BELT National Milk Producers Federation's EASTERN EASTERN NEBRASKA SOUTHERN ILLINOIS Dry-milled corn EASTERN KANSAS Farmers Assuring Responsible PLAINS Management (FARM) Environmental Dairy Stewardship module (formerly called FarmSmart) to measure and track farm sustainability. The data is evaluated against key environmental indicators to implement continuous improvement Progress: During fiscal 2017, we suppliers and data partners to advance establish a natural resource efficiency practices. See page 44 of the General continued to elevate sustainability our progress. baseline for each grower. We then hold Mills 2017 Global Responsibility as central to our sourcing strategy. Since 2010, we have worked with more workshops and collaborate with local, Report for a graphic illustrating our We launched engagements in new than 200 growers to collect data on a trusted agronomists to identify and annual grower engagement cycle. regions and brought on additional cumulative total of over 756,000 acres. *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 30. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY n W  ater quality – address water quality total of over 47,000 acres in n W e brought on a new supplier Oats issues related to agriculture. Manitoba and Saskatchewan, partner and made farm software n O  at supply – decreased oat production. Canada, using on-the-ground technology available for Status: 61 percent of the oats General Mills purchased in fiscal sustainability programs to measure participants in Saskatchewan. Grower engagements with: 2017 was sustainably sourced.* environmental efficiency indicators. n G eneral Mills and South Dakota State n Paterson Grain in Manitoba In fiscal 2017: University announced the opening n Cargill in Manitoba and Saskatchewan of a state-of-the-art oats research n I n collaboration with our suppliers and Challenges: Agri-Trend in Saskatchewan n data partners, we brought together laboratory. We are conducting n C  limate change – Reduce GHG agronomic research to support our Progress: 50 farmers to review environmental emissions across the supply chain. sustainable sourcing needs, help oat n T  hrough fiscal 2017, we have footprints and identify continuous n S  oil quality – improve soil health. improvement opportunities. growers increase profitability and collected data on a cumulative create a resilient supply chain. n W  ater quality – address water quality sustainability programs to measure reducing soil erosion by 72 percent issues related to agriculture. environmental efficiency indicators. compared to the district benchmark. Wheat Grower engagements with: In fiscal 2017: n I n the Snake River region, Status: 61 percent of the U.S. wheat General Mills purchased in fiscal spring wheat grower scorecards n Thresher Artisan Wheat in the n I n collaboration with our suppliers and 2017 was sustainably sourced.* improved by 2 percent year over Snake River region data partners, we brought together year for nitrogen use, energy n ADM in the Northern Plains, Southern 137 farmers to review environmental consumption and GHG emissions. Challenges: Plains and Eastern Corn Belt regions footprints and identify continuous improvement opportunities. n I n the Southern Plains region, n C  limate change – reduce GHG Progress: participation increased from emissions across the supply chain. n I n the Northern Plains region, growers n T  hrough fiscal 2017, we have collected zero to more than 194,000 used no-till practices on 95 percent of n S  oil quality – improve soil health. data on a cumulative total of over acres during the year. spring wheat fields in the engagement, 519,000 acres using on-the-ground decreasing fuel consumption and n W  ater quality – address water quality In fiscal 2017: n 7 9 percent of sugar beet fields in Sugar beets issues related to agriculture. n In collaboration with our suppliers and the Red River Valley engagement data partners, we brought together implemented some combination of Status: 81 percent of the U.S. beet Grower engagement with: sugar General Mills purchased in 26 farmers to review environmental conservation practices, such as cover n American Crystal Sugar in the fiscal 2017 was sustainably sourced.* footprints and identify continuous crops, grass water ways, field borders, Red River Valley region improvement opportunities. filter strips, and contour strip cropping. Progress: n G rowers participating in the Red River n W e expanded work with Red River Challenges: n Through fiscal 2017, we have collected Valley engagement demonstrated Valley region growers and are n C  limate change – reduce GHG data on a cumulative total of over seeking to engage all sugar beet an 8 percent root yield advantage emissions across the supply chain. 119,000 acres using on-the-ground suppliers by the end of fiscal 2018. compared to the regional benchmark. n S  oil quality – improve soil health. sustainability programs to measure environmental efficiency indicators. *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 30. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY n W  ater quality – address water quality 71,000 acres using on-the-ground n 4  6 percent of corn fields in the issues related to agriculture. sustainability programs to measure Wisconsin engagement used Corn environmental efficiency indicators. conservation tillage practices Status: 67 percent of the U.S. dry Grower engagements with: milled corn General Mills purchased in and demonstrated an 87 percent n Didion in the South Central In fiscal 2017: fiscal 2017 was sustainably sourced.* reduction in erosion compared Wisconsin region n I n collaboration with our suppliers and to the district benchmark. n Bunge in Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska data partners, we brought together n M  ore than 9,200 acres benefited Challenges: 15 farmers to review environmental Progress: from a combination of conservation footprints and identify continuous n C  limate change – Reduce GHG practices such as grass waterways, n T  hrough fiscal 2017, we have collected improvement opportunities. emissions across the supply chain. data on a cumulative total of over field borders, and conservation cover. n S  oil quality – improve soil health. n A  nimal welfare – address animal welland calculate sustainability impact The majority of our directly sourced Dairy being issues, such as dehorning. from farm to production facility of raw milk comes from the U.S. all directly sourced raw fluid milk for Status: 83 percent of the raw fluid milk Producer engagements with: General Mills purchased in the U.S. in our facility in Reed City, Michigan. n M  ultiple suppliers to our Reed fiscal 2017 was sustainably sourced.* In fiscal 2017: 1 City, Michigan, yogurt facility are using the FARM Environmental n I n collaboration with our co-op Stewardship module suppliers and participating dairies, Challenges: we reviewed environmental 2 n C  limate change – reduce GHG Progress: footprints and discussed continuous emissions across the supply chain. n T  hrough fiscal 2017, U.S. milk producers improvement opportunities. n W  ater quality – address water quality have used the FARM Environmental 1 United States issues related to agriculture. Stewardship module to collect data Verification We continue to increase the sustainability of fiber packaging, sugarcane and palm oil by working across the industry to improve practices and validate progress by using verification in high-risk regions. Strategy: Ninety-nine percent of our fiber Progress: In fiscal 2017, we determined Ninety percent of the fiber we use in packaging supply is considered at low risk that FSC Mix fiber packaging, which Fiber packaging for contributing to global deforestation our China fiber supply chain largely our packaging comes from the United States and Canada – areas at low risk Status: Greater than 99 percent because the packaging uses either complies with, meets our sustainable for deforestation. of the fiber packaging General Mills purchased in fiscal 2017 was recycled materials or virgin fiber that is sourcing criteria. This has further sustainably sourced.* sourced from regions where deforestation increased progress toward our 2020 2 1 is not occurring. The remaining 1 goal. We are working with our one percent is sourced from countries remaining supplier in that country Challenges: considered at high risk, including China. that does not yet meet that standard, n D  eforestation – in some parts We follow pulp, paper and packaging to help them gain certification. of the supply chain caused by sourcing guidelines developed by sourcing fiber for packaging. the Consumer Goods Forum. 1 United States 2 Canada *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 30. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Strategy: More than half of the sugarcane sugar beets. The 2017 data also reflects verification. Our major sugarcane we purchase globally is grown in lowimproved tracking of the sources of our suppliers include Cargill, American Sugarcane risk origin countries, such as the U.S. sugarcane volumes globally, resulting Sugar Refining, United and Imperial. Status: 58 percent of the sugarcane and Australia. We continue to leverage from the launch of our Global Sourcing General Mills purchased in fiscal our Bonsucro membership and the Center and expanded capability tools. The majority of the sugarcane we 2017 was sustainably sourced.* purchase comes from refineries in organization’s Production Standard In fiscal 2017, we began working with North America. plus related credits to help farmers and Proforest to map our supply chain to Challenges: mills in our supply chain measure and achieve greater transparency around n L  abor rights – including child and forced increase productivity while reducing sugarcane origin. We have communicated 1 labor, and working conditions related key environmental and social impacts. 2 the importance of sustainability to to worker health, safety and hours. Progress: Our percentage of sustainably all suppliers and that we need their n V  isibility – lack of visibility to sourced sugarcane decreased from 67 participation to reach farmers at the 3 origin on purchased sugarcane. percent in fiscal 2016 to 58 percent in point of origin. As part of our work  ater n W quality – address water quality fiscal 2017. This was due partly to reduced with Bonsucro, we encourage suppliers 1 United States issues related to agriculture. purchases of U.S. sugarcane, related to conduct benchmarking and gap 2 Mexico 3 Brazil to an increase in procurement of U.S. analyses as the first step toward prior and informed consent. As part of Click here for a list of our current global Most of the palm oil we purchase Palm oil our concern about deforestation in palm direct palm oil suppliers. The most comes from Malaysia and Brazil. Status: 100 percent of the palm oil growing regions, we updated our initial recent list of mills supplying our direct General Mills purchased in fiscal 2017 commitment with our 2014 statement suppliers can be found here and here was sustainably sourced.* on responsible palm oil sourcing. and will be updated periodically. We are Progress: In fiscal 2015, we met our very supportive of those suppliers who commitment to source all palm oil have been publicly transparent about Challenges: 2 1 through sustainable purchases that their upstream supply and it is now an 3 n D eforestation – palm plantation meet RSPO standards, and we have expectation for all our palm oil suppliers. expansion harms rainforests, maintained that performance through Hurdles remain in the palm oil supply biodiversity, endangered species 1 Malaysia fiscal 2017. We have continued to shift chain. If an audit or other highly 2 Indonesia and the environment. toward mass balance and segregated credible source reveals or confirms 3 Brazil n I ndigenous rights – irresponsible palm oil – accounting for 96 percent of that a supplier is seriously violating the practices can threaten the rights remediate the concern, General Mills will our purchases in 2017 – and away from stated principles of our policy, and if of indigenous peoples. move to suspend or eliminate palm oil certificates. In cases where certificates that supplier does not acknowledge Strategy: Although General Mills is a purchases from the supplier in question. are needed, we are aligned with and and immediately move to acceptably relatively minor user of palm oil, our using the industry standard of PalmTrace. purchasing practices can help move the industry forward. We are dedicated Traceability: In 2017, we continued Purchasing of RSPO certified volumes (metric tons) working with Proforest to trace our palm to sourcing palm oil in a socially and CY2016* CY2017 oil supply chain, identify sustainability environmentally responsible manner. Mass balanced volume 56,970 76,000 risks and ensure responsible sourcing. Our initial commitment in 2010 included At the end of 2017, 99 percent of our Segregated volume 11,550 6,140 compliance with our Supplier Code palm oil volume was categorized RSPO PalmTrace Credits** 6,600 3,740 of Conduct, as well as prevention and as traceable to the extraction mill – resolution of social and/or land conflicts Total 75,120 85,880 among the best in our industry. consistent with the principle of free, *Calendar year **Formerly known as Green Palm Credits *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 30. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Supplier diversity u Material issue: Supply chain relationships General Mills is committed to across the company to match diverse Center (WBDC), and the National other industry groups, we benchmark, establishing and growing relationships suppliers with business needs and LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). share best practices and network with qualified, diverse suppliers.* opportunities. The team also provides Through these organizations and with prospective diverse suppliers. This provides opportunity to training to sourcing buyers. In North underrepresented groups of business America, product category managers owners, while supporting our company incorporate diversity into their strategic General Mills spending with diverse suppliers in by delivering innovation, agility, cost plans to drive progress and share the North America (US$ million) savings and market insights about results with sourcing leadership. Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 our increasingly diverse consumers. We also participate in national and Minority-owned businesses $421.7 $359.6 $313.0 Through these relationships, we regional advocacy organizations, such Women-owned businesses $131.7 $162.8 $89.7 support job creation and foster as the National Minority Supplier economic development in the Veteran-owned businesses $13.7 $12.0 $11.5 Development Council (NMSDC), North communities where we operate. LGBTQ-owned businesses $0.5 $0.3 $0.0 Central Minority Supplier Development The Supplier Diversity team, which Council (NCMSDC), Women’s Business Total $567.6 $534.7 $414.2 is embedded in our global sourcing Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Total (% of spending with 5.9% 6.1% 4.9% organization, builds partnerships Women’s Business Development suppliers in North America) Animal welfare u Material issues: Animal welfare; supply chain relationships | GRI FP11, 12 General Mills is primarily a plant-based (such as ice cream, baked goods and stunning. We will ask suppliers to such as procedure timing and use food company, with large businesses doughs), and we strive to ensure demonstrate compliance through of analgesics and/or anesthetics. such as Cheerios and Nature Valley. that the hens laying them are treated certification or third-party auditing. Pigs: General Mills supports the We also use some animal-derived humanely. Our commitment is to Cows: General Mills encourages all humane treatment of pigs in our supply products and have long worked to purchase only 100 percent cage free suppliers in our dairy supply chain chain. This includes the development support the humane treatment of eggs for our operations globally by 2025. to support industrywide efforts that and implementation of pregnant sow animals in agriculture. Our Animal General Mills will work to transition 100 promote the humane treatment of housing alternatives, which we recognize Welfare Policy includes our support percent of the broiler chickens we buy cattle, including by addressing issues will take the industry time to achieve. In for the “five freedoms” for all animals in the U.S. to meet a higher standard of pain relief due to dehorning, tail the meantime, we will favor suppliers globally across our supply chain. of animal welfare by 2024. Also by that docking and castration. We support that provide plans to create traceability These efforts and commitments year, we will use only breeds accepted polled genetics breeding programs to and to end use of gestation crates within demonstrate our values and align by Global Animal Partnership or the promote naturally hornless cattle, an the U.S. pork supply chain. We’re also closer to consumer expectations. Royal Society for the Prevention of approach that has worked in the beef working to understand and address Chickens: Eggs are an important Cruelty to Animals and processed using industry. Until dehorning is eliminated, the issue of pain relief and potential ingredient in many of our products multi-step, controlled atmospheric we support best management practices elimination of castration and tail docking. *Businesses owned by minorities, women, veterans and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Our Workplace Our goal is to foster a safe, inclusive and rewarding workplace where all employees can thrive. IN THIS SECTION Workplace safety Ethics and compliance 29% 47% 4,400 Diversity and inclusion We reduced our global Women hold 47 percent We trained 4,400 leaders total injury rate to of management positions through our Engaging 0.85 injuries per 100 and 52 percent of all Leader initiative launched Employee development employees, a 29 percent salaried positions in 2017 to advance decrease from 2016. in the U.S. learning development Our ultimate goal is zero and engagement injuries and illnesses. across the company. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Our approach business leaders at multiple levels. Reflecting the importance of people We put our people first by focusing on to our business, General Mills employs Awards best-in-class workplace safety, creating a Director of Diversity and Inclusion; General Mills received numerous awards in 2017. Listed below is some of the recognition, a diverse and inclusive culture, and illustrating our commitment to being an employer of choice for all employees. a Director of Global Health Services; investing in our talent. By creating an and a Vice President of Engineering, n 1 00 Best Corporate n 1 00 Best Companies, n L  GBTQ Business Equality agile and advantaged organization, Global Safety and Environment. At the Citizens (No. 19), Working Mother Media Excellence, BEQ Pride we enable our company to succeed. Corporate Responsibility n T op Companies for n M  ilitary Friendly Employer, board level, the Public Responsibility n A  merica’s Most Reputable Executive Women: Victory Media Governance: Governance for our Committee maintains responsibility Companies (No. 69), National Association n G  reat Place to Work labor practices lies primarily within for issues related to labor practices. Forbes of Female Executives, Institute – General Mills our Human Resources, Law and n 1 00 Most Visible Working Mother Media U.K. (No. 55) Supply Chain organizations. At an Companies (No. 13), n 2 017 Best Companies n T  op Foreign Corporate operational level, the Human Resources Harris Poll for U.S. for Multicultural Women, Citizens, Corporate organization leads key employee Corporate Reputation Working Mother Media Knights, Canada initiatives in partnership with company n W  orld’s Most Admired n A 2020 Women on n H  unger Hero: Companies, (No. 4 – Boards Winning Company Volunteering, Second Consumer Food Products n 5  0 Best Companies for Harvest Heartland Industry), FORTUNE Diversity, Black Enterprise Workplace safety u Material issue | GRI 403-1, 2, 4 Our approach  e n W reduced our global total injury rate to 0.85 injuries per 100 employees in n E  ight locations operated injury-free. information across all regions. n 2  1 locations had a total injury n T  raining – We completed safety General Mills is committed to creating a fiscal 2017, down from 1.20 in 2016. Our rate (TIR) below 1.0. leadership training across all our global Zero-Loss Culture in all our locations by ultimate goal is zero injuries and illnesses. n 2  1 locations had zero lost-time supply chain manufacturing locations. continually mitigating workplace hazards n O  ur global lost-time injury frequency accidents due to injuries. n A  uditing – We continued expansion and reducing environmental impacts. rate was 0.29 per 100 employees in of our enterprise-wide auditing We continued reinforcing our Our goal: Our goal is to provide incidentfiscal 2017, down from 0.51 in 2016. capabilities for safety and environment safety systems, training and free workplaces for our employees, under our Zero-Loss Culture strategy. Results were due to increased auditing programs in fiscal 2017: contractors and visitors. Our actions engagement and rigor around our are guided by three safety principles: foundational safety processes. n S  tandards – We developed and Systems published additional advanced n W e lead with safety. We communicate safety information We gathered safety data from 213 safety standards to support our n E very incident is preventable. and measure progress using tracked locations in fiscal 2017, 65 of global Environmental and Safety n W e are all accountable. the following systems: which are production facilities and Management System (ESMS). Innovation, Technology and Quality n M  easurement – We fully configured  e n W continue the process of phasing Our progress centers. Those 65 locations were the our Global Safety Tracking and in a single, standardized ESMS Historically, General Mills has a strong main focus of our safety improvement Environmental Management System at our supply chain locations. Our record of safety leadership. We continue work. Safety highlights from those (GSTEMS) system so it is now focus includes further expansion of to improve the safety of our operations*: locations in fiscal 2017 include: capable of sharing enterprise-wide global safety standards to obtain *Global incident data includes all General Mills’ owned/operated facilities, including Yoki and Yoplait International, Häagen-Dazs shops and global offices. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY uniform compliance and reduce safety behaviors are observed in regional operating vice presidents, and safety culture. The council, risk worldwide. a given time period so managers is responsible for the pace of which includes key members of the can provide coaching to help global standards development. The company’s leadership team, reviews n T  hrough our GSTEMS, we track employees work safely; and GSGB oversees safety leadership, safety progress and key initiatives. safety data at all production structure, processes and actions. facilities worldwide, document w Advanced mitigations, which are n W orkplace health and safety is the necessary actions to reduce critical to eliminating hazards n S enior-level responsibility for responsibility of line management future risks and communicate and permanently mitigating workplace safety lies with the Director and each individual employee. progress. Using GSTEMS, we risks across the company. of Global Safety and Environment, All employees are expected to monitor key measures such as: who reports to the Vice President work safely by following policies, w Leading safety indicators, including Leadership and of Engineering, Global Safety and procedures and training. compliance with internal standards, responsibility Environment. Our Corporate Safety Council is led by our Chairman regulatory compliance and our n O ur Global Safety Governance and Chief Executive Officer, who is safety observation contact rate – Board (GSGB), composed of responsible for General Mills’ policy the percentage of employees whose Ethics and compliance u Material issue | GRI 102-16, 17, 205-1, 2 Our approach Annually, our company leaders – from managers upward, nearly to program resources – available in 10 languages – and employee policies are with our anti-corruption assessments, we continually assess regulatory General Mills is committed to conducting 8,000 employees – must attest to available in our Global Policy Center. requirements, enforcement trends business in an ethical manner that compliance with our Code of Conduct and industry best practices to update Our Ethics Line allows employees upholds best practices, complies and business conduct policies. This our Ethics & Compliance program. to raise questions or concerns with regulations, demonstrates certification is evidence of our high confidentially and anonymously, where Training: Using both in-person and online integrity, provides equal opportunity expectations for ethical conduct allowed by law. It is accessible globally program modules, we train employees and supports fair labor practices. in every aspect of our business. by a toll-free phone call or online at extensively on corruption risks and other Our comprehensive Code of Conduct generalmillsethics.ethicspoint.com. business concerns, including conflicts and Ethics & Compliance program Program of interest, competition law, protecting Anti-corruption: We continue to promote ethical behavior in all aspects Ethics and compliance: Our Ethics & confidential information and maintaining strengthen our anti-corruption program. of our employees’ work. Our Code Compliance program supports our value a respectful workplace. More than 13,000 We assess risks in this evolving of Conduct describes the principles of doing the right thing all the time; employees worldwide have enrolled in area, review program enhancements that govern our business conduct, and employees are encouraged to speak up our online training courses. In addition, we and apply best practices, including points employees to policies and other if something doesn’t seem right or if they supplement online training with face-toaddressing third-party risks. For resources to answer their questions. have questions about doing the right face anti-corruption training in markets example, our Supplier Code of Conduct thing. Our program includes extensive where there is a higher risk of corruption. (found on our General Mills website) 19 online resources and self-directed outlines our ethical expectations Action: All allegations of employee courses. These include real examples and is included in our contracts with misconduct, including bribery and Corporate citizen of employee decisions that illustrate business partners. Internally, we ask corruption, are promptly and thoroughly In 2017, we were ranked No. 19 on integrity, as well as ethical lapses that detailed questions related to corruption investigated in accordance with our Corporate Responsibility magazine’s highlight the impact of misconduct on risk during each routine, in-depth ethics and compliance procedures and “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list. our company and employees. Our Ethics business unit audit conducted by our corporate policies. The Audit Committee & Compliance website provides access Global Internal Audit team. Along of our Board of Directors reviews the GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY investigation and resolution of these color, religion, sex, national origin, who seek advice or a solution, and culture that champions respect and allegations. Upon completion of the marital status, disability, citizenship, our policies strictly prohibit retaliation inclusion; offer competitive rewards; investigation, our Ethics & Compliance sexual orientation, gender identity or against employees who express and implement clear health and group oversees appropriate disciplinary expression, military service, or other concerns. We manage our business safety practices. We maintain good actions (including termination of characteristics protected by law. This operations so that employees feel they relationships with our unions, and our third-party relationships), remediation equal employment opportunity policy are being treated fairly and respectfully. labor contracts are typically settled steps and internal/external reporting. applies to all employment practices and on time and without work disruption. procedures, including compensation. Labor-management Measurement: General Mills Equal opportunity Practices: Everyone has the right to relations has established key metrics and We believe every General Mills employee work without fear or intimidation. measurement approaches to understand Globally, General Mills is committed to has the right to be treated fairly and General Mills does not accept abusive our performance as it relates to providing workplaces that are among deserves the opportunity to stretch conduct or harassment – a policy made labor relations and a decent work the safest production facilities in the and grow throughout their career. clear from an employee’s first day of environment. Examples include a world for all our union and nonunion orientation. Employees are expected refined performance management Policy: To provide a comfortable production employees. In addition, to report situations that compromise process, annual employee surveys and and safe working environment for all we work to achieve full employee their ability to do their jobs. Formal a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. employees, General Mills prohibits engagement as the foundation of channels are available for employees discrimination based on age, race, our mutual success; strive to create a Diversity and inclusion u Material issue: Workforce management | GRI 405-1 Our approach 52 percent of all salaried positions in the U.S. employees, and ensuring diverse talent is represented in our leadership pipeline. reinforce our culture of inclusion. Our employee networks include: Our goal: Our goal is to build a n A  mong the 14 members of our n W  omen in Leadership culture of inclusion that allows all Board of Directors, five are Employee networks n A  sian Leaders Network our employees to thrive. Ensuring women (36 percent) and five are Members of our six employee diversity of input and perspectives n B  etty’s Family Network ethnically diverse (36 percent).** networks support each other and is core to our business strategy. We actively cultivate a culture that Leadership acknowledges, respects and values Our Executive Diversity Council all dimensions of diversity – including includes seven U.S.-based senior Courageous Conversations gender, race, sexual orientation, cultural In 2017, we further expanded our Courageous leaders who oversee policies and values, perspectives and beliefs. Conversations initiative to give employees a safe and regularly review programs and results supportive place to have candid discussions about related to diversity and inclusion. Our Our progress Chief Executive Officer personally important issues affecting our work and our lives. Employees learned from experts and participated in n 2 0 percent of U.S.-based reviews our diversity and inclusion open forums, each focused on a specific topic, such as employees are people of color.* progress quarterly and sets the tone for islamophobia, transgender inclusion and unconscious n 3 9 percent of U.S.-based accountability throughout the company. bias. In the unconscious bias session, for example, employees are women.* Our senior leaders reinforce diversity 325 employees learned how to recognize their and inclusion throughout the company own unconscious, implicit bias and take action to address it – both within and n W omen hold 47 percent of outside the workplace. management positions and by sponsoring employee networks, recruiting and mentoring diverse *Includes all U.S. full-time and part-time employees. **Represents board composition as of May 28, 2017. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY n V eterans Network help support our diversity and inclusion and purpose, adapt to our global environment. The ability to connect n B lack Champions Network strategies. The review incorporated structure and ensure they meet the with others who are focused on similar feedback obtained through surveys, needs of our current employee base. topics allows for more transparent n H ispanic Network focus groups and external benchmarking. communication between all employees, These networks help employees In fiscal 2017, we began a review of the The results have enabled our networks including participating leaders. create more personal and professional employee networks and councils that and councils to clarify their roles connections within our global work Employee development u Material issues: Workforce management; employee wellness | GRI 404-2, 3, FP4 Development and training Our approach Our progress engagement across the company (see story below for more details). leaders that included in-person learning sessions, executive coaching We respect, develop and invest in In 2017, we launched the Engaging and mentor reinforcement. We also invested in an accelerated our people. We have a long history Leader initiative to advance development program for key of making employee development leader learning development and a key priority for the company. In order to attract and retain competitively superior talent, we develop all employees. General Mills provides a range of Engaging Leader transformation development opportunities throughout way our leaders support employees n D evelop awareness of the impact of their leadership on culture, employees’ careers through: Impact and consistently live our values to drive performance and engagement. engagement and results. n I ndividual Development Plans n 4  ,400 leaders (more than We began by leveraging our internal n I nternalize and commit to new behaviors. (IDPs) created by employees in 90 percent of all leaders) “consumer first” process to build empathy n B e inspired to lead differently and create partnership with their managers. participated in 147 in-person with our leader population and better focused, personalized action plans. development sessions over n H ands-on experiences, including understand employees’ needs. We formed n D rive business outcomes and 35 days across 22 countries challenging work assignments a global cross-functional team of leaders engagement through their teams. in eight languages. to conduct in-depth studies and design and robust job rotations. n N  ine out of 10 leaders agreed the In addition to the development sessions, solutions. The result: A comprehensive n G uidance from others, including sessions helped them become managers receive ongoing Engaging interactive leadership development better leaders and positively Leader support, including reinforcement feedback from managers, day to engage leaders around the affected business results. from senior leaders, reminder mentors, sponsors and peers. world and set clear expectations of messages and on-demand learning. n 3  8,000 employees have leadership behavior going forward. n R eal-time learning resources for been affected by changes Managers received in-person leaders and all employees. in leader behavior. training about specific skills and n S tructured courses offered in behaviors for increasing employee person and online, including engagement and driving growth. These In July 2017, we launched “Engaging onboarding for new employees, interactive development sessions Leader,” an initiative to transform the leadership training and focused on helping leaders: professional development. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Employee engagement Our approach n C onnected to their team. collaboration across the company to help create an engaging General Mills on Glassdoor.com to promote transparency about careers at n S upported by their manager. We know that engaged employees workplace; cultivate pride in our General Mills and help us understand n E nergized by their work. create value and drive business products, purpose and values; more about their perspectives so performance. We are working to build Examples of our engagement inspire trust in leadership; and we can continue to improve. a more agile, engaged organization initiatives include: capture employee input. by listening to employees, taking n L eadership development – See  xchange n E social hours – These weekly Our progress action and measuring progress Engaging Leader story for details. events onsite at our headquarters n I n 2017, we surveyed hourly to ensure employees are: n L istening – Senior leaders host locations provide employees with a employees worldwide. Seventy-four n P roud of their company. monthly lunch sessions to hear from convenient opportunity to strengthen percent would recommend General n I nspired by their leaders. employees at our headquarters facility. team connections at the end of Mills as a great place to work. the workday in a casual setting. n A ssessment – General Mills regularly n T his feedback builds on our 2016 surveys our employees to gather n C  lubs and groups – More than 25 survey of salaried employees in which feedback. Our annual Employee employee clubs and more than 75 percent of employees said General Engagement Survey is an in-depth 600 Yammer groups (online social Mills is a great place to work – up 13 review of a wide range of topics. We networks) enable employees to points from the previous year’s survey. use employee feedback to improve our foster relationships, discuss shared processes and strengthen our culture. interests and collaborate. n E ngagement Council – This crossn F  eedback – We encourage our r Drivers of General Mills employee functional team helps ensure employees to post feedback about engagement Employee well-being We focus on putting people first. n P hysical – We encourage good  inancial n F – We support the financial n S ocial/community – We help We believe that providing wellness nutrition, offer employees healthy well-being of our employees by connect employees with communityopportunities for our employees and dining choices at our facilities providing them with competitive based programs where they can their families is crucial to upholding and provide opportunities to programs, resources, salaries volunteer, receive support and our company values. Our network of increase physical activity. and benefits. Learn more. strengthen connections. Learn Wellness Champions – employees who more about our community n E motional – Our LifeWorks Employee n C  areer – We support our are passionate about wellness – plans engagement programs in the Our Assistance program helps build employee’s career development and implements local programs for Community section of this report. resiliency through counseling, with numerous opportunities for employees around the world with emotional support and referrals personal and professional growth, support from our Global Health team. for U.S. employees and their as well as resources to promote Our holistic approach supports many families. Many locations also offer work/life balance. Learn more. aspects of employee well-being. A stress and resilience programs. sampling of our programs includes: GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Our Community Our aim is to build strong, resilient and sustainable communities. IN THIS SECTION Food security and hunger Sustainable agriculture Hometown communities $ 139 million 30 million 24,760 We gave US$139 Our food donations Our investments in million to charitable enabled 30 million NGO programs helped causes in fiscal 2017, meals globally in 2017 improve the livelihoods including General Mills for food-insecure of 24,760 people in Foundation grants, children and families. smallholder cocoa corporate contributions and vanilla farming and food donations. communities in Africa. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Our approach v General Mills’ philanthropy is strongly Fiscal 2017 corporate giving aligned with United 139 million Our philanthropic work is aimed at Nations Sustainable supporting flourishing communities and a thriving planet and ties closely Development Goal 2: Zero Hunger ­– End $ hunger, achieve food to our company’s purpose, core security and improved The amount we gave to charitable causes in fiscal 2017 business and food systems knowledge. nutrition, and promote We work in innovative ways with sustainable agriculture. Foundation grants partners to harness our collective impact in key areas, while engaging $26 million employees through volunteerism. Global focus areas: Corporate contributions $67 Leadership and governance: General Increasing food security – Mills’ global philanthropy and community expanding food access for engagement programs are led by the million families, ending hunger in communities. Executive Director of the General Mills Food donations Foundation with support from program $46 Advancing sustainable agriculture – empowering officers at our headquarters. The growers, protecting habitat and Foundation staff includes experienced million GRI 201-1 conserving natural resources. specialists who lead and steward the company’s philanthropy in the areas across our key global operating is governed by a Board of Trustees and Strengthening hometown of food security and hunger relief, communities assist with local grantCorporate Contributions Committee communities – making a sustainable agriculture, employee making by helping to identify and that includes the company’s CEO and meaningful impact in the communities volunteerism and community giving. recommend nonprofit organizations to leaders from human resources, finance, where our employees live and work. In addition, employee councils located be considered for grants. The Foundation supply chain, legal and sales functions. Increasing food security u Material issues: Food security; food waste | GRI 102-13, 40, 42-44, FP4 Community n S upporting food banks – We provide food donations, General Mills creation of three new food banks in developing countries by 2020. Global Foodbanking Network and Feeding America. food systems Foundation grants and employee Our progress: n 2 017 grants included support to Our approach: We strengthen expertise to support food banks establish new food banks in two n C  ommunity food systems grant community food systems by: in more than 30 countries. more countries: China and India. programs were implemented in two n E  xpanding food access – Together Our goals: hometown communities – Minneapolis, For example, in Minneapolis we are with our nonprofit partners, we are n S upport initiatives that eliminate food Minnesota, and Buffalo, New York – to working with the Greater Twin Cities taking aim at food deserts in and deserts and increase food increase food access and food equity. United Way on a grants program that around our hometown communities access in at least four General provides support to nonprofit programs n F  ood banks in more than 32 countries to help ensure that all members of Mills communities by 2020. focused on increasing food accessibility, were supported and strengthened by the community have physical, social variety, availability and affordability in n I nvest to expand the capacity of General Mills grants. Our primary food and economic access to a wide range the city’s Northside neighborhoods, existing food banks and support the bank network partners include the of foods that meet their needs. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY similar program tailored with and for state child nutrition agencies, FRAC the Buffalo, New York community. used funding from General Mills in What is a food2017 to help school districts add or secure community? School meal expand school breakfast programs: When all community members programs n C  alifornia – Breakfast programs have physical, social and economic are being expanded to nine access at all times to a wide range Our approach: Knowing that schools Compton schools. of foods that meet their nutritional, can be one of the most powerful levers cultural and economic needs. for increasing food and nutrition security n M  issouri – Breakfast programs among children, we work to improve and have been implemented across expand access to school meal programs r U.K. students participating in the Gregg’s the Webb City school district. and increasing individuals’ food around the world. In the U.S., Canada and Foundation’s school breakfast club program, School breakfast participation knowledge and skills. This program will supported by a grant from General Mills. U.K., our school meals work is focused increased 200 percent, and the issue more than US$1 million in grants on helping schools (predominantly n I n the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh number of meals served increased over a three-year period to expand serving children from low-income and Odisha, a grant to the World 183 percent from 2016 to 2017. food access and food equity. As of households) launch or expand breakfast Food Programme from General Mills n N  ew York – Breakfast programs December 2017, our community food programs to eliminate “missing meals.” is enabling school and government are being implemented at systems grants in North Minneapolis In India, China and Brazil, our work officials to nutritionally fortify school three Buffalo high schools. have supported 14 projects spanning is focused on strengthening school meals served to 325,000 students daily 11 nonprofit organizations, including: feeding programs through projects (65 million meals per school year). Over the next two years, FRAC that improve the capabilities of central expects to use its grant from General n T he opening of a new full-service school kitchens and/or increase the Mills to provide additional grants grocery store that offers health nourishment potential of school meals. for school breakfast programs to services and food education. approximately 200 more schools, n T he expansion of a mobile grocery Our goals: increasing school breakfast participation store to enable fresh food access n E nable or improve 100 million by a total of 15,000 for community members lacking school meals for youth living students from lowmobility or transportation. in poverty by 2020. income households. n T he creation of a food business n E mpower 150 schools serving n N  o Kid Hungry is using a grant from incubator to help individuals launch at-risk children in General Mills General Mills to continue advancing and grow new food businesses operating communities to add a r ©WFP/Isheeta Sumra. The World Food a multi-year child hunger campaign to serve Northside residents. daily school breakfast by 2020. Programme enables fortified school meals for focused on expanding school breakfast n T he expansion of a farmers market students in India. programs in Florida, Michigan, Nevada, and food hub to enable local food Our progress: Through expanded n I n the U.S., through our partnership Texas, Washington and Wisconsin. To growers to clean, prepare and sell fresh investments during fiscal 2017, our with the Food Research & Action date, this effort has helped to launch foods in the community year-round. philanthropy is connecting more Center (FRAC), we provide school school breakfast programs that are children than ever before with access n T he makeover of an urban corner store breakfast start-up grants to schools in connecting more than 61,000 children to the school meals that can ensure to provide a wider array of foods. from low-income each child is nourished and ready to General Mills’ manufacturing and sales Using the Minneapolis program as communities that serve children from households to learn. Our philanthropy has helped a model for adaptation, we worked low-income households. Working in daily school to launch school breakfast programs with the Greater Twin Cities United partnership with local school district breakfasts. in 95 schools serving low-income Way as well as the United Way of children in General Mills operating leaders, principals, parent groups, Buffalo and Erie County to create a communities. Examples include: anti-hunger advocacy groups and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Food rescue Our partners: General Mills provides philanthropic support to leading their surplus food into nourishing meals for food-insecure neighbors. than 1.2 million food pickups and supported more than 4,200 nonprofit and recovery nonprofits that make it possible for hunger relief organizations since 2014. In the U.K., General Mills continues Our approach: We catalyze innovative grocers, restaurants, businesses and other n E nabled 30 million meals for foodto provide philanthropic support programs that expand food rescue organizations to donate surplus food so insecure people across the world to FareShare, which pioneered and and recovery. it can be distributed to people in need. in 2017 through General Mills manages a retail food rescue digital Our goals: One of those partners is Feeding platform called FareShareGO. food donations. America, a leading hunger relief n E mpower 25,000 food retailers Our progress: organization in the U.S. with more than to participate in food rescue. n E  mpowered 19,328 retailers to 200 member food banks nationwide. n E nable the rescue of 1 billion participate in food rescue efforts Backed by a US$1 million grant from pounds of food from retailers through MealConnect in the U.S. and General Mills, Feeding America in the U.K. and U.S. by 2020. FareShareGo in the U.K. since inception. created the MealConnect technology n E nable 200 million meals for food hrough n T MealConnect, recovered WATCH VIDEO platform to give food donors like insecure people through General grocery stores, restaurants and cafes and distributed more than 575 million Mills food donations by 2020. a convenient, free and systematic pounds of surplus food in partnership r Learn more about General Mills’ support way to reduce waste and transform with 90 food banks, facilitated more for Meal Connect. Reducing food waste Our actions Consumers: In addition to the food rescue and recovery Food waste impact* n W e’re working to raise consumer awareness about food waste through brand messaging programs outlined above that are funded such as Mountain High’s successful through philanthropy, General Mills works Pinterest campaign to Finish the Tub. The across many fronts to reduce food waste: 1/3 1/4 7% 1 trillion campaign focused on recipes using yogurt Policy: Every year, oneWasted food Wasted food is Global food loss/ that might have otherwise gone to waste. n G eneral Mills advocates for food product third of the food consumes a quarter responsible for waste represents n O ur yogurt plant in Murfreesboro, labels that provide clearer guidance for grown worldwide of all water used 7 percent of global nearly US$1 trillion. Tennessee was featured in Wasted! The consumers about food safety and quality is wasted. by agriculture. GHG emissions. Story of Food Waste, a documentary and we have begun updating date labels on *Source: U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). about food waste and innovative ways it our products. As of December 2017, over is being addressed throughout the world. 25 percent of our U.S. packages have been updated and we will continue transitioning Supply chain: n W  e also work to reduce food waste the remainder of our U.S. packaging. n W e closely monitor our manufacturing in our office buildings. For example, processes to keep surplus food out of the by composting organic material and Industry: waste stream. In fiscal 2017, 6 percent of consolidating recycling into a single n W e actively participate in industry, our production waste was food waste. We stream collection at our headquarters, nonprofit and government groups also are working to meet zero-waste-towe achieved the following results focused on food waste reduction as well landfill targets at General Mills production during June-November 2017*: Reduced as surplus food recovery, including the WATCH VIDEO facilities (see details in the Our Planet landfill waste by 32 tons (25 percent); Food Waste Reduction Alliance, ReFED section in this report). In fiscal 2017, seven increased compost collection by 12 Advisory Council, Foundation for Food facilities (14 percent of the global total) tons (40 percent); and decreased r Learn more about what General Mills, and Agriculture Research, Grocery met our zero-waste-to-landfill criteria. overall waste (amount sent to landfills, influential chefs and others are doing to Manufacturers Association and AMERIPEN. reduce food waste and redirect surplus composted or recycled) by 8.5 percent. food for donation. *Compared with the same period in 2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Advancing sustainable agriculture u Material issues: Smallholder farmers; biodiversity; water stewardship | GRI 203-1, 2, FP4 Our approach: We leverage Learn more in the Our Planet Our progress: Institute, The Nature Conservancy and philanthropy to advance the section of this report. grower associations to promote soil n We provided support to NGO sustainability of agriculture and support health practices as part of a broader Our goals: Our philanthropic goals partners in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and the conservation of natural resources $3.25 million multi-year investment within sustainable agriculture include: Madagascar who reached 24,760 around the world. Aligned with our by General Mills in soil health. people in smallholder farming n I mproving the well-being of 20,000 company’s broader sustainability goals communities through programs n We continued to support research on and commitments, we invest in NGOpeople in smallholder farming to improve farming practices, bee health through our US$100,000 led programs that strengthen the communities from which General empower female farmers, establish grant to the University of Minnesota livelihoods of smallholder farmers from Mills sources cocoa and vanilla. farmer cooperatives, improve food Bee Lab and pollinator habitats whom we source key ingredients. We n S upporting water stewardship and nutrition security and youth through our five-year US$2 million protect and expand pollinator habitats coalitions in General Mills’ top education, and prevent child labor. project ($1.25 million from the within our supply chain and contribute priority at-risk watersheds. General Mills Foundation and to initiatives that restore the earth’s n During 2017, our philanthropic n I nvesting in collaborations to $750,000 from Annie’s) with the watersheds and soil. We believe these contributions supported water expand adoption of soil health Xerces Society for Invertebrate actions have a sustaining benefit to stewardship collaborations in four out best practices by farmers. Conservation and USDA Natural society and the environment, while of eight priority watershed regions. Resources Conservation Service. helping to ensure food producers will n C ontributing to the planting of n We issued US$750,000 in corporate be able to feed a growing world. 100,000 acres of pollinator-friendly contributions during 2017 to the habitat in North America by 2021. Soil Health Partnership, Soil Health Strengthening hometown communities GRI 413-1, FP4 Our approach: Just as we care about the Our goal is to strengthen their time and talent in ways that communities where our ingredients are hometown communities by: serve both people and the planet. grown, we care about the communities n W  e contributed more than n M aintaining an employee volunteerism our employees call home. Around the US$139 million in corporate rate of 80 percent worldwide. world, we make a meaningful impact in giving worldwide in 2017. n E xceeding US$2.5 billion in cumulative our hometown communities through corporate charitable giving by n G  eneral Mills and our Foundation employee volunteerism and local 2020 to strengthen communities. have provided more than US$2.25 community giving. Our employees are billion in cumulative giving to General Mills’ greatest asset, and they Our progress: strengthen communities since our are often leaders in their communities. n 8 3 percent of our employees Foundation was established in 1954.* Supporting local causes they are r Employees volunteered at an event to raise worldwide reported volunteering in money for the Second Harvest Heartland food passionate about invigorates our their communities during 2017, sharing bank in Minnesota. employees and their communities. *Since 1954, General Mills, Inc. and the General Mills Foundation have contributed US$2.25 billion. This figure includes Foundation grants, Box Tops for Education™ giving, corporate contributions and the company’s global food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 OUR FOOD OUR PLANET OUR WORKPLACE OUR COMMUNITY Employee through our GoodWorks program. These employees give back to the donations, we help to ensure that our disaster relief partners are resourced relief and community recovery in the aftermath of hurricanes Harvey, volunteerism community by leveraging their skills and equipped to help communities Irma and Maria, cyclone Enawo, the Our approach: Empower our employees to help nonprofit organizations during their most urgent times of need. California wildfires and earthquakes in to apply their skills, expertise and with marketing challenges. Since Mexico. General Mills’ cash and food Our progress: In 2017 we provided more passion to help their community. the program’s inception in 2009, donations during these times help than US$250,000 to the American more than 230 volunteers have to ensure that our NGO partners are Our progress: General Mills employees Red Cross, CARE and Feeding completed 51 pro bono projects ready to help affected communities. are volunteering their time and talents in America and donated nearly 500,000 through GoodWorks with rave reviews more ways than ever: pounds of food to support emergency from the nonprofit organizations n N ourishing students in Canada – benefiting from their work. Employees in Ontario prepare and n P artners in Food Solutions – Nearly serve breakfast to approximately 600 General Mills employees 100 students every day of the have served as volunteers for Box Tops for Education school year at a public school in this international NGO that is Our approach: Box Tops for through the Box Tops for n 2  7 million households Mississauga. More than 40 employees strengthening food security Education™ is a program Education program. participating. participate – each person volunteers across Africa (see story below). operated by General n 7  6,000 U.S. schools one hour every three weeks in groups Our progress: Mills’ marketing teams benefiting from of two or three people. In 2017, they n U  S$840 million provided served more than 16,400 breakfasts Disaster relief that provides funding for participating U.S. schools, through Box Tops for the program. Education since the to hungry students, providing a Our approach: When disaster strikes which can be used for program began in 1996. nutritious start to the school day. in the communities where we operate, supplies and other priorities. n U  S$53 million earned by General Mills is ready to contribute Our goal is to provide more n S kills-based volunteerism – General U.S. schools during the in ways that provide relief and help than US$1 billion to schools Mills employees across our marketing 2016-2017 school year. these communities recover. Through and consumer insights functions financial grants and General Mills food engage in skills-based volunteerism Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) and Partners: The work of PFS is now supported Impact: its partner companies are committed to by six corporate partners: General PFS results since 2008: improving food security, nutrition and Mills, Cargill, DSM, Bühler, The Hershey n N  early 1,000 early-stage food companies economic development in Africa. Founded Company and Ardent Mills. Collectively, received support to improve food safety, by General Mills in 2008 and now an these companies have nearly 700 years of packaging, processing and marketing. independent NGO, PFS links the technical food know-how and tens of thousands of n E  xpanded to nine countries – now serving and business expertise of volunteer employees whose expertise and wisdom can Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, employees from General Mills and other food help advance the African food landscape. Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. companies with dynamic and prospering food PFS also works with TechnoServe, funded processors and by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to n 2  7 percent of PFS client businesses are millers across support African food processors and mills, owned and/or managed by women. nine African along with collaborating partners USAID, n 8  9,000 hours contributed by nearly r PFS works with Praise Experts, a food 1,300 volunteers from six companies. processor in Ghana, to improve its facility countries. Root Capital and Grassroots Business Fund. and production processes. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 APPENDIX Environmental data summary (wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally)* In thousands, except rate data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) GRI 302-3 534 533 528 524 523 519 517 531 Energy usage (kWh) GRI 302-1 2,656,939 2,601,972 2,465,263 2,926,949 2,923,925 2,877,289 2,812,218 2,675,612 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,509,856 1,462,563 1,358,819 1,641,653 1,660,881 1,635,893 1,575,645 1,509,819 Fuel oil (kWh) 23,556 22,055 22,413 23,326 14,323 9,023 9,596 18,864 Natural gas (kWh) 1,382,944 1,350,699 1,266,571 1,385,563 1,411,983 1,408,853 1,374,294 1,302,272 LP gas (kWh) 17,085 4,171 2,747 29,042 27,091 14,687 23,728 27,460 Solar panels (kWh) NA 82 121 119 121 118 131 14 Cogeneration electric (kWh) 27,221 25,234 17,763 17,871 20,314 16,345 18,043 5,256 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 56,698 52,330 30,646 39,348 44,675 44,875 32,412 30,706 Biomass (kWh) 2,352 7,993 18,559 146,383 142,375 141,990 117,438 125,247 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (kWh) 1,147,082 1,139,408 1,106,444 1,285,296 1,263,044 1,241,396 1,236,572 1,165,793 International (kWh) 138,470 140,497 149,890 326,841 305,661 293,722 292,321 257,796 North America (kWh) 1,008,612 998,911 956,554 958,455 957,382 947,673 944,251 907,997 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 262,493 268,289 284,020 718,621 693,911 668,495 661,715 617,081 North America (kWh) 2,394,446 2,333,683 2,181,243 2,206,894 2,226,512 2,208,794 2,150,502 2,058,531 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/metric tons of product) GRI 305-4 0.204 0.206 0.206 0.181 0.173 0.171 0.162 0.167 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)** (metric tons CO2e) 1,017 1,006 961 1,013 965 945 882 843 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-1 285 273 251 281 284 277 265 253 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 5 5 5 5 4 2 2 5 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 277 267 246 270 274 271 258 243 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 4 1 1 6 6 3 5 6 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-2 732 733 710 732 681 668 616 590 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) 0 1 3 44 48 48 40 43 GHG emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 87 91 95 143 132 127 124 121 North America (metric tons CO2e) 930 915 866 870 833 818 757 722 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.19 2.11 2.14 2.90 2.79 2.86 3.16 3.01 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) GRI 303-1 10,800 10,300 10,000 16,200 15,800 15,800 17,400 14,400 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA 2,000 1,800 7,800 7,100 7,200 6,400 6,400 Municipal (cubic meters) NA 8,300 8,200 8,400 8,700 8,600 11,000 8,000 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/metric ton of product) 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.034 0.033 0.035 0.0425 0.0473 Solid waste (metric tons) 183 178 159 190 186 193 233 238 Percentage of owned production facilities that achieved zero waste NA NA NA 12% 16% 17% 12% 14% to landfill*** (%) * Data in this table is reported on a May-April basis (through April of the year noted). Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and reflect our footprint in that fiscal year. Past fiscal years have not been adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures. Solid waste data in this table is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodologies. Beginning in 2013, data reflects the acquisition of Yoplait and Yoki. Yoplait solid waste data for 2013 and 2014 and all Yoki data for 2013 and 2014 were estimated. Beginning in 2017, data reflects the acquisition of Carolina. ** Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data were calculated using the location-based method. These data were externally verified for 2010, 2015, 2016 and 2017. *** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of the relevant fiscal year. For years prior to 2013, General Mills did not report this data. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-1, 2, 3 GHG emissions across the value chain by scope* (metric tons CO2e) 2017 Value chain phase Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total 2016 total 2010 total Agriculture and transformation 0 0 7,760,000 7,760,000 7,910,000 8,880,000 Packaging supply chain 0 0 1,170,000 1,170,000 1,390,000 1,350,000 Producing** 253,000 592,000*** 655,000 1,500,000 1,630,000 1,690,000 Shipping 2,400 0 958,000 960,000 1,140,000 1,110,000 Selling 47,000 56,000 824,000 930,000 1,030,000 950,000 Consuming 0 0 3,100,000 3,100,000 3,290,000 3,340,000 Total 302,000 648,000 14,500,000 15,400,000 16,400,000 17,300,000 *Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. **Data in the Environmental Data Summary are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. The data in this table include those locations as well as other wholly owned or controlled facilities globally (such as offices and Häagen-Dazs Shops) as well as fleet vehicles. ***This data is calculated using the location-based method. Greenhouse gas emissions calculation methodology We work with Quantis to calculate our approach to estimate emissions based on 2017, we updated emission factors to global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the amount of energy and materials used reflect improvements in the Ecoinvent footprint each fiscal year, following (including emissions associated with database, made adjustments to account the guidelines of the GHG Protocol materials production), drawing on data for recent acquisitions and divestitures, Corporate Accounting and Reporting sources such as the World Food LCA corrected errors from past years, and Standard. This footprint covers our Database and the Ecoinvent database. aligned with the latest Intergovernmental complete value chain, from the farms Panel on Climate Change science Although estimates of GHG emissions that grow our ingredients to consumers regarding global warming potential associated with farms, retailers and who use our products. For our own values. We implemented these changes consumers are approximate, we work to operations, we calculate emissions retroactive to our 2010 baseline. continually improve our methodology, related to energy and water use in our visibility and accuracy. We update facilities as well as from our vehicle fleet. results as appropriate each year to For other parts of our value chain, we reflect these enhancements. In fiscal apply a life-cycle assessment (LCA) To view details about our programs and performance, see Climate change. For a breakdown of General Mills’ GHG emissions by Scope and other data, see our CDP submission online. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Global workforce data summary GRI 102-8 Composition of governance body GRI 405-1 Total workforce by region and gender* Board of Directors diversity (% of total)* Female Male Grand total Male 64.3% Asia/Latin America 2,563 2,959 5,522 Female 35.7% Europe/Australasia 1,458 1,813 3,271 African-American 28.6% North American Business 6,678 9,541 16,219 Asian 0% Total 10,699 14,313 25,012 Hispanic 7.1% *Excludes manually collected Yoki, HD Wage, and Yoplait Intl employees not in SAP. Native American/American Indian 0% Age 50+ 92.9% Total number of employees by employment contract and gender* *Represents board composition as of May 28, 2017. Employment Type Female Male Grand total Full Time 10,016 13,979 23,995 Part Time 337 79 416 Nonscheduled 99 12 111 Short Time 9 7 16 Temporary/Casual 192 169 361 Seasonal 46 67 113 Total 10,699 14,313 25,012 *Excludes manually collected Yoki, HD Wage, and Yoplait Intl employees not in SAP. Workforce benefits GRI 401-2 Highlights of the benefits offered by General Mills* Pay Employees earn a competitive salary and annual bonus when they meet our ambitious goals. Salaries are reviewed each year, with increases based on performance and the market value of the position. Annual cash bonuses are based on performance (individual, company and, in some cases, business unit). Medical, dental and General Mills offers employees and eligible dependents medical, dental and vision plans starting on the first day of employment. Coverage is available to vision employees in all locations. Retirement and savings General Mills offers tools and resources to manage current and future savings goals. Eligibility for General Mills’ 401(k) Plan starts on the first day of plans employment. Employees can access free, confidential education on managing money, college and tax savings, and more. Stock options and Company stock is available in the 401(k) Plan. Our voluntary stock purchase program allows another ownership opportunity. Annual stock option grants are ownership available to some management-level employees. Insurance Life, long-term care, legal, and auto and homeowners insurance is available, plus company-paid shortand long-term disability insurance. Education assistance Loans and scholarship opportunities are available for employees and family members, plus reimbursement for job-related courses. Employees may be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence to further their education. Flexible work We offer telecommuting, flextime and part-time arrangements where business conditions allow. Through our FUSE (Flexible Use Shared Environment) arrangements program, employees create workspaces that improve collaboration and efficiency. Parenting benefits General Mills offers maternity leave benefits to birth mothers and also offers benefits to new fathers and adoptive parents. Credit Union Employees and their families are eligible for complete banking and financial services from the General Mills Federal Credit Union, established in 1935. *Benefits may vary for employees by location and other factors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index* GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 2017 10-K 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Introduction, 2017 10-K 102-3 Location of headquarters 2017 10-K 102-4 Location of operations GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2017 10-K 102-6 Markets served GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries 102-7 Scale of the organization 2017 Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Appendix 8 102-9 Supply chain Introduction, Our Planet 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2017 Annual Report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Planet 102-12 External initiatives CEO letter, Introduction, Our Planet, Our Community 102-13 Membership of associations Introduction, Our Planet, Our Community GRI 102: General Strategy Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO letter, 2017 Annual Report 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2017 10-K Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior GeneralMills.com/Company, 16 GeneralMills.com/Responsibility, Our Workplace 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Our Workplace 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure GeneralMills.com/Investors 102-19 Delegating authority Introduction 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Introduction 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 *Using GRI 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards. Reporting disclosures may not be applied fully for all Standards. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs General Disclosures (cont.) Governance (cont.) 102-25 Conflicts of interest GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Introduction, Our Planet 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance GeneralMills.com/Investors 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts GeneralMills.com/Investors, Introduction 16 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes GeneralMills.com/Investors, Introduction 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics GeneralMills.com/Investors, Introduction 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting Introduction 102-33 Communicating critical concerns GeneralMills.com/Investors 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2017 Proxy Statement 102-35 Remuneration policies 2017 Proxy Statement 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2017 Proxy Statement 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Introduction, Our Planet, Our Community 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 31% of U.S. production 8 employees are covered by CBAs. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Introduction, Our Planet, Our Community 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Introduction, Our Planet, Our Community 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Introduction, Our Food, Our Planet, Our Community Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2017 Annual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality section of Introduction 102-47 List of material topics Materiality section of Introduction 102-48 Restatements of information Appendix Environmental Data Summary 102-49 Changes in reporting Introduction 102-50 Reporting period Introduction 102-51 Date of most recent report Apr-17 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs General Disclosures (cont.) Reporting practice (cont.) 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Introduction Disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Introduction, Appendix GRI Index 102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative index 102-56 External assurance Introduction GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our Community, Our Planet, 2017 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Annual Report, 2017 Proxy Statement GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Our Planet, Carbon Disclosure Project 13 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2017 10-K GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Our Planet, Our Community 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Our Planet, Our Community 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 Material issue: Smallholder farmers GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Our Planet 12 Practices Material issue: Smallholder farmers GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Our Workplace 16 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Our Workplace 16 Material issue: Ethics and compliance GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Our Planet 8, 12 Material issue: 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Our Planet 8, 12 Packaging footprint 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Our Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 13 Environmental Data Summary GRI 302: Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Carbon Disclosure Project 7, 8, 12, 13 Material issue: Energy use 302-3 Energy intensity Our Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 13 Environmental Data Summary 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Our Planet 7, 8, 12, 13 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Our Planet, Appendix 6 GRI 303: Water Environmental Data Summary Material issue: Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Our Planet 6 stewardship 303-3 Water recycled and reused Our Planet 6, 8, 12 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Our Planet 6, 14, 15 Material issue: 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Our Planet 6, 14, 15 Biodiversity 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Environmental Data Summary 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Environmental Data Summary 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Our Planet, Carbon Disclosure Project 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our Planet, Environmental Data Summary 13, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Our Planet 13, 14, 15 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are 3, 20 GRI 305: Emissions most commonly used in small quantities Material issue: for closed-loop refrigeration systems Climate change and occasional fumigation activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Air emissions primarily include 3, 12, 14, 15 particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination We do not discharge untreated sanitary 3, 6, 12, 14 wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic GRI 306: Effluents matter from ingredient handling, food and Waste production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Our Planet 3, 6, 12 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste The quantity of hazardous waste 3, 12 produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste GRI 306: Effluents generated at General Mills. Hazardous and Waste waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff No water bodies are significantly 6, 14, 15 affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations General Mills incurred 7 Notices of 16 Environmental Violations (NOVs) and no significant Compliance fines during the reporting period. GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Compliance with our Supplier Environmental Code of Conduct is a term in our Assessment standard purchase orders and Material issue: Supply standard purchase contracts. chain relationships GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 401: Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Appendix 8 Material issue: provided to temporary or part-time employees Workforce management 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Our Workplace 8 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, Injury data in Our Workplace; 3, 8 Health and Safety and number of work-related fatalities There were zero General Mills Material issue: employee fatalities in fiscal 2017 Workplace safety 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Our Workplace 8 GRI 404: Training 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Our Workplace 8 and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Our Workplace 5, 8 Material issue: Workforce management 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our Workplace, Appendix, 5, 8 GRI 405: Diversity and GeneralMills.com/Investors Equal Opportunity Material issue: Workforce management GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs GRI 400 Social Standards Series (cont.) GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Our Planet 8 of Association and association and collective bargaining may be at risk Collective Bargaining Material issue: Human rights GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Our Planet 8, 16 Material issue: Human rights GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Our Planet 8 Compulsory Labor Material issue: Human rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Our Planet GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Compliance with our Supplier 16 Material issue: human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Code of Conduct is a term in our Human rights standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Our Planet, Our Community Communities assessments, and development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Compliance with our Supplier 5, 8, 16 Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and GRI 414: Supplier standard purchase contracts. Social Assessment Material issues: Human rights, supply 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Our Planet 5, 8, 16 chain relationships 415-1 Political contributions GeneralMills.com/CivicInvolvement, 16 Introduction GRI 415: Public Policy 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Our Food, Our Workplace GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Material issue: Food safety GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index (cont.) GRI Standard Disclosure Location/comments UN SDGs GRI 400 Social Standards Series (cont.) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health Our Food 16 GRI 416: Customer and safety impacts of products and services Health and Safety Material issue: Food safety 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Our Food 12 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Material issue: Responsible marketing Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs Food Processing Sector Supplement Across All Aspects FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Our Planet of Sourcing General Mills adheres to a strict Material issue: Supply supplier code of conduct and utilizes chain relationships independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, Our Planet 2, 12, 14, 15 internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard. Healthy and FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, Our Food, Our Planet, 2, 3 Affordable Food volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, partnerships and product development) that Our Workplace, Our Community Material issues: Food promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, security, health and nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. nutrition wellness Customer Health FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third Our Food 2 and Safety party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards. Material issues: Food FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, Our Food 2 safety, health and that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars. nutrition wellness FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product Our Food 2 category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. Product and FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about Our Food 2 Service Labeling ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Generalmills.com/Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition AskGeneralMills.com SmartLabel.org GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Specific Standard Disclosures (cont.) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs Food Processing Sector Supplement (cont.) Breeding and Genetics FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process 2, 15 Material Issue: animals in its production operations. Animal welfare Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. Animal Husbandry FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related General Mills does not physically Material Issue: to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. alter animals or use anaesthetics. Animal welfare For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, Our Planet by species and breed type, per housing type. General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP12 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and Our Planet 2 breed type, per housing type. Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, Animal welfare policy hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type. Transportation, FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, General Mills does not transport, handle Handling, and and adherence with voluntary standards related to transportation, handling, or slaughter live or aquatic animals. Slaughter and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. Material Issue: Animal welfare GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ethics and compliance Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and compliance Human rights Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Human rights collective bargaining; Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Ethics and compliance Diversity and inclusion Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Climate change approach Sourcing approach Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60
