BOOK OF HAPPINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Table Tableof ofcontents contents 1 Statement from the Chairman of the Board 01 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director 02 Sustainability Reporting – A Critical Tool 03 Reporting Parameters 04 II Sustainability Our Stand 05 Corporate Social Responsibility – Why 06 Education 07 Our Acts in Education 09 Meet our Partner 12 Healthcare 15 Our Acts in Healthcare 17 Youth Mental Health Awareness Event 20 Meet our Partner 22 Environment 25 Our Acts in Environment 27 Meet our Partner 29 Extended Responsibilities 31 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 35 Green Banking 37 III About Our Company Our Philosophies – The Backbone of our Enterprise 41 Our Range of Products and Services 42 Our Shareholding Composition 43 Contribution to the National Economy 44 Value Added Statement 45 Our Business Model 46 Business Segment Review Lending Business Operations 48 Business Segment Review Subsidiary Business Operations 58 Human Capital 68 Statement of Corporate Governance 72 III Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 99 IV GRI G4 Reporting Index 104 over 400 volunteers participated IN THE CAMPAIGN donating 14,550 Volunteer hours ACROSS 12 DISTRICTS OVER 2000 OVER 2900 OVER 300 OVER 2000 trees were planted INDIVIDUALS RECEIVED students got DISASTER AFFECTED healthcare support educational support PEOPLE RECEIVED AID over 7000 SMILES WERE SPREAD THROUGH THIS CAMPAIGN KHUSHIR KHE YA THE ARK OF HAPPINESS IDLC has a history of empowering communities through its sustainable business practices coupled with responsible and committed financing. Reinstating this commitment towards the communities within which we operate, IDLC Finance Limited (IDLC) launched a one-of-a-kind online Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform Khushir Kheya to bring people together and manage issues with focus areas in healthcare, education, environment and community development.� The platform Khushir Kheya aims to bring together volunteers, stakeholders, employees and various partners to tackle social problems. Various initiatives were planned and executed to improve underprivileged communities all across Bangladesh in fields of health, education, nutrition and livelihood, and work to preserve the environment. Through this platform youth volunteers are engaged in all of the events to encourage the young generation to take part in improving their communities. Individuals interested to volunteer can access the platform at www.idlc.com/khushirkheya. QR Code: STATEMENT F ROM THE C HAI RM AN OF THE BOARD The financial industry landscape is shifting rapidly and fundamentally at par with changing needs of the world. We are witnessing big changes in the needs and behavior of our stakeholders clients, employees, society at large and investors and overall in their expectations of a financial institution. These changes not only present challenges, but also good business opportunities and the chance to make a difference for our stakeholders. Against this background, we updated our long-term CSR strategy in 2017, streamlining it to address relevant community needs and challenges through active volunteerism with an aim to catalyze a positive change around us and within ourselves. “We believe a little bit of volunteering can eventually help communities become self sustainable one day” and there will not be any need for intervention to resolve their problems. With this conviction I invite you to turn the pages of our 2017 ‘Book of Happiness’ Best regards, Aziz Al Mahmood CHAIRMAN IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 01 STATEMEN T FROM THE C E O AN D MAN AGI NG DI REC TOR 2017 has been an extraordinary year for IDLC as we continued to fulfil our commitments to our various stakeholders. I am particularly proud of our achievements on the CSR front. First Position for Integrated Reporting and Best Presented Annual Report 2016 by ICAB and Gold Award at the prestigious ICSB National Award for Corporate Governance Excellence 2016 bear proof of our Good Governance practices and the trust bestowed upon by our stakeholders. At IDLC, we follow a unique concept where “our commitment towards our stakeholders, the environment and the community is reflected in our everyday decisions and operations” Thus Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is closely integrated with our business strategies to create the maximum value. We launched a one-of-a-kind online Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform ‘Khushir Kheya’ to manage issues and explore opportunities to help improve lives of underprivileged communities across Bangladesh in the fields of health, education, nutrition and environment. Through this campaign within a span of 60 days we were able to touch the lives of more than 7000 beneficiaries through active participation of over 400 volunteers across Bangladesh. As a socially responsible brand it is our responsibility to keep our stakeholders well-informed and be part of the change for a better future. Warm regards, Arif Khan CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 02 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING A CRITICAL TOOL The concept of long-term profitability and have now merged as the de facto together with social development and standard for sustainability reporting environmental protection is fast gaining worldwide. The 2017 Sustainability Report ground across organisations worldwide. has been prepared in line with GRIG4 These expectations will only increase and Guidelines issued by the GRI. G4 has a intensify as more and more customers, more focused approach to reporting by financiers and other stakeholders realise highlighting only the most material the need to move towards a truly sustainability issues identified through sustainable economy. Thus, a Sustainability stakeholder engagement. This emerging Report acts as a critical tool in realising this approach integrates strategic sustainability goal. A Sustainability Report not only issues with other material financial communicates an organisation’s economic, information, allowing sustainability environmental, social and governance disclosure in different reporting formats performance, it also acts as a document thereby, enabling organisations to better that helps the management identify inform markets and stakeholders on their priorities, develop strategies, set goals, sustainability performance. measure performance and manage changes to make their operations truly sustainable. In this context, the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) has been providing comprehensive Sustainability Reporting Frameworks since 1999 and offers a standardised approach to reporting. The GRI’s approach is multi-stakeholder engagement, thus maintaining a degree of transparency and consistency that makes information more relevant, credible and user-friendly. The guidelines are reviewed periodically to provide the best and most up-to-date guidance for effective reporting 03 R E P ORT ING PA R A METER S Reporting cycle GRI-G4 level Annual ‘In Accordance’ – Core Reporting period Report edition Publication date January 1 – December 31, 2017 7th of the most recent previous report April 2017 Methodology and Materiality GRI-G4 guidelines require stakeholder engagement to identify the material CSR and sustainability aspects for inclusion in the report. At IDLC, we have identified priority issues through discussions with the Board, the management teams and employees of the company. CSR team also conducted interviews with CSR partners and beneficiaries and reviewed existing and new regulatory practices and incorporated the same, while drafting the report. The following were revealed as a result of the discussions that influence IDLC’s economic, environmental and social performance : Corporate governance, Social and environmental Capacity-building and Superior customer experience ethics and compliance obligations towards the enhancement of knowledge through enhanced communication community in which the for key stakeholders and stakeholder accountability company operates; Based on these issues, creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff, relevant material aspects were identified from the G4 guidelines and the necessary information was provided against specific performance indicators, detailing how IDLC manages these concerns through its strategies and operations. The process and list of material aspects have been detailed in the chapter “Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting. Scope Boundary tac t Informa Con tion The core focus of this report is The report details how IDLC Please email your valuable the CSR initiatives of IDLC. In addresses the material issues suggestions and opinions to addition, issues affecting the stated above and how these hayesha@idlc.com, or contact long-term sustainability of the significantly influence performance Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, IDLC Company’s overall operations both within and outside the Finance Limited, at +88-0173have also been incorporated. organisation. 0374585. 04 Sustainability Our Stand Our sustainability commitment is an institutionalised approach that has Our cornerstone for existed from the time of our such initiatives is conception. The idea of sustainability is ingrained into the very personality integrating the of our organisation, influencing the 3Ps: People, way we think and act. It summarises the very bottom line of our existence Planet & Profit. consistent enhancement of value for At IDLC, we believe that our most all our stakeholders. important contribution to sustainable development is to operate an effective At IDLC, we follow a unique concept and profitable financial institution. By where our commitment towards our providing access to credit and savings stakeholders, the environment and products, we enable individuals to the community is reflected in our improve their quality of life and everyday decisions and operations. enhance their financial security; by Thus Corporate Social Responsibility providing finance to large and small (CSR) is closely integrated with our businesses, we facilitate economic business strategies to create the growth and job creation; and by maximum value. financing key sectors crucial for our economic development. Over the years, these initiatives have helped us create a more robust We strive to deliver superior organisation in terms of assuming sustainable shareholder value by responsibility across all levels, serving the needs of our customers embracing the right decisions and through our passionate, dedicated and making the right choices, enabling talented team, guided by a us to achieve our desired impact. Management and Board that brings with it a wealth of experience, navigating us through business cycles. 05 The term Corporate Social Responsibility WHY? CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY or CSR has evolved over the last few decades to broaden its scope from mere philanthropic contributions to strategic business decisions. The CSR definition used by businesses globally revolve around the notion of operating a business in a manner that meets or exceeds the ethical, legal, commercial and public expectations that society has of business. CSR is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interactions with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. At IDLC, we perceive CSR not as a standalone function, but as an integral part of the overall organisational strategy, operations and management to create the maximum value. Thus we do CSR not only to build a culture of ‘doing good’ by ourselves but also involve others in the act of doing good thereby ensuring sustainability of the act itself, which in the long-run may help attain relevant Sustainable Development Goals. IDLC’s model for sustainability is based on the 3P approach People, Planet and Profit People Planet Profit our stakeholders with whom our surrounding environment our profit-generating capacity vital we engage and the and the planet for long-term sustenance community where we live in The CSR initiatives and projects implemented during 2017 is broadly categorised into the thematic areas education, healthcare and environment. 06 E D U C AT I O N Our contribution to the education sector of Bangladesh is based on investing early and investing smart. As one of the key focus areas of CSR, we plan and conduct interventions that are designed to enhance access to education in the communities + within which we operate. OUR APPROACH INVEST EARLY. INVEST SMART. Most communities in Bangladesh experience lack of 1700 UNDERPREVILEGED 10 proper educational facilities and infrastructure. Due to STUDENTS inadequacy of the supply side, eventually the SCHOOL underprivileged continue to suffer and be trapped in the RECEIVED EDUCATIONAL vicious circle of poverty. SUPPORT Through direct involvement and engaging partners in the respective communities, we can not only help more children go to school, but also improve their educational outcome and quality of life. We focus on increasing access to education in areas which we operate in, with a focus in remote communities with a need for direct investment and involvement. Our initiatives aim to improve the lives of the poor through education and social and economic development. Our skills development and educational programmes are designed to help improve the quality and determinants of education and the system as a whole. We encourage and bring together partners who are willing to use their technical expertise and experience for developing better and simpler techniques to help people and organizations develop skills that build on the learners' context (cultural, linguistic, geographic, and economic), and include vital information about life and livelihoods—health, agriculture, small business development—that individuals can put to immediate use. Working in collaboration with local, private and nongovernment organisations, our projects and initiatives are designed to enhance the overall quality of human capital by enhancing skills and competencies. 07 EDUCATION 1700+ 1800+ 100+ Underprivileged Volunteer Volunteers students HOURS 10 SCHOOLS received 3 SCHOOLS SUPPORT were rebuilt 2 CLASSROOMS WERE BUILT 200 books WERE DONATED TO 2 school libraries 2 SCHOOLS RECEIVED BENCHES, CHALKBOARDS AND A LIBRARY 400 students ATTENDED FREE PRACTICAL CLASSES ON THE ENVIRONMENT 600 STUDENTS HAVE PROPER ACCESS TO SAFE DRINKING WATER, SANITATION 600 students IN 7 schools received STATIONERY AND EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS 08 OUR AC TS I N Teknaf, Banda rban and Rangpur K e e p i n g c hi l d r e n at s c h o o l i n t h e r e m o t e s t areas 350 students of JAAGO schools at Bandarban and Teknaf received school stationeries from IDLC so that they could continue with usual school curriculum. The fund supported stationaries enough to last six months for the children. The students in the remotest areas of Bandarban and Teknaf travelled upto 4km on foot everyday to get to their school, where they received quality education online from teachers in Dhaka, through live video conferencing and applications. There, they receive Primary Education with emphasis on English and skill-based knowledge. The schools always require an adequate supply of educational materials to continue their extraordinary effort. IDLC stepped in to help. IDLC also funded the expansion of the Jaago Foundation Rangpur School by constructing and setting up an extra classroom which will cater to 12,000 students per year. Comilla S p en d i n g a day w o r th c el e b r at i n g IDLC, in association with The 40, an organisation that formed with the sole purpose of raising orphaned children of Noor-e-Farid Nasrine Academy in Comilla, organized an art competition, cricket match and other educational entertainment activities for the children, who seldom get to enjoy such events. Best artwork was judged and rewarded at the end of the day. Local businessmen and clientele of IDLC attended the event along with several volunteers, who joined to make this day possible and highlight the great cause of this organisation, along with the issues that can be solved with everyones’ help. All the children received full funding of school stationery for their new academic year. Donations from locals who attended this event were welcomed and went into benefitting the orphanage. 09 ED UC AT I ON Chittagong E m ba r k i n g H a p p i n e s s at F oy ' s Lak e f o r U n d e r p r i v i l e g e d C h ild re n Students from two youth-run organisations in Chittagong, Nogorful and Youths’ Voice, enjoyed a day of fun, rides and treats at Foy’s Lake Theme Park. IDLC employees and volunteers from the community donated a day to give these children a day of fun singing, dancing and frolicking the day away. The two organisations, who focused on improving the livelihoods of these children through education, received education materials to support the children in the days to come. Jessore A r o o f t o s h e lt e r t h e f ut ure To encourage the children and create better education opportunities for them IDLC took the initiative to renovate Agrani Primary School at Jessore. IDLC installed a tube well for safe drinking water and electric fans, benches, office furniture besides giving books and stationaries to the children for enhancing access to education. A cultural programme and an art competition was organised for the children by IDLC volunteers. Sabyasachi Mistry, renowned artist and illustrator of children’s books, was present as the judge of the art competition to inspire children to express themselves through art. Now 1,000 school students have access to safe drinking water, electricity and also better educational facilities. 10 Savar A s s e s s i n g t h e S p e c i a l N e e ds f o r e d u c at i o n o f t h e c h i l d re n at S ava r C R P H o sp ital Where others see hopelessness, the Centre for Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed (CRP) in Savar sees potential. The leading center for treatment and education of the physically challenged of Bangladesh, CRP strives to ensure a brighter future for orphaned and abandoned children. IDLC, with volunteers from Jahangirnagar University Social Welfare Club, organized an eventful day for these physically challenged children from Centre for Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed (CRP) in Savar. The day started with a session of finger painting, followed by games and sport events. As a part of their own inclusion programme, the children of CRP performed for an audience. There was poetry, dance, song performances and a fashion show. The children in need were given assistive devices and school supplies by IDLC to support their education. N oahkh a li U s i n g C u lt u r e t o b r i n g a c o m m u n i t y t o g e t he r Begumganj Cultural Academy and Library is a cultural hub at the middle of a small community in Noakhali. Children come to the centre on the weekends, to learn how to sing, dance and paint. The library is still a place where people gather in the afternoons and spend their time with a book or a stranger, in pursuit of knowledge or socialising. Years of neglect for renovation and refurbishment has left this spot of sunshine in shambles. Their classrooms and library, which holds the books and the learning areas, lay in ruins. IDLC helped refurbish the classrooms and increase the capacity by over 200%. An art Competition was held with volunteers from IDLC and the local community. “The theme was “Language Movement”, in commemoration with International Mother Language Day” 11 MEET OU R PARTNER Korvi Rakshand Founde r, JAAGO Foundation Korvi Rakshand is a social entrepreneur and the founder of JAAGO Foundation, a civil society organization (CSO) dedicated to the education of underprivileged children and youth development. Till date, he has been awarded the Mosaic Award Talent in 2010, Commonwealth Youth Awards in 2013, and was hailed as the Top 99 under 33 Foreign Policy Leader and was among the Top 10 Inspirational Bangladeshis around the World by the British Bangladesh Power & Inspiration in 2014. In 2017, he received the Andrew E. Rice Honorable Mention Award organized by The Society for International Development, Washington Chapter for his leadership and innovation in international development. Our Work: We donated school supplies to the remote Teknaf and Bandarban schools of JAAGO for one-half of the year, and are currently working for extending and construction of one school in a remote village in Rangpur. We are really happy that IDLC has taken a step to stand beside the underprivileged children with JAAGO. I hope that this partnership will not only help the children who will be studying in the classroom that IDLC is making, but we look forward to a future long-term partnership. We hope JAAGO and IDLC together can make a better Bangladesh. JAAGO Foundation Website: http://jaago.com.bd Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/JAAGOFoundation 12 M EET O U R PA RT N ER Sabyasachi Mistry Ar t ist Sabyasachi Mistry is a renowned Concept Artist, Illustrator, and Character Designer and has published illustrations in countless books by esteemed publishers, including training and awareness materials for international development agencies like BCCP, UNICEF, Room to Read, Save the Children, Tdh-Italy, OXFAM GB and numerous others. His illustrations have been commissioned by almost all the major Bengali and English newspapers. Our Work: Sabyasachi Mistry was invited as a guest judge at art competitions for our initiatives, in Comilla, Jessore and at Pohela Boishakh, to inspire underprivileged children to express themselves through art. Children are always and foremost a part of Nature. As they grow older, they keep moving away from this. IDLC has taken amazing initiatives with children, which brings out that side to them. Sabyasachi Mistry Blog: http://tinysabya.blogspot.com 13 M EET O U R PARTNE R Iffat Nowrin Mallik Proje ct Manager, The -40 Iffat Nowrin Mallik is the Project Manager of The-40, an organisation which works with orphans and facilitates their education, residence and a healthy upbringing. Noor-e-Farid Nasrine Academy was a personal initiative by Nasrine Rasheed Karim. She strongly believed that children are the future. She wanted to empower children, providing them with a happy home that will allow them to prosper and attain success. Her zeal to give back to her community led her to establish Noor-e-Farid Nasrine Academy at her ancestral home with the help and support of friends. The Academy strives to develop these boys to become contributing members of society. Our Work: To support the behavioral education of the children The-40 and IDLC organised an art and sports competition with the local students in Comilla. IDLC has donated school The 40 supplies, sports equipment including jersey, shoes, bags and water-bottles as educational support. Khushir Kheya not only helped the kids enjoy the moment, but also helped them exchange their thoughts, share their space with other kids and learn self-discipline. Working with IDLC has given us a new way to explore the project among the society and get more partners to enrich the project with new activities in the future. The 40 Website: www.the-40.com Facebook: www.facebook.com/noorefaridnasrine 14 H E A LT H C A RE Proper access to Healthcare and Nutrition opens doors to provide families with education, clean water and living. The goal of our Healthcare initiatives is to see lives change as we promote healthy children and communities that are free from poverty and healthcare issues. OUR APPROACH PREVENTION WITH REACTION. We build and utilise partnerships with institutions and 3500 RECEIVED FREE TREATMENT 09 non-governmental organizations at national and community levels to bring practical solutions to underprivileged areas, particularly women and children, at greatest risk. We approach all threats to health and “there Across are many” with extensive experience, efficient logistics and COMMUNITIES creativity. All disasters, whether natural, large scale epidemics or based on conflict are health issues, affecting the health of the populations and bringing about substantial loss and disruption to public health systems. Apart from the direct impact from hazards such as trauma and injuries, disasters exacerbate the most common causes of childhood illness and death including diarrhoea, pneumonia, malaria, malnutrition and neonatal causes due to disruption of health systems and essential services. In case of an emergency, our emergency health interventions are to provide support to governments and partners across the continuum from development, prevention, preparedness, response and recovery. Clean water is life sustaining. That is why we are also committed to the digging of tubewells for collection of water, distribution of water filtration systems, and training and equipping local partners where safe water is not available. 15 HEALTHCARE OVER 9000 Volunteer OVER 170 OVER 900 STUDENTS FROM 3 MAJOR UNIVERSITIES HOURS Volunteers PARTICIPATED IN MENTAL HEALTH WORKSHOPS 7 Health camps across the country FOCUSING in 5 core areas 2100 FACTORY WORKERS 4440 PEOPLE RECEIVED FREE MEDICINE AND PSYCHOSOCIAL COUNSELLING received better access TO HEALTHCARE 2000 FLOOD VICTIMS RECEIVED FREE EMERGENCY MEDICAL AID 16 OUR ACTS IN Ga zip ur F r ee m e d i c a l c a m p f o r w o m en a nd c hi l d r e n IDLC partnered with AMAL (Authentic Method of Alternative Learning) and arranged a health camp for 200 women and children at Adarsha Bidyaniketon, Gazipur, to give them primary treatment and raise awareness on nutrition, psychological and health related issues. The beneficiaries received treatment and health tips from experienced doctors. Khulna H e a lt h A wa r e n es s W o r ks h o p f o r P r e g n a n cy, F e m a l e H e a lt h a n d H yg i en e IDLC, with CARE Bangladesh, Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and UNICEF Bangladesh, arranged an awareness health camp for women in order to raise awareness on maternal health and female hygiene at Rupsha Upazila Health Complex in Khulna. The objective of the program was to strengthen newborn care by ensuring that public health facilities have a special care newborn unit (SCANU), with adequately trained staff and supplies. It is expected that this will help improve the quality of health services. It is expected that this will help improve the quality of health services. Around 100 women which included pregnant women, children under-5 years old and women aged between 15-49 years received free delivery kits and maternal care advice. 17 H EALTH C A RE Imamganj En h a n c i n g H u m a n C a p i ta l by b e t t e r ac c e ss t o H e a lt h c a r e at P l a s t i c Fac to rie s Around 150 workers of Asha Plastic and Trisha Plastic Products at Kamrangirchor spent the day dedicated to their health. IDLC and Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation arranged a health camp with aim to spread awareness on health issues which hamper their productivity. The health camp also included training sessions by experienced trainers on safe working environment and learn how to live a healthier life. Tongi Fac t o ry W o r k e r s pa r t i c ipat e i n H e a lt h Camp IDLC, with Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation arranged a health camp for women and children to give them primary treatment and raise awareness on health related issues at Tongi. Through this health camp, around 750 women who work in Denim Attires Factory and their children received treatment and health tips from experienced doctors. Along with this, an interactive discussion was conducted on health topics on Health and Workplace Safety for women workers. 18 Narayanganj H e a lt h C a m p t o b o o s t P r o d u ct ivit y IDLC in collaboration with Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation organised a health camp for male and female factory workers of Shovon Group. More than 1200 workers received general health consultation and were provided primary health care through this camp. Experienced doctors and pathologists provided treatment and performed blood examinations while pharmacists provided relevant medicines to the workers. Rangpur H e a lt h C a m p f o r t h e F l o o d A f f e c t e d IDLC set-up a free medical camp at the flood affected area of Dinajpur in August. Update Diagnostic Center and Sondhani (Rangpur Medical College Unit) actively participated in the initiative that provided healthcare services to around 1000 people. Another camp was organised at Bogra for 1000 flood victims. The health camp provided basic health checkups, Vitamins, Oral Salines and Medicine to help prevent outbreak of disease after the flood waters recede. 19 YO UT H M ENTAL H EALT H AWA R E N ES S EVENT 20 # H ello H a p p in e s s YO U T H M E N TAL H EALT H AWA R E N E S S EVENT 3 According to UNDP study in 2016, people between the ages of 18 to 25 constitute 19%of Bangladesh’s total population of 160 million. To utilize these large human resources, it is imperative to develop a coherent, harmonious society where FROM families, educational institutions and communities will work together to bring UNIVERSITies about a Generation of healthy young Over a period people. ln a developing country like Bangladesh, awareness of mental health of 30 days Thus in collaboration with Innovation for and wellbeing is low and often distorted. 900 Wellbeing Foundation (IWF) IDLC conducted mental health awareness session for students under the title ‘#HelloHappiness’ at United International University, Independent University, Bangladesh and University of Liberal Arts, Bangladesh. Renowned celebrity Students psychologists, motivational speakers, meditation therapists and musicians participated contributed and participated in the sessions. Over 900 students participated in the three sessions held. 21 MEET OU R PARTNER Monira Rahman E xe cutive Director, Innovation for Wellbe ing Foundation Monira Rahman established Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation (IWF) in 2014 for addressing mental health and wellbeing issues of Bangladeshi Population. She is also Country Lead for Mental Health First Aid (MHFA), Bangladesh. MHFA is a global program to increase mental health literacy of the mass population currently being implemented in 24 countries. IWF is the sole license holder for implementing MHFA training courses in Bangladesh. Monira Rahman won Amnesty International's Human Rights Defenders Award 2006, Americans for UNFPA award 2009 and World's Children's Prize 2010 for her leadership in combating acid attack in Bangladesh. Our Work: We worked with IWF to promote mental wellbeing and mental health awareness at 3 universities (UIU, ULAB and IUB) through a one-of-a-kind campaign, #HelloHappiness in 2017. Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation Website: http://www.iwellbeing.org Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/iwellbeingbd 22 ME ET O UR PA RTNER Ayman Sadiq Founder & CEO, 10 min u te sch ool Ayman Sadiq is the CEO and Founder of 10 Minute School, Bangladesh's leading online educational platform. At the same time, Ayman is an educator, trainer and young entrepreneur. He has produced over 2,000 video lessons in 10 Minute School and teaching a wide spectrum of academic subjects, mainly focusing on English, mathematics, science and skill development. He was named as one of the recipients of 2018 Queen's Young Leader Award in December 2017. He is also in the Forbes’ 30 under 30 Asia list for his contributions towards solving problems through his initiative. Our Work: Ayman Sadiq was one of the keynote speakers at two of our #HelloHappiness events in 2017. I'm a Math teacher but I research more on optimism & happiness. It couldn't have been a better theme for me to talk to my favorite crowd, the university students. Looking forward to a season 2 of #HelloHappiness. 10 minute school Website: http://10minuteschool.com Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/10minuteschool 23 MEET OU R PART NER Sumaiya Iqbal Communications Manage r, Spre eha Banglade sh Foundation Sumaiya Iqbal is the Communications Manager at Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation. She is a student at Dhaka University and works for Spreeha, leading multiple projects. Spreeha Bangladesh is a social enterprise that inspires change by empowering people. With use of creative solutions, Spreeha enables individuals and communities to rise above social barriers. It successfully runs healthcare, education and skills training projects for underprivileged communities in Dhaka and Chittagong, and operates a community welfare clinic in Rayer Bazar. Our Work: We worked with Spreeha for our on-site Healthcare initiatives last year, where we provided free healthcare, counseling and medicine via a day-long health camp to over 2500 workers in 3 factories, in Tongi, Imamganj and Narayanganj. It was a wonderful experience working with a team sharing similar values and also one that is driven in passion and seeks to actually help those in need. IDLC’s focus on community development through partnership is truly exemplary. Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation http://www.spreehabd.org/ https://www.facebook.com/spreehabd/ SPREEHA #INSPIRING MILLIONS TOGETHER 24 EN V I R O N MENT Our world needs energy to support and improve life for a growing population. With branches and operations all over Bangladesh, we aim to limit any impact on the environment and support the transition towards a lower-carbon future. We always try to make a positive contribution to the local envronments in which we operate and seek to reduce any potential negative impacts. OUR APPROACH PLANTING THE SEEDS OF SUSTAINABILITY We are committed to protecting the environment and 800 2 Students from 2 schools engaged Area Equipped sq. km With Dustbins 2000 respecting our neighbours. We work hard to cause no harm to people. This is why we set ourselves such high environmental standards. These meet all regulatory requirements and often exceed them. Our standards cover our environmental performance including: saplings planted managing carbon emissions using less energy more efficiently using less fresh water and conserving biodiversity wherever we operate. The standards apply to every IDLC Branch and SME Booth and to joint ventures where we are the operator. We encourage partners in joint ventures where we do not directly operate to apply our standards. We work in partnership with many non-governmental organisations and local communities to help us live up to the high standards we set ourselves. IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Sustainable Finance Department of the Bangladesh Bank, formerly known as the CSR and Green Banking Department. We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Center (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). Moreover, IDLC is the first and only signatory to the UNEP FI from Bangladesh till date. We have also embraced their guiding principles in upholding human rights, labour standards, responsible environmental managementand anti-corruption policies and practices. IDLC also endorsed the UNEP FI Declaration “MOBILISING 100 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY” at the COP 21-CMP11 Paris 2015, held at the Paris UN Climate Change Conference, thereby further reinstating its commitment to energy-efficient funding practices and exploring newer frontiers. We report on our environmental and social performance every year in the Annual Sustainability Report and every Quarter in Quarterly Green Banking Reports. 25 ENVIRONMEnT OVER 3750 2 SQ km of area Volunteer OVER 75 near the Buriganga HOURS Volunteers EQUIPPED WITH DUSTBINS & PROPER WASTE COLLECTION SYSTEMS 2000 SAPLINGS 800 STUDENTS 200 WERE PLANTED & AGES 12-16 STUDENTS FROM 2 SCHOOLS RECEIVED PRACTICAL COURSES NURTURED ATTENDED GREEN WORKSHOPS ON NURTURING OF PLANTS 3000+ PEOPLE 35 FAMILIES SUPPORTED WITH LIVELIHOOD BY SKILLS TRAINING 4 flood affected areas & DONATION OF LIVESTOCK received Disaster Aid Healthcare counselling and checkup RELIEF SUPPLIES They also received FREE MEDICINE 26 O UR ACTS IN Sylhet H o p e f o r f lo o d v i c ti m s i n H ao r a r e a Around 2.72 lakh people have been affected by the flash flood in Sunamganj district. People living in Thakurbhog of Sunamganj are devastated, especially the farmers living in the Haor region. To help the people of Haor fight back, Casper BRAC University, Casper Foundation along with IDLC Finance have joined hands together. Their project 'Fight Back the Disaster' is a joint initiative that does not only provide relief, but also, provides rehabilitation to families who have suffered from one of the most devastating floods of Bangladesh. Casper BRAC University revisited Thakurbhog, Sunamganj on September 29, 2017, taking the support of IDLC Finance. After the relief distribution on March, the team has revisited this time to distribute livestock to the flood affected families of Thakurbhog. Initially, a survey was conducted by the volunteers of Casper BRAC University where it was found that, raising domestic animals would help the locals meet their daily needs and would enable them to be self-sufficient. Thus, to restore the livelihood of the flood victims, project 'Fight Back the Disaster' selected 35 needy families to be recipients of goats from the project. These families were selected based on the urgency of their needs as well as their ability to take care of the livestock. The parties designed a sustainable model for the project by ensuring long-term monitoring of each family's progress with the goats with the support of a local doctor. M ymensing AND Habiganj C o l l a b o r at i n g f o r a G r e en e r T o m o r r o w School children of Mymensing Mukul Niketan School and Habiganj School and College participated in a workshop on tree plantation organised by IDLC with technical collaboration of Green Savers, at their school premises. The workshop aimed to familiarise the students with rare plant species and sensitize them about their role in preservation of natural resources. Hundreds of students attended the event and took an oath to protect the environment. With the guidance received through the workshop, the children planted saplings and installed a rooftop Green Lab Garden which would play the role of a school lab for practical classes for students of Botany. Over 2,000 saplings were donated and planted by the children with direction from Green Savers and IDLC. 27 ENV IRON MEN T Keraniganj Cleaner communities Dustbins were installed around IDLC Keraniganj Branch near river Buriganga within a 2 sq. km area to encourage business individuals and the local commuters to dispose of waste or litter properly. This, in the long run, will contribute to lesser waste on the river bank, and eventually, less water pollution. 28 MEET OUR PA RTNER Ahsan Rony Founder, Gr een Savers Ahsan Rony is an environmental activist and the founder of Green Savers, a non-profit organization that works with urban agriculture. He studied Anthropology at Dhaka University and founded the company in an effort to increase awareness and the number of trees in Dhaka city and across the country. He planted trees on 3300 rooftops in the city and established over 380 Green Clubs and Oxygen Banks in educational institutions all over the country. His organization, Green Savers is also operation a Plants Hospital and a Mobile Plants Clinic in Dhaka city. Besides these, he works on a number of other projects with different national and international organisations, like FAO, UNDP, ActionAid, Save the Children, Australian Aid, Practical Action, Water Aid, etc. For his work, he received the Prime Minister’s Award for contributing to the environment in 2013, Joy Bangla Youth Award in 2015 and Che Guevara Youth Award in 2016, Channel I nature Care Award 2016 DYDF youth Award 2017 with repeated appearances as a Green Ambassador all across the media. Our Work: We worked with Ahsan Rony on 2 events, in Habiganj and Mymensing, where we established two Lab Gardens for the students and teachers of Botany and agriculture studies to practice and experiment for their academic studies. We also planted over 2,000 saplings and held a green environment workshop for students of one renowned school in each district. This Lab Garden will have great impact on the Environment, Entertainment and Education of these schools. We had a great experience working with IDLC. They really mean CSR. Their thinking about community development, upgrading underprivileged and strengthening social organisations has already become a role model for other corporates to follow and to be inspired. Green Savers Website: http://www.greensaversinfo.org Facebook: https://www.fb.me/greensaversinfo.org 29 MEET OUR PARTNER Taufiq Uz Zaman CE O and Founder, Caspe r Foundation Taufiq Uz Zaman is a social entrepreneur and the founder of Casper Foundation. An alumni of University of Toronto, he started Casper Foundation to address pressing social issues through social outreach projects conducted and supported by student leaders in prime universities in Bangladesh. His organisation provides the opportunity to allow student volunteers in universities to come together and showcase their projects in front of corporate donors and execute them. Our Work: IDLC worked with CasperBRAC chapter to execute the donation of livestock (goats) to 35 families in remote haor areas of Sunamganj. IDLC’s contribution, involvement and support shaped our project in the most positive way and has inspired Casper Foundation and its volunteers coming from universities all over Dhaka, Bangladesh to pursue their dreams to create a positive impact in our community. Casper Foundation Website: http://www.casper.foundation Facebook: www.facebook.com/CasperFoundation 30 EX T EN DED RE SPONSIBILITIES At IDLC, we believe that corporate social responsibility is at the heart of all that we do, how we think and who we are. We are committed to incorporating social, environmental and ethical principles into our core business and operations, enhancing long-term value for all our stakeholders and touching lives across areas where we operate. OUR APPROACH While all our CSR activities and interventions always fully comply with the Guidelines and laws of the land, they strive to meet the core needs, even beyond of what is mandated. As per our core values and aim to spread Happiness, we look for pressing issues that need that extra push. In order to provide that our support, we work in advance with community leaders and stakeholders, forming partnerships that build the foundation for each of our initiatives. We look for and engage in ways to contribute towards the positive building of the community and the society as a whole. Our goal is not only to be one of the first organizations to respond to a need or issue, but also one of the last to leave. In doing so, we bring immediate and long-term solutions to those who are in need. 31 EXTENDED RESPON S IBILITIES I D L C s u p p o r t s Ba da l M i a h ’s Family Badal Miah, a railway staffer of Bangladesh Railway, saved a little girl’s life from a train accident on 27 th January 2017. While saving the girl’s life, Badal Miah lost his own. Not every day do we find people who are willing to sacrifice their own lives to save another. To assist the bereaved family of Badal Miah, IDLC Finance Limited appointed his son Shohag Miah (18) as a support staff at its Mymensingh Branch. This was just a small contribution to the family under IDLC’s CSR activities to ensure sustainable livelihood for the family. S p o r t s E qu i p m e n t S u p p ort t o P h ys i c a l ly C h a l l e n g e d C r i c k e t Te am Bangladesh Cricket Association for the Physically-challenged was invited to participate in a Tri-Nation Tournament (Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka). A 22-member physically challenged cricket team represented IDLC, as part of its commitment to assist physicallychallenged youths, as well as to promote sports, purchased required sports equipment for the team. 32 ANONDO MELA SHARABELA BOISHAKH 1424 33 ANONDO MELA SHARABELA Each year, Pohela Boishakh is celebrated through a nation-wide festival, involving fair, food, concerts and various events to welcome the 3100PARTNERS Children Bengali New year. 1 Day of Happiness IDLC has been celebrating by inviting partners, clients and employees to join cultural events each year for the occasion. As part of a CSR initiative IDLC invited around 100 children to and responsibility by IDLC and to participate in a day-long festivity, position IDLC as a brand that stands through proposed and existing out by spreading happiness to partners of IDLC. The children enjoyed underprivileged children in a festive various activities, rides, games, an art occasion, the CSR department of IDLC competition giving them a day to organised an event exclusively for remember and involving them in the underprivileged children and gave culture and festival of Boishakh. The them a day to remember. children were also provided school supplies as gifts for the Bengali New Year. Fi nd o ut mo re ab o ut o ur P o he l a B o is hak h e v e n t: 34 R E G U LATORY BODI ES AND M EMBERSHI PS IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Sustainable Finance Department of the Bangladesh Bank. We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Center (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). IDLC is the first and only signatory to UNEP FI from Bangladesh till date. We have also adopted their guiding principles in upholding human rights, labour standards, responsible environmental management and anti-corruption policies and practices. 35 GREEN BANKING 36 GREEN BAN KIN G ( A UNIT OF IDLC’ S C ORPORATE DI VI SI ON) IDLC Finance focuses on financing sustainable business by supporting SMEs via funding and Year in review also encouraging greener business practices. 2017 has been a challenging year for the Green FMO is supporting this goal by providing long Banking unit, with yearly disbursement falling by tenor loans and additional sustainable business 37.8% to BDT 366.88mn, from BDT 589.53mn in advice. 2016. The Green Banking loan book currently stands Green Banking refers to banking practices that at BDT 612.95mn, falling below its 2015 portfolio of foster environmentally responsible financing BDT 617.04mn. This has mainly been a result of practices and environmentally sustainable intense competition in this space, with few notable internal process minimizing GHG emission of the Banks enjoying access to larger sources of low organization. Under the practices of ethical cost funds for Green Finance purposes. In light of banking, Green Banking Unit is IDLC’s commitment the matter, it is in our agenda to re-strategize our towards nature & sustainability by promoting Green Banking efforts and reinvigorate our stance environment friendly business practices to the in this category. various business segment of the country as well as reducing carbon footprints from our organizational framework. Product offerings Green Banking thus involves these two pronged There are now 52 variants of green financing approach: products to cater to the specialized needs of different industries and segments, in line with the Adopting environmentally responsible guidance from the Central Bank. financing Focusing on the green transformation of internal operations of the organization 52 The broad objective of the unit is to avoid degradation and give priority to environment and society, focus on environment-friendly initiatives by providing innovative financing and ensure sustainable development. variants of green financing 37 Rolling out Environmental & In house environmental Social Management System Management (ESMS) With a vision to encourage and catalyse We have been one the front runners in adopting transformation towards sustainable business the “Environmental & Social Management System practices, IDLC has established its Agrabad branch (ESMS), a global standard to minimize Environmental in the World Trade Centre in Chittagong. The new & Social Risks from the financial footprints of the establishment has recently achieved the organization. With the cooperation of FMO prestigious LEED (Leadership in Energy and (Netherlands Development Finance Company), IDLC Environmental Design) Gold Certification from USGBC has the most efficient ESMS system of the market, (United States Green Building Council) under the blending the local & international standards for category of ‘commercial interiors’. The branch is the formulating E & S risks before financing any first-ofits-kind to achieve such an endorsement proposal. Our ESMS system comprises the following under the aforementioned category among the guidelines: financial institutions of Bangladesh. Environmental & Social Risk Management Guideline We have also developed a Green Office Guide (GOG) by Bangladesh Bank, the Environment Conservation for IDLC that consists of a set of general Rules 1997, IFC Performance Standards & ADB instructions to be followed, aimed at improving Safeguard for Financing. In addition to this, we have in-house environmental management across the also adopted the 10 UNGC (United Nations Global organization by: Compact) principles within our organizational Saving electricity frameworks as the only signatory of UNEP FI Minimising usage of water and paper (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Keeping the office clean and hygienic Initiative) from Bangladesh. We also have a dedicated E&amp;S Team to rollout the operations of ESMS across the organization, capacity building of the business unit as well as the credit risk management officials to enhance the core of our in house E & Smanagement. 38 Green Banking’s Strategic Importance in value creation for IDLC and its stakeholders Banks and financial institutions all over the world In essence, Green Banking also has an effect in are concerned about the overall impact of the financial performance, because if a bank/FI fails to depletion of environment. General frameworks practice Green Banking guidelines or finances a describing the climate strategies are difficult to project that has adverse effects on the transfer to the financial sector as such frameworks environment, it may face credit risk, liquidity risk usually focus on basic industries, and FIs are not and also reputation risk. The bank/FI may have to generally exposed to weather stresses, nor are incur cleanup costs for the damages caused if it they heavily dependent on fossil fuels in their financed a project that has adverse effects on the operations. Here, Green Banking plays a significant environment. The bank/FI may also suffer credit role as it allows the FI to assess the impact of risk if it finances a project harmful to the climate change on the asset quality of lending and environment, especially if the project is stalled or investment portfolios. The activities of Green forbidden by regulatory authorities leading to a Banking influence the FIs to develop a business default in payment of the loan by the client. A model which is sustainable and adaptable to their financial institution may also face reputation risk environment policies. While many banks when it fails to practice the prescribed guidelines understand the significance of emission reduction, causing it to lose business from clients who are we have comprehensively integrated climate sensitive to the environment. change-related aspects into our business processes. Green Banking allows us to measure social and economic impact of lending, reduce annual paper consumption of full-time employees by the better implementation of Green Office Guidelines and continue to reduce energy and water consumption via its LEED Certified Green Office initiative. 39 ABOUT OUR COMPANY OUR PHILOSOPHIES THE BACKBONE OF OUR ENTERPRISE Our Vision Our Mission We will be the best financial brand We will focus on quality growth, in the country. superior customer experience and sustainable business practices. Our Strategic Objectives Grow and develop our talent pool Sustainably grow SME portfolio Fully leverage the core banking platform Focus on top-tier clients in the corporate segment Optimise distribution points Consolidate capital market operations and Grow and diversify funding sources enhance capabilities Grow sales and service capabilities in Embrace internationally accepted corporate governance and sustainable business the consumer division practices Our Core Values Integrity Eco -friendly Customer Focus Passion Trust and Respect Simplicity Equal Opportunity Our Code of Conduct and Ethical Guidelines In accordance with the approved and agreed Code of Conduct, IDLC employees shall: Act with integrity, competence, dignity and Maintain knowledge of and comply with all in an ethical manner when dealing with applicable laws, rules and regulations customers, prospects, colleagues, Disclose all conflicts of interest agencies and the public Deliver professional services in accordance Act and encourage others to behave in a with IDLC policies and relevant technical professional and ethical manner that will and professional standards reflect positively on IDLC employees, their profession and on IDLC at large Respect the confidentiality and privacy of customers, people and others with whom Strive to maintain and improve the they do business competence of all in the business Not engage in any professional conduct Use reasonable care and exercise involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or independent professional judgment misrepresentation or commit any act that Not restrain others from performing their reflects adversely on honesty, professional obligations trustworthiness or professional competence. IDLC employees have an obligation to know and understand not only the guidance contained in the Code of Conduct but also the spirit on which it is based. 41 Our Range of Products and Services Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Finance  Small Enterprise Finance Medium Enterprise Finance  Supplier and Distributor Finance • Small Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Medium Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Seasonal Loan • Commercial Vehicle Finance • Factoring of Accounts Receivable • IDLC Purnota Women • Machinery Lease • Bill/ Invoice Discounting Entrepreneur Loan • Revolving Short Term Loan • Work Order Financing • SME Shachal Loan • Commercial Space Loan • Distributor Financing • Revolving Short Term Loan Commercial Space Loan Commercial Vehicle Loan IDLC Udbhabon SME Deposit Corporate Finance Corporate Finance Structured Finance Solutions & Acquisitions and Joint Lease Financing Debt Syndication (Local & Venture Making Term Loan Financing Foreign Currency) Balance Sheet Restructuring Commercial Space Financing Working Capital Syndication Preparation of Feasibility Study Project Financing Agency & Trusteeship Green Banking Solutions Short Term Loans(to meet Fund Raising through Zero Coupon Over 50 products offered under working capital requirements) & Coupon Bearing Bonds Green Banking and Sustainable Specialised Products (for Commercial Paper Finance department as per meeting seasonal demand) Arrangement of Private Equity Bangladesh Bank Green Re-finance Green Financing & Preference Shares scheme Corporate Advisory for Mergers Consumer Finance  Loans • Personal Loans  Deposits • Home Loans • Loan Against Deposit • Flexible Term Deposit Package • Car Loans • Regular Earner Package Capital Markets Operations IDLC Securities Services Services Limited Products Trade execution through the Dhaka Corporate Advisory Cash Account and Chittagong stock exchanges Issue Management Margin Account through IDLC Custodial and CDBL services Underwriting Investments Limited and other Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients IDLC Asset Management Limited enlisted merchant banks Research and Advisory Services Easy IPO Mutual Funds IDLC Investments Portfolio Management Premium Brokerage for High Limited Products Networth Individuals (HNIs) and Margin Loan institutional and foreign investors Discretionary Portfolio Management 42 Our Shareholding Composition As on December 31, 2017 Sl. No. Name of Shareholders Number of shares % of total Shares SPONSORS/DIRECTORS The City Bank Limited (CBL) and its subsidiaries 87,510,575 23.21 Th e City Bank Limited (CBL) 33,935,329 9.00 City Bank Capital Resources Limited (CBCRL) 37,328,028 9.90 City Brokerage Limited 16,247,218 4.31 Transcom Group 50,273,164 13.33 Eskayef Pharmaceuticals Limited 30,164,062 8.00 Transcraft Limited 15, 132,033 4.01 Bangladesh Lamps Limited 4,977,069 1.32 Sadharan Bima Corporation (SBC) 28,727,494 7.62 Reliance Insurance Limited 26,393,553 7.00 Mercantile Bank Limited 20,737,791 5.50 Sub -Total 213,642,577 56.66 2 GENERAL Institutions: Bangladesh Fund 6,330,000 1.68 Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB) 5,251,913 1.39 Marina Apparels Limited 3,770,506 1.00 Other Institutions 44,930,605 11.92 Sub -Total 60,283,024 15.99 Individuals: General Public (Individuals) Sub -Total 59,688,255 15.83 59,688,255 15.83 3 FOREIGN Institutions & Individuals 43,436,924 11.52 Sub -Total 43,436,924 11.52 Total Holdings 377,050,780 100.00 SHAREHOLDING COMPOSITION 2017 2016 2017 59.66 % Sponsors/ Directors 56.66 % Institutions 21.88 % 15.99 % Individuals 14.21 % 15.83 % Foreign 4.25 % 11.52 % 43 Contribution to the National Economy IDLC is considered to be one of the major contributors in the economy of Bangladesh both in monetary and non-monetary terms. IDLC was established in 1985 as the first leasing company in the country and with its pioneering role has established and popularized lease finance as an alternative and secured source of long term finance. IDLC is the largest employer, financial service provider and taxpayer among the non-bank financial institutions in the country. Some of our specific contributions to the national economy are highlighted below: Taxes to Government In 2017, IDLC deposited BDT 945.76 million to the Government exchequer as corporate income tax and BDT 62.63 million as VAT against fee income; totaling to BDT 1,008.39 million paid as Tax and VAT against the income earned by IDLC. Also, BDT 986.03 million was collected and deposited to the Government exchequer as withholding tax (BDT 886.80 million), withholding VAT (BDT 56.88 million) and excise duty (BDT 42.34 million). Notably, we received the prestigious accolade of being the Highest Tax Payer in the Financial Services Sector for the fiscal year 20162017, for our contribution to the Government Exchequer, on the back of our profound governance culture. Taxes paid to the Government in BDT mn Tax and VAT paid against IDLC's income 1,970 1,994 Tax, VAT and excise duty collected at source 1,419 688 986 1,211 496 862 474 352 1,282 923 1,008 737 510 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employment generation We create economic impact by creating employment and giving appropriate training to the employees. As on December 31, 2017 IDLC Group accounts for 1,318 talented employees, due to a recruitment of 290 employees during the year; which is a 5% rise in comparison to the prior year. During 2017, the group paid BDT 1,295.05 million as salaries and allowances to its employees and spent BDT24.51 million for both local and foreign trainings. Moreover, at a time when job creation is a top priority for government, we continued to catalyze our lending to small and medium enterprises (SME), thereby helping accelerate both direct and indirect job creation. Number of new recuitments 290 274 2016 2017 44 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS Value Added Statement for the year ended December 31, 2017 Value added is the wealth created by IDLC Finance Limited through extending lease financing, short-term finance (factoring of accounts receivable and work order financing), housing finance, merchant banking and corporate finance. The Value Added Statement shows the total worth created and how it was distributed to meet certain obligations and the portion retained for the continued operation and expansion of the Company. Dec, 31, 2017 in BDT million % Dec, 31, 2016 in BDT million % Value added 9,266 8,551 (4,902) (4,625) Operating revenue 4,364 3,926 438 506 Cost of borrowing 4,801 4,433 (228) (173) Other income (726) (636) Provisions 3,847 100% 3,623 100% Operating expenses excluding staff costs and depreciation. Value added 1,062 28% 889 25% Distribution of value addition 1,057 27% 1,084 30% To Employees as remuneration 1,131 29% 1,131 31% To Government as taxes 597 16% 518 14% 451 12% 365 10% To Shareholders 146 4% 153 4% as stock dividend (cash and stock) 3,847 100% 3,623 100% Retained in the business 1,137 1,099 as capital and revenue reserve 3.38 3.30 as depreciation Number of employees Value added per employee 2016 2017 To Employees To Employees To Government To Government To Shareholders 14% To Shareholders 16% 25% Retained in the business 28% Retained in the business 31% 30% 27% 45 Our Business Model Having over 30 years of experience in the marketplace, our business model is designed to withstand market pressures and absorb macroeconomic shocks. In order to make optimum Our Key Partners and contributions across the value chain, we are careful Providers of Funds Our Key Resources to strike a balance between different stakeholder objectives With a keen sense of changing market dynamics and rapidly changing technology, our IDLC Finance Limited Funds management team strives to make the best use of our available resources, expanding on them Shareholders Our human resources strategically. Over the course of this report, we will use the Business Model Canvas in its original Central Bank format as a representation of our business model Our intellectual capital components, as below: Other banks and financial institutions Natural and other resources Deposit clients Relationships with Multilateral organizations stakeholders KP KA VP CR CS Subsidiaries Policy incentives Key Key Value Customer Customer Partners Activities Proposition Relations Segments Investors KR CH Key Channels Regulators Resources C$ R$ Group Cost Revenue Structures Streams Vendors NGOs 46 Channels Customer Relationships: Modes of Communication Branches One-on-one meetings Website Direct selling Phone conversations Newspapers On site visits Reports Telephone and online channels Conferences Key Activities Value Proposition Our Customer Segments Innovate and sell SME finance products Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) financial products Grow, developmant Corporate finance products Corporate Houses maintain client relationships Consumer loan products Individuals Attract and manage investments Savings products Create brand awareness Investment products and Commit to social and services Limited companies environmental responsibilities Investment banking services Institutional investors Supporting activities: Risk management Corporate advisory services Fund Managers Continuous process Brokerage servic es Foreign Investors and improvement Brokerage Houses Ensure employees engagement and wellbeing Maintaining financials Cost Structure Revenue Streams Interest expense Interest income Infrastructure and technology Fee income Human resources Investment income Other administrative expenses Commission income 47 Business Segment Review Lending Business Operations SME Division DECEMBER, 2005 JANUARY, 2006 28 Commencement of SME Financing Opening of first SME branch at Bogra No. of branches with SME clients 43.66% BDT 30,851mn 18.41% % of overall portfolio Asset portfolio Asset portfolio growth over 2016 24.83% BDT 22,756mn BDT 2.95mn Asset portfolio 5 year CAGR Disbursement Avg. ticket size Portfolio Composition No. of clients Service Trading Manufacturing 12,582 10,812 9,325 28% 29% 7,619 6,638 43% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Key strategic concerns for 2018 *Longterm strategies discussed in Strategy & Resource Allocation Collaborating with Multilateral organisations such as IFC and SME KP KA VP CR CS Foundation to enhance growth Key Key Value Customer Customer opportunities Partners Activities Proposition Relations Segments KR CH Innovating our product offerings and Key Channels activity model for newer customer Resources demographics C$ R$ Increasing cost efficiency amidst growth Cost Revenue Structures Streams targets, given a hub & spoke business model for SME 48 Divisional overview Customer management The SME Division is our largest business segment, providing financing solutions for Small and Medium Enterprises across Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey conducted and the country. The Division was officially launched in 2006 with achieved score improvement to 72% from 63% in 2016. select offerings in term loan, working capital loan and lease Online application for loans introduced via our website. financing. Over the last decade, it has evolved and expanded into a comprehensive suite of customizable products, with solutions such as project financing, commercial lodging facility Portfolio in BDT mn financing, bill discounting & factoring, among others. Supported 5 year CAGR: 24.83% 30,851 by a wide ranging distribution network with deeprooted local expertise and a decentralized credit assessment, the division 26,054 has driven the growth of IDLC, with divisional portfolio growing 22,368 at a CAGR of 24.83% over the last five years. Our SME business model has proven to be a success in driving 17,905 sustainable growthfor IDLC, and perhaps even more 14,334 importantly, it has been a partner in the success and growth of SMEs throughout Bangladesh. Core highlights, 2017 Leveraging technology 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Centralized Operations system was implemented at all branches for smoother and faster service Competence drivers delivery.Credit scoring model is being used as a complementary tool for decision making. Industry Sector Diversification: The SME loan portfolio represents multiple sectors, with less than 20% in any single sector and a total of about 40% portfolio weightage in the top Expanding our reach 3 sectors. Customer-centricity (SME customer model): The Expansion to five new locations: Elephant Road, SME model follows a customer centric approach characterized Faridpur, Rajshahi, Chowmuhani & Barisal. Conversion by priority based segments driven by relationship managers. of Gazipur booth to a branch. Developed kiosk based Innovative relationship based activities focus on identifying the low cost “IDLC Business Center” model for channel most valuable customers and nurturing the relationship expansion. Developed new business model for Very through multiple levels of interactions between us and the Small Enterprise financing under a new unit in SME. customer; especially on mass scale through various customer engagement initiatives such as Mezban, Iftar & Shakhrain and such events. Policies and Processes: Continuous process and policy reengineering such as development of a Sales Governance Policy for managing the sales force helps to Capacity development identify bottlenecks and introduce innovative ways of Launching of Sales Academy, a complete structured improving performance and efficiency. Objective based training program, divided into tiers based on performance evaluation system: A structured and objective designation, for our sales based employees. Launching based performance management system helps recognize & of online training materials on product and process encourage star performers.Market Differentiation – IDLC was knowledge for development of sales force. recognized as a unique SME financier due to “Non-Financial Services” (NFS) provided to SMEs. The highlighted NFS activities for 2017 included hosting of Purnota Fair, a free space for Managing cost of fund women entrepreneurs for showcasing their products and signing of MOU with “Kichai IT Solutions” for providing low cost New agreement with Bangladesh Bank for availing low cost ERP solutions to SME Businesses. fund under ADB refinancing scheme. Collaboration Selected as a pilot Financial Institution for initiation of Risks facing the business Credit Guarantee Scheme under UNCDF – Women Entrepreneur Support Fund in collaboration with Rising Cost of Funds Bangladesh Bank for easier financing of women Rising non-performing loans in the industry entrepreneurs. Diagnostic conducted by IFC showed Entrance of new players in the market performance quality and brought to light new arenas of Poaching of employees by new entrants exploration and scope for improvement. Provided Mitigation strategies provided in the following section training to over 100 women entrepreneurs in 6 districts in collaboration with SME Foundation. 134 49 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 As external influence on the economy intensifies, exchange Due to high levels of internet and mobile penetration and the rate pressure on BDT will continue. Coupled with the rising licensing of 4G technology, the rising trend of internet and inflation, the market liquidity is expected to fall. Also, following mobile banking as well as agent banking will continue. This will the period of high credit growth up to December 2017, it is open up the field for FinTechs in a market that has so far expected that this trend will soon reverse. As the liquidity been largely controlled by banks and FIs. The rapid popularity surplus from 2016 continues to fall, it can be expected that in of Mobile Financial services means that now more than ever 2018 we will see the interest rates climb thus pushing up cost banks and FIs need to innovate if they are to remain in the of funds in the financial industry. As the credit market forefront of the customers’ minds. As more and more global becomes tougher, it can be seen that big players will continue trends are adopted, banks will move from the branch banking to redesign their operations and start focusing on the SME model to focus on a centralized approach to reduce bad loans, segments. With the entry of 3 new commercial banks in the scams and security threats. upcoming months, it is expected that existing players in the market face competition to retain skilled employees. IDLC’s response & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018 Strategies to achieve objectives With cost of funds rising across the With entrance of new players in the Our dedicated deposit team will be incentivized industry, a major objective for 2018 will banking and SME market, we will need to further diversify our client base and be to keep the cost of funds low in to focus on customer retention. potentially increase the share of retail order to remain competitive in the depositors. Products, customer engagement market. Going forward, we will be focusing on programs and employee incentive schemes As competition in the SME market improving the efficacy of our credit will be re-designed and further improved. increases, we plan to expand our scoring model further to ensure quality Additionally, going into 2018, we will continue to footprint via new channels and to portfolio growth and solidify the early seek low cost funds under refinancing newer target markets via down mover’s advantage we expect to have schemes from various sources including streaming. in the new SME and Consumer niches. Bangladesh Bank. Despite the demand for skilled We are already expanding our target market personnel on the rise, in 2018 we will in the arena of SME financing to include the not only try to retain the skilled work lesser served segment of SME entrepreneurs, force, but also to find a continuous who neither fall into the traditional target of supply of skilled employees. MFIs, nor into the SME target of banks. For this, a new business wing, Micro Business Financing (MBF) has already been approved and is in the process of being launched. Across the division, use of an online knowledge hub will promote knowledge development of the employees. In addition, via the Sales Academy, a tierwise structured training and capacity development program for the sales force will be prioritized. To strengthen customer relationships, we will continue to explore new avenues, including implementation of software solutions, customer touch point in digital channels, and online customer service. 134 50 Consumer Division May, 1997 JANUARY, 2004 24 Commencement of Home Financing Opening of first Consumer Finance No. of touchpoints for Consumer focused branch in Dhanmondi Loan products 34.18% BDT 24,152mn 12.78% % of overall portfolio Asset portfolio Asset portfolio growth over 2016 19.64% BDT 9,228mn BDT 3.00mn Asset portf olio 5 year CAGR Disbursement Avg. ticket size Portfolio Composition No. of clients Car Loan Home Loan 8,600 1.9% Personal Loan 8, 015 7,803 0.4% 7.8% 7,402 Loan against Deposit 6,013 90.0% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Key strategic concerns for 2018 *Long-term strategies discussed in Strategy & Resource Allocation Innovating value propositions for more granular niches compared to our existingcustomer segments KP KA VP CR CS Reviewing the activity model to further Key Key Value Customer Customer reduce turn-around times through Partners Activities Proposition Relati ons Segments addressingexisting/potential bottlenecks KR CH Key Channels Seeking long-term, low-cost funding Resources opportunities from multilateral organizations to ease pressure on cost of funds C$ R$ Cost Revenue Structures Streams Utilizing technology and our intellectualcapital for process improvements to ensure sustainable and cost-effective HR strategy 51 Divisional overview Our Consumer Division has been a strong force behind the steady External stakeholders engagement growth of the company through providing its core financial services: Home Loan, Car Loan & Personal Loan. Moreover, the division has Several client-centric programs were arranged to enhance been creating multifarious fund sourcing capabilities through customer engagement. Customer deposits from both institutional and individual segments that enable all core business divisions to utilize these funds and Competence drivers enhance loan disbursements. Major strengths of this division include Extensive product bouquet with a wide variety of term deposits superior understanding of the Home Loan market being one of and retail loans offered to the target customer segment. the oldest and most successful operators in this segment, expert and professional sales teams with door-to-door service capabilities, USP stomized solution, need based service and transparent longstanding and customized customer relationships and fast loan dealings for our home & car loan clients to mitigate collateral processing times. We intend to widen the division’s geographical risks and enable better cash flow management. coverage to increase our footfall in untapped areas with good business potential, aiming for sustainable business growth in 2018 and beyond. Resilient, comprehensive & time-tested business strategy based on strong intellectual capital to ensure faster service. Quality-centric growth focus with a high emphasis on loan sourcing from preferred customer segments with a strong Core highlights, 2017 credit track record. Reformation of liability & wealth management department Quicker turnaround time (TAT) with seamless processes to ensure that loan processing time, starting from application The department was re-introduced as a “Value Center” to submission to credit decision-making and final loan ensure liquidity for the IDLC Group at competitive rates.The disbursement, is minimized. team also contributed significantly in the distribution of our Transparency is ensured at all levels from employees recently launched mutual fund and other capital market ensuring proper communication with customers & other products. stakeholders to offering product features, pricing and other documentary terms and conditions that are transparent Enhanced disbursement capacity through with simple interpretation. technological advancement Robust resource base with experienced, motivated and customer-facing teams enabling business to grow Company-wide Centralized Operational Model has been successfully and sustainably. introduced for smoother and faster service delivery. Extensive branch network that enables distribution of Web-based performance tracker has been implemented for products in various promising geographic locations that are better monitoring at the individual level. Our website has been expected to become the primary growth areas for Home modified with new features such as online application for Loan business in the near future. loans. Expansion of area coverage New branches with Consumer Product coverage include: Rajshahi, Elephant Road, Faridpur, Chowmuhani and Barisal Risks facing the business Upward trending consumer deposit rates pose a threat to Training & development margins and growth of the overall segment. Sales Academy was introduced for comprehensive training New market entry by numerous banks that had previously programs for our sales based colleagues. not targeted this segment. Mitigation strategies provided in the following section Portfolio in BDT mn Disbursement in BDT mn 5 year CAGR: 19.64% 5 year CAGR: 17.05% 24,152 9,228 21,415 8,587 8,382 20,633 7,641 17,519 6,258 12,950 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 52 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 Retail market in Bangladesh is highly volatile, so are retail customers. Technology will play an immense role in the coming years. As the With a lot of players in the market, interest rate has always been a number of mobile phone users is increasing at an exponential rate, challenge for the industry. Moreover, with the rising trend ofinflation, together with the usage of internet, mobile marketing is expected to market liquidity is expected to fall at least for some months. All these get more popularity. indicate an imminent rise in the cost of fund. As more and more global trends are adopted, banks and financial As this industry deals with individual consumers, customer institutions will move from the branch banking model to focus on a satisfaction will play a big role. Market players in the industry are centralized approach to reduce bad loans, scams and security threats. expected to modify their service models to attract more customers. With an expanding middle and affluent class population, there is great potential to capitalize on in the home finance sector. IDLC’s response & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018 Strategies to achieve objectives As the cost of fund is expected to rise, one Process and technology solutions will be Alternative sources of funds will be looked at to of the major objectives will be to keep the explored to improve on our turnaround time keep the lending rates affordable for middle interest rates for lending at tolerable levels and cost-optimization. income groups. While our Wealth Management for existing and prospective clients. team is dedicated to source funds from Product customization options will be different customer segments and to further As competition intensifies in the market, we explored further through customer diversify the retail customer base, most of the intend to expand our scope of reaching engagement and by addressing their deposits sourced through this channel tend to further consumers. needs. be of a lower maturity profile than that of our Home Loans, which comprises the majority of New products will be launched, targeting the consumer loan book. Efforts would the middle income group of the country. therefore be on sourcing long term funding for the product. Beyond 2018, efforts would be Emphasis will be given towards increasing made to introduce and popularize mortgage efficiency through the right processes and based securities as a reliable source of HR strategies. funding. We expect to introduce a more userfriendly and smart phone based loan processing system to keep pace with the technological advancement in the industry. Customized and faster service will be ensured by integrating internal databases that are otherwise used in silos and through manual processes. 53 Corporate Division January, 1999 3 Commencement of Corporate No. of major touchpoints for Financing Corporate Loan products BDT 14,432mn Asset portfolio 20.42% 7.66% % of overall portfolio Asset portfolio growth over 2016 BDT 12,755mn Disbursement 12.63% BDT 47.69mn Asset portfolio 5 year CAGR Avg. ticket size Portfolio Composition No . of clients Service Trading Manufacturing 256 257 248 244 239 24% 7% 69% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Key strategic concerns for 2018 *Long term strategies discussed in Strategy & Resource Allocation Seeking alliance and involvement with more development organisations to KP KA VP CR CS match with the right clients. Key Key Value Customer Customer Partners Activities Proposition Relations Segments KR CH Exploring corporate advisory and other fee Key Channels based income generating opportunities to Resources add to our revenue streams. C$ R$ Improving the cost structure of the Cost Revenue Structures Streams division as growth in number of clients exceeded the growth in portfolio. 54 Divisional overview Our Corporate Division has been a partner of choice for the Diversified Portfolio: The division’s focus has always been country’s top tier large corporate houses ever since its towards financing diversified industries in order to mitigate inception. The legacy has continued in 2017 and the loan concentration risks and ensure sustenance of a quality portfolio of the division increased by 8% over last year and credit portfolio. High Workplace Standards & Governance reached BDT 14,432mn. The growth has been possible by Responsibility: Regulatory compliance and accountability regeneration of some dormant relationships as well as has always been the guideline in maintaining relationships creation of new relationships with some prominent and big & interactions with both internal and external corporate houses. The division in this endeavor created stakeholders.Strong Resource Base: As per HR policy the unique customer experiences by focusing more on division has recruited and retained well-qualified resources integrated relationship management approach and offered derived from reputed business schools & experienced innovative & flexible product offerings that covered end to professionals hired as lateral entrants. Strategic alliances: end requirement of the customers. This was possible Operational efficiency and knowledge leadership has through ensuring sophisticated professional services to the enabled the division to create alliances with other banks, clients, generated by highly capable relationship managers. NBFIs and developmental organizations to ensure Two separate wings, Structured Finance Department (SFD) full-fledged & cost-effective financing solutions for clients. and Green Banking Department, have complemented the Cross reference of different business wings: Our own growth of core corporate financing business. Reviews of subsidiaries & different business units engaged in various these two separate wings have been provided separately segments of the financial market including capital market, for better comprehension. The key drivers which enabled brokerage and so on and has enabled exploration of the the effort have been discussed hereafter. financial market in both dimensions, horizontal and vertical, to connect with reputed and distinguished clientele of the industry. Core highlights, 2017 Risks facing the business Reached a portfolio size of BDT 14,432mn, registering a Increasing rate for fund sourcing is squeezing the spread 7.66% growthDisbursed BDT 12,755mn during the year of business and thereby affecting profitability.Customer 2017Structured Finance Department raised a cumulative delinquency and default risks are intrinsic parts of doing big fund of BDT 80bn for 52 deals at the close of 2017 ticket financing in the corporate segmentIncreasing payment obligation due to mounting interest rate will increase vulnerability of clients.Increased cost of doing Competence drivers business as a result of hike in energy price and inflation might deter business houses from making new Unique Client Approach: The division has historically tried to investments. provide tailored solutions (crafted within the realms of regulatory guidelines) to client group leveraging fast decision making process with a view to become a growth partner rather than a financial partner. Disbursement Portfolio in BDT mn 5 year CAGR: 21.56% 5 year CAGR: 12.63 % 14,432 12,755 13,406 11,099 10,213 10,623 9,595 6,504 6,484 5,421 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 55 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 Increase in interest rate: Liquidity crunch instigated by Alternative financing source: It is expected that big corporatehouses will higherAdvance-Deposit ratio in the banking sector than is permitted incline more towards alternative sources of financing. As the Central by the regulator will make deposit dearer. And subsequently, interest Bank is expected to discourage long term financing from banks, rates for deposits will increase. industries in need of long term project financing might chose specialized FIs and NBFIs’ more as well as trying to raise funds Decreasing trend in foreign loan: Foreign currency borrowingis through long term Bonds and other equity backed products. expected to decrease in coming years on account of BDT depreciating against USD in the face of rising import payments and Completion of big infrastructure projects: Some biggovernment widening current account balance infrastructure projects will be completed by 2019 onwards. Moreover current energy shortage is also expected to subside as full-fledged Huge investment in infrastructure project: Various large LNG import will commence. This positive change in the macro economy sizegovernment infrastructure projects will continue and is expected will surely increase economic activity. to increase government spending and borrowing Stringent monetary policy: Regulators have hinted towards Energy efficient technology and green industry: The trend hasstarted acontractionary policy by increasing the AssetDeposit ratio, so it is few years back, but will gather momentum in the coming years and expected that market will remain relatively illiquid. will surely impact the industrial sector positively New SEPZs: Construction of some new Specialized ExportProcessing Zones are under way, although start of production at those SEPZs’ within 2018 may not be possible Alternative financing sources: Corporate houses will nowredirect their focus towards alternative source of money by issuing corporate bonds and commercial paper. The portfolio of these relatively novel financing products will eventually increase in 2018 and onwards. IDLC’s response & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018 Strategies to achieve objectives Increase the quality of the portfolio without Become differentiated and most preferred Focusing more towards client base who compromising the profitability Increasing financial service provider of the corporate have high credit worthiness and proven market penetration by offering differentiated houses and MNCs of the country track record products. Emphasizing on holistic returns from the corporate relationships rather than focusing only on revenues generated from lending activities. Corporate advisory and M&A activities are to increase significantly Alliance with various development organizations will enable to source fund at a lower rate and at the same time to provide the client various value added services 56 Structured Finance Department (SFD) (A unit of IDLC’s Corporate Division) Structured finance services The department completed fund raising of BDT 7,500mn for two The department has been dedicated towards providing innovative banks through various alternative financial solutions. In 2017, the & cost effective financing solutions to its clients. It has a wealth of department also arranged short term loans for reputed experience in arranging syndication deals in the form of term loans corporate houses in the power and apparels sectors. and working capital facilities. Over the years, SFD has broadened its scope and sphere to sectors such as steel, power, cement, real The department also made huge strides through Corporate estate, food, hospital, telecom and energy. The department has also Advisory this year. SFD completed its first ever M&A transaction diversified its products which ranges from regular term loan and by divestiture of 100% shares of a feed mill. Besides this working capital to bond, advisory (mergers & acquisitions, feasibility milestone transaction, the department also acted as the analysis, investment decision making, etc.), foreign currency term Corporate Advisor for valuation of a company in the loan, Investment Promotion Financing Facility (IPFF), subordinated telecommunication sector. The Corporate Advisory team has also bonds for tier-II regulatory capital requirement of commercial successfully completed the raising of the 1st tranche of equity for banks, zero-coupon bond, commercial paper, preference share, a renowned social club. private equity, securitization of assets, loan restructuring, Long Term Financing Facility (LTFF), different refinancing and pre-financing Moreover, the dedicated team for agency and trustee services schemes of Bangladesh Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), ensured smooth operations for multiple transactions. We have World Bank, etc. including efficient brick kiln efficiency program. Our successfully acted as a trustee for numerous companies. In total, range of activities entail: 14 trustee deals are ongoing and significantly contributing to the annual income of the department. In addition to the regular business, the department believes in the Providing customized solutions for Project Finance need of enhancing the capabilities of the professionals in the andLoan Syndication financial market. Keeping this in mind, we have jointly organized a seminar on the ‘Development of Bond Market in Bangladesh’ Arranging low-cost foreign currency loans for with the PPP Authority, Prime Minister’s Office in order to address suitableprojects the prospects and challenges of the Bond Market. The purpose of the seminar was to come up with some plausible solutions Facilitating special funds for unique requirements towards the development of a bond market in Bangladesh. The department also arranged a daylong workshop titled ‘Securitization A Practical Guide’ conducted by Mr. Vinod Kothari, an internationally recognized author, trainer and consultant on Ensuring smooth operations as agency and trustee specialized financial subjects. The purpose behind this program Providing Advisory Services in the raising of was to create a great learning opportunity for institutions to gain Privateequity, Joint Venture Matchmaking, Balance Sheet insights of securitization & learn some of the best strategies Restructuring, etc adopted by world leaders to substantially minimize risk and Performing as an Merger & Acquisition advisor to optimize the organization's profitability and growth. bothbuyers and sellers Moving forward strategies for 2018 Advising on business planning and project rationality In 2018, the department will explore various avenues through structuring new products for its corporate clients in the tightened Arranging financing through Bonds, Preference Shares& money market scenario. The department will focus on new Commercial Papers for Corporate Houses and Financial products like quasi equity products, debt restructuring, corporate Institutions advisory services for mergers & acquisitions and private equity. Moreover, the department will also continue to raise subordinated bonds for scheduled banks for their BASEL-III compliance. 2017 in review 2017 has been a very challenging year for the Structured Finance The specific focus will be on various projects and corporate Department (SFD). However, the department was able to innovate finance in the form of local & foreign currency arrangement new offerings for its clientele as well as complete milestone through loan syndication, zero coupon bond, preference share, transactions. commercial paper; provide corporate advisory services in the form of debt restructuring, merger & acquisition, private equity and so on. The department will also focus on accessing specialized funds from various multilateral and bilateral agencies. 57 – Business Segment Review: Subsidiary Business Operations IDLC Securities Limited September, 2006 BDT 379.47mn Commencement of Operation 24.67% Net Profit After Tax Equity as % of Group Equity 14.80% 36.32% Return on Asset 16.66% NPAT Growth (5 year CAGR) NPAT as % of Group NPAT 24.60% 16,727 Return on Equity No. of Clients Activity Model of IDLC Securities Limited Brokerage Services Proprietary Investments Fund Inflow Investment in Cash Account Premium Brokerage Easy IPO Margin Account Marketable securities • Commissions Income; • Dividend income • Commissions Income • Fees Income • Fees Income • Capital gain • Interest Income Dividend to Retained Business Expenses Shareholders Earnings 58 Company overview IDLC Securities Limited, one of the top brokerages of Bangladesh, New capital injection of BDT 1,600mn in September 2017. Net commenced operations in 2006. The Company provides brokerage commission income increased by 92.3% to Taka brokerage services to more than 17,000 retail, local & foreign 480.5mn Profit before tax and provision increased by institutional investors through reliable trading platforms of both the 200.2% to Taka 575.7mn Net profit increased by 267.1% to Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges. It also serves more than Taka 379.5mn Shareholder’s equity organically grew by 2,500 customers of its enlisted merchant banks as a panel 33.6%. Achieved business growth in retail business. Cash broker. It possesses a proven track record of delivering quality account contribution continued to increase to 78% in 2017 customer services while maintaining high standard of compliance from 49% of 2011 Expanded and enhanced depth of sell side and corporate ethics. The Company also offers premium research coverage Enhanced retail and strategic sales effort brokerage services to High Net Worth (HNWs), Institutional and Achieved significant footing in foreign sales operation foreign investors. Premium brokerage services is a prime bundle Revamped operational risk management process of research and advisory support in addition to execution brokerage. Moreover, the Company has a reliable online trading system under its inhouse developed Order Management Unit Key strengths which was launched in 2010 with the principal objective to facilitate Strong Group Brand Skilled traders with professionalism and those investors who prefer online trading, thereby democratizing market insights Dedicated relationship managers for all market access. investors Competent sell side research team Wider branch network with reliable and user friendly online trading infrastructure Culture of confidentially and secured custodianship of clients’ assets Performance management model that drives business and its quality Products Cash Account Margin Account Key risks and mitigation strategies Premium brokerage for HNWs, Institutions and Foreign Investors Easy IPO Investment risks: We have investment committee for taking investment decisions based on research insight and Services recommendation. We carefully monitor our risk exposure and evaluate our portfolio performance periodically following Trade execution through the Dhaka and Chittagong stock international best practices. HR retention risks: We exchanges manage the HR retention risk through implementing Custodial and CDBL services performance management on continuous basis. We also Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients ensure that our pay scales and other benefits are best in class and aligned with the industry standards. Operational Research and advisory services Risk: We mitigate operational risk by streamlining and strengthening Finance, Operations and Compliance Core highlights, 2017 department with focus leadership. Technology risks: We Average daily turnover of IDLC SL increased by 104% to Taka continually review our existing technology and take step 703 mn compared to 77% increase in market average daily accordingly. turnover. Thus, market share increased to 4.02% from 3.5% of previous year Net Profit after Tax in BDT mn Shareholders' Equity in BDT mn 379 3,108 1,025 1,129 96 103 890 929 60 39 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 59 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 Selection of Strategic Partners in DSE board will help to Radical improvement in technology platforms for the bring technological advancement brokerage industry Digital penetration expected to increase as more and more Shift in human resource quality in front line business people shift away from traditional trading methods to app Shift in investor segments, from retails to institutions based solutions Move towards a more regulatory and compliance intensive Increased volatility is expected in the bourses in anticipation of possible environment necessary for investor confidence political turbulence in an election year Introduction of new asset classes beyond equity IDLC’s response & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018 Strategies to achieve objectives Selective research based investment Adopt technology that drive business Technology leader Implementation of clients’ growth Innovation and alignment of investment monitoring system Attract high quality talent to spur business growth Explore technology options innovation Tapping opportunities from shift in Further enhance team capacity for investor segment Enhanced team capacity for foreign foreign and insti tutional clients Create and attract youth and and institutional clients Stronger back office for real time risk emerging investor class Independent branding management Customer confidence and trust Fostering culture of ethics and compliance Virtual presence 60 IDLC Investments Limited August, 2011 BDT 276.52mn Commencement of Operation 21.50% Net Profit After Tax Equity as % of Group Equity 7.20% 45.05% Return on Asset NPAT Growth (5 year CAGR) 12.14% 14.30% NPAT as % of Group NPAT 5,637 Return on Equity No. of Clients Activity Model of IDLC Investments Limited Discretionary Margin loan Investment Portfolio (Non -discretionary Proprietary Banking Management Portfolio Management) Investments FUND INFLOW Retail Non Margin Margin Investment in Institutions Institutions Investor Portfolio Portfolio Marketable securities • Dividend income • Capital gain FUND INFLOW TRADING Incomes from: Investment in • Interest Income • Issue Management Service Marketable • Portfolio • Underwriting Service Securities • Corporate advisory Service FUND MGT • Mana gement Income • Trustee Service • Transaction Income Dividend to Business Expenses Retained Earnings Parent Company 61 Company overview IDLC Finance commenced its merchant banking operations in early stage of growth from a product lifecycle perspective, there 1999 through participating in underwriting of IPOs. The Company exists significant potential to raise awareness about this unique managed its first IPO as issue manager in 2003. It also managed product and grow portfolio size. the first IPO under the bookbuilding method in the capital market history of Bangladesh. Aligning with regulatory requirements, the Margin loan: During 2004, IDLC Finance had launched amargin merchant banking operation was carvedout and transferred to lending product, ‘Cap Invest’ and since then, we have been IDLC Investments Limited, a fullyowned subsidiary of IDLC considered as one of the top portfolio managers in the BanglaFinance, which was established in 2011. desh capital market. Subsequently, this business was transferred to IDLC Investments. Since the market crash of 2010, IDLC Investments has reduced its margin loans significantly. Product & Services During these times, we took the initiative of counselling our clients to build a constructive and riskmitigated portfolio. Our advisory Investment banking: includes knowledge sharing on the market scenario, stock Initial Public Offering (IPO) analysis, effects of leverage, effective risk management and the importance of disciplined portfolio management. Accordingly, we Rights Issue Management Repeat Public Offering (RPO) empowered our clients with multiple valueadded services (VAS). Corporate advisory Underwriting Arranging pre-IPO placement/ capital raising of forthcoming IPOsSubstantial share acquisition and take over Core highlights, 2017 Valuation services for repatriation of sale proceeds of nonresident owned equity in unlisted companies NIM ROI Mergers & acquisitions 6.26% 15% Acting as trustee of bond issuances through private ROA ROE placement of debt securities 7.20% 14.3% Discretionary portfolio management (DPM): IDLC Investments Limited has been offering DPM services for the last eleven years During 2017, our operating income and operating with a consistent track record. DPM manages funds on behalf of profit stood at BDT 539.70mn and BDT 450.66mn, investors, formulating appropriate investment strategies, respectively.NPAT grew from BDT 170.08mn in 2016 constructing and rebalancing portfolios, monitoring market to BDT 276.52mn in 2017, representing a robust perspectives on a regular basis, actively managing risk profiles 62.58% growth. Higher Investment Income and and optimally diversifying portfolios. Currently, we offer a variety Income from Portfolio management services of investment products with different riskreturn profiles, including: assisted healthy bottom line growth too. MAXCAP Easy Invest Profit-Loss Operating Income Operating Profit BDT 539.70 mn BDT 450.66 mn Sharing Scheme Capital Protected NPBT NPAT Scheme Portfolio Advisory Services BDT 446.02 mn BDT 276.52 mn Our primary strength lies in our ability to effectively manage our overall portfolio to generate consistent returns for our clients. We Higher operating profit and lowerthanusual have a diversified product basket suitable for different investor risk provisions significantly boosted NPAT. Our grades and our fund managers embrace appropriate diversification Investment banking division achieved a robust strategies to maximize the return potential and minimize downside performance (with revenue growth of 63.84% to risk. One of our major challenges comprises the ongoing volatility in BDT 46.60mn in 2017) with significant contributions the capital markets along with systemic risks arising from political from corporate advisory fees (95%) and issue or regulatory/ legislative changes. Since our DPM service is in its management fees (5%). Investment banking division managed nine IPOs to raise a cumulative BDT 6,515mn as of 31 December 2017. And assisted in raising BDT 34,358mn for clients so far since inception. 148 62 To capitalize on selected market opportunities, investment Financials 2017 2016 2015 exposure amplified by 235% to BDT 2,247.37mn in 2017, up from BDT 670.66mn in the previous year. Issue management fees 2.50 11.00 4.61 Underwriting 0.00 0.20 1.28 Key strengths Corporate advisory fees 44.06 17.21 12.17 Expert fund management capabilities backed by the track record Total revenue from of generating consistent returns over a long time horizon. 46. 56 28.42 18.06 investment banking Diversified product basket suitable for different investor risk appetites with fund managers embracing appropriate Investment Banking 2017 diversification strategies to maximize the return potential & Issue management fees minimize downside risks. Corporate advisory fees 5% Strong brand image, adoption of highest ethical standards with rigorous compliance. We comprehensively understand our clients’ needs & cater to these accordingly, meeting & even exceeding their expectations. Regular customer counseling on the basis of our research recommendations assists in maintaining a balance between upside potential, downside risks. 95% Sound HR strategy, welldocumented processes, cuttingedge technology & highquality research reports have been key for our clients to realize longterm wealth creation aspirations. During 2017, pioneering product ‘Easy Invest’ has reached the door steps of over 3,000 clients, achieved fund under management of BDT 286mn and generated return of 29.3%. However, margin loans growth was moderate considering the industry growth, in 2017, wherein the margin Key risks and mitigation strategies loan was in downward trend in 2016. We focused on counselling clients to use margin cautiously while increasing the margin lending exposure to One of our major challenges comprises the ongoing volatility in BDT 1,977.95mn in 2017, from BDT 1,300.51mn in 2016 the capital markets along with systemic risks arising from political/ regulatory/ legislative changes. This risk is applicable for the company’s own investment as well as the investments managed by the company on behalf of the clients. The company takes an integrated risk management approach ensured by a prudent investment committee, high quality buyside research in BDT mn and transparent transactions to safeguard against this risk. If Asset Portfolio faced by increased volatility in the market or in anticipation of a Investment Margin Loan Other Asset prolonged bearish run, the investment committee will 814 rebalance/reduce the proprietary investments in the capital market. 1,978 734 1,301 2,247 671 2016 2017 148 63 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 With the rise in awareness of the complexities in active fund Macro-economic paradigm shift will have positive impact on management among retail investors, it is expected that fund capital market and the long term positive outlook of the inflow for discretionary portfolio management products will economy will increase investors’ confidence keep increasing Enlistment of companies with good corporate governance Fund raising through issuing initial public offering is expected and performance will enrich market to increase this year as the regulator fasten the approval Completion of the mega infrastructure projects managed by process to the company’s proposal. the government will bring a further bout of vibrancy to the Further regulatory changes aimed at ensuring better economy governance, risk management and transparency are Volatility is expected to stabilize in secondary market beyond expected 2018 Secondary market is expected to show more volatility while Institutional fund managers are expected toassume a bigger Increase in investment banking opportunities based on role in the market business and economic growth With the new strategic partner/s, the new board of DSE is Widened scope of advisory services for financial sector expected to start the modernization of the technology used by the bourse and, as such, to bring new dimensions in the stock trading business IDLC’s responses & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018 Strategies to achieve objectives Discretionary portfolio management (DPM) Discretionary portfolio management (DPM) Discretionary portfolio management (DPM) Build capacity of own sales force Be an active observer of economic shifts Generating alpha following value Keep exploring to discover value and act accordingly for necessary investment of select new stocks and changes Sales campaign for internal stakeholders continue investing in value stocks Continue reaching the retail investors in Leveraging network of the company’s Minimize use of paper for greener every corner of the country overall sales force operations Establishing agent based sales model Investment banking Developing a customer portal and a new Investment banking Leverage the expected market stability to website expand business Focus on corporate advisory services Technological development for effective Continue building capacity to accurately Margin loan fund management and operations forecast market trends in order to Take prudent exposure in light of capitalize on opportunities circumstances / opportunities Margin loan Investment banking Improve stakeholder engagement Focus on new avenues of business particularly in advisory services based on client needs and market opportunities Leverage strong brand equity to enhance engagement with regulators, investors and other stakeholders  Further improve stakeholder engagement Margin loan  Enhance research based analysis  Establish RM based client service model  Technological development for effective client service and smooth operations 64 IDLC Asset Management Limited July, 2016 BDT 39.09 mn Commencement of Operation 1.19% Net Profit After Tax Equity as % of Group Equity 32.85% 275% Return on Asset NPAT Growth Over 2016 1.72% 35.40% NPAT as % of Group NPAT Return on Equity 475 No. of Clients Activity Model of IDLC Asset Management Limited Retail Investors Institutions Proprietary Investments Fund Inflow IDLC Asset Management Ltd Mutual Fund and Other Investments Efficient Fund Management Revenues in the Form of Management & Other Fee Incomes Dividends to Parent Business Expenses Retained Earnings Company 65 Company overview Our strong brand image as a knowledge leader in capital IDLC Asset Management Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance Limited, was incorporated in Bangladesh on 19 market op erations November 2015, vide registration no. C-127068/2015 as a Investors’ trust in us fostered through years of providing private company limited by shares under the Companies Act, 1994. The Company was awarded with asset management transparent and quality service license on 7 June 2016 with a paid-up capital of BDT 100,000,000 Suitable technologies at its behest, enabling it to scale (BDT one hundred million only). We expect to operate in the smoothly nascent but growing asset management industry of Bangladesh. The Company’s principal objective is to conduct the Key risks and mitigation strategies business of asset management, primarily through launching and managing mutual funds, to cater the diverse investor As a newly-established Company, we see both opportunities needs. Alongside, we plan to operate in Alternative investment and challenges in asset management industry. services, subject to regulatory approval. Economic environment: For IDLC AML and funds underits management to succeed, stable yet growing economic environProducts ment is required. Mutual funds, Mitigation strategy: We believe the economy ofBangladesh is in Alternative investment services. a growth trajectory. While, systematic risks and challenges may emerge from time to time, it is normal for a rapidly Core highlights developing economy. Our ability to gauge ahead any potential risks and taking appropriate measures to safeguard our Launching of IDLC Balanced Fund with an initial fund size investors’ wealth. of BDT 500.0mn. The AUM increased to BDT 977.6mn by Mitigation strategy: We believe the economy ofBangladesh is in December, 2017 Introduced Zero Exit Load so that a growth trajectory. While, systematic risks and challenges investors of IDLC Balanced Fund can buy and sell its units may emerge from time to time, it is normal for a rapidly at weekly disclosed NAV/unit incurring no exit fee which developing economy. Our ability to gauge ahead any potential eventually maximizes their sales proceeds. Launched a risks and taking appropriate measures to safeguard our Digital Platform, the first of its kind in the Bangladeshi investors’ wealth. industry to facilitate the investors in the purchase and surrender of their mutual fund units and view their Mitigation strategy: We adhere to fundamentals drivenlong investment status online from anywhere. term investment practices. In the long run market performance reflects the underlying economy. Market awareness: Potential investors are still unawareabout mutual funds. Key strengths Mitigation strategy: We fully understand the importanceof market awareness in realization of its vision. Hence, it invests Management know how significantly in marketing, prioritizing efforts that offer high ROI on money spent in marketing. Experienced and tested fund management professionals Net Profit after Tax in BDT mn Shareholders' Equity in BDT mn 39 150 110 10 2016 2017 2016 2017 66 Outlook Influential trends shaping up the industry 2018 Beyond 2018 Entry of more asset management companies Increasing Emergence of clear industry leaders number of Open end Funds Open end funds emerging as one of the key institutional Diversity in Fund Types (e.g. Balanced, Growth, Income etc.) investors in the market More diversified and customer oriented mutual funds offering Introduction of Systematic Investment Plan (SIP) Popularization of SIP Embryonic development in local PE/VC firms Active PE/VC space subject to structural support IDLC’s response & objectives 2018 Beyond 2018  Establish solid footing in the Asset  Achieve substantial growth in AUM to become one of  Management scene through the largest Asset Management firms in the country  launching numerous thematic funds  Explore alternative investment opportunities 67 Human Capital What it entails How it adds value Our human capital includes our employees as The passion, dedication and commitment of our well as their health and wellbeing, their expertise, employees determine our ability to realize our their experience, their innovative capacity and vision and empower us to reach new heights of their motivation. success. Material Aspects Talent Career Employee Compensation Employee development development well -being management productivity Highlights Implemented Introduced new Initiated Rolled out 1:2 Introduced Talent performance competence succession Sales Academy Identification 9 appraisal based planning at for the Grid Model & process based recruitment branch level comprehensive ICP (individual on 9 Box Model process development career plan) of sales teams Challenges Ensuring worklife balance Ensuring proper succession planning Improving employee retention Ensuring employee motivation Enhancing per person productivity 68 At IDLC, our goal is not only to achieve through business activities but also to contribute to the livelihood of our more than 1300 No of Attendees Foreign employees and their families. It is our responsibility to ensure In House that our people are motivated, inspired & committed to delivering Customised a consistently outstanding performance. We deeply believe that 247 Public Program in order to achieve this we need to provide them a great place to work, develop their capabilities, empower them and 450 appropriately reward their contribution. HR planning 2413 The primary goal of our human resource department is to ensure that we have the right people at the right time in the right position. Our HR department, through continuous consultation with other departments, determines our future HR requirement. We then aim to meet such requirements through talent Performance and reward acquisition, talent development and succession planning. Our Our employees are reviewed against their job objectives either objective always remains to recruit dynamic people whose annually or semi-annually depending on their job roles. Our caliber and capabilities are best suited for the job, which we performance appraisal process enables us to emphasize on the conform to through our multi-step merit-based recruitment and growth of our employees as well as identify their learning and selection process. In addition to recruiting employees externally, career development needs. As a part of this process, through we seek to meet our HR requirements through job rotations. This constructive dialogue, our employees are also encouraged to enables us to create more career opportunities for our people work on areas where there is scope of improvement. We also and enhances both lateral and upward mobility in our get to identify our high-potential employees for our organization. successionplanning program. This process also helps us to ensure that the contributions of our employees are properly recognized and appropriately rewarded. Talent development Succession planning We need to ensure that our employees are equipped with all the necessary skills to meet the everchanging demands of this Succession planning is critical to us, as it enables us to ensure fastpaced, competitive industry. Therefore, we aim to create a leadership continuity and avoid extended and costly leadership culture of continuous development to enable them to grow and vacuum. We prefer to promote from within the organization so succeed throughout their careers. While we try to provide our that we can create greater career opportunities for our people. employees the maximum number of training and development During the year, we had several internal moves and promotions opportunities, we also encourage them to take responsibility for into key leadership positions, reflecting that we have been able their own development. This is fully supported by our training to grow the depth in our talent pool, consequent to which our evaluation model, which not only identifies the training programs succession pipelines for key management positions got necessary for the employees to perform their daytoday job strengthened. roles, but also considers the areas they seek to become more proficient in. During the year, we have invested around BDT 24.51 million in developing our people and provided 188 trainings. HR Composition Core ManagementTeam 1.7% Senior Employees Mid Level Employees 10.2% Junior Employees 17.4% No of Training Foreign In House Customised Public Program 70.8% 89 50 Communication We consider communication to be a critical success factor for us. 20 Communication is given importance in the sense that it helps create a robust network and ensures cooperation 69 whenever required. We emphasize on formal as well as informal sustainably engaged and productive. We ensure that our communication. Managers have a key role to play in effective workplace health and safety complies with the internal health communication that brings new ideas to contribute to better and safety policies and procedures. We have taken thefollowing business performance. In an effort to keep everyone in IDLC measures to ensure the wellbeing of our employees both inside connected, allow them to share their views, have access to and outside the office: knowledge base and most importantly share their innovative Fire safety measures in the forms of fire alarms, fire ideas, we have launched IDLC intranet site. Additionally, we also extinguishers. We carry fire drills periodically to test the provide our employees the opportunity to conduct face-to-face effectiveness of fire safety. meetings through the use of ‘live Internet meetings’. This net-based communication tool allows employees to talk All our branches have wellequipped first aid kits in order to frequently and also get an opportunity to familiarize themselves maintain a hazard free environment. with new technologies. Moreover, we ensure communication from the executive team through different media and also encourage Our employees get group life insurance & hospitalization employee feedback through group discussions, employee insurance coverage. surveys and email dialogue. Our employees get the opportunity to consult our company doctor on a monthly basis, if needed. All our employees get to enjoy earned leave of 25 days which includes a mandatory annual block leave of 15 Attrition Rate calendar days. Employees are entitled to a casual leave of 5 working days. 28.0% Female employees get a maternity leave of six months. We also ensure that we provide full support to the employees at 19.0% 20.1% 19.3% their return so that it is easier for them to balance work with their new home dynamic. We always encourage our employees to participate in sports. We have official football and cricket teams which participate in the various corporate tournaments every year. 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee engagement activities such as family day, children’s day, birthday of employees, pitha utshob, Pohela Health and well being Boishakh, etc. are celebrated among several others. At IDLC, the health and well-being of our employees is one of our Employees are encouraged to notify if they experience top priorities. We believe that healthy employees will remain anything, which is not in alignment with the core values of the company. We are committed to ensure swift & impartial resolution to grievances brought forward by employees. Benefits at IDLC Housing Loan Company Provided Personal Loan Group Life Policy Transport Policy Insurance Scheme Hospitalization Spot Award Outstation Motor Cycle Scheme Policy Allowance Loans HR and compensation committee Compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and competence The committee is responsible for ensuring companywide scope Adequate training and development facilities for equal opportunity and transparency in terms of: Performance appraisal and promotions based on individual Suitable Recruitment per formance and contribution. 70 Furthermore, the committee looks into any other benefitsrelated views and raise issues like discrimination, harassment, negative issues regarding the company’s operating results and attitude towards women, etc. that may affect them within the comparable market statistics. organization. This enables our management to better understand and address such issues and develop strategies accordingly. IDLC ladies forum IDLC Ladies Forum was developed to address our female Ethical standards employees’ views and opinions to facilitate a good working We adhere to the highest ethical standards and consider it to be environment for women through the participation of all women a key business priority. We expect our employees to fully employees from different positions in the hierarchy, posted in embrace statutory compliances. It is mandatory for all our different departments and branches. Headed by the president, employees to read and sign the Code of Conduct every year as we have an executive committee of 14 members who represent a sign of recurrence to the principles enshrined in it. Additionally, different divisions and branches of the group. This forum IDLC encourages employees to act with integrity and spread the provides all our female employees a platform to network, share message of social responsibility to the community. 71 Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate governance represents a strategy for companies to ensure a framework of control for its administrative and management practices. This is achieved through procedures that are aligned with recognized standards that respond to the interests of sharehold-ers and other stakeholders. Proper governance ensures fairness, transparency and accountability and safeguards the interests of all stakeholders, especially the minority shareholders. Empirical research also suggests that corporations that adhere to good govern-ance practices are not only more sustainable but also tend to generate higher profitability. Board of Directors and it’s sub-committees Legal and Policies and Regulatory Procedures Frameworks Corporate Governance Transparency and Organisational Accountability Hierarchy Monitoring and Internal Control IDLC’s six core areas emphasize its effective corporate governance (CGG) notification No. SEC/ CMMRRCD/2006-158/134/Admin/44, dated strategy as demonstrated in the diagram. The company’s corporate August 07, 2012, and subsequent notifications there on vide ref. no. governance model is rigorously aligned with its well-articulated vision, SEC/ CMMRRCD/2006-158/147/ Admin/48, dated July 21, 2013 and mission, goals and objectives. The Company’s Board of Directors are notification No. SEC/ CMMRRCD/2009-193/151/ Admin, dated August 18, responsible for proper governance, which includes setting out the 2013, issued by Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission Company’s strategic aims, providing the necessary leadership to (BSEC) and all aspects of Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7, dated implement such aims, supervising the management of the business September 25, 2007 and subsequent circulars thereon DFIM vide and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. The Board is Circular No. 09, dated October 08, 2007, DFIM Circular No. 18, dated collectively accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good October 26, 2011 and DFIM Circular No. 06, dated June 17, 2012. In governance to facilitate efficient and effective management towards addition to establish the highest standards of corporate governance, delivering long-term shareholder value within appropriately IDLC also embraces best governance practices across all its activities. established risk parameters. IDLC is committed to continually review The independent role of the Board of Directors, separate and all its corporate governance policies and guidelines to ensure independent role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, distinct transparency in its practices and the delivery of the highest ethical roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Chief standards and quality information to its stakeholders on an ongoing Compliance Officer and different Board Committees enable IDLC to basis. The sustenance of effective corporate governance remains a achieve excellence in corporate governance. As a listed Company, key priority of IDLC’s Board. To exercise clarity about the Directors’ IDLC must comply with the BSEC’s revised CGG, which require the responsibilities towards shareholders, corporate governance must be Company to provide a statement in the Annual Report disclosing the dynamic and remain focused on the Company’s business objectives extent to which it has complied with the BSEC Corporate Governance and create a culture of openness, transparency and accountability. circulars. The status of compliance shall be certified by a practicing Keeping this in mind, clear structures and ownership supported by Professional Accountant/Secretary. well understood policies and procedures to guide the activities of the Company’s management have been instituted and institutionalized. IDLC considers that its corporate governance practices comply with all the aspects of the revised Corporate Governance Guideline 72 Our Corporate Governance Structure Approval Appoinment Shareholders External Auditors Management Committee Bangladesh Bank Other Committees Recommendation 1) Credit Evaluation Committee Board of Directors 2) Asset Liability Management Committee Recommendation 3) HR and Compensation Committee Audit Committee Executive Committee 4) Internal Control Committee 5) Corporate Governance Committee 6) BASEL Implementation Committee Regulators 7) Integrity Committee CEO & Managing 8) Central Compliance Unit Director External Auditor’s 9) Risk Management Forum 73 1)Bangladesh Bank appointment proposal 10) IDLC Ladies Forum Delegation of 2)Registrar of Joint StockCompaauthority nies and Firms 3)Bangladesh Securities Responsible to Small Enterprise Consumer andExchange Commission IDLC Securities Limited Assets Corporate External auditor Finance 4)Dhaka Stock ExchangeLimited appoinment chain 5)Chittagong StockExchange Medium Enterprise SME Division Wealth Corporate Structured Finance Management Division Finance IDLC Investments Limited 6)National Board of Revenue Customer Supplier Finance Green Banking Experience IDLC Asset Department Management Limited Micro Finance M arketing Human Change Credit Risk Communication Finance Resource Management Management & CSR Information Special Asset Administration Operations Strategic Planning Technology Management Internal Control Corporate and Compliance Affairs Treasury Statement of Corporate Governance The Board of IDLC considers that its constitution should comprise Directors with an appropriate mix of skill, experience and personal attributes that allow the Directors individually and the Board collectively to discharge their responsibilities and duties under the law efficiently and effectively, understand the business of the Company and assess the performance of the management. The composition of the Board embraces diversity. The Directors possess a wide range of local and international experience, expertise and specialized skills to assist in decision-making and leading the Company for the benefit of its shareholders. Name of the Director Status Executive Committee Audit Committee Subsidiary’s Board Aziz Al Mahmood Chairman, NED Adil Islam NED Chairman Monower Uddin Ahmed IND, NED Chairman Chairman, IDLC IL S M Mashrur Arefin NED Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA NED Member Md. Kamrul Hassan FCA NED Member Syed Shahriyar Ahsan NED Member Member Atiqur Rahman NED Niaz Habib IND, NED Member Chairman, IDLC SL Matiul Islam Nowshad IND, NED Chairman, IDLC AML Arif Khan CFA FCMA ED Member NED = Non-Executive Director; ED = Executive Director; IND = Independent Director 1.1 IDLC’s policy on appointment of Directors The Directors of IDLC are Nominated non-executive Directors nominated from the senior management of the Sponsor shareholders Non-executive Independent Directorsrecommendation received from various sources for highly capable and seasoned professionals. New Director recommendation Nominated Director Independant Director Nominated by Sponsor/Director Shareholder Recommended from various sources Appointment by the Board Newly appointed Director Existing Directorsubject to rotation Casual vacancies are filled by the board Retire at the AGM but are eligible for re-appointment Approval by Shareholders at the AGM Approval of appoinment of Independant Director Re-appointment of existing directors or new one by rotation 74 OUR GOVERNANCE In relation to the selection and appointment of new Director, the existing Composition of the Board, ensuring adequate number of Board of Directors possess the following duties and responsibilities: Non-Executive Directors and their independence Regularly review the size and composition of the Board and the mix IDLC’s Board comprises eleven (11) Non-Executive Directors including three of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives that may be (3) Independent Directors and one (1) Executive Director, the CEO & Managing desirable to permit the Board to execute its functions; Director. Directors possess a wide range of skills and experience over an array of professions, businesses and services. Identify any competencies not adequately represented and agree to the process necessary to be assured that a candidate nominated All the Non-Executive Directors are nominated by their respective by the shareholders with those competencies is selected; institutions except for the Independent Directors. All the Directors bring forth independent judgment and considerable knowledge to perform their roles The Directors are appointed by the shareholders in the Annual effectively. The Board of Directors ensures that the Company’s activities are General Meeting (AGM). Casual vacancies, if any, are filled by the always conducted with adherence to stringent and the highest possible Board in accordance with the stipulations of the Companies Act, ethical standards and in the best interests of all stakeholders. 1994, and the Articles of IDLC; None of the directors of the Board, except the CEO & Managing Director, are The CEO & Managing Director is appointed by the Board subject to involved in the day-to-day operations of the Company; rather, they provide the consent of the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting their valuable insights and guidance to the management in the meeting of (AGM) and approval of Bangladesh Bank; and the Board and its committees. Any change in the members of the Board requires intimation to the Bangladesh Bank, all scheduled banks and Financial Institutions (FIs), Adequate number of Independent Directors in the Board and Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and the stock exchanges. their independence As per the revised Corporate Governance Guideline of Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), at least one-fifth of the total Retirement and reelection of Directors directors of the Board shall be Independent Directors. As per IDLC’s Articles of Association, one-third of the non-executive Directors are required to retire from the Board every year in Annual Thus, in compliance with the guideline, three (3) Directors out of the total General Meeting (AGM), comprising those who have been in office the eleven (11) Directors are independent, having no share or interest in IDLC. longest since their last election. A retiring Director shall be eligible for Independence of the respective Independent Directors is confirmed during re-election. selection and appointment of the Directors and they remain committed to continue with such independence throughout their tenure. However, as per the governance guideline of BSEC, independent directors are appointed for a tenure of 3 (three) years with renewal option for another term of 3 (three) years. Board composition Nominated Non-executive Director Independent Non-Executive Independent directors are appointed by the board and be approved by the shareholders in the AGM 1 DirectorExecutive Director The following non-executive directors will retire from the board in the upcoming 33rd AGM: . 3 Mr. Aziz Al Mahmood, Director Nominated by The City Bank Limited; 7 Mr. Adil Islam, Director Nominated by The City Bank Limited; Mr. Md. Kamrul Hassan FCA, Director nominated by Transcom Group of Companies; and Mr. Syed Shahriyar Ahsan, Director Nominated by Sadharan Bima Corporation Role and responsibilities of the Board The Board is committed to the Company to achieve superior financial Further reappointment of Mr. Monower Uddin Ahmed as independent performance and long-term prosperity, while meeting stakeholder director for the 2nd tenure for another 3 (three) years with effect from May expectations of sound corporate governance practices. The Board 11, 2017 will be placed before the shareholders in the AGM. determines the corporate governance arrangements for the Company. As with all its business activities, the Board is proactive with regards to Adequate representation of non-executive directors corporate governance and puts in place those arrangements that it We maintain the minimum requirement of non-executive directors as per considers in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders and guideline of Bangladesh Bank, as the only Executive Director is the CEO consistent with its responsibilities to other stakeholders. &Managing Director while the rest 10 are Non-Executive Directors (including 3 independent Directors). 75 Structural Process for Strategic Governance board functioning Board composition and Formulation & Board meetings & Company’s performance diversity implementation of preparation strategy Risk and crisis Board competencies & skills management Group dynamics Leadership pool & training Policies and goal setting development Compliance Managing the quality of Director recruitment and Governance CEO selection & conversation orientation compensation Interaction with Board evaluation Succession planning management The Board duly complies with the guidelines issued by the Bangladesh Bank regarding the responsibility and accountability of the Board, its Chairman and Chief Executive/Managing Director, vide DFIM Circular No. 7, dated September 25, 2007. The Board of Directors is in full control of the Company’s affairs and is also fully accountable to shareholders. It firmly believes that the success of the Company hinges on the credible corporate governance practices embraced by it. Taking this into consideration, the Board of Directors set out its strategic focus and supervises the business and the related affairs of the Company. The Board also formulates the strategic objectives and policy framework for the Company. In discharging the above responsibilities, the Board carries out, inter alia, the following functions as per the charter of the Board and Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7, dated September 25, 2007: Stakeholders Responsibilities reserved to the Board Approval of business strategy and vision in line with efforts to drive shareholder value creation. Approval of business plans, assuring that sufficient resources are available to implement and monitor the strategy. Approval and monitoring of major investments or divestitures and strategic commitments. Determination of capital structure and dividend policy. Approval and monitoring of financial reporting. Shareholders Oversight of risk management, internal controls and compliance systems as per the Bangladesh Bank’s ‘Core Risk Guideline’. Recommendation for appointment or removal of external auditors and determination of the remuneration and terms of appointment of the auditors. Approval of annual budgets including major capital expenditure proposals. Regular review of financial performance and overdue situations. Monitoring the adequacy, appropriateness and operations of internal controls. Ensure that technology and information systems are sufficient to operate the organization effectively and sustain competitiveness. Benchmarking value creation for customers, clients and partners. Customers Reinforcement of the corporate culture and core values and ensuring that the Company remains an employer of choice. Review and approval of the CEO and Executive Management team’s arrangements, remuneration and benefits. Employees Oversight of succession planning for the CEO, Executive Management team and such other Executives as the Board may deem fit. Oversight of the management of social, economic and environmental concerns consistent with the delivery of sustainable outcomes for stakeholders and achievement of the Company’s incident and injury-free vision. Community Reinforcement of reputation, brand and community relations. Review of the size and composition of the Board. Director’s nomination, selection, removal, succession planning and remuneration. Directors Review of the Board’s performance. 76 year, when, in the second ph information in hand, in the t examining the adequacy of th OUR GOVERNANCE The Chairman of the Board and the CEO of the Company are Independence of non-executive directors from day to day different individuals operations The Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive of the Company. The Chairman and the CEO & Managing Director are different individuals. The All the Non-Executive Directors are nominated by their respective role of the Chairman and the CEO & Managing Director are independent institutions except for the Independent Directors. All the Directors bring forth and separate. independent judgment and considerable knowledge to perform Scope their roles Clarit effectively. The Board of Directors ensures that the Company’s activities and Roleare target always conducted with adherence to stringent and the highestofpossible Board Role and responsibilities of the Chairman as defined by the ethical standards and in the best interests of all stakeholders. Board P The Chairman runs the Board. The Chairman serves as the primary link None of the directors of the Board, except the CEO & Managing Director, are between the Board and the management and works with the CEO and involved in the day-to-day operations of the Company; rather, they provide pr Company Secretary to set the agenda for Board meetings. It is the their valuable insights and guidance to the management in the meeting of Chairman’s responsibility to provide leadership to the Board and ensure the Board and its committees. that the Board works effectively and discharges its responsibilities as Directors of the Company. The role and responsibilities of the Chairman of In a way, board is like fire d the Board is defined and set by the Board. Annual appraisal of the Board’s performance and disclosure chair observed that in good appraisals can help ensure t Role of the Chairman Appraising a board’s performance can clarify the individualplace and and collective ready to go. The Chairman’s primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective in its roles and responsibilities of its directors, and provide better knowledge of 1.7 Annual evaluation of the task of setting and implementing the Company’s direction and strategy. what is expected of them which can help boards become more effective. The Chairman is appointed by the Board. The principal features of the role Done properly, board appraisals may also improve the working Therelationship Board of Directors evalu of the Chairman comprise the following: between a company’s board and its management mission at the beginning of e the Board at the start of the fi Providing leadership to the Board; Any discussion of performance appraisals must necessarily cover two broad areas—the what and the how. In the case of a board, what should Taking responsibility for the Board’s composition andd be appraised first is its ability to define its responsibilities and establish evelopment; annual objectives in the context of those general responsibilities, and then Ensuring proper information for the Board; Planning and conducting its record in achieving those objectives. An appraisal must also look at Board meetings effectively; what board requirements in terms of resources and capabilities the board needs and what is available to perform its job. The how of board appraisal Getting all Directors involved in the Board’s work; is, of course, the process the board uses to evaluate its own performance. Ensuring the Board’s focus on key tasks; Before a board can even begin to evaluate its performance in these broad Engaging the Board in assessing and improving its performance; areas of responsibility, it must articulate the specific actions that each of them implies. In other words, boards must set objectives for themselves Overseeing the induction and development of Directors; and within those broad categories against which they can eventually measure Supporting the CEO & Managing Director. their performance. The board creates a set of objectives annually—generally speaking, at the beginning of the fiscal year—that reflects the directors’ collective judgment about which aspects of the Responsibilities of the Chairman board’s overall responsibilities need particular attention in the coming year. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the management, development and effective performance of the Board of Directors and provides leadership to the Board for all aspects of the Board’s functions. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board. In particular, he will: Ensure effective operations of the Board and its committees in conformance with the highest standards of corporate governance; Ensure effective communication with shareholders, host governments and other relevant constituencies and ensure that the views of these groups are understood by the Board; Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making; Ensure that all Board Committees are properly established, composed and operated; Support the CEO & Managing Director in strategy formulation and, more broadly, provide support and give advice; Ensure an effective relationship among Directors, acting as the principal conduit for communication and issues relating to business strategy, planned acquisitions and corporate governance; Establish a harmonious and open relationship with the CEO & Managing Director; Ensure that Board Committees are properly structured and all corporate governance matters are fully addressed; and Encourage active engagement by all members of the Board. 77 ary collects and disseminates information about the board’s activities. With that mbers can judge how close they came to meeting their objectives while also o them over the year. Performance Review ve Individual and Balanced Culture performance irman/ onship Team The following criteria are considered for the evaluation: and behavviour management Key performance Board indicators Performance Measures Membership Board Legal accountability operations responsibilities Collective a Communication Structured and governance performance ndar and reporting angagement masurement Performance Review Financial Board -management Planning relations overview needed every day, but they have to perform effectively when called upon. One ance is largely irrelevant, but in bad times it is crucial. Formal, periodic board needed, all the right processes, procedures, members, and relationships are in ector by the Board A board is a team of knowledge workers, and to do its job, the board needs the same resources and capabilities that any other successful team of knowledge workers needs such as knowledge, information, power, motivation, and time. ing Director based on the goals set for him considering the company vision and nancial budget and other job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalized by Self-evaluation is not an easy issue for any group to deal with. considers both financial and non-financial goals during the appraisal. It is particularly difficult in the case of boards because it requires board members to make judgments and decisions about themselves and about issues that affect all stakeholders. The effectiveness of the evaluation very much depends on how the board structures the evaluation process. It should consist of three phases: The first—setting annual board objectives at the beginning of the fiscal year. The process picks up again at the end of the year, when, in the second phase, the board secretary collects and disseminates information about the board’s activities. With that information in hand, in the third phase, board members can judge how close they came to meeting their objectives while also examining the adequacy of the resources available to them over the year. Performance Review Effective Individual People chairman and Balanced Culture performance strong chairman/ Team and behavviour CEO relationship management Scope and Clarity of objective Key performance Board Role of targets and structure indicators Performance Board Measures Products Collective and Agenda Communication Structured performance processes and calendar and reporting angagement masurement Performance Review In a way, board is like fire department: they aren’t needed every day, but they have to perform effectively when called upon. One chair observed that in good times corporate governance is largely irrelevant, but in bad times it is crucial. Formal, periodic board appraisals can help ensure that when the board is needed, all the right processes, procedures, members, and relationships are in place and ready to go. Annual evaluation of the CEO & Managing Director by the Board The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO & Managing Director based on the goals set for him considering the company vision and mission at the beginning of each year. The annual financial budget and other job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalized by the Board at the start of the financial year. The Board considers both financial and non-financial goals during the appraisal. 78 OUR GOVERNANCE Establish expectations Guide Assess The board undertakes a detailed The board agrees goals and On going advice, particularly from the review using: key expectations for the CEO Chairman 1. Financial goals 2. Non -financial goals The board formally discusses the The board negotiates performance findings goals with the CEO Set expectations PERFORMANCE Expectations for the CEO performance Formal Appraisal Performance assessment process are agreed by CEO and Board formally reviewed at board meeting Endorsed by the board Evaluation based on financial performance of the business units as well as Senior Management. The Company At the end of each quarter, the CEO & Managing Director is evaluated Secretary also provides the new Directors with an information kit regarding based on the financial targets. The evaluation is done based on both: disclosure obligations of a Director, Board Charter, Code of Ethics, the Constitution of the Company, Board Committees’ Terms of Reference, and Achievement of targets against budget; Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, amongst others. Achievement of targets against the achievement of those targets in The Board, together with the Board members of the subsidiaries of IDLC the previous year. would also attend offsite Strategy Meeting to have an in-depth understanding and continuous engagement with Management pertaining Evaluation based on Non-Financial goals to the Group’s strategic direction. The CEO & Managing Director is also evaluated based on nonfinancial goals In addition, the Directors are constantly updated on information relating to in an ongoing basis. The non-financial criteria include, but are not constrictthe Group’s development and industry development through discussion at ed to things such as: Board meetings with the Senior Management team. The confidence of the shareholders in the CEO, as reflected in the stock price of the company; The Board ensures that a structured Director Learning and Education Programme is in place for its members. This programme shall ensure The relationship of the company with the regulators; members have access to an appropriate continuing education programme and are kept up to date with current business, industry, regulatory and In addition, at the end of each year, an annual assessment and evaluation legislative developments and trends that will affect the Company’s of the achievements of pre-agreed targets is done. During this evaluation, business operations. the deviations from target, and the reasons for the deviations are discussed and assessed. Financial and accounting knowledge and expertise of Directors Training program of Directors Our Board of Directors consists of members who possess a wide variety of knowledge and experience in finance, economy, management, business The Board recognizes the importance of ensuring that Directors are administration, marketing and law. This ensures that together, they formucontinuously being developed to acquire or enhance the requisite late the right policy for the development of the business while having the knowledge and skills to discharge their duties effectively. specialized skills and the ability to foresee developments across a larger perspective and with enough independence to audit the management in a All new Directors appointed to the Board attend a formal induction balanced manner. programme to familiarize themselves with the Group’s strategy and aspiration, understanding of the line of businesses and corporate functions, Among them, two Directors are Fellow members of the Institute of key financial highlights, audit, compliance and risk management. Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB), naming Mr. Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman and Mr. Md. Kamrul Hassan. They provide guidance in The programme is conducted by the CEO & Managing Directors/ Heads matters applicable to accounting and audit-related issues to ensure compliance and reliable financial reporting. 79 Expertise of Directors Professional background Length of service All members of our Board are extensively accomplished in their respective fields, and proffer their adept and seasoned knowledge on the back of over 20 years of experience. Majority of our directors falls within the experience bracket of 31 to 40 years, as illustrated in the chart below assuring the stakeholders in their decision-making prowess and governing capabilities. Professional Background Length of services 20-25 years Accounting, nance Insurance 25-30 years 5% Banking 9% 31-40 years 27% HR Management 27% Over 40 years 23% Entrepreneurship, Business management 46% Risk Management, Sustainble Development 9% 18% 18% 18% Holding of Board meetings Number of Board meetings held in 2017 As advised by the Bangladesh Bank, the meeting of the Board of a The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is six (6), out financial institution shall be held at its Corporate Head Office (CHO) or in of the eleven Directors. During 2017, a total of twelve (12) Board the town in which its CHO is located. In compliance with this directive, meetings were held. the meeting of the Board of Directors is normally held at the registered Corporate Head Office of the Company. The meeting is held frequently, at least once a month, to help the Board discharge its responsibilities and functions as mentioned above. The meeting is scheduled well in advance and the notice of each Board meeting is given in writing to each Director by the Company Secretary. Process of holding Board meetings The Company Secretary prepares the detailed agenda for the meeting. The Board papers comprising the agenda, explanatory notes and proposed resolutions are circulated to the Directors well in advance for their review. The members of the Board have complete access to all the information of the Company, enabling them to work efficiently. The members of the Board are also free to recommend inclusion of any matter in the agenda for discussions, subject to the permission of the Chairman of the meeting. The Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer always attend the Board meetings and the senior management is invited to attend the Board meetings to provide additional inputs of the items being discussed by the Board and make necessary presentations. 80 OUR GOVERNANCE Key Activities of the Board in 2017 The following table shows a break down of the matters considered by the Board in 2017, in addition to business agenda. Quarter -wise Overview of the Main Recurring Board Activities -2017 January -March –  Authorization of Financial Statements and Annual Report 2016  Dividend declaration  Appointment of Auditors and determination of Audit Fees  Approval of Performance Bonus for 2016  Holding of Annual General Meeting  Review of Base Rate for the Fourth Quarter 2016 April -June –  Endorsement of First Quarter Financial Statement 2017 (JanuaryMarch) –  Employee Salary revision  Review of Base Rate for the First Quarter 2017 July -September –  Endorsement of Second Quarter Financial Statement 2017 (April June)  Review of Base Rate for the Second Quarter 2017 October -December –  Endorsement of Third Quarter Financial Statement 2017 (July September)  Approval of Budget for the year 2018  Modification of Credit Polic y  Review of Base Rate for the Third Quarter 2017 The Board spent it’s time for the 2017 Board meetings* in the following manner: Board Meeting Time Clock Policy formulation Governance and risk Performance monitoring 15% Reporting and disclosure 15% 40% 30% * In determining the estimated time spent, we took into account the time discussing the relevant agenda items and the volume of supporting board papers. Key Highlights of 2017 Change in Revision of Affirmation of Director of the employee salary Code of Conduct Board structure Revision of Delegation Declaration of Successful Right Issue Authority Matrix dividend and injection of fund 81 Directors’ remuneration Directors are not entitled to any remuneration other than attending the The Company Secretary ensures that the best management practices and meeting of the Board and its committees. work ethics are embraced to create value for the Company. He represents the Company among internal and external stakeholders, co-ordinates the policies Bangladesh Bank vide its DFIM Circular No. 13 dated November 30, 2015, of the Company, fulfills the management function and provides guidance on re-fixed the maximum limit of remuneration to the Directors for attending strategic decisions for the improvement and growth of the Company. meetings of the Board and its committees at Taka 8,000 per meeting per Director. The Board of IDLC adopted the said enhanced remuneration on In compliance with the Corporate Governance guidelines, the Company December 24, 2015. Till then, the remuneration was Taka 5,000 per meeting Secretary has a defined role and responsibilities approved by the Board. per Director. Committees of the Board Directors’ report on preparation and presentation of financial stateThe Board has established two permanent Committees to assist, advice and ments and corporate governance make recommendations to the Board on matters falling within their respective The Companies Act, 1994, requires the Directors to prepare financial responsibilities as per BSEC and Bangladesh Bank guidelines. statements for each accounting year. The Board of Directors accepts the responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, maintaining Each Committee is governed by a formal charter approved by the Board, adequate records for safeguarding the assets of the Company, preventing setting out its objectives, responsibilities, structures and operations. The and detecting fraud and/ or other irregularities, selecting suitable accounting membership of the Board committees, as at the date of authorization of this policies and applying those policies consistently and making reasonable and Annual Report, is set out below. prudent judgments and estimates where necessary. The Board of Directors are also responsible for the implementation of the best and the most suitable corporate governance practices. A separate statement of the Directors’ responsibility for financial reporting and corporate governance Board of Directors is given on pg. 204 of this Annual Report. Role of the Company Secretary Audit Executive The Company Secretary acts as a mediator between the Company, its Board Committee Committee of Directors, stakeholders, the government and regulatory authorities. He has expertise in corporate laws, capital markets, security laws and corporate governance. He also advises the Board of Directors on the kind of practices to be adopted in upholding the high levels of corporate governance. Name of Committee Members of the Committee Functions of the Committee Number of meetings of the Board held in 2017 Executive Adil Islam Chairman  Establishing strategic and operational plans 17 Committee Syed Shahriyar Ahsan Member  Taking prompt decisions to adapt to Niaz Habib Member changes in the market Arif Khan CFA FCMA Member  Determine and outline the area of business f ocus area where Audit Committee Monower Uddin Ahmed  Examine any matter relating to the 7 (See Section 3 below Chairman financial affairs of the Company; for details) Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman  Recommend financial statements to FC AMember the Board for authorization; Md. Kamrul Hassan FCA  Recommend external auditors for Member appointment; Syed Shahriyar Ahsan Member  Review all audit and inspection reports, internal control systems and procedures, accou nting policies and adherence to compliance requirements 82 OUR GOVERNANCE IDLC’s Vision, Mission and Strategies Board-approved vision and mission statements of the company The Board of Directors, at its 193rd meeting held on May 13, 2012, redefined the Company’s vision, mission, strategic objectives and value statements. Adhering to our value statements, we are driving towards our vision. Management Committee and its subcommittees To ensure that the company’s vision, mission are adhered to, we have our Management Committee, depicted below,who are entrusted to set objectives and lead from the front. On the back of the Board’s exemplary guidance, the Management and its various sub-committees determines IDLC’s strategic objectives such as areas of business focus; policies, monitoring and process improvements. Name of the No. Composition of the Committee Functions of the Commi ttees Committee 1 Management  Arif Khan CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  Oversee IDLC in accordance with its Committee  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director Constitution and applicable laws and  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection regulations;  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  Overseas ongoing operations;  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of the committee from those  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division of the Executive Officer to ensure good  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division governance;  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources  Monitoring achievement against strategic plans  Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations and allocated budget ;  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Making key decisions for the Company’s  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic management and operations under the official  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance delegation of authority from the Board.  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan ACA, Head of Group Corporate Affairs & Taxation and Group Compan y Secretary  Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA, Managing Director, IDLC Investments Limited  Md. Saifuddin, Managing Director, IDLC Securities Limited  Rajib Kumar Dey, Managing Director, IDLC Asset Management Limited 1.1 Credit Evaluation  Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director Evaluates all projects/ proposals of the Company Committee  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director from the risk point of view.  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic Planning 1.2 Asset Liability  Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  To look after the financial market activities; Management  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  To manage liquidity and interest rate risk; Committee (ALCO)  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  To understand market position and  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division competition among other activities; and  Md. Masud K. Majumder ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  To convene periodical meetings and regularly  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance reviews the decisions of the meetings with due consideration of the market situation.  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic Planning 1.3 Internal Control  Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  Addresses operational risks and frames and Committee  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division implements policies to encounter such risks; and  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Assesses operational risks across the Company  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division as a whole and ensures that an appropriate framework exists to identify, assess and manage  Md. Masud K. Majumder ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer operational risks.  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Co mpliance 83 Name of the No. Committee Composition of the Committee Functions of the Committees 1.4 Remuneration  Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  Assist the human resource department Committee  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director in developing and administering a fair and  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) transparent procedure for setting policies on the  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection overall human resource strategy of the Group;  Ensure wide, equal opportunity and  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division transparency in terms of suitable recruitment,  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division compensation, performance evaluation and  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division other benefits-related issues, issue  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resource  Assist the management in fulfilling its corporate  Md. Masud K. Majumder ACA, Group Chief Financial Office r governance and oversight responsibilities in  Mohammad Jobayer Alam CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic relation to establishing people management Planning and remuneration policies. 1.5 Corporate  Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  Ensures that the Corporate Governance Governance  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection practice within the Company is as required Committee  Md. Masud K. Majumder ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and the Bangladesh Bank.  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance  Recommends and advises course of action  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan ACA, Head of Group in the areas where there is a scope of Corporate Affairs & Taxation and Group Company Secretary improvement. 1.6 BASEL  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director  Apply the action plan of BASEL -II and review Implementation  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection thereof; Committee  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Communicate issues related to the  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance implementation of BASEL -II to the management;  Mohammad Jobair R ahman Khan ACA, Head of Group  Assist in carrying out the quantitative impact Corporate Affairs & Taxation and Group Company Secretary study (QIS), if necessary;  Engage in capacity building and training according to the training need assessment (TNiA) for the concerned officials; and  Establish a planning and supervisory review as required by Pillar-II of BASEL -II framework. The reviews of the BASEL Implementation Committee include  Review of action taken in previous BIU meetings  Economic and market status and outlook  Credit, market and operational risks related to capital adequacy  Review of BASEL implementation status  Action taken 1.7 Integrity Committee  M. Jamal Uddin , Deputy Managing Director  Create awareness on code of integrity and  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) good governance across the company;  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Identify the scopes where efficiency of  Syed Jav ed Noor, Head of Consumer Division employee can be developed and arrange appropriate training in this regards;  Md. Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Amend existing policies and procedures as per  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources requirements;  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control & Compliance  Evaluate and reward the respective employees for integrity and good work;  Improve e-governance system;  Develop complaint mana gement system; and  Implement code of conduct. 84 Name of the No. Committee Composition of the Committee Functions of the Committees 1.8 Central Compliance  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit & Collection  Keeping upda ted with changes in regulations Unit (CCU)  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control & Compliance regarding the combating of money laundering and terrorist financing, and accordingly adopting changes to IDLC’s AML and ATA compliance policy;  Supervising money laundering and terrorist financing control procedures of the company so as to ensure legal and regulatory requirements;  Issuing necessary instructions across the company in line with company policy and Bangladesh Bank directives;  Ensuring that proper KYC along with effective risk assessment and control procedures are in place;  Providing advisory services to business and operational units on various issues linked with alleged money laundering activities or transactions;  Maintaining ongoing awareness on evolving money laundering risks and their compliance procedures through formal and informal training, workshop and seminars;  Development of adequate testing procedures to detect and prevent lapses in compliance; and  Monitoring business activities of branches through AML and ATA self assessment procedure and provide corrective measures 1.9 Risk Management  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Cre dit and Collection  Design overall risk management strategy; Forum (RMF)  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  Communicate views of the Board and senior  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources management regarding the riskmanagement  Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations culture and risk appetite across the Company;  Md. Masud K. Majumder ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Prepare risk management policies and procedures;  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, Head of Treasury & Strategic  Monitor the prescribed/ threshold limits of risk Planning appetite set by the regulator and/ or by the  Shafayet Hossain, Head of Special Asset Management Company itself;  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of In ternal Control and Compliance  Develop and observe the use of models to  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan ACA, Head of Group measure and monitor risks; Corporate Affairs & Taxation and Group Company Secretary  Develop and oversee implementation of stress  Jane Alam Romel, Group Chief Marketing Officer testing;  Oversee the capital management functions in accordance with the risk-based capital; adequacy measurement accord, i.e. BASEL -II/ III  Determine the most cost-effective way to minimize risks;  Highlight risks in portfolios and deficiencies of the Company on a timely manner and report the analyzes to the Managing Director as well as the Board of Directors with specific recommendations and suggestions;  Review market conditions, identify external threats and provide commensurate recommendations for precautionary measures;  Develop overall information system/ MIS to support the risk management functions of the Company 85 Name of the Composition of the Committee Functions of the Committees Committee IDLC Ladies Forum Shamima Akter Lovely, Head of Human Resources, Capital  Ensuring all women employees the opportunity (IDLC LF) Market Operations and Head of Organizational Development & for networking and provide a common Recruitment platform to share and raise various issues and Executive Committee problems like discrimination, harassment, Comprises of 14 women employees representing different negative attitude towards women and any divisions and branches of the Group other issue that may affect women employees within the Company. Secretary  Enabling IDLC’s management to better Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR Members understand and address issues and develop All the women employees of the Group strategies accordingly. Strategies to achieve the Company’s business objectives Audit Committee Composition Aligned with our focus on enhancing shareholder communication and Nominated Non -executive director reporting our progress and prospects on an ongoing basis, Independent non-executive director 1 Audit Committee Appointment of members and composition of the Audit Committee 3 IDLC’s Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board formed in compliance with the requirements of DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 October 2011 of the Bangladesh Bank and relevant BSEC notification(s) and international best practices on corporate governance. Composition of the Audit Committee consisting of an Qualification of the Chairman Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors Mr. Monower Uddin Ahmed, one of the Independent and Non-Executive In compliance with the DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 October 2011 of the Directors, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, possessing of vast Bangladesh Bank and Corporate Governance guidelines of BSEC, the experience. All the members of the Committee are ‘financially literate’ as Committee consists of four (4) non-executive members of the Board defined by the revised corporate governance guidelines. including an Independent Director who is the Chairman of the Committee. The quorum of the meeting shall not be filled until and unless the IndepenTerms of reference of Audit Committee empowering to investident Director attends the meeting. The Company Secretary acts as the gate employees and retain external counsel secretary of the Audit Committee. This role is further expounded on and clarified in the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the Audit Committee, which was revised in light of directives contained in DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 October, 2011 issued by the Bangladesh Bank. According to the revised ToR of the Audit Committee, its principal duties and responsibilities include the following: 86 OUR GOVERNANCE In respect of internal control: Evaluating whether the management: Miscellaneous: Has an appropriate internal control and compliance culture with regards to risk management Placing quarterly reports before the Board of Directors on rectification / correction status of errors, fraud, forgery and other irregularities Has clearly defined the duties and responsibilities of officials identified by internal auditors, external auditors and the Bangladesh Bank inspection teams Has full control over the operations of the Company Undertaking development functions through implementing an Reviewing the appropriateness of management information system improved infrastructure and reporting system and Performing all (MIS) including information technology system and its use other supervisory activities as assigned by the Board as well as evaluating its own efficiency on a regular basis Reviewing whether the management is complying with the recommendations made by internal and external auditors Members of the Committee comprising of Non-Executive Directors: Reviewing existing risk management procedures to ensure that The Audit Committee comprises of 4 members of the Board, which processes are effectively run within the Company includes all Non-Executive Directors, which covers the requirement Reviewing all fraud, forgery and internal control weaknesses clause of having more than two-thirds of the members being Non discovered by internal, external or regulatory auditors and thereafter Executive Directors. keeping the Board of Directors informed of all discoveries and subsequent corrective measures Members of the Committee being suitably qualified: Two members of the Committee, Mr. Kamrul Hassan FCA and Mr. In respect of financial statements: Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA, are Fellow members of the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Bangladesh (ICAB), and Reviewing whether financial statements were prepared in compliance consequently possess significant working experience in the fields of with all directives and guidelines prescribed by the Bangladesh Bank finance, accounting and audit. The qualifications of the members of and other applicable standards the Committee are addressed in detail in their brief profile on pg. 36 of this annual report. Engaging in discussions with external auditors and the management prior to the finalization of the financial statements Accessibility of Head of Internal Audit to the meeting of Attending and answering questions related to accounts and audit at the Audit Committee the AGM The Head of Internal Control and Compliance, Mr. Mahabub-ul-Kader has direct access to the Audit Committee, which in turn is directly In respect of internal audit: accountable to the Board. Reviewing the activities and organizational structure of internal audit Holding of the Audit Committee meeting during 2017 and ensuring that there is no barrier or limitation to the performance of an independent internal audit As per the Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee is required to hold at least four (4) meetings in a year. During the year ended 31 Assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of internal audit December 2017, the Committee held seven (7) meetings. The details of the meetings held and members’ attendance in the meetings are Assessing whether the management is appropriately considering disclosed in Annexure II of the Directors’ Report. compliance of recommendations made by the internal auditors with regards to the observations identified by them Quorum of the Audit Committee meetings Placing recommendations before the Board of Directors in case of The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is two (2). change of accounting policies Of them, one shall be an Independent Director. The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary of the Committee. In respect of external audit: The Audit Committee and Internal Control and CompliAppraising the audit procedures and reviewing the management ance letter submitted by external auditors IDLC’s Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department is tasked with Assessing whether the management has appropriately considered reviewing the Company’s system of internal controls including the the observations and recommendations made by the external conduct of regular audits of all operational units. ICC is operationally auditors independent in that its members are not involved in the Company’s operational activities and that the Head of ICC (HoICC), in addition to his Placing recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the direct reporting line to the CEO & Managing Director, also has access appointment of external auditors to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is responsible for approving the annual audit In respect of compliance with existing regulations: plan of ICC and reviewing the plan’s subsequent implementation. Reviewing whether the rules and regulations set by regulatory authorities (Bangladesh Bank and other regulatory bodies) as well as The internal audit reports or summaries thereof prepared by the ICC internal policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors are reviewed on a regular basis by the Committee. are being complied with. 87 Reporting of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reports directly to the Board of Directors and Discussed the financial statements for the year ended December under certain circumstances, can also report to the BSEC. 31, 2016 with external auditors and management prior to their finalization as per DFIM circular number 13 Immediate reporting to the Board of Directors the Audit Committee shall immediately report to the Board of Directors in the following Reviewed the financial statements of IDLC Finance Limited for the cases: year ended December 31, 2016 as per clause no. 3.3 of Corporate Governance Guidelines (CGG) issued by Bangladesh Securities and On conflict of interest; Exchange Commission; Suspected and presumed fraud or irregularity or material defect in Reviewed the management letter issued by ACNABIN, Chartered the internal control system; Accountants, statutory auditors of the company based on annual audit of financial statements of IDLC Finance Limited for the year Suspected infringement of laws, including securities-related laws, ended December 31, 2016 rules and regulations and Reviewed Bangladesh Bank core risk inspection report as of June Any other matter which should be disclosed to the Board of 30, 2016 and management responses thereon Directors immediately Reviewed unaudited quarterly financial statements of IDLC Finance No such issues arose at IDLC during the year ended 31 December Limited and its subsidiaries for the first quarter ended March 31, 2017 2017. Immediate reporting to the Bangladesh Securities and Reviewed Finance and Accounting Manual of IDLC Finance Limited Exchange Commission Reviewed half-yearly unaudited financial statements of IDLC Finance Limited and its subsidiaries for the half-year ended on June If the Audit Committee has reported to the Board of Directors about 30, 2017 anything that has a material impact on the financial conditions and results of operations of, and where the Audit Committee finds that Reviewed unaudited quarterly financial statements of IDLC Finance such rectification has been unreasonably ignored, the Audit Limited and its subsidiaries for the third quarter ended September Committee shall report such findings to the SEC, upon reporting of 30, 2017 such matters to the Board of Directors for three such instances or completion of a period of 9 (nine) months from the date of first Reviewed Bangladesh Bank’s comprehensive inspection report on reporting to the Board of Directors, whichever is earlier. Corporate Head Office of IDLC Finance Limited based on information as of December 31, 2016 and management responses thereon No such circumstances arose during the year ended 31 December 2017. Internal controls are well conceived, properly administered and satisfactorily monitored Objectives of the Audit Committee Based on the review of activities of ICC department in 2017, the Audit Committee is of the view that the internal control and compliance The Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors to ensure procedures are well conceived, properly administered and that the financial statements reflect a true and fair view of the state satisfactorily monitored. of affairs of the Company. The committee will also ensure good monitoring systems within the business. Ensuring compliance with Laws, Regulations and timely The principal functions of the Audit Committee are to exercise settlements of statutory dues oversight over IDLC’s risk management, financial reporting and Being compliant ensuring sustainable business is the ultimate focus regulatory compliance functions. of IDLC. IDLC puts its best effort to remain compliant with all applicable laws and regulations including the regulatory reporting in due course. Activities during 2017 IDLC has never been penalized for any regulatory non-compliance. The Committee met seven (7) times during the year 2017 and carried Audit committee’s involvement in the review of the out the following tasks: external audit functions Reviewed internal audit reports issued by the Internal Control and On the basis of the proposal of the Audit Committee, the board Compliance Department during the year 2016 recommended A.Qasem & Co. Chartered Accountants, a partnership firm in Bangladesh and a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Reviewed the report of the Audit Committee for 2016 prior to Limited, to the shareholders in the 32nd AGM publication in the annual report 2016 Reviewed and approved annual audit plan of Internal Control and Compliance Department for the year 2017 Recommended for appointment of external auditors for the year 2017 88 to appoint them as statutory external auditors of the company for Internal Control and Risk Management 2017. Accordingly the shareholders have approved their appointment. Acknowledgment of Directors’ responsibility in respect of Before their appointment as statutory auditors, declaration of their internal control of IDLC independence from IDLC was obtained, in compliance with DFIM IDLC’s Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for Circular no. 04, dated April 30, 2015 of Bangladesh Bank. maintaining the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. The Board is of the view that the internal control In compliance with the BSEC corporate governance guidelines, the framework is designed to manage the Group’s risks within an statutory auditors did not perform any activities other than the acceptable risk profile, rather than completely eliminate the risk of statutory audit. failure to achieve the policies, goals and objectives of the Group. The Board therefore believes that it can provide only reasonable, rather During their tenure, ICC department has coordinated and reviewed than absolute, assurance regarding effectiveness against material their functions and reported to the Audit Committee. Before mis-statements of management and financial information or against presenting the financials before the board, the committee at its 60th financial losses and fraud. meeting held on February 14, 2018 reviewed their activities and hold a discussion with them in this regard. And the committee and the auditors, both have expressed their satisfaction. Internal control Further, the auditors have also expressed their satisfaction on the IDLC has adopted the definition of internal control provided by the action taken based on the recommendations of previous auditors, Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ACNABIN, Chartered Accountants and regulatory bodies. (COSO) in its Internal Control — Integrated Framework. Accordingly, the Company defines internal control as a process, affected by its Board of Directors, management and other personnel, which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievements of objectives relating to the effectiveness and Selection of appropriate accounting policies efficiency of operations, reliability of both external and internal financial and non-financial reporting and compliance with applicable While reviewing the financial statements for 2017 by the Audit laws and regulations. The control system applies across the IDLC Committee, they have reviewed that the financial statements were Group to all divisions and departments of its operations. prepared following appropriate accounting policies that are in line with applicable accounting standards adopted by Institute of Chartered Key features of the internal control system Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB) . The Company’s internal control system consists of five interrelated components: Review of interim financial statements before presenting to the board for authentication The control environment In compliance with Bangladesh Bank DFIM circular No. 13, dated The control environment refers to the orientation, awareness and October 26, 2011 as well as the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the Audit actions of those in the governance and management roles with Committee, the committee reviews the interim financials before regards to the Company’s internal control and its importance in the presenting before the board. entity. Elements under IDLC’s control environment include: Review of reliability of management information used for Active participation by those charged with governance as evidenced such computation through regular meetings of its Board of Directors and Audit Based on the effectiveness of the internal control process along with Committee; its proper application and effective measures taken to prevent possible fraud and forgery, the Audit Committee expressed its The communication and fostering of an environment that satisfaction to the board on the reliability of management information consistently requires integrity and ethical behavior as evidenced by used for preparation these financial statements. regular communication and confirmation of its Code of Conduct and zero tolerance for illegal or unethical behavior; A formal well-defined organizational structure, setting out key areas of authority and responsibility and appropriate reporting lines that is relevant to the nature and size of the Company’s business; Human resource policies that demonstrate the Company’s commitment towards recruiting employees who meet established standards of competence and ethical behavior Risk assessment refers to the process/(es) with which the Company identifies and assesses risks in the achievement of its objectives. A changing external and internal environment means that risk assessment is a dynamic process and must occur at all levels of the organizational structure, ranging from branch and department level reviews of portfolios, functions and operations to ManCom and ALCO meetings at the very top level of the management. 89 Control activities Control activities are the policies and procedures that help ensure that Identification of key risks IDLC is exposed to both the management directives are carried out. Control activities have internally and externally various objectives and are applied throughout the Company at all levels and in all functions. These include activities such as Risk is the element of uncertainty or the possibility of loss that authorization, reviews, reconciliations and verifications. prevails in any business transaction in any place, in any mode and at any time. Risk is an integral part of the financing business. Risk Information and communication management entails the adoption of several measures to strengthen the ability of an organization to cope with the vagaries of the complex The information and communication component facilitates the business environment in which it operates. functioning of the other components by providing information that is necessary for the attainment of Company objectives and by IDLC always concentrates on delivering high value to its stakeholders establishing a continuous process for collecting, sharing and through appropriate tradeoffs between risk and return. In addition to disseminating necessary information from both within and outside the industry best practices for assessing, identifying and measuring the Company. Towards this end, the Company has established risks, IDLC also considers guidelines for managing core risks of information systems that deal with internally generated data as well financial instructions issued by Bangladesh Bank, vide FID Circular No. as external events, activities and conditions relevant to business 10 dated September 18, 2005 for management of risks and, more decision-making to produce operational, functional and recently, DFIM Circular No. 03 dated 24 January 2016. compliance-related information. In addition to Flexcube, our other customized software have greatly enriched the capabilities of the A well-structured and proactive risk management system is in place Company’s information systems. In a more general sense, the IDLC within the Company to address risks relating to: culture encourages sharing of information and opinions across the management hierarchy and among different businesses, functions and departments. Credit risk Monitoring Market risk Monitoring ensures that controls are operating as intended and that they are appropriately modified in response to changing conditions. Liquidity risk At IDLC, this is achieved through a variety of measures including ongoing monitoring which occurs in the course of, and as a part of, Operational risk day-to-day operations as well as separate management reviews, evaluations and periodic internal audits of various departments and business functions. Although the Board of IDLC is primarily responsible for ensuring that Money laundering and terrorist financing risk the Company has an adequate and effective control system in place, ultimately, all employees are accountable for managing internal The new Integrated Risk Management Guidelines for Financial controls. Business and operational units, particularly department Institutions specify a number of additional risks that financial heads, are in-charge of ensuring that internal controls are institutions are now required to manage and report in a more established, well-documented and maintained across his / her structured manner. The key among these are: department. The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department Strategic risk acts as a second line of defense through conducting tests on the efficiency and effectiveness of the control systems through audit. Strategic risk has been defined as the risk of potential losses that might arise from adverse business decisions, sub-standard A prudently designed management structure, clearly defined execution and failure to respond adequately to changes in the responsibilities, delegation of authorities, risk awareness, business environment. The guidelines set out the respective roles of establishment of accountability at each level and a system of the Board of Directors, senior management and business units in periodic reporting and performance monitoring represent the key managing strategic risks, identify the minimum steps to be followed elements of the internal control framework employed at IDLC in the strategic risk management process and also suggest measures for strategic risk control. Directors’ reviewing the adequacy of internal control IDLC has been managing strategic risks ever since its inception. This Subject to the caveats of reasonable assurance mentioned earlier, is evident from the Company’s constantly evolving business model the Board confirms that it has reviewed and assessed the Group’s over the years. The Company has a clear strategic vision as to what system of internal controls with regards to its adequacy and it wants to become and a mission statement that enumerates the effectiveness in providing reasonable assurance regarding the steps required to achieve its vision. Strategic issues are discussed at achievement of objectives relating to the effectiveness and efficiency a variety of forums including meetings of the Management of operations, reliability of both external and internal financial and Committee and of the IDLC Board. Over the past few years, a non-financial reporting and compliance with the applicable laws and separate Strategic Planning department has been instituted to assist regulations. senior management in this regard. The culmination of all these efforts are reflected in annual strategy and budget sessions, where the Company sets outs its plans for the next year. With the introduction of the new guidelines, more changes will be made to the strategic risk management process as and when required. 90 Compliance risk Compliance risk is defined as the current or prospective risk of legal Risk Management Forum (RMF): To introduce proactive risk actions and / or material financial losses that an organization may management procedures in line with international best suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, its own practices framework. regulations, code of conduct and standards of the best practice as well as from the possibility of incorrect interpretation of laws or Risk Analysis Unit (RAU): To act as the secretariat of the Risk regulations. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board, Management Forum with responsibility for identifying and senior management and compliance function units in managing analyzing the various types of risks appropriately and in a compliance risks and also require formulation of a written compliance timely manner. risk management policy. Central Compliance Unit (CCU): Responsible for supervising the Historically, IDLC has always fostered a compliance-oriented culture. anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terrorism activities (ATA) This has been reinforced in a variety of ways, ranging from formal at IDLC. requirements to sign declarations of compliance with the IDLC Code of Conduct (requiring compliance with the laws and regulations) to Ethics and Compliance ongoing communication from the senior management stressing the need to do business under the highest levels of compliance. In The Board’s commitment to establishing the highest levels of ethics general, compliance risk management is embedded in the and compliance. day-to-day management of business processes and practices of the Company. With the introduction of the Integrated Risk Management Guidelines, the overall management of compliance risk Ethics and Compliance is reviewed and appropriately amended to ensure conformity with The IDLC Group remains committed to upholding the highest the guidelines. standards of ethics and compliance by its employees. This commitment is reflected in its Code of Conduct that covers, among Reputation risk other issues, the following areas: Reputation risk may be defined as the risk of loss arising from Their relationship with and responsibilities to IDLC. damages to an organization’s reputation. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board and the senior management in Their relationship with and responsibilities to customers. managing reputation risk and also require financial institutions to implement a sound and comprehensive risk management process Compliance with laws and regulations. to identify, monitor, control and report all reputational risks. Acting in a professional and ethical manner. IDLC has already established a set of non‐financial reputational risk indicators and put in place a structured process for monitoring these Protection of business assets. and any other matters that might give rise to potential reputational risks. Till date, no material reputational risk issue involving the Disclosure of conflicts of interest. Company has been identified. Prohibition of any conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation including insider trading Environmental and social risk IDLC is focused on sustainability, shifting from the traditional financing Dissemination of the statement of ethics and Code of approach. In this regard, the Company is strengthening its credit appraisal process to be much more stringent from an environment Conduct and social (E&S) perspective, evaluating all the environmental and All IDLC employees are required to sign an annual declaration social factors such as project impacts on the environment and the confirming that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct. community in the long run, prior to sanctioning a loan. The Human Resources department circulates the required declaration, and ensures that all employees signed the declaration. A detailed discussion of these risks and the strategies adopted to The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department, through regular manage and mitigate these are given in the Statement of Risk audits, assesses whether any employees have breached the Code Management on page 54 of the report. The adequacy of the system of Conduct. of internal controls is reviewed by the Board of Directors as well. Disclosure of the strategies adopted to manage and Board’s commitment to establishing high levels of ethics mitigate the risks and compliance within IDLC The IDLC Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring that the In order to address and mitigate the risks prudently, at IDLC, the Company’s business activities are conducted in accordance with the following committees are operational: highest standards of ethics and compliance. Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC): To evaluates all projects / proposals The Board views adherence to ethical standards and compliance as of financing activities of the Company from the risk point of view. an integral part of the broader corporate governance framework and seeks to adopt a holistic approach in ensuring its implementation. As part of this, it has instituted a number of approaches to underline its commitment to high standards of ethical behavior: 91 Setting down standards of expected behavior through the formulation and communication of a Code of Conduct. Prudent conduct and behavior Installing a system of internal controls, which is reviewed, evaluated Each Board member should seek to use due care in the perforand updated on an ongoing basis. mance of his / her duties, be loyal to the Company, act in good faith and in a manner that such a Board member reasonably believes to Positioning Company policies and procedures on ethical foundations be not opposed to the best interests of the Company. A Board to ensure that ethical considerations are integrated in the day-to-day member shall seek to: decision-making, activities and processes. Make reasonable efforts to attend Board and Committee Establishing a clearly-defined organizational structure that assigns meetings responsibility and authority for the conduct of organizational functions while at the same time ensuring accountability for individual actions. Dedicate time and attention to the Company Establishing a variety of monitoring mechanisms including the Seek to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, confidenticreation and empowerment of an operationally independent internal ality obligations and corporate policies of the Company audit team with reporting responsibilities to the audit committee. Act in the best interest of, and fulfill their fiduciary obligations Ensuring instant action with zero tolerance for identified instances to, the Company’s shareholders of unethical and/or non-compliant behavior Use due care and diligence in performing their duties of office and in exercising their powers attached to that office Code of Conduct for Board members Business opportunities The Board of Directors of IDLC is committed to the highest standards In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members of conduct in their relationship with IDLC employees, customers, shall avoid: members, shareholders, regulators and the public. This refers to conducting our business in accordance with all applicable laws and Appropriating corporate business opportunities for themselves regulations and also represents our commitment to the spirit of the that are discovered through the use of Company property or law. Our actions should reflect IDLC’s values, demonstrate ethical information or their position as Board member leadership and promote a work environment that upholds IDLC’s reputation for integrity, ethical conduct and trust. This Code is intendUsing Company property or information, or their position as ed to provide a statement of the fundamental principles applicable to Board member, for personal gain our Directors. Competing with the Company Our Directors are encouraged to bring forth questions about particular circumstances that may involve one or more of the provisions of Conflict of interest this Code to the Chairman of the Board. Each Board member shall endeavor to avoid having his or her private In compliance with the revised corporate governance guidelines interests interfere with: issued by the BSEC, the Board shall lay down the Code of Conduct of all Board members and annual compliance of the Code has to be The interests of the Company recorded. His or her ability to perform his or her duties and responsibiliScope of the Code of Conduct ties objectively and effectively A member must observe the Board’s Code of Conduct whenever The Board members shall avoid receiving or permitting members of he/she: their immediate family to receive improper personal benefits from the Company, including loans from or guarantees of obligations by the Conducts the business of the Board Company. Acts as a representative of the Board A Board member shall make a full disclosure to the entire Board of any transaction or relationship that such a member reasonably The Board’s Code of Conduct shall not have any effect in relation to expects could give rise to an actual conflict of interest with the the activities of a Board member undertaken other than in an official Company and seek the Board’s authorization to pursue such capacity, except and in so far as otherwise indicated transactions or relationships. Where a Board member acts as a representative of the Board at the Company property meeting of another public body or Committee, he/she must, when In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members acting in that capacity, comply with the Board’s Code of Conduct, shall endeavor to ensure that the management is using the Compaexcept and in so far as it conflicts with any other legal obligations to ny’s assets, proprietary information and resources to be used by the which he/she may be subject to. Company and its employees only for legitimate business purposes. General obligation The Code of Conduct for Board members of the Company includes: 92 Confidential information Redress of investor’s complaints and recommendation The Board members shall maintain confidentiality of information IDLC has a formal complaint and recommendation management entrusted to them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities, process that is open to all stakeholders including both investors and except where disclosure is approved by the Company or legally customers. A dedicated complaints cell is headed by a senior mandated or if such information is in the public domain. member of the management for dealing with complaints and recommendations. Those may also be dropped at complaint boxes The Company’s confidential and proprietary information shall not be kept at all IDLC branches or can be submitted online on the IDLC inappropriately disclosed or used for the personal gain or advantage website: www.idlc.com. of any Board member other than the Company. These obligations apply not only during a Board member’s term but thereafter as well. Remuneration Committee IDLC’s Remuneration Committee has been established in the named Fair dealing “HR and Compensation Committee” on 24 May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on the Company’s various HR-related issues. In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members shall endeavor to deal fairly and should promote fair dealing by the Company, its employees and agents with customers, suppliers and Roles and responsibilities of the Committee employees. Compliance with laws and regulations The principal role and function of the HR and Compensation Committee is to assist the human resource department in developing In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members and administering a fair and transparent procedure for setting shall comply and endeavor to ensure that the management is policies on the Group’s overall human resource strategy. The causing the Company to comply with all applicable laws, rules and responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, equal opportunity regulations. and transparency in terms of suitable recruitment, compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and competence, adequate training In addition, if any Board member becomes aware of any information and development facilities, performance evaluation and promotion that he / she believes constitutes evidence of material violation of based on individual performance and contribution and other any securities or other laws, rules and regulations applicable to the benefits-related issues with regards to the Company’s operating Company or the operation of its business, by the Company or any results and comparable market statistics. employee or another Board member, then such a Board member should bring such information to the attention of the CEO & Managing Director of the Company. Composition of the Committee Insider trading As per Bangladesh Bank guideline, IDLC being a financial institution The Board members shall not engage in insider trading with respect can only form 2 (two) committees: Executive Committee and Audit to the purchase and sale of the Company’s securities. The Board Committee, as sub-committee of the Board. members shall not buy or sell securities while in possession of material non-public information about the issuer of that security, Hence, in compliance with the regulation, IDLC has form the whether the issuer is IDLC or any another company. The Board committee with the following senior executives’ including the CEO & members shall also not pass such information to someone who MD, executive director of the board. may buy or sell securities. The Code of Conduct for Board members sets forth guidelines for conduct and they affirm compliance with the As disclosed in the table in section 1.4 above, the composition of the Code on an annual basis. Accordingly, IDLC’s Board designed the Committees is as follows: Code of Conduct for all the members of the Board and its annual compliance has been recorded for 2017. To abide by the code of Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director integrity and good governance in line with the National Integrity Strategy of Bangladesh, M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Existence of effective anti-fraud programs and controls through whistle-blower mechanism Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection In recent times, the Company has come to identify the risk of fraud Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division as one of the emerging issues in the overall risk management framework. Planned anti-fraud initiatives include the introduction of a Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division whistle-blower mechanism. Whistleblower Guideline has been approved on December 17, 2017 Additionally, emphasis is placed on Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division strengthening existing processes or activity levels and anti-fraud controls are embedded within the overall system of internal controls. Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resource Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic Planning 93 Key policies with regard to remuneration of directors, Human Capital senior management and employees IDLC considers its human resources as its most important asset. We In compliance with the latest circular issued by Bangladesh Bank, mobilize people and teams through engaging them with leading and vide DFIM Circular No. 13, dated November 30, 2015, directors are only cutting-edge financial industry practices and also as an attractive entitled to the remuneration for attending the meeting of the board employer. IDLC offers a broad spectrum of opportunities for both and its sub-committees. professional and personal development as well as a work environment that is characterized by respect, trust, cooperation and collaboAlso in compliance with the DFIM Circular No. 02, dated March 25, 2015, ration. We do so because the knowledge, skills and enthusiasm of of Bangladesh Bank, the remuneration of the CEO & Managing our employees are a major force that enables us to achieve consisDirector is approved by the Bangladesh Bank as recommended by tent growth. IDLC believes its human resource is the most important the board. driver of building and running the Company. Each and every employee is considered, developed and motivated to contribute optimally Remuneration of all other employees are determined by the CEO & towards the achievement of corporate goals. Managing Director. Human resources policy Number of Meetings held and work performed Disclosure of general description of the policies and practices codified and adopted by the Company with respect to human resource There were four meetings of the HR Compensation Committee in the development and management, including succession planning, 2017. merit-based recruitment process, performance appraisal system, criteria for promotion and reward and motivation, training and Work Performed in 2017 development, grievance management and counselling. The four meetings were held with following agenda: Organisational chart January 2017IDLC’s organizational chart outlines the internal structure of the Employee promotion phase I Company. It emphasizes on the roles, responsibilities and relationships between individuals within the Company. It is used to depict the Performance bonus structure of IDLC as a whole as well as the Company segregated by divisions and departments. June 2017Salary revision Structure Employee promotion phase II The Company’s management structure comprises the CEO, Managing Director and the management team (ManCom). The ManCom is responsible for developing organisational and business strategies, Remuneration of chairman, directors, CEO and senior embracing innovation and ensuring that the Company conforms to executives best governance and operating practices. The ManCom is also responsible for organizational effectiveness and the development of Chairman & directors: IDLC’s values and culture. The ManCom is responsible for managing IDLC’s performance and key business issues in line with the CompaAs stated earlier, in compliance with the policy mentioned earlier, the ny’s long-term strategy and for talent and performance managechairman of the board and other members are entitled to the ment. The ManCom is chaired by the CEO & Managing Director and remunerations. the team meets face-to-face on a regular basis. Remuneration of senior executives Management Committee (ManCom) Remuneration for senior executives is market-based and competitive in order to attract, motivate and retain skilled and competent employThe Management Committee is a group elected among the manageees. The total remuneration package to senior executives comprises ment staff to take responsibility of the governance and strategic basic pay, allowances, retirement benefits (Gratuity and Provident direction of IDLC. The role of the Management Committee is to Fund) and other benefits as per company’s policies. Executives are oversee IDLC in accordance with its Constitution under the Financial also paid a variable amount each year (yearly performance bonus) Institutions Act, 1993. determined based on the performance of the company and the outcome in the executive’s personal area of responsibility and The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing individually established targets that were set in the beginning of the operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the year. Executive Officer. A significant feature of good governance is a clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of the committee from those of the Executive Officer. ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the big picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and whether the goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and objectives within the overall budget. 94 Performance review Communication and Relationship with Shareholders The CEO is responsible for setting financial targets as well as Strategy to facilitate effective communication with shareoperational and management goals for the members of the holders ManCom. Both short-term and long-term goals form part of the performance management of all senior executives. Longterm goals It is the Company’s policy that all external communication by the are directly linked with the Company’s vision. Short-term goals are generally directly linked to the objectives of the Company. The CEO Company will: and the Evaluation Committee conduct a detailed review of the performance of senior executives against these goals on an annual Be factual and subject to internal vetting and authorization before basis at the end of each year. issue Not omit material information IDLC Ladies Forum (IDLC LF) Express information in a timely, clear and objective manner IDLC strongly believes that all stakeholders should have access to IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal ceremony complete information on its activities, performance and product with the participation of all the female employees from different levels initiatives. of positions, working areas and distribution points to address their views, problems and opinions to facilitate a better working Way of communication with the stakeholders environment for them. This Forum will provide all women employees the opportunity for networking and provide a common platform to The following diagram illustrates the multiple channels of share and raise various issues and problems like discrimination, communication with shareholders: harassment, negative attitude towards women and any other issue that may affect women employees within the Company. This will enable IDLC’s management to better understand and address these issues and develop strategies accordingly. Channels of communication with stakeholders Annual General Meetings Average attendance of 2017 Investor meeting Reports and Announcements shareholders in: Over 50 investor meetings  Annual report & Sustainability report Past 5 years: 258 Teleconference meetings with  Quarterly financial statements 2017: 315 potential foreign investors  Price sensitive disclosures  Announcements and press releases 2017 Shareholders visits 2017 Analyst briefings IDLC Website Around 75 visits by 396 Quarterly analyst briefings Updates of recent financial shareholders discussing each quarter information and latest including year end financial investor information performances  Analyst briefing materials 95 Communication through website The Company’s website www.idlc.com displays, inter-alia, the Annual Directors and express their views regarding the Company’s business, Reports, half yearly reports, quarterly reports, monthly business its future prospects and other matters of interest. The shareholders reviews, product offerings, recent announcements, presentations and are always encouraged to attend the meetings or, if they are unable event updates. to attend, to appoint proxies. All disclosures required by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission, Listing Regulations of the Dhaka Stock Exchange Limited The shareholders who attend the AGM have the option to ask and the Chittagong Stock Exchange Limited and the Bangladesh questions and give suggestions to the Board members during the Bank in the form of Price Sensitive Information (PSI) are made AGM. The CEO & Managing Director, on behalf of the Board, answers adequately and promptly. In addition to ensuring timely compliance, the queries of the shareholders. this also enables dissemination of information to all stakeholders and the public through print and online media. Percentage of shareholders who have attended Communication through quarterly reports the Annual General Meeting in the last ve years 72.40% 71.92% 67.44% 70.63% 71.72% The Company reports to its shareholders four times a year through quarterly and half-yearly reports and a detailed Annual Report. Quarterly earning disclosure In the following day of the authentication of quarterly financial statements by the board, IDLC arranges a quarterly earning disclosure meeting with the analyst, press and foreign investors through webinar to explain and update further about the company in addition to the financials. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 28 29 30 31 32 Policy on ensuring participation of shareholders Financial Year & AGM No. The Members whose names would appear in the Register of AGM attendance % of Non Executive Directors, Members of the company and/or in the Depository on the ‘Record Independent Directors & Statutory Auditors Date’ will be eligible to attend AGM and entitled to the Dividend as Non Executive Directors Independent Directors Statutory Auditors approved. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 78% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% A Member may appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his/her place 100% by filling proxy form as per Article 103 of the Articles of Association 33% 56% 44% 67% 56% 50% of the company. The proxy form, duly completed and stamped, must be deposited at the office not later than 72 hours before the time scheduled for holding the meeting. Pursuant to Article 81 of the Articles of Association, a corporate member of the company, by resolution of the Board of Directors or 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 other Governing Body of such body corporate, may authorize such 27 28 29 30 31 32 Financial Year & AGM No. person as it thinks fit, to act as representative at any meeting of the members of the company. Annual Report, Attendance Slip and Proxy Form along with the Notice Process of communicating the schedule will be sent to all the Members by Courier Service/ Post. The At least 14 to 21 days before the AGM, hard copies of the Annual Members may also collect the Proxy Form from the Registered Office Report and notice of the AGM are mailed to shareholders as on the of the company. These will also be available in the website of the Record Date. Notice of the AGM is sent to the Dhaka Stock Exchange company: www.idlc.com. (DSE), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), online newspapers and print media. The notice of the AGM is also made Members/proxies are need to register their entry at the AGM in the available on the company website. counter at the entrance of the AGM venue. Environmental and Social Obligation Communication through AGM Policy and practices on environmental and social All shareholders have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting obligation where they can meet and communicate with the At IDLC, we believe in the concept of a sustainable business, one that integrates good governance, environmental issues 96 and social concerns with its business strategies to maximize value IDLC’s Overall Governance for stakeholders. IDLC’s sustainability model is based on the 3P approach People, Planet and Profit: At IDLC, the Board of Directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that it achieves its strategic objectives. It meets regularly to determine the Company’s strategic direction, to review the Company’s operating and financial performance, to set the Company’s risk appetite and to Profit provide oversight that the Company is adequately resourced and effectively controlled. The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in its Terms of Reference (ToR) that address a wide range of corporate governance issues and list those items that are specifically CSR reserved for decision by the Board. Matters requiring Board approval include: Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring People Planet Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy Group risk appetite and framework and risk management People, our stakeholders with whom we engage for our policies business and the community where we live Corporate governance Planet, our surrounding environment and the planet Others (shareholder documentation, Board and committee Profit, our profit-generating capacity for long-term sustenance succession planning, constitution of Board committees, Board effectiveness review, committee reports and key business Accordingly, IDLC has aligned its CSR (corporate social responsibility) policies) initiatives to deliver on this commitment and aid community empowerment and responsible environmental management in a sustainIn pursuit of business sustainability and within the ambit of our able manner. integrated reporting framework, our governance structure, stewarded by our well-composed Board (as detailed above with regards to Activities undertaken their core responsibilities), helps in value creation over the medium and long term. Some of the drivers that enable us to generate At IDLC, we are also focusing on Earth and its sustainability, shifting consistent value include the following: from the traditional financing approach. In this regard, we are making our credit appraisal process to be much more stringent from an environmental and social (E&S) perspective – evaluating all the Our robust organizational leadership structure is composed of environmental and social factors such as project impacts on the diversity that enables us to foster and converge a range of environment and the community in the long run, prior to approving a opinions and perspectives that are aligned with the long-term loan. Being the only listed member of UNEP FI, we have been interests of the Company. Our highest levels of compliance following Environmental Risk Management guideline 2011 by Banglawith all the statutory and regulatory requirements and desh Bank. Taking this approach one step further, IDLC is in the uncompromised stance with regards to ethics in our process of adopting an extensive environmental and social manageday-to-day business have led to the creation of a robust ment system (ESMS) across the organization with assistance from governance structure that ultimately delivers sustainable FMO, a Dutch development bank, and FI Konsult, IDLC’s appointed stakeholder value; consultant for this project. The overall goal of this project is to help IDLC identify customers with potentially high environmental and social We embrace a wide range of both generic as well as specific risks, enable them to evaluate the E&S performance of such processes to take strategic decisions and also establish and customers through its due diligence and credit appraisal processes monitor the culture of the organization on an ongoing basis, and make those customers, especially who are not in compliance including its attitude to risk and mechanisms for addressing with local E&S regulations, behave more responsibly through the use integrity and ethical issues. As a core demonstration of our of environmental or social covenants in the facility agreements. This seriousness with regards to governance and compliance with project will not only satisfy the Central Bank’s requirements but also the laws of the land, we ensure that all our members enable IDLC to comply with internationally-acceptable risk managethoroughly understand our comprehensive Code of Conduct ment standards. Furthermore, execution of the green banking policy, and sign it at the beginning of every year, ratifying their which is in line with IFC Performance Standard, ADB Safeguard Policy alignment with our ethics and philosophies; and Bangladesh Bank guidelines is considered as yet another milestone towards sustainability. During the course of business, we take a wide range of actions including analyzing key financial metrics, aligning resources with our growth aspirations and forecasting key risks that might impact our business over the long-term and their potential mitigation strategies. These help us influence course corrections, if any, in the path to achieving our goals and objectives as well as monitor the strategic direction of the organization within the ambit of our overall risk management framework; 97 Our robust organizational culture, ethics and values, nurtured over the years with care and sensitivity, is visible in the strength of our relationships with key stakeholders. We are not only the financial destination of choice among our customers who have reposed their faith and trust in us but also an employer of choice among our members due to an inspiring, engaging, motivating and enriching workplace that we provide to all our employees. Our high standards of governance and the attractiveness of our long-term structural growth prospects have made us an investment of choice among a broad range of institutional shareholders both local and foreign and other reputed financial participants in the market. Thus IDLC’s shares have been concentrated among limited no. of shareholders specially institutions, which has reflected in the following graph: Total Number of Shareholders against Total Number of Shares No. of Shareholders Total No. Shares 400,000,000 12,418 12,263 350,000,000 10,787 300,000,000 9,293 8,309 250,000,000 8,064 200,000,000 150,000,000 201,093,750 251,367,187 251,367,187 377,050,780 100,000,000 123,750,000 160,875,000 50,000,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In our focus on reinforcing our governance culture and framework, we are implementing ongoing governance practices that go beyond the stipulated legal requirements. For instance, our focus on green banking not only fosters the development of green assets and environmental friendly practices but, in fact, aims to create an overall compliant corporate culture by helping clients understand and mitigate key environmental and social risks in their long-term plans and manufacturing facilities; One of the agenda of our Board is also to gauge the levels of innovation fostered within the enterprise even as the diversity of our Board enables us to understand the key trends shaping the market / industry and convert these into relevant business opportunities. Our women entrepreneur empowerment product, IDLC Purnota, is an excellent case in point demonstrating our ability to innovate a solution around a pressing need that of ensuring viability among women in business. Our best-in-class remuneration and incentives structures are continually aligned with the market, ensuring that our pay and benefit structures are among the best in the industry. These not only enable us to attract and retain core talent but also keep our workforce motivated and engaged enough for the organization to reach its short, medium and long range goals and objectives, thus fostering a win-win relationship. 98 P art III | Stakeh o l der E n g a g eme n t fo r R e p o r t i n g IDLC since 2011, has been publishing the Annual Sustainability Report in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. The report is prepared in accordance with sustainability reporting guidelines G4 issued by GRI which reflect IDLC’s contribution towards creating economic, social and environmental value. In accordance with the G4 stakeholder engagement section, we have collected information from several sources, both financial and non-financial. The IDLC team has tried to identify sustainable business objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing practices and, if required, embrace corrective measures through the IDLC business model, annually. Although the concept of CSR is slowly gaining ground, practicing it to the full extent still remains a challenge for many companies and organisations. Enhanced awareness and communication on the sustainability and strategic aspects of CSR needs to be imparted to stakeholders, which will accordingly shape their expectations in terms of the organisation’s CSR performance. In consideration of the above, IDLC has engaged with regulators, management and employees to identify their preferences, concerns and expectations from IDLC. Sustainability Key stakeholders Sustainable business objectives dimension targeted Economic Customers Provide quality products that meet customer needs Careful management of operations to protect customer interest, especially those of depositors Suppliers/ service Adhere to proper procurement regulations while maintaining a good providers business relationship with the service providers Regulators Ensure compliance with all regulatory guidelines and directives Social Employees Continuously encourage staff and work towards creating a healthy, ethical and supportive work environment Engaging staff in activities and sports other than business as usual, to achieve a balanced and productive environment which is beneficial to both employees and IDLC Local communities Implementing initiatives targeted at marginalised communities and the underprivileged, to address requirements of the society in education and skills development, healthcare and overall poverty alleviation Enhancing financial access to the marginalised Environmental Environmental/ Conducting business without harming the environment Non-Government Organisations 99 Stakeholders engaged Engagement process Key issues raised by stakeholders Regulators Email correspondence Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Telephonic conversation Circular issued by Company’s vision and compliance of initiatives in line with SDG Sustainable Finance Department of Bangladesh Bank Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and the community Management Discussions (one-on-one) and Groups Employee engagement and championing volunteerism Corporate governance, ethics and compliance Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Financial performance Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and Green Banking initiatives Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Employees Discussions Experience of being associated with CSR initiative Khushir Kheya campaign Every branch to own projects and be the lighthouse Career growth and development opportunities Safe and healthy work environment Regulators One-on-one meetings Corporate governance, ethics and compliance Circular issued by Bangladesh Bank on Green Banking and CSR Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and the community 100 Management Discussions Corporate governance, ethics and compliance Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Financial performance Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and Green Banking initiatives Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Professionalism at work Employees Discussions Remuneration and benefits Career growth and development opportunities Fair treatment Safe and healthy work environment Work-life balance Employee grievance management 101 Material Aspects Identified As per GRI, materiality is the threshold of the sustainability subjects covered by the guidelines – known as ‘Aspects’ – which become sufficiently important that they should be reported. Based on the issues raised by the stakeholders during the engagement process, the following material aspects have been identified and included in this report: Economic Biodiversity Compliance Employment, occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Equal remuneration for women and men Non-discrimination Local communities Anti-corruption Marketing communications Customer privacy Boundary Defined The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues stated above and how these significantly influence performance, both within and outside the organisation. Category Aspects Material within the organisation Material outside the organisation Economic Economic Yes NA performance Procurement practices Environmental Energy Yes Yes Biodiversity Any negative influence on protected and/ or high This aspect is material for the environment and Compliance biodiversity areas caused by IDLC’s operations for the communities living close to protected may lead to fines/ sanctions/ loss of license to and/ or high biodiversity areas. operate/ negative publicity. Social 1. Labour practices and decent work Employment and occupational health and Yes NA safety Training and education Yes NA Diversity and equal opportunity Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where 102 IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations/ branch networks. Equal remuneration for women and men Yes NA II. Human rights Child labour Yes NA Security practices Yes NA Non-discrimination Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations/ branch networks. III. Society/ local communities Local communities NA Yes This aspect is material for local communities where IDLC has operations or investments in projects. Anti-corruption Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers and other stakeholders. IV. Product responsibility Customer health and safety Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers. Marketing communications Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s existing and potential customer groups. Customer privacy Yes Yes Maintaining privacy of sensitive customer This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers. information is one of the major priorities of IDLC’s staff and a significant part of its employee Code of Conduct. 103 Part IV| G RI G 4 Re p o rt i n g I n dex The report is ‘In Accordance’ with “Core” standards of the G4 guidelines. Accordingly, the general and specific standard disclosures have been detailed below GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE – IN ACCORDANCE’ CORE CONTENT/CHAPTER PAGE NO Strategy and Analysis G4 1 Statement of the Chairman of the Board 1 Statement of the CEO & Managing Director 2 IDLC’s Statement of corporate governance 72-80 Organisational Profile G4 3 IDLC Finance Limited G4 4 Our range of products and services 42 G4 5 Corporate Head Office: Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 G4 6 Countries Served: Bangladesh G4 7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form: Public Limited Company G4 8 The Company 41 Our branches our located across districts including Dhaka (Dhaka, Savar, Keraniganj and Imamganj), Narayanganj (Narayanganj and Bhulta), Gazipur (Gazipur and Tongi), Narshingdi, Chittagong, Kushtia, Mymensingh, Comilla, Bogra, Natore, Jessore, Khulna, Sylhet (Sylhet, Habiganj), Rangpur, Khulna, Barisal, Faridpur, Rajshahi,Chowmuhani G4 9 The Company 41 The Company G4 10 68-71 Human Capital G4 11 100% employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements The nature of our operations limits dependence on material or service procurement from external bodies. Our major Our major suppliers include providers of office equipment’s, including G4 12 furniture, computers, kitchen appliances etc.; agencies for event organisation; contractors for maintenance of our branches; third-party agencies providing office assistants, security guards, cleaners etc. The Company G4 13 48-57  Business Segment Review  Subsidiary Review 58-67 G4 14 IDLC’s Statement of Corporate Governance 72-80 Our Stand 5 CSR – Why 6 G4 15 Green Banking 36-39 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 35 104 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries IDLC’s subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited and IDLC Asset G4 17 Management Liability have been included in the consolidated financial statements and accordingly have been covered in the Annual Financial Report 2017 and Annual Sustainability Report 2017 G4 18 Reporting Parameters 4 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting G4 19 102 Material Aspects identified Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting G4 20 Boundary defined for each 102-103 Material Aspect G4 22 No information has been restated from that of the last report This report has been prepared following the GRI-G4 guidelines. Major change in the scope of the report from G3.1 guidelines has been in terms of engaging with stakeholder groups to G4 23 identify the most material aspects that influences the organisation’s economic, social and environmental performances, as well as influences stakeholder perception. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation include Regulators, Management and G4 24 Employees G4 25 G4 26 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 99-101 G4 27 Report Profile G4 28 January 1, 2017 December 31, 2017 G4 29 April 2017 G4 30 Annual G4 31 Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, Mobile +88-0173-0374585, Email: hayesha@idlc.com G4 32 GRI Content Index G4 33 No external assurance has been sought for this report Governance G4 34 G4 40 G4 45 Corporate Governance 72-80 G4 46 G4 51 G4 52 Ethics and Integrity G4 56 The Company 41 G4 58 Corporate Governance 72-80 Human Capital 68-71 105 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES IDLC has tried to identify sustainable business objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing practices and if required, take corrective measures through the business model annually. For this report, IDLC has only coordinated with customers and service providers who closely interact with the CSR department on pilot basis so that going forward, the process can be refined and more customers can be approached and information gathered more efficiently. Indicators by Aspects Category : Economic Economic Performance PARTICULARS CHAPTER Page No G4 -–EC 1 The Company 41 G4 -–EC 4 CSR Why 06 Our Acts and Initiatives 7-34 G4 -–EC 8 Our Acts and Initiatives 7-34 Category : Environmental Energy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–EN6 Our Acts and Initiatives 25-28 Green Banking 36-39 Biodiversity PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–EN 11 IDLC does not own, lease or manage any operational site that are adjacent to protected areas and/or areas of high G4 -–EN 12 IDLC does not engage in any business or operation that has any form of direct and/or indirect impact onbiodiversity Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–EN 29 IDLC has neither been party to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations of the country norhas it faced any fines in this regard CATEGORY : SOCIAL PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–LA 1 Human Capital 68-71 G4 -–LA 2 Human Capital 68-71 G4 -–LA 3 18 (Eighteen) staff underwent maternity leave in 2017, with a 100 percent retention rate Training and Education PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–LA 9 Human Capital 68-71 106 IDLC HR conducted 122 local and foreign trainings in 2017, selected trainings are listed below: Internal Fraud Control Strategies 7 Strategies for High Performance Team Global SME Finance Forum 2017 – Housing Finance Management-2017 Practical Resilience for Leaders Integrity and Anticorruption in Financial Sector G4 LA 10 Professional Etiquette Loan Recovery , Re-Schedule & Re-Structuring and NPL Management CAMLCO Conference-2017 Green Bricks Workshop-2017 Cyber Security in Banks & Non-Banking Financial Institute: Secure your Money through Knowledge The Digital Revolution and Fintech Annual Banking Conference 2017 Service Quality Guideline Legal Documentation G4 -–LA 11 Human Capital 68-71 Labour and Management Relations PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 LA 12 The standard notice period is one month for such operational changes; however, this period may vary depending on the nature of operation and duties and responsibilities of the concerned officials Equal Remuneration for Women and Men PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–LA 13 IDLC offers similar basic salaries to all male and female staff for each employment category. Any difference in gross salary is determined by the individual’s performance, not his/her gender CATEGORY : HUMAN RIGHTS Non -discrimination PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–HR 3 No incident of discrimination has been notified to the Human Resource Department by employees through formal or informal channels CATEGORY : SOCIETY Local Communities PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 SO 1 CSR Why 6 Acts and Initiatives 7-34 Contribution to the national 44 economy Anti -corrupti on PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 SO 4 Corporate Governance – G4 -–SO 5 IDLC’s policy mandates immediate dismissal of employees proven to be involved in any form of corruption within and/or outside the organisation, and IDLC strictly adheres to this policy. Formal – 107 channels are in place for stakeholder to file complaints against any malpractice by any IDLC staff and accordingly actions are taken by the respective departments Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 SO 8 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with laws and regulations of the country and has not faced any fines/ non-monetary sanctions in this regard. CATEGORY : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communications PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 PR 7 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorships Customer Privacy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 -–PR 8 IDLC has not been party to any incident related to breaches of customer privacy and/or loss of customer data 108 Tel: +88 (02) 8834990 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Facsimile: +88 (02) 8834377 Bay's Galleria (1st Floor) Contact Center: 16409 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan-1, Dhaka-1212 E-mail: contactcenter@idlc.com Web: www.idlc.com
