2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Table of Contents Letter From Our CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Communication on Progress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Progress Highlights by the Numbers . . . . . . . . . . 11 Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Labor Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Letter from our CEO It is truly a pleasure to submit our Fifth Communication on Ureña, Secretary of the Department of Veterans’ Services of the Progress (COP) Report to the United Nations. We welcomed 2018 Commonwealth of Massachusetts. In an effort to foster good will with both high energy and reflections of celebrations from a year to support the psychological wellbeing of our veterans, we were robust in support to our community with many meaningful events delighted to make a charitable contribution to Fishing with Warriors, in alignment with our organizational values and with the values of a volunteer-run nonprofit organization founded by veterans who the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGP). seeks to help veterans and service men and women participate in Throughout this period, we initiated numerous programs to inspire and enjoy sporting events and experiences to create more joy and our youth, honor our Veteran community, and did our part to make happiness in their lives. a difference within the region through our commitment to numerous Another highlight from this year was our contribution to the Town nonprofit organizations. The past year was dynamic, engaging, and of Westborough’s 300th Anniversary with the design of numerous filled with an abundance of positive momentum, creative strategy, collateral materials including a keepsake 300th Anniversary and steadfast focus. Booklet/Magazine, which featured the significant milestone of its We present this COP as proud members of the UNGP in the history, communications from elected officials and members of the United States of America. Over the past year, we have witnessed Westborough business community. PENTA salutes the entire 300th tremendous activity globally with diplomacy at many levels of the Anniversary Committee for their abundant and tireless efforts in UN. As the world continues to evolve, we recognize the necessity creating a memorable year filled with many events and celebrations. for the business community to be highly aligned and supportive Our Director of Operations, Lydia Goldblatt, was honored and of its mission to help strengthen all of humanity by doing its part recognized for her decades of volunteerism and commitment to to create a positive and supportive approach to assisting Human the Town of Westborough and was selected to serve as the Grand Rights initiatives and ensuring environmental sustainability through Marshal of the 300th Anniversary Parade. We were so happy and our regional efforts and contributions to society. Now, more than proud of her for this lifetime achievement. ever, businesses should rise to the occasion and set a positive PENTA continued its support of the Westborough Economic example for others to follow. Development Committee with our marketing and public relations Highlights from our past year include the furtherance of our support to further economic development growth. We planned and commitment to education as we welcomed the third class of PENTA produced the Committee’s Fourth Annual Review and Celebratory Marketing Mentor Scholars™ to our highly acclaimed program, Event, which gathered nearly 200 leaders together and where the helping extraordinary high school seniors connect with C-level Lt. Governor delivered a powerful keynote address. Handling every executives as they participated on numerous outreach visits to facet of this event since its inception, we were encouraged to see companies helping to shape innovation. We collaborated with the attendance nearly double in size and to see so many organizations Westborough Public School System on its mission to brand The honored. It was a pleasure to provide this assistance. As the Boro Program, which offers assistance and life/workforce readiness Chairman of this Committee for four consecutive years, our CEO is to young adults. This Program was launched in December 2017 fully committed to helping the Town improve its strategy, outreach, and we were proud to be part of the marketing and packaging of and communications efforts as it relates to improved economic this initiative. We also had the privilege of aiding the Worcester development activity and results. Public School System through the design and development of a During the most recent COP period, we continued our support website housing its strategic planning efforts to help enlighten and of human rights through collaborations and assistance with educate all of its stakeholders. We had the pleasure of developing human service organizations. We supported the YWCA of Central the Westborough High School Annual Student Profile, which assists Massachusetts by contributing to its Katharine Forbes Erskine the school in its marketing efforts to collegiate recruiters and Awards Luncheon and our CEO had the pleasure of serving in a admissions departments across the nation. leadership role as its Chairman for the fourth consecutive year. In In May, we proudly continued our support of our United States addition, we are working with the organization to help brand and Veteran community through our signature Flag Raising Ceremony evangelize its Capital Campaign, which will raise enough funding and festivities, celebrating Military Appreciation Month. Bringing to significantly improve its flagship facility, providing a better together members of our regional Veteran community, the experience and enhanced environment for the women, children, families of former and present service men and women, and and families it serves. Our CEO is proud to serve as one of the hosting a ceremony to illuminate our American Flag, which we Major Gift Chairs for this initiative as well. display with tremendous pride at our historic property. Over 100 With regards to other organizations that support women and people joined the ceremony. Our regional legislative delegation children in need, our firm also donated countless hours of paid participated including Senate Majority Leader Harriet Chandler employee/staff time to design and facilitate the launch of a new (D), Senator Michael Moore (D), Senator Jamie Eldridge (D), website for Abby’s House in Worcester. Abby’s House was founded Representative Hannah Kane (R), Representative Carolyn Dykema in 1976 as the Abby Kelley Foster House, Inc. (Abby’s House) and (D), Representative Danielle Gregoire (D), and Francisco A. the organization has provided more than 11,500 homeless women Continued on page 5 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Letter from our CEO Continued and children with a safe place to stay, regroup, and rebuild. It was one of the first shelters for women, with or without children, in the United States. When called upon by the local nonprofit organization, In Your Shoes, which provides assistance on numerous levels to people in need in the Town in which our offices are based, we stepped up with a charitable donation during the Holiday Season. With a commitment to the environment and sustainability, when asked to contribute to the efforts of a beautification project in the Town of Westborough, we sponsored a Westborough Flower Pot in the center of Town and joined with several other businesses to support the success of this initiative. In addition, we hosted an event, which provided education and information to all interested parties from throughout the region to learn about the walking and cycling trail project that was unfolding. We are very pleased that our building will be part of this effort as the walking and cycling trails will connect to trails that will stretch from the Berkshires to Framingham. With an easement behind the property, this project will offer our employees an opportunity to enjoy the health and wellness benefits of lunchtime walking, outdoor time prior to or after work, and our location will be a historical feature for all those who pass the building each day once this project is complete. Our Marketing Innovation and Customer Insights Center was packed with interested community members, municipal and community leaders, and interested residents who learned about this ongoing project. Our Creative Team streamed this presentation on Facebook Live, affording those who could not attend with an opportunity to hear this information first-hand. Finally, although there were numerous other highlights from the past year, and other themes to report on which will be listed later in the report, we would like to express our sincerest gratitude to the Boy Scouts of America and its Mayflower Council for recognizing our CEO with the 2017 Good Scout Award. It was overwhelming to receive such a wonderful and beautiful honor and celebratory event, which brought together nearly 200 people from the community. Our Lt. Governor, Karyn Polito, who, has been a friend for over two decades, and all members of our elected delegation attended and spoke at the event. We are also deeply appreciative to Mike Angelini of Bowditch and Dewey who served as the event MC and to Secretary Francisco Ureña, a former US Marine and Eagle Scout, who was the featured speaker. Most especially, many thanks to the Committee that planned the event, and all of the Boy Scouts that attended and played such a special role in the evening. And now, as we look forward to the year ahead, we are excited to continue our good work and to live our mission and values fostering a great place to work for our team and a better region for our community. It is truly an honor and privilege to support the UNGP principles. Deborah Penta Founder & CEO PENTA Communications, Inc. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2017 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses t PENTA continued its commitment to regional nonprofit organizations that support and Rights should support respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards economic selfand respect the sufficiency through education and assistance programs. These organizations included Abby’s protection of House, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Boy Scouts of America, CENTRO, Veterans Inc., Worcester internationally Community Action Council, and the YWCA; proclaimed human t PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community rights; organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; 2. And make sure they are not complicit t PENTA’s leadership served as Corporators for the human rights nonprofit organizations Seven in human rights Hills Foundation, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Greater Worcester Community Foundation; abuses. t PENTA was a presenting sponsor of the YWCA Tribute to Women Event in 2017 for the Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards, recognizing extraordinary female leaders who have exhibited exemplary achievements in Business and Law, Art and Culture, Science, Medicine, Education, Government, and Youth Leadership – also honoring and triumphing equality for all women and girls who support racial justice and equality. In addition, our CEO served a leadership role as the Chairman of the 2017 Tribute to Erskine Committee for the fourth consecutive year; t In May 2017, PENTA hosted its Third Annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished Veterans. The Company also made a donation to benefit Fishing with Warriors, a nonprofit organization that helps provide joy to veterans and service men and women through positive recreational activities and experiences. The Company was recognized by State Senators Michael Moore (D) and Jamie Eldridge (D) and Senate Majority Leader Harriette Chandler (D), and Representatives Carolyn Dykema (D), Hannah Kane (R), and Danielle Gregorie (D). Our Firm was also recognized by the Office of the Governor through the Department of Veterans’ Services; t PENTA provided needed assistance through a donation to In Your Shoes, a nonprofit organization that helps provide assistance to community members in need; and t In November of 2017, PENTA made a significant contribution for the Boy Scouts of America in both pro-bono services and in a charitable donation, helping to increase the success of its annual fundraiser helping it to net the most in its event history. Labor 3. Businesses t PENTA celebrated the Birthdays of all of its team members and created special events such Standards should uphold as “Muffin Mondays,” Catered Luncheons, provided “Anniversary Gift Cards,” and other the freedom of enjoyable celebratory moments; association and t PENTA’s Football Friday Luncheon Series continued and is well received, providing our team the effective with free lunches from the area’s best restaurants. We also had a special off-site Holiday recognition of the Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted other events throughout the year for the team. right to collective bargaining; t The PENTA Team continued to enjoy its Team Clubhouse and furnished its Game Room with a pool table, table tennis, and air hockey. Another big hit is the availability of peanut butter 4. the elimination pretzels and the spontaneous ice cream treats found in the staff kitchen; of all forms of t PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce compulsory labor; Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job opportunities in the region. She also served 5. the effective on Personnel Committees for two Boards during the COP year helping organizations uphold abolition of child best practices for reviewing and hiring; labor; t In the most recent COP period alone, PENTA hosted 55 catered meal events to benefit its 6. and the elimination employees; of discrimination t PENTA offers its team free parking, free Wi-Fi, coffee, tea, beverages, and onsite snacks; and in respect of employment and t PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program™ fostering high-level marketing occupation. knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 How PENTA Implemented the Ten Global Principles in 2017 Continued Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses t PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. Our full service networked printer, server and equipment, streamlines a precautionary production of printed paper to conserve on ink and paper usage. In 2017, our approach to printing was reduced by 50% in comparison to 2016, with more of our efforts environmental becoming more digital based; challenges; t PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing 8. undertake initiatives strategies within their businesses; to promote greater environmental t PENTA sourced 98% of its products and services locally; responsibility; t PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage t PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of the development electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office; and and diffusion of t PENTA encouraged and hosted an event showcasing the benefits of the cycling environmentally and walking trails to be constructed behind the building to promote health and friendly wellbeing through trail use. technologies. Anti10. Businesses should t PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations and Corruption work against relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our core values corruption in all of ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of transparency in our its forms, including client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical behavior on any level. extortion and In this COP period, our CEO received the 2017 Good Scout Award from the Boy bribery. Scouts of America. This honor is bestowed upon an individual who demonstrates the highest integrity in all facets of his/her business and professional life. It is awarded to an individual who lives and acts in alignment with the Laws of Scouting. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 Progress by the Numbers 28 Years PENTA celebrated 28 years of providing the highest caliber integrated marketing services to its clients. 98% Percentage of PENTA suppliers that are local to the region. 756 Hours of time provided to 16 noteworthy nonprofit organizations in services during the COP Period including those that support human rights, economic development, arts and culture. 100% Percentage of building contractors within a 20-mile radius that PENTA utilizes to support its corporate office/facility. 55 Employee/Team events over the course of the COP period providing free meals to our staff. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle Highlights on Progress Human Rights 1. Businesses should t PENTA continued its commitment to regional nonprofit organizations that support support and respect and respect human rights by helping individuals and families work towards the protection economic self-sufficiency through education and assistance programs. These of internationally organizations included Abby’s House, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Boy Scouts of proclaimed human America, CENTRO, Veterans Inc., Worcester Community Action Council, and the rights; YWCA; t PENTA’s leadership continued its volunteer board service to a myriad of community 2. And make sure they are organizations that support the UN Human Rights Principle, including the Central not complicit in human Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board; rights abuses. t PENTA’s leadership served as Corporators for the human rights nonprofit organizations Seven Hills Foundation, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Greater Worcester Community Foundation; t PENTA was a presenting sponsor of the YWCA Tribute to Women Event in 2017 for the Katharine Forbes Erskine Awards, recognizing extraordinary female leaders who have exhibited exemplary achievements in Business and Law, Art and Culture, Science, Medicine, Education, Government, and Youth Leadership – also honoring and triumphing equality for all women and girls who support racial justice and equality. In addition, our CEO served a leadership role as the Chairman of the 2017 Tribute to Erskine Committee for the fourth consecutive year; t In May 2017, PENTA hosted its Third Annual Flag Raising Ceremony in Celebration of National Military Appreciation Month and in honor of our distinguished Veterans. The Company also made a donation to benefit Fishing with Warriors, a nonprofit organization that helps provide joy to veterans and service men and women through positive recreational activities and experiences. The Company was recognized by State Senators Michael Moore (D) and Jamie Eldridge (D) and Senate Majority Leader Harriette Chandler (D), and Representatives Carolyn Dykema (D), Hannah Kane (R), and Danielle Gregorie (D). Our Firm was also recognized by the Office of the Governor through the Department of Veterans’ Services; t PENTA provided needed assistance through a donation to In Your Shoes, a nonprofit organization that helps provide assistance to community members in need; and t In November of 2017, PENTA made a significant contribution for the Boy Scouts of America in both pro-bono services and in a charitable donation, helping to increase the success of its annual fundraiser helping it to net the most in its event history. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standard Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Labor 3. Businesses should t PENTA celebrated the Birthdays of all of its team members and created special Standards uphold the freedom events such as “Muffin Mondays,” Catered Luncheons, provided “Anniversary Gift of association and the Cards,” and other enjoyable celebratory moments; effective recognition t PENTA’s Football Friday Luncheon Series continued and is well received, providing of the right to our team with free lunches from the area’s best restaurants. We also had a special collective bargaining; off-site Holiday Luncheon, which was fun for all, and hosted other events throughout the year for the team. 4. the elimination of all forms of compulsory t The PENTA Team continued to enjoy its Team Clubhouse and furnished its labor; Game Room with a pool table, table tennis, and air hockey. Another big hit is the availability of peanut butter pretzels and the spontaneous ice cream treats found in 5. the effective abolition the staff kitchen; of child labor; t PENTA’s CEO continued to serve on the Board of the Central Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board and also served as Chairman of the Westborough 6. and the elimination Economic Development Committee, which works to bring and grow job of discrimination opportunities in the region. She also served on Personnel Committees for two in respect of Boards during the COP year helping organizations uphold best practices for employment and reviewing and hiring; occupation. t In the most recent COP period alone, PENTA hosted 55 catered meal events to benefit its employees; t PENTA offers its team free parking, free Wi-Fi, coffee, tea, beverages, and onsite snacks; and t PENTA continued its Marketing Mentorship Scholar Program™ fostering high-level marketing knowledge and experience to high school students and encouraging stronger job placement opportunities. 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles Principle Highlights on Progress Environment 7. Businesses t PENTA continued its recycling efforts of paper, plastic products, and printer should support cartridges. Our full service networked printer, server and equipment, streamlines a precautionary production of printed paper to conserve on ink and paper usage. In 2017, our approach to printing was reduced by 50% in comparison to 2016, with more of our efforts environmental becoming more digital based; challenges; t PENTA continued to offer its clients a green line of services and made recommendations with respect to how its clients could execute green marketing 8. undertake initiatives strategies within their businesses; to promote greater environmental t PENTA sourced 98% of its products and services locally; responsibility; t PENTA employed 100% of its building contractors from within a 20-mile radius; 9. and encourage t PENTA made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of the development electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office; and and diffusion of t PENTA encouraged and hosted an event showcasing the benefits of the cycling environmentally and walking trails to be constructed behind the building to promote health and friendly technologies. wellbeing through trail use. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principle Highlights on Progress Anti10. Businesses should t PENTA maintains the highest ethical standards in all of its business operations and Corruption work against relationships. The firm seeks vendors that are in alignment with our core values corruption in all of ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of transparency in our its forms, including client relationships and will not tolerate any level of unethical behavior on any level. extortion and bribery. In this COP period, our CEO received the 2017 Good Scout Award from the Boy Scouts of America. This honor is bestowed upon an individual who demonstrates the highest integrity in all facets of his/her business and professional life. It is awarded to an individual who lives and acts in alignment with the Laws of Scouting. 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2018 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Dear Mr. Secretary-General: On behalf of PENTA Communications, Inc., I am delighted to reconfirm our company’s commitment to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. During our fifth year as a Global Company signatory, we made great progress in moving several initiatives forward and in both building and planting seeds for the future. As we look forward to our next COP period, we are both excited and energized to raise the bar with our efforts in marrying our community engagement to the ten principles, and, in addition, to strategically develop and implement ways that our organization can emerge to the next level in all areas for a stronger future. Every day, we seek to make a difference in our work and to the betterment of the world around us. We believe that by doing our part locally and regionally that we are indeed part of a movement that inspires a better global economy and a more positive global outlook for the future of our industry and the communities that we touch by our work. PENTA looks forward to making its mark by consciously making an effort to continue acts of kindness, support, and engagement to foster lasting and meaningful progress for a better tomorrow. We look forward to presenting our sixth Communication on Progress in the spring of 2019 and wish you the best of success for creating a culture of building more awareness throughout the globe for businesses like ours to navigate through their work in alignment with the UN Principles. We are looking forward to your continued positive leadership of the United Nations. All the best, Deborah Penta Chief Executive Officer PENTA Communications, Inc. The PENTA Building 208 Turnpike Road Westborough, MA 01581 USA 508.616.9900 www.pentamarketing.com
