SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTENTS AND KEY FEATURES Contents page Corporate profile 2 6. E mployee, community and asset 55 security Our 2017 performance 3 Page 5 7. Artisanal and small-scale mining 59 Page 9 Leadership messages 4 From the Chairperson (legal and illegal) The view of Executive Click to expand ofourthe Social, Ethics and About this report and selecting report content 10 8. Respecting human rights 63 Vice President, Sustainable Table of contents Sustainability Committee Strategy 13 9. Talent management, skills 66 Development development and employee relations Material issues 18 10. N  avigating political and regulatory 74 1. Employee safety 19 uncertainty and risk Data tables 79 2. Employee and community health 26 Economic value-added statement 120 3. C  ontributing to self-sustaining 35 communities Reporting assurance 121 4. R  esponsible environmental 44 How to use Our suite of reports 122 stewardship 5. Integrated closure management 51 Page 7 this report From the desk of the CEO HOW TO USE THIS REPORT This is an interactive PDF. Navigation tools at the top left of each page and within the report are indicated as follows. Interactive indicator Video Contents page Print Previous page Next page Undo Search Website Download Page reference Page 122 Page 15 Our 2017 suite Our Sustainable Page 18 Page 79 of reports Development journey Material issues Data tables S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 1 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CORPORATE PROFILE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AngloGold Ashanti, an international gold mining company with a globally diverse, high-quality portfolio of operations and projects, is Focus on people, Optimise overhead, safety and costs and capital headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa. Measured by production, sustainability expenditure AngloGold Ashanti is the third-largest gold mining company in the world. Our business must operate All spending decisions must according to our values if it is be checked and double AngloGold Ashanti produced 3.755Moz of gold in 2017, generating $4,356m in gold income, to remain sustainable in the checked to ensure they are utilising $953m capital expenditure. AngloGold Ashanti has an attributable Ore Reserve of necessary to fulfill our core long term. 49.5Moz of gold and an attributable Mineral Resource of 208.2Moz. business objective. STRATEGIC FOCU Improve ORE SA an sts d Im portfolio quality C a e n erh pe co e d, ditur pr ov ep We have a portfolio of AS or ov l ex tfo OUR O pt ca s i i im p e t a lio qu ali ty RE assets that must be actively managed as we strive for a competitive valuation as a business. Supporting our strategy for sustainable y nalit Ensu cash flow optio Ensure financial Maintain long-term re fin improvements and returns -term flexibility optionality ancia long l flex The balance sheet is the While we are focused on tain foundation of our company ensuring the most efficient ibilit Main day-to-day operation of our and we must ensure it y always remains able to meet business we must keep an our core funding needs. eye on creating a competitive Focus on people, safety and sustainability pipeline of long-term opportunities. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 2 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance OUR 2017 PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL UPDATES FROM OUR SUSTAINABLE HIGHLIGHTS OPERATING DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS JURISDICTIONS Production Safety Costs Employees Free cash flow Community Capital expenditure Environment S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 3 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance SECTION 2 LEADERSHIP Leaders set the company’s direction and tone within the organisation. From the Chairperson of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee 5 MESSAGES From the desk of the CEO 7 This is a powerful shaper of our sustainability maturity. View of the Executive Vice President 9 Sustainable Development S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 4 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance FROM THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE SOCIAL, ETHICS AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE term vision that looks far beyond short-term In 2017, our Social, Ethics and Sustainability financial performance only. Broader societal Committee continued to be active, making economic and social interests are paramount. progress in clarifying and explaining our efforts in relation to the requirements of the Fairer labour practices including more King IV Report on Corporate Governance. All equitable terms and conditions of service; requirements relevant to functioning of the increased and more robust community Enhancing Committee and to management processes and employee engagement; better and have been considered, and deficiencies have more sustainable supplier development been addressed. the industry’s and environmental stewardship; and the promotion of a culture responsive to As in previous years, as well as into the social licence corporate citizenship, human rights, ethical future, safety remains a top priority for and accountable leadership and management the board. The protection of people from to operate are not adversarial to growth and shareholder harm and maintaining their wellbeing is a value. Bold, wise and sensitive decision prerequisite for business success and our making as well as effective risk management social and legal licence to operate. We will that might enhance the industry’s social continue to interrogate any work-related loss Nozipho January-Bardill licence to operate are imperative to the long of life and introduce interventions which will Chairperson of the Social, Ethics and term success of mining. achieve our aspiration of “workplaces free Sustainability Committee In a world where poverty, inequality and of injury and harm”. Similarly, the health of corruption are prevalent, there are increasing Reimagining the way in which AngloGold employees and extending that to include GRI G4-18 calls for the mining industry, and the private Ashanti interacts with society is the our contribution to improving health of sector in general, to enhance its contribution essence of our approach to sustainable communities where we can make an impact, to addressing societal challenges. The United development and the strategy we pursue is receiving increasing attention. Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals to give it expression. In recognition of the (SDGs), along with the principles of the higher order role we must play along with While our focus on environmental risk Global Compact, serve as that clarion call for a range of stakeholders, including the management to prevent impacts and businesses to contribute more meaningfully to active engagement of governments in our harm, along with efficient use of resources T h e mining ind ustr y, con tinu es the universal challenges we face. jurisdictions. We have made much progress continues, we have extended our approach t o be a s ect or tha t p resents in embedding the SDGs into the business to exploring innovative uses of the natural s i gnif ica nt o pportu nities to To change current perceptions, the industry strategy. The 2030 company aspirations resources we use to conduct our business. needs to reinvent itself by transforming which are aligned to the SDGs provide This entails moving beyond focusing solely on p os it iv e l y co nt rib ute to n a tion al, its ideological approach to mining. The the motivation to develop the step change the threat, to finding ways to turn threats into r e g iona l and glob al econ om ic an d sustainable mining industry of the future activities needed to drive both our business opportunities which can create benefit to the s ocial dev e lo pm ent. appreciates that mining requires a longsuccess and our contribution to society. business as well as to a range of stakeholders. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 5 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance FROM THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE SOCIAL, ETHICS AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CONTINUED We will continue to work on building trust prerequisite to achieving and maintaining our with communities and society at large. This social licence to operate and in turn improve includes being open to community voices, our business success and sustainability. and embracing their ideas as they become As chairperson on the Social, Ethics and part of, and own the solutions we implement Sustainability Committee, I am encouraged by together. An important part of this is to help the direction we are pursuing as a company, create the opportunities and conditions for and am confident that we will take the host communities and countries to play an necessary steps to achieve our sustainable increasingly active role in the mining value development aspirations. chain, through the support of local business development and local procurement. By strengthening the local supply chain, we create a foundation for local players to thrive and to explore opportunities to create value for other Nozipho January-Bardill companies and even other industries. Chairperson of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee Building trust also requires that we continue 29 March 2018 our work to strengthen integrity within our own organisation and the way in which we conduct business. This includes addressing gender parity, and working resolutely to increase the representation of women at senior levels in the company. It also means that we must be beyond reproach in ensuring respect for human rights, and the integrity we reflect as we conduct business with suppliers and other partners. In this sense, trust is a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 6 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance FROM THE DESK OF THE CEO ‘soft issues’ and were divorced from core, In 2017, we took the bold step of aligning technical and financial aspects of the our sustainability strategy with the United business. There can be no debate that Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals, there is no space for that approach – which and embedding the prioritised goals into our relegated sustainability to a box-ticking strategy. This followed our ongoing efforts exercise – in a modern mining industry. over several years to improve the integration Compliance alone, is not enough, if we are of sustainability into the business. While I hope to retain our license to operate, and win Consistency, that a reading of our Integrated Report and the trust and support of the countries and Sustainability Report will demonstrate how far communities in which we operate. we have come in this respect, we acknowledge reliability, At AngloGold Ashanti, we have worked hard to distinguish ourselves in every that there is always room for improvement. discipline Looking at our performance for 2017, our area of our business: our production safety outcomes in the first half of the year performance, rigorous cost management, demonstrated how far we have come in and delivery and continuing efforts to optimise our portfolio, are all important determinants of our competitiveness. But so, too, is our embedding a strong safety culture, and worldclass protocols across our operations. The latter half of the year, however, was bitterly sustainable development performance. Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan: disappointing, when a string of seismic events If we are a valued contributor to societal Chief Executive Officer We deal with the full suite of political, at certain South African mines reversed those development, we will be a preferred partner economic and social challenges, across gains. I take the loss of life personally, and by hosts. the three continents and nine countries in the seven fatalities we experienced were even which we operate. We understand clearly For this reason, when we revised the harder to bear after the protracted success that the manner in which we respond to our company strategy in 2013, we included of the preceding 12 months. Our deepest sustainable development challenges has a safety, people and sustainability as sympathies go to the families and loved ones direct bearing on the long-term success and a foundational strategic focus area, of our colleagues who we lost. Our resolve to sustainability of our business. underpinning the delivery of our core operate workplaces free of injury and harm is business objectives. This goes to the heart strengthened, and we remain convinced that A s a glo bal, em erg ing -markets Companies have traditionally managed of how we operate. As a good indication, our approach to address fatal risks, through mining compan y, Ang loGold sustainability-related issues by meeting a significant proportion of my work is critical control management, is the correct compliance requirements. The result was related to focusing on the broader issues of path to take. A sha nt i co nducts its b usin ess a siloed approach to related disciplines sustainable development and key stakeholder i n an increas ing l y complex such as safety, health and the environment. engagement. I do not anticipate this will The modest decline in occupational diseases l ands ca pe . Unfortunately, these were often seen as change in the foreseeable future. is testimony to our continued work to reduce S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 7 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance FROM THE DESK OF THE CEO CONTINUED exposure to occupational hazards, particularly of these communities. In particular, I welcome noise and silica dust. We are mindful that the order of the High Court in South Africa, these efforts must be seen over the long term that communities be consulted alongside the given the very long lead time, often decades, industry and labour, in the drafting of a new between occupational exposure and the Mining Charter. Their input is fundamental to development of disease. the success of this industry in the long term. We continue to measure our performance Our views with respect to communities are not as responsible stewards of the environment philanthropic, but underpinned by a real desire across a raft of parameters. Over the past to contribute to strengthening the fabric of decade we have had a dramatic reduction societies where we operate. After all, this is a in the number of reportable incidents. group of stakeholders that share our long-term Notwithstanding this, we are intent on view, and so they have an interest in ensuring achieving zero harm with the elimination of our operations prosper. And in areas where harmful discharges. We will continue to focus our views may differ, we commit to working on efficient and innovative use of energy and together to resolve our differences and achieve water, and in this regard, the modest reduction solutions which work for all of us. in Green House Gas emissions for 2017 is As we go into 2018, we will continue our encouraging. I am also encouraged by the efforts to continually improve our performance progress we have made in integrated closure and embed sustainability into our business planning as this is an area which will contribute culture. Our sustainability actions and meaningfully to both the business and to our performance will continue to be a real host communities. reflection of who we are as a company. During 2017 we continued our efforts to increase trust between ourselves and our host communities. We recognise that we are part Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan of these communities, and our health as a Chief Executive Officer business is intimately linked to the well-being 29 March 2018 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 8 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance VIEW OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT main drivers of our performance. In this way, to nurture resilience that will outlive the lives AngloGold Ashanti conducts its business in an of our mines. integrated and sustainable manner. Regarding our performance, there remain some During the year, visible progress was made in challenges across all dimensions; Engagement, our continuous improvement work to explain the sustainable development strategy to all • Our safety performance is certainly not where we would like it to be, and we will not integration facets of the company and speeding up its rest until we have eliminated all occupational implementation through the disciplines. fatalities and injuries. and Our progress in certain areas is encouraging: • Similarly, occupational diseases remain front of mind, and given the exceptionally long • Our work in embedding the United Nations’ lead time of hazardous exposure to the innovation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into development of disease, we will continue our strategy has been very progressive, and to strengthen our prevention efforts by we have set company aspirations where eliminating hazardous conditions. business success is congruent with societal development and success. • Our environmental impacts and reportable David Noko A superior performance, beyond compliance, incidents continue to be addressed, and we Executive Vice President, • Activities within each of the disciplines are reduces business interruptions and builds have strengthened our focus on the optimal Sustainable Development consequently a step change to achieve the trust so that we are welcomed into, and work use of natural resources. harmoniously with the communities we are aspiration, and include SDG-related metrics • We are progressively improving our a part of. This is especially relevant in our and targets within the entire strategy. engagement with communities, and with changing world where we see increasing While each of the disciplines have different them we are finding better ways to co-exist expectations for the private sector to be a technical capabilities, all have a common in harmony, for mutual benefit. greater contributor to societal development. and coherent approach to implementation, and this has been driven to almost all This 2017 Sustainable Development Report is a Over the past five years, we have accelerated operational structures of the organisation, reflection of our activities for the year, as well as our journey to strengthen our sustainability step by step. our performance, striving to give an authentic S us t a ina ble D evelop m ent is maturity, to ensure that positive impacts • We are also beginning to do work with account of the work we are doing. We are a n int e g ra l pa rt of Ang loGold experienced by our stakeholders are enhanced the supply chain team to leverage our positive, and we will continue the same trend and meaningful to their existence. Central A shant i. The wa y in wh ich we contribution and impact on achieving selfinto the future. to this journey, has been our efforts to sustaining communities around our areas i nf lue nce t he c ompan y’s social progressively integrate sustainable development of operation. a nd e nv ironmen tal perf ormance, principles and practices into all aspects of business operations. This integration has • This includes strengthening local business David Noko a nd de mons t ra te g ood g overnan ce, been purposeful and by design, based on the development and local procurement within Executive Vice President, Sustainable i s an import a nt con trib utor to th e realisation that strategic business decisions, the mining value chain, and exploring ways Development compan y’s s uccess. along with our operational activities are the to support diversification of local businesses 29 March 2018 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 9 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance SECTION 3 ABOUT THIS The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable Development Report 2017 seeks to present comprehensive and detailed About this report Selecting our report content 11 12 REPORT information on our sustainable development performance. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 10 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI QUESTIONS About this report In the context of this report, outside of the Reporting: organisation refers to our suppliers, operations Information is consolidated and reported as The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable where we do not own the assets and do not AngloGold Ashanti results for assets under our Development Report 2017 seeks to present directly engage or employ the workforce, control. For assets where we have a significant comprehensive and detailed information on and operations where we do not operate the influence, we may choose to report information our sustainable development performance asset under a contractual obligation. Within externally if it is of specific interest and from operations within our organisation with the organisation refers to all operations and permitted by applicable agreements. respect to identified impacts and issues. entities in which the group has a controlling We have considered impacts which result interest and which are under our management, Compliance with reporting both from operations within AngloGold in terms of a contractual obligation. guidelines Ashanti’s portfolio and its associated This report complies with the G4 guidelines We do not report on non-financial information companies. While we seek to establish of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). These for Morila Mine in Mali or Kibali Mine in the guidelines are the benchmark for sustainability consistent reporting across all our sustainable Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), reporting globally. We report at the core option development metrics, we do report on other which are managed and operated by our joint against the G4 Guidelines. We conduct a robust developments, impacts and data outside venture partner Randgold Resources Limited. materiality assessment and focus our reporting our reporting boundary where these are on these aspects. material to the business and its sustainable Control: development performance. By control we mean we own the assets and AngloGold Ashanti is a signatory of the United engage or employ the workforce. Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and this report G4-17 G4-18 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 serves as the 2017 Communication on Progress Significant influence: (COP). It is also aligned with the Sustainable USEFUL LINKS By significant influence we mean we operate Development Framework of the International Visit our reports website: the asset under a contractual obligation to Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), of which www.aga-reports.com the owners. AngloGold Ashanti is a member. Visit our corporate website: www.anglogoldashanti.com The section on External Charters provides additional detail of compliance with other Download the full suite of reports frameworks, including voluntary memberships. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 11 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance 2017 <SDR>: SELECTING OUR REPORT CONTENT The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable Review of the 2016 company risks and themes arising from social media and news Development Report 2017 articulates our material issues. We conducted a semireports. These external views were tested sustainable development performance across quantitative relevance rating of the top 10 against the analysis of the survey data for all operating jurisdictions for the reporting company risks, as well as the material issues congruency, or to identify any emerging issues period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. as published during the 2016 reporting year. not yet captured. Our materiality selection process is guided by A net relevance score was calculated as part the International Integrated Reporting Council, The process resulted in a set of 10 material of the analysis and assigned to each of the the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines issues. Both the material issues identified and issues reviewed. and the Accountability AA 1000 Stakeholder the final report were reviewed by the Executive Engagement Standard. Our content selection Identification of emerging issues. The survey Committee and the Social, Ethics and process also considers our reporting objectives was designed to capture emerging risks and Sustainability Committee of the Board. This <SDR>  and intended audiences. issues not captured by the PESTLE, or the was done to ascertain whether the material issues for reporting represented a balanced Sustainable Development Report 2016 company risks and material issues. Due to the operational complexity, geographical and comprehensive view of the critical areas disparity and size of our organisation, Supplementary inputs. Alongside the survey, of concern for the business and stakeholders AngloGold Ashanti has focused on capturing we also studied data from external mining risk and also to determine whether any additional and articulating issues of material concern at a reports, issues arising from our interactions or emerging issues, which should have been company level in the reporting period. with investors and other stakeholders, and included, had been omitted. Our materiality assessment process has matured significantly in recent years. From initially hosting multi-disciplinary corporate workshops, we progressed in 2017 to hosting an online survey designed to engage a wider business audience. This approach facilitated richer content discussions, followed by rigorous analysis. The online survey focused on the following aspects: The external landscape. We conducted a qualitative survey of the top threats and opportunities using a PESTLE analysis. This acronym is used to describe Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legislative and Environmental aspects of the external landscape. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 12 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance SECTION 4 Strategy for Sustainable Development 14 The AngloGold Ashanti Sustainable Development STRATEGY portfolio comprises the safety, health, Our actions in 2017 16 environment, community and government affairs, and security and human rights disciplines. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 13 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Key features disciplines ensued with the development of a The four orders of sustainable development integration common language and consistent approach. The current phase of our sustainable Creating • Understanding multiple value chains and their Multiple value chains development journey began in 2013. Prior to Over the next two years, credibility of leverage interfaces this, disciplines functioned as independent the sustainable development portfolio • Diversification within the mining value chain streams, with a predominantly technical progressively strengthened. Disciplines were • Creating multiple streams of value for economic focus. Implementing discipline-focused succession increasingly recognised as part of a coherent strategies, each stream moved at varying team, rather than functioning in silos of • Establishing alternative industries for resilient communities and society pace on a maturation pathway. The approach technical expertise. Sustainable development • Understanding the mining value chain as an eco was defensive, leaning towards compliance. conversations across the business began system – upstream and downstream to shift from being compliance driven to Mining value • Building and strengthening local capability within the The first step was the development of recognising the advantage of superior value chain chain a common strategic framework. One of sustainable development performance. This • Driving local participation (ownership) and local value the critiques of the framework was that it set the scene for embedding sustainable addition tended to be inwardly focused. This was development approaches in core business • Identifying critical business processes and activities a necessary approach at the time, given practices, underpinned by the belief that Mine cycle and • Hardwiring sustainable development concepts into the varied maturity of each discipline. From the company’s sustainable development business processes by design 2014, the disciplines began taking steps performance was ultimately driven by core business • Enabling execution through operations processes to align their existing strategies to the operational leaders. This work showed • Embedding sustainable development into the framework. A significant part of this was good progress in achieving second order business culture to ensure that the guiding principles and integration, but significant effort was still • Establishing a common language and line of sight philosophies shaping the updated sustainable required in achieving third order integration, Sustainable • Using a common framework for coherent actions development strategy were embedded into and the new concept of fourth order development • Changing the narrative from “cost centre” to “value each discipline’s work. Representing the integration which we identified in 2017 as our generator” Establishing disciplines first order of integration, consolidation of the thinking matured. a foundation • Enhancing credibility and impact S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 14 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED By 2016, a solid foundation had been Sustainable development journey established, catalysing accelerated roll-out 2013 of the company’s sustainable development Disciplines function as strategy and allowing a more outward looking independent streams; approach. In the latter part of 2016, we predominant technical focus; entered into partnership discussions with the varying maturation 2014 University of Cape Town (UCT) to collaborate on sustainable development. While retaining independence within the partnership, the combination of partners leverages off the two aspects of rigorous 2015 theory development and real-world implementation. A core mantra of the partnership is to provide “solutions from 2016 Africa, for the world”. Two partnership projects were identified, and during 2017 these evolved further as a deeper understanding of collaboration possibilities developed. The first project sought to develop a prototype to embed the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into business strategy was intimately linked to accelerated roll-out of our sustainable development strategy. The second, initially framed as a “winter school” was to host the thought leading “Green Mining: Beyond 2017 the Myth” one-day interactive workshop. The gathering explored new frontiers and opportunities to shift the mining sector into a more sustainable paradigm. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 15 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED Our actions in 2017 The first step was to map the SDGs to our The discipline goals shared certain Process for operationalising the SDGs with material issues, demonstrating their relevance characteristics: they were bold; the sustainability acceleration strategy implementation Our actions in 2017 represent a step change to the business. All our material issues mapped leadership group collectively believed that in implementing the sustainable development 1 to one or more SDG themes, and 16 of the achieving them would reflect business success; strategic framework across the business. 17 showed a connection. This supported an and all goals were congruent with the SDGs. Company Operationalising the Sustainable emerging argument that the challenges which sustainable In the third design and implementation step, Development Goals with accelerated the business needs to respond to for success development each discipline convened strategy workshops strategy translation – and indeed to be competitive – are also challenge in May 2017, with participants from operations 2 This work comprised a systematic and problems which the world is currently grappling clarified across the company. The base discipline integrated translation of our sustainable with. A secondary observation was that certain aspirations were elaborated further, developing development framework to discipline material issues mapped to multiple SDGs. Sustainable a common understanding and describing them strategies and three-year work plans, along These signified points of leverage, and where development more wholly, while connecting them to tangible with embedding the SDGs into the strategy as the business responded superbly to such aspirations set outcomes. 3 part of our collaboration with UCT. material issues, positive impacts could be seen across multiple SDGs. Lastly, four SDGs were The focusing challenge which needed to be The partnership approach to operationalise Discipline cross-cutting, relating to all material issues. addressed in achieving the aspiration was the SDGs represents both design and action goals Demonstrating relevance to our material issues clarified, and this guided the development research, with the design flowing from elaborated initiated a conversation within the business, of a discipline strategy map. Each strategy 4 real-time integration of the SDGs into the strengthening support for the idea of integrating map was consistent with the core sustainable AngloGold Ashanti sustainable development the SDGs into the business strategy. development strategy map, yet purpose built strategy along with its implementation. Focusing to drive achievement of the aspiration. On this challenge Our existing strategy was used as the base Having mapped the company material issues basis, SDGs (or components of SDGs) were established framework. Key aspects of this include a clear to the SDGs, the next step was to review prioritised within selected strategic focus areas 5 understanding of the sustainable development our sustainable development goals. The of the discipline strategy maps. Balanced challenges facing the business (material partnership presented an opportunity to scorecards with three-year work plans, issues); a set of business aspirations which revisit and refresh work done in 2014, and to comprising enhanced activities to achieve Strategic focus are congruent with the SDGs; a clear value align a new set of goals to the intent of the the goals, flowed from the strategy maps. areas refined proposition to respond to the challenges and SDGs. With input from the Minerals to Metal Where relevant, appropriate SDG targets and 6 achieve the aspiration; and an adaptation of Signature Theme, AngloGold Ashanti’s Global metrics were incorporated into the balanced Three-year Kaplan and Norton’s strategy mapping and Sustainability Leadership team met in March scorecards. work plans balanced scorecard tools to frame a coherent 2017 to develop 2030 aspirational goals for developed set of actions. each discipline. for each strategic focus area S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 16 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CONTINUED The result was a bold set of aspirations which Progress in implementing the strategy for each AngloGold Ashanti sustainable development maturity assessment were congruent with the SDGs; a set of discipline is discussed in more detail in the business activities designed to achieve stepsection on material issues. 2016 2017 change business success and contribute to Ensure effective structures and competence; actively manage the achieving the SDGs; and relevant SDG targets Our performance Health of disciplines sustainable development talent pool and metrics hardwired into the sustainable In previous years, we reported on development strategic performance implementation progress for each of the Embedding and Business leaders understand sustainable development and it is integrating sustainable management system (balanced scorecard). strategic focus areas in our strategy map. integrated into business processes and activities development The uniqueness of the approach led to Early in 2017 we evaluated the maturity level of Information and The right information is appropriately captured, shared and used the partnership being invited to co-host the sustainable development portfolio, using the knowledge management to improve decision making a special side event of the 2017 United strategic focus areas as the parameters against Nations General Assembly to showcase which maturity was assessed. This served as Engaging with Stakeholders and their relationships to the business are the work. The focus of the side-event was a reflection on 2016, and represented a shift in stakeholders and understood, and they are effectively engaged to optimise impact to explore and share leading practices on the company from reporting on implementation partnerships operationalising the SDGs. Led by the UN progress to attempting to understand outcomes Sustainable development related risks are understood, critical Sustainable Development Solutions Network of implementation. Managing risk controls are identified and established, and control effectiveness (SDSN), the event involved several high-level is demonstrated Additionally, the process of rolling out the agencies including the Inter-Governmental strategic framework through the disciplines of Capitalising on Sustainable development opportunities are systematically Forum (IGF) and the International Council on the portfolio enabled testing and modification opportunities identified and used to the benefit of the business, the Mining and Metals. of the framework itself, refining the strategic environment and society focus areas to be more focused yet relevant The partnership presented a keynote address Monitoring, evaluation & The business achieves its sustainable development performance to all disciplines. For 2017, we followed the and facilitated a round table discussion. Of reporting with effective outcomes and effective oversight ensures integrity of the systems approach developed during the year and rate note, the partnership was the only keynote governance in place our performance in terms of maturity. address focusing on tangible experiences Being a catalyst for The business competences are leveraged to create shared value and a systematic approach to operationalising Click here to view Setting our 2030 aspirational goals and prioritising the SDGs sustainable and mutual with stakeholders beyond our immediate scope of influence, the SDGs. value enhancing the social license to operate Communicating Internal and external stakeholders are meaningfully engaged on sustainable development company sustainable development issues and performance performance Enabling business Sustainable development initiatives position the company as the competitiveness leaders in the field – across the mining industry and other sectors Reactive Proactive Compliant S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 17 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance MATERIAL ISSUES O ur s us t a ina bl e d evelopment challen ge i s fr a m e d b y the m a te r i a l i s s ue s fa c i ng the c ompa n y. Our reporting ref lects th ese issue s a s the y a r e hi ghl i ghte d b y the bus i ne s s a nd o u r s t akeho lders. Employee safety Employee and Contributing to Responsible Integrated closure community health self-sustaining environmental management communities stewardship Pages 19-25 Pages 26-34 Pages 35-43 Pages 44-50 Pages 51-54 IN FOCUS Our materiality process has matured significantly in recent years. We engage a wide business audience which has resulted in Employee, Artisanal and small Respecting Talent Navigating community and scale mining (legal human rights management and regulatory richer content discussions, asset security and illegal) skills development and political uncertainty followed by rigorous and risk analysis. Pages 55-58 Pages 59-62 Pages 63-65 Pages 66-73 Pages 74-78 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 18 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS T he we llbeing of employees and th eir pro te c ti o n fr o m ha za r do us e x po s ur e s i s a f o unda ti o n w h i c h d ef i n es who we are an d how we con du ct ou rselve s . The i m po r ta nc e o f s a fe ty a s a m a te r i a l i s s ue w a s r eaf f i r med f or t he 2017 re portin g p eriod when it ran ked a s the m o s t s i gni fi c a nt s us ta i na bl e de v e l o pm e nt c h al l en g e f ac i n g A n gloG old As hanti. Key features Operational fatalities During the year, residual operational risk profiles remained IN FOCUS 7 2016: 7 high due to challenging operating conditions. The span of top risks has largely remained unchanged over the years. Focus Top risks South African Operations • Underground ground control Fatal injury frequency rate 0.06 • Vertical transport • Rail-bound transport International Operations • Heavy mobile equipment 2016: 0.06 • Light vehicles Common across • Fires operations • Explosives All injury frequency rate 7.49 • Electricity • Work at height Our 2030 aspirational 2016: 7.71 Although these risks are not exhaustive, they represent the most significant in the suite of major hazards within the safety goal aligned with organisation – those commonly associated with low frequency UN SDGs Injury severity rate events but high consequences, including fatal injury. Within Immediate focus on elimination of fatalities 314 2016: 313 this context, seismic risk within South Africa remained an ongoing challenge. In improving our capability to respond to risk, our focus remained on embedding and integrating safety into the S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 19 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED business. This is underpinned by the premise that it was aligned to the group sustainable that safety, as a process and as an outcome, development strategy. A clear set of priorities Mapping the priorities – the strategic is mostly influenced by line management who and activities for the next three years were PERSPECTIVE focus areas shape the organisational culture and determine developed. The enhanced strategy also how work is done. focused on integrating the relevant United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Critical control Structural changes to the South African (SDGs) into the business strategy. Business prioritisation for business contributed to heightened risk as competitiveness optimal protection The 2030 aspirational safety goal of an expected consequence of organisational “Workplaces free of injury and harm” was change. This required intensified mindfulness to established, with its achievement being driven by: ensure the change could be managed diligently in terms of future organisational design and • Leadership – leaders drive and enable the organisation to achieve the goal Communicating Communication continued effectiveness of work processes. with internal with external • People – all employees are committed Social licence stakeholders stakeholders The regulatory landscape also influences to and are actively working to ensure to operate on safety on safety operating practices in support of safe workplaces are free of injury and harm performance performance outcomes. During the year, no regulatory • Work processes – all processes are well changes materially influenced current safety designed, with people in mind, to get the practices across the jurisdictions where we best results in the easiest and safest way Monitoring operate. The most significant shift seen was Management of • Technology and innovation are used to Enabling evaluation, Internal systems risks to drive in the application of regulations in South execution through reporting eliminate exposure of people to hazards and processes workplaces free of Africa. During 2016, safety related stoppages line management with effective injury and harm governance commonly resulted in full mine stoppages Central to achieving the goal is the extent to whereas, in 2017, this largely changed to which we embed and integrate safety into the localised area or section stoppages. business as a line accountability. The aspiration is congruent with SDG 3, Embedding and Information Our actions in 2017 which focuses on good health and well-being. Strengthening Health of the integrating safety and knowledge During the year, our actions were characterised the foundation safety discipline management into management to Developing this challenging aspirational goal the business enable learning by building on and refining approaches enabled the crafting of a purpose-built strategy developed in previous years. map using the company’s base Sustainable Development strategy map as a framework. Enhancing the strategy to improve performance Three-year work plans were developed In May 2017, the global safety leadership for each strategic focus area, comprising group met to enhance the strategy, ensuring objectives, activities, performance metrics, S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 20 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED targets and accountabilities. The updated evident. Safety, as a concept and integral indicating adequacy and effectiveness of strategy was approved by the company part of the organisational culture, was visible, controls in place. As required by the Major executive and implementation workshops were practised and enshrined within the business Hazard Standards implemented in 2016, critical EMPLOYEE held with the South African and International model – and embedded into key operational controls and their management are being FEEDBACK Operations leadership teams. and support business systems and practices, embedded into work processes and routines. including human resources systems relating Rob Wood / Boilermaker / Sunrise Dam Embedding and integrating safety to performance appraisal, recognition, reward This is exemplified in Australia where Critical into the business and promotion. The benchmarking exercise Control Management is driven by the General Rob has worked at Sunrise Rolling out the revised strategy to the Managers of the Tropicana and Sunrise served to validate some aspects of the Dam, Australia, for eight operational leadership teams was a key Dam gold mines. Bow-Ties for the major step in continuing our work of embedding strategic approach we have been pursuing hazards that apply to both sites are jointly years, and is also the Health over the past few years. and integrating safety into the business. conducted with representation from both and Safety Representative Progressively strengthening line ownership sites. Participants include contractors and The findings and related learning from the for his crew. He has been of the safety strategy and safety outcomes benchmarking exercise were shared with the relevant technical experts. Managing the shifts the organisational culture from being critical controls identified enhances protection the Champion for Lifting company executive and senior operational reactive or compliant to a more proactive managers. Further work is underway to adapt against harm and becomes a normal part of operations since the Bow-Tie state and level of maturity. Importantly, and implement similar approaches within the defined work activities with clear routines and was completed in early 2015. approved activities within the strategy include AngloGold Ashanti business context. accountabilities. In a good example of what this looks like in practice, the Underground setting role-specific safety accountabilities “We pick up problems into all role descriptions and associated key Risk management to drive Manager is the champion for Underground performance indicators. workplaces free of harm Heavy Mobile Equipment Fires. Mainly due to with controls and then find Integrated risk management is central to our hydraulic hose or fitting failures causing oil to solutions. One new initiative Recognising the importance of organisational safety strategy. Over the past few years, we spray onto nearby hot components, fires in we are introducing is barculture (as determined by leaders) in shaping have progressively matured in our approach underground machinery were common. The safety performance, a benchmarking visit to understand and manage risks through the Bow-Tie review initiated the implementation of coding for lifting equipment to two sites in India was undertaken by development of Bow-Ties for our top risks significant controls. These included proactive and fall protection gear so we AngloGold Ashanti executives during the maintenance, identification of fire-critical and unwanted events. The approach has know where it is, and we can year. Safety culture, along with the strategies been implemented across the company and, components that could only be replaced by and tactics used, were studied to explore Original Equipment Manufacturers’ quarterly make sure it gets inspected the use of Bow-Ties and critical controls has whether world-class safety performance is been adopted by other disciplines within the fire audits by the maintenance department on and tagged every quarter.” possible within complex social and economic sustainable development portfolio and in other all mobile plant and hose-making competency landscapes. It also allowed first-hand exposure areas of the company. training by external specialists for all to a strong safety culture. Similarities between maintenance personnel. These efforts drove a macro factors and working conditions of sites Operational safety profiles continue to be 90% reduction in fires in the underground fleet visited, and areas where we operate, were monitored and managed continuously, since 2013. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 21 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Across the company, compliance with critical controls is shared across the business. During the year, dedicated monitored continuously with over 200 000 critical controls focus on managing actions arising from HPI investigations checks, verified monthly for effectiveness. Major hazard continued with progressive improvements in the quality of EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK critical control performance standards are being introduced actions and their closure, as scheduled. to further improve our understanding and management of Walter Potts / Underground Manager / Sunrise Dam major hazards and associated risks. Enabling safe operations through line management Line managers are accountable for all aspects of safety Walter has been champion for underground Compliance with critical controls and their effectiveness are management – from the prevention of hazardous heavy mobile equipment fires at Sunrise Dam, being linked to incident investigations. This will help us to exposures to incident investigation, learning and further understand the quality and adequacy of the controls performance improvement. A sound understanding of risk Australia, since 2013 and participated in the we put in place, as well as the rigour we apply in managing management, in support of safety decision making and its Bow-Tie review in early 2015. them on an ongoing basis. implications for business success, is a prerequisite. High Potential Incidents (HPIs) continued to be used as “The safety team encourages and supports us to In giving effect to this accountability, participation in a leading indicator for low-frequency, high-consequence complete our inspections and quarterly reports. events. The agencies and hazards identified in HPIs Bow-Tie analyses and the development of controls has contributed to greater levels of ownership. Incorporating The process has become routine so the mining are consistent with the top safety risks identified in the business and, in addition to advancing learning, they serve safety accountabilities in role descriptions codifies safety contractor personnel know what to expect, to strengthen our resolve to prevent unwanted safety as a normal part of work requirements, and integrating and co-operate with the data and evidence outcomes. An open reporting culture continues to be critical control management into work routines embeds strengthened with investigations and learnings from HPIs safety into the organisational culture. collection process. Collecting, reviewing and reflecting on critical control information for a number of quarters has led to the inclusion of new initiatives such as proactive maintenance practices. These initiatives have included identifying fire-critical components that can only be replaced with Original Equipment Manufacturers’ quarterly fire audits by the maintenance department on all mobile plant and hose-making competency training by external specialists for all maintenance personnel.” S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 22 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED In support of this, training of frontline discerning their relative power to protect. between mining companies, employee bodies managers in Safety Leadership and Hazard and Risk Management continued to progress Application of mathematical modelling in the selection of an appropriate suite of controls for and the South African Department of Mineral Resources, and the award is MineSafe IN MEMORIAM well. Given that our approach to safety has a particular set of hazards is underway through highest ranking prize. Mr Elias Quive evolved significantly over the past few years, two pilot sites within the company. The International Operations achieved one (11 July 2017) particularly with progress made in critical While this approach is still new, we believe year fatality-free and accumulated 467 Rail-bound transport incident, control management, the safety leadership that this work will contribute to strengthening fatality-free days to year-end, representing an Moab Khotsong Mine group has undertaken to review the various our ability to protect against hazards, as well all-time best performance. training programmes and update their content to reflect new developments, and to as influence future approaches to critical Mr Ramabele Sebophe Sadly, in the second half of the year, the continually strive for fit-for-purpose hazard and control management in the mining industry (14 October 2017) company experienced seven fatal injuries. risk management capability. and beyond. Seismic event, Mponeng Mine Seismic and fall-of-ground events were the main cause and, in some incidents, resulted Other areas of activity and focus have included Our performance in multiple fatalities. The incidents reflect Mr Tseko Ramakobo progressively improving safety information and Our safety performance for the year the harsh reality of operating the deepest (14 October 2017) reports for frontline managers, and adopting a was characterised by starkly contrasting underground mines in the world, and we have Seismic event, Mponeng Mine holistic approach to contractor management outcomes between the first and second strengthened our resolve to eliminate harm in for an improved safety performance. These halves of the year. the workplace. efforts will continue for the next three years. Mr Nkoliso Sibeko In the first half of the year, we experienced (23 October 2017) Critical control modelling for nextrecord level safety successes. Prior to Fall-of-ground incident, Kopanang Mine generation protection experiencing the first fatal injury for the year, Our focus on critical control management the South Africa Operations had experienced Mr Peter Ngobeni over the past three years has allowed us to 349 fatal-free days – the longest fatality (23 October 2017) accumulate large amounts of data in relation free period in its history. The Mponeng and Fall-of-ground incident, Kopanang Mine to adequacy and effectiveness of controls. TauTona mines were one year fatal free while A key historic limitation has been grouping Kopanang Mine and South Africa Surface Mr Mapheelle Tauoa controls into categories such as engineering, Operations respectively achieved one and (2 November 2017) administrative and personal controls. Within two million fatality-free shifts. Seismic event, Mponeng Mine each category, however, controls may have varying levels of adequacy and effectiveness. Testimony to these successes, the South Africa Region was recognised by MineSafe Mr Zwelinjane Khubone Using data on the controls and safety as the most improved mining company on a (2 November 2017) incidents, mathematical modelling of individual year-on-year basis. MineSafe is an industrial Seismic event, Mponeng Mine controls is being developed to assist with body representing a collaborative effort S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 23 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Progress of activities and embedding the safety strategy across the business Compliance with standards and safety culture maturity Safety maturity assessment Safety framework maturity 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ensure effective structures and people competence, and actively Strategic planning, goals and targets Safe work practices Health of disciplines manage the safety discipline talent pool Corporate governance, legal and other Change management Embedding and integrating Business leaders understand safety management and it is integrated requirements sustainable development into business processes and activities Safety leadership and accountabilities Contractors, suppliers and partner Information and knowledge The right information is appropriately captured, modelled, shared, selection and management management to enable and used to improve business decision making – enabling learning continuous and step change progress to achieve the goals Co-design and conversation Hazard and risk management Current and emerging health risks are understood, critical Awareness, training and competence Incident management Management of risks to controls are identified and established, and control effectiveness drive workplaces free of is demonstrated. Risk management is applied in a dynamic and Occupational environment, health, Emergency response, crisis injury and harm responsive way wellbeing and fitness for work management and business continuity Enabling execution through Safety practitioners influence, enable and coach operators to drive Design, construction, commissioning, Technology, research and development line management superior safety performance decommissioning and closure Monitoring, evaluation, The business achieves its safety performance outcomes and Procurement and disposal Knowledge management reporting with effective provides oversight ensuring integrity of the system governance Operational and asset integrity Performance management Communicating with Targeted communication increases understanding of the safety Work planning Learning and experience internal stakeholders on business and mobilises support across the organisation for improved safety performance performance Compliant Proactive Reactive Communicating with Effective communication on safety performance positions the external stakeholders on company as a responsible citizen beyond compliance safety performance Critical control prioritisation Mathematical modelling distinguishes cost-effectiveness between a for optimal protection range of critical controls enabling better choices Compliant Proactive Reactive S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 24 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE SAFETY CONTINUED Injury severity rate High-potential incidents* (per million hours worked) 250 350 300 326 313 314 200 198 210 210 250 277 247 150 177 200 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 * Only reported from 2014 Occupational fatalities All injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) 12 8 11 7.48 7.71 7.49 10 7.36 7.18 6 8 8 6 7 7 4 6 4 2 2 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fatal injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) Building organisational 0.10 0.08 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.06 capacity for frontline 0.04 0.05 0.04 supervisors achieved 0.02 0.00 at all sites. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 25 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS T he healt h landsca p e is com plex an d var i e d a c r o s s o ur bus i ne s s p ort f o lio and t he ju risd iction s within whic h w e o pe r a te . Key features All occupational disease AngloGold Ashanti’s health discipline comprises a IN FOCUS frequency rate diverse group of functions with a collective set of 7.03 2016: 7.13 competences focusing on the prevention of disease, effective disease management and rehabilitation. The functions fall into the two broad categories: • Occupational environmental management – identifying and managing hazardous exposures in Noise induced hearing loss the workplace 10.2% 2017: 132 (2016: 147) • Medical management – early disease identification, treatment, return to work and partnership-based community health initiatives These categories make up the continuum of Our 2030 aspirational New cases of Malaria capability from prevention to disease management health goal aligned 12.1% with each comprising several sub-specialty functions. with UN SDGs The health landscape is complex and varied across our business portfolio and the jurisdictions 2017: 1,686 (2016: 1,504) Strengthened our within which we operate. Disease burdens and profiles vary, and regulatory frameworks and strategic approach New cases of silicosis requirements differ from country to country. Different 18.32% to improve a step operational complexities and mining processes drive significantly different levels of hazardous exposures change in our health and occupational risk profiles with major health performance 2017: 107 (2016: 131) risks often driven by labour-intensive, deep-level underground mining. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 26 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Within this complexity at operational levels, Sustainable Development Goal 3 (SDG 3) interpretation and prioritisation of functions recognises good health and well-being as making up the health discipline often vary a fundamental human right, as well as an – from understanding and managing the important determinant of human and economic occupational environment (preventive) to the development and social cohesion. Achieving provision of medical care (mitigating). The SDG 3 is underpinned by universal health delayed onset of health consequences – often coverage (UHC) enabling healthcare access decades – contributes to lower prioritisation to all, linked to effective provision of services of health issues, less creative tension for the through well-resourced and well-governed development of preventative solutions and a health systems. potentially reactive approach. As a contributor to societal development, Adjacent to the immediate workplace, sociomining companies are increasingly required to economic conditions in the jurisdictions extend their participation in healthcare beyond where we operate vary from good socioimmediate workplaces, and into communities economic conditions and high levels of wealth where health needs are pressing. Within this to widespread unemployment and poverty. context, there is a growing argument that These form part of the social determinants mining, employee health and community of health, which influence our operations as employees are integral to the communities they health are inextricably linked in terms of twolive in. Unfortunately, adverse socio-economic way negative cause-effect relationships. As conditions are usually inversely related to local such, it is likely that future requirements for a health system capability, with weak public and social licence to operate will include greater private health systems commonly found in contribution beyond employee health, to communities with high levels of poverty and participating within our scope of influence unemployment. This often influences community in the areas of UHC, strengthening health expectations on the level and type of health systems and responding to specific community contribution the company brings to society. health threats, such as epidemics. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 27 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Our actions in 2017 Enhancing the strategy to improve During the year, our work focused on performance enhancing the existing strategic approach of: Following the Group Sustainable Development workshop in March 2017, • Optimising internal medical systems to achieve stable and consistent performance the Global Health Leadership Team held its levels strategy workshop in May 2017 to shape the health function’s direction and activities • Integrating medical and non-medical systems and activities to enhance overall over the next three years and beyond. The health impact workshop focused on: • Sustainability-based initiatives to create • Establishing a deeper understanding of the mutual value challenges facing the broad health discipline • Clearly articulating the aspirational goal Over time these themes have contributed of “Healthy Employees and Healthy to establishing a foundation across the Communities” along with determining health discipline but with varying levels of consistency across operations. While what success would look like – including significant progress has been made in areas alignment with the SDGs such as occupational hygiene and emergency • Prioritising strategic focus areas within medical services, in other areas progress is the sustainable development strategic limited to pockets of excellence, such as our framework to achieve the goals and targets response to the Ebola outbreak in Guinea, • Developing coherent and detailed work improvement in malaria control in Continental plans/activities to achieve the objectives Africa Region, reduction in occupational tuberculosis and silicosis at our South Africa Building on the context set in the Group operations, and our integrated approach to Sustainable Development strategy, the baseline health studies in Colombia. concept of “Healthy Employees and Healthy Against this background, in 2017 we focused Communities”, as an aspirational 2030 health on enabling a further step change in the goal, was clarified, with the development of company’s health performance. specific metrics to measure performance. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 28 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Achieving the 2030 health aspiration requires framework – recognising that the Three-year work plans were developed to enable step change health performance, as well as us to address the challenge of effectively practitioner of the future requires new greater contribution achieving SDG 3. managing complex and evolving health risks and broader skill sets facing the business. Our key shift is moving • Effective delivery processes framed by from a reactive (managing consequences) to standards and guidelines PERSPECTIVE Mapping the priorities – healthy strategic proactive (prevention through reducing and • Integrating health concepts and practices focus areas eliminating exposure) approach that is deeply into the business embedded into the business practices and • Quantitative and qualitative demonstration culture. This requires: Demonstrating of delivery and impact with continuous Business business value • Strengthening Occupational Environment learning and performance improvement competitiveness through health Engineering capability to eliminate exposure initiatives to hazards The combination of understanding the challenge and setting goals enabled a fit-for• An operating model design that enables a purpose adaptation of the Group Sustainability common fit-for-purpose approach for local strategy map for application in the health Communicating Communicating application, comprising: with internal with external discipline. In this way, the Group Sustainability Social licence • Scope and service offerings stakeholders stakeholders strategic framework finds expression through to operate on health on health • Competency and accountability the work of the disciplines within the portfolio. performance performance Common Monitoring, Management of operating evaluation, Internal systems risks to achieve model driving reporting and processes the goals operational with effective excellence governance Embedding and Information Engaging with Strengthening Health of the integrating health and knowledge stakeholders the foundation discipline management into management to and establishing the business enable learning partnerships S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 29 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED Subsequent to revising the strategy, we of Bow-Tie analyses for the identification in the management of DPM, including the DPM Centre of Excellence for the company established working groups to design a and establishment of critical controls. In the development of new diesel contracts moving and the industry at large. common operating model for the health Sustainable Development Report 2016, we towards cleaner diesel, shifting from diesel discipline, incorporating the broad spectrum of indicated our intention to complete Bowto electric equipment where appropriate, use As part of intensified efforts to strengthen prevention to disease management. Country Tie assessments for silica dust and noise of filters for diesel-powered machinery and occupational health systems in Brazil, a health teams have begun to revise their health exposures by 2017. Progress has been slow, monitoring of elemental carbon (EC). The detailed review of the Hearing Conservation action plans to ensure alignment with the and while a generic Bow-Tie for silica dust interventions have prevented exceedance Programme was conducted at the end of 2016 group approach. exposure has been developed, it has not been of OELs. Furthermore, the team has actively with a focus on strengthening the programme rolled out for the development of site-based influenced the shaping of practice guidelines in 2017. Key activities included increasing Risk management to achieve the goal Bow-Ties. The health leadership group is used in Western Australia. Testimony to the occupational hygiene capability, revising Our objective is to ensure that current and working on completing the process in 2018. leading role played, Sunrise Dam has been employee education programmes regarding emerging health risks are understood, critical chosen to participate in next-generation noise, a Bow-Tie Analysis for noise exposure controls are identified and established, and Notwithstanding the slow process to formalise research, focusing on nanoparticles in DPM with the identification and development of control effectiveness is demonstrated. Risk critical control management through Bow– the effects of which are currently unknown. critical controls, and improvements to the management must be applied in a dynamic Tie analyses, reducing exposure to hazards This is a first in world research, and Sunrise screening and surveillance process for noiseand responsive manner. In the workplace, at source continues apace. Two notable Dam Gold Mine is well placed to become a induced hearing loss (NIHL). our primary intent is to manage hazardous examples are continuous implementation exposure at source in line with occupational of real-time silica dust monitoring in South exposure limits (OELs). Africa and prevention of exposure to diesel particulate matter (DPM) in Australia. At a group level, the company health risk profile remained unchanged during the In South Africa, in addition to diligent year, with the health risk architecture being application of standard practices in dust embedded deeper into the business. By management, implementation of real-time the end of the year, baseline health risk dust monitoring censors continued. Certain assessments had been completed for all modifications to the base implementation plan areas apart from Sadiola and Tropicana Gold were required due to business re-organisation Mines. In South Africa, a consolidated health and rationalisation in the South Africa Region risk assessment was done to incorporate all but this did not impede implementation. operations. These baseline health risk and Importantly, full implementation was completed impact assessments are used as the basis for at Mponeng Mine, which will be the most all health-related interventions. significant operation in the South African portfolio. Baseline health risk assessments are also used to determine the top health risks In Australia, over the past few years, a range facing the company and the development of interventions have been implemented S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 30 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED A common operating model driving in developing a common operating model. • Workplace public health Mine, providing occupational healthcare, operational excellence Throughout 2017 we focused on design, and • Community health primary healthcare and emergency response A key focus of the revised health strategy this is expected to continue to mid-2018. services. With the sharp decline in the South is the development of a common operating In the design, key themes of the framework Drawing from experiences with the safety Africa Region employee base, retaining model for health management across the transformation, concept papers for each hospital capability is no longer justifiable. have been determined and working groups theme are being drafted for review by the company. A common approach to service have been set up for each theme with global health team. This collaborative and In addition to restructuring the health service, provision is underpinned by a set of minimum representation from all operations. co-design approach enables broad ownership the health team played an active role in requirements, which enable global consistency These include: of the final model with easier application supporting the mining business during the yet locally relevant application. With a common of a common set of standards for global restructuring of the South Africa Region. operating model, we enable a systematic • Health management and administration consistency. approach to continuous improvement. • Occupational environment This was through involvement in Section Rationalising the healthcare business 52 representations to the Minerals Board Health leadership at country or regional level • Occupational medicine in South Africa (under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources is playing an active and collaborative role • Medical services Development Amendment Act) and Section For the year, activities in the South Africa Region have largely been shaped by 189 presentations to the Commission for reorganisation of the business. Specific work Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) was conducted on reducing AngloGold (under the Labour Relations Act). Ashanti’s Health footprint, commensurate with reductions in the size of the South African Community health initiatives G4-21 mining business. This included closure of Across the company, community health in-patient services at Western Deep Levels initiatives focus on supporting specific Hospital, including wards, theatres and challenges faced by local communities and on Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Hospital services in strengthening local health systems capability West Wits are now provided by the adjacent for sustained outcomes. Fountain Hospital and through a range of service level agreements with other hospitals Consequent to the company public health risk offering specialised care. profile, managing malaria in the Continental Africa Region remains a high priority. This entails With the progressive rationalisation of the company-led malaria control programmes health service, hospital care will eventually which include the host communities of our be outsourced, and primary healthcare and operations. Consolidated malaria incidence occupational healthcare will be decentralised levels for the Continental Africa Region at mining business units. This will entail a highoperations remained at low levels for the year, level integrated health clinic based at Mponeng on par with those seen in 2016. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 31 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED In Tanzania, Geita Gold Mine contributed in San Julian. This included the acquisition of a Our performance towards the renovation of the Geita Regional surgical operating table, an automatic external Performance related to the strategy Hospital, a government institution that serves defibrillator and a kit for video laryngoscopy. In the 2016 reporting year, the health discipline maturity was assessed in relation to the process six districts. A new accident and trauma unit, Monthly financial contributions were also made requirements of the occupational health, wellbeing and fitness for work company standard. Progress a cardiac unit and an intensive care unit were to the Association for the Prevention of Eating for 2017 was reassessed, with the company remaining at the same level previously identified. Of note, built, while renovations also extended to existing Disorders and Anxiety. making shifts into a proactive level is particularly challenging. hospital infrastructure. In addition to these improvements, Geita Gold Mine also donated In Brazil, several community health initiatives are two ambulances, and equipment needed to supported through funding as outlined in the MATURITY ASSESSMENT AGAINST COMPANY STANDARD improve the quality of care. We continued to Fiscal Incentive Law. Such programmes include Process requirements 2016 2017 support HIV/ AIDS awareness, testing, and cancer screening of community members and treatment through the HIV/AIDS Centre we initiatives to reduce drug use in adolescents. Health hazard and risk identification donated in Geita town, and contributed to The company collaborates with government Employee education and training on potential hazardous exposures building a surgical theatre unit in a new hospital campaigns on public health problems such situated in the Chato district, approximately 120 Identification of exposure to hazards in accordance with set limits as dengue and yellow fevers, and influenza kilometres from Geita town. vaccination of employees and community Early disease identification and fitness for work assessment in relation to capacity for specific jobs members. In Crixas, the city associated with In Australia, activities have focused on our Serra Grande Mine, the company provided Effective management of injury or illness including rehabilitation the youth and vulnerable or at-risk groups support to the Associação de Pais e Amigos Ensuring access to provision of equitable and sustainable healthcare mostly in the Laverton area. During the year dos Excepcionais (APAE), a non-governmental the Laverton Women’s crisis centre was institution which supports children with Monitoring and evaluation of health system effectiveness refurbished and the company contributed to the ‘Girls @ Risk’ personal development disabilities. Approximately 40 students benefit Compliant Proactive Reactive programme. Other initiatives included various from this programme. health and wellbeing programmes linked to the Health-related CSI spend in South Africa forms G4-21 Laverton Leonora Cross Cultural Association; GRI part of the commitments made in the respective programmes supporting mental health and Vaal River and West Wits Social and Labour addressing drug and alcohol abuse in local Plans. Contributions in 2017 included focus communities; and interventions to identify and on vulnerable populations such as people with prevent hearing loss in Aboriginal communities. disabilities, support for the elderly, provision of In Argentina, contributions were made towards home-based care and support of hospice care the purchase of equipment for the local hospital for the terminally ill. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 32 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED In keeping with alignment to the group sustainable development strategic framework, maturity of the Efforts have been initiated to improve maturity levels and while some improvements have discipline was also evaluated against the health strategic focus areas. been observed, other focus areas take longer to progress along the maturity curve. Health maturity assessment Performance against the goals 2016 2017 Occupational diseases remain a significant challenge facing the company. For the year, while Ensure effective structures and people competence, and actively the total number of occupational disease cases reduced from 899 in 2016 to 855 in 2017, Health of disciplines the all occupational disease frequency only improved marginally. manage the health discipline talent pool Embedding and integrating Business leaders understand health management and it is integrated The major occupational diseases encountered, due to associated permanent disability, are health management into business processes and activities silicosis and occupational tuberculosis in South Africa, and noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) Information and knowledge The right information is appropriately captured, modelled, shared, and which is a potential risk at all company operations. The rate of silicosis cases diagnosed continues management used to improve business decision making – enabling continuous and to decline year-on-year, testimony to progressively improving dust control over the past decade. step change progress to achieve the goals For NIHL, a 16% year-on-year reduction in the rate of cases compensated was achieved. Engaging with stakeholders Internal and external stakeholders are meaningfully engaged to enable and partnerships The most significant achievement recorded, was all Continental Africa Region operations achievement of the health goals. Targeted partnerships are established to complement service offerings and for leverage to maximise impact being free of occupational disease for the year. Current and emerging health risks are understood, critical controls are Management of risk to identified and established, and control effectiveness is demonstrated. achieve the goals Risk management is applied in a dynamic and responsive way Common operating model A common approach to service provision is in place, underpinned by focusing on operational a set of minimum requirements which enable global consistency yet excellence locally relevant application. There is a systematic approach to ensuring continuous improvement Monitoring, evaluation and The business achieves its health performance outcomes and effective reporting with effective oversight ensures integrity of the system governance Communicating with internal Targeted communication increases understanding of the health stakeholders on health business and mobilises support across the organisation for improved performance performance Communicating with external Effective communication on health performance positions the company stakeholders on health as a responsible citizen beyond compliance performance Demonstrating business value The value protected and created for the business though health through health initiatives initiatives is understood, demonstrated and articulated Compliant Proactive Reactive S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 33 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH CONTINUED All occupational disease frequency rate New cases of silicosis OCCUPATIONAL LUNG DISEASE WORKING GROUP (Group) (Group) 8 300 In November 2014, Anglo American South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti, Gold Fields, 7.68 297 7 Harmony Gold Mining Company, African Rainbow Minerals and SibanyeStillwater formed 7.23 7.13 7.03 250 6 6.62 an industry working group on occupational lung diseases (OLD) to address issues relating 5 200 210 to compensation for OLD in the gold mining industry in South Africa. The working group 4 150 remains of the view that achieving a comprehensive solution which is both fair to past, 3 142 131 100 2 107 present and future employees, and sustainable for the sector, is preferable to protracted 50 1 litigation. The working group will continue with its efforts – which have been ongoing 0 0 for more than three years – to find common ground with all stakeholders, including 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 government, labour and the claimants’ legal representatives. The working group’s objective is to develop, in conjunction with key stakeholders, a New cases of occupational TB New cases of noised induced hearing loss comprehensive and sustainable solution to the concerns about OLD compensation in (South Africa) (Group) 500 200 the South African gold mining sector. The working group continues to assist the Medical 447 182 Bureau for Occupational Diseases (MBOD) and Compensation Commissioner for 400 150 385 Occupational Diseases (CCOD) (the government entities responsible for the certification 300 142 147 315 132 and compensation of mineworkers with OLD in terms of the Occupational Diseases in 285 100 255 200 Mines and Works Act (ODMWA)) to determine the financial viability of the ODMWA Fund, 50 68 address the significant backlog of past claims and improve the ongoing processing 100 and payment claims, locating of ex-mineworkers and development of a comprehensive 0 0 database of current and ex-mineworkers. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 New cases of Malaria Malaria frequency rate (Total for Continental Africa) (cases/million hours worked (Continental Africa)) 2500 80 70 2000 2,244 69.5 60 1500 1,686 50 1,504 48.4 51.1 40 1000 30 20 500 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 The 2015 malaria frequency rate was restated as a result of a miscalculation of the number of hours worked S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 34 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES GRIGRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS A c ro s s AngloG old Ashan ti’s g eog ra ph ical l y di v e r s e o pe r a ti ng a r e a s , o ur bus i ne s s i nte r s e c ts a var i et y of cult ural, economic an d social lan dsca p es . M i ni ng a c ti v i ti e s a ttr a c t pe o pl e w ho be c o m e e s ta b l i s h ed i n ar eas a round t he mine or, in som e cases, min in g be c o m e s e s ta bl i s he d w he r e pe o pl e a l r e a dy l i v e . Key features Community investment While the inextricable relationship between mines and IN FOCUS $24.1m 2016: $20.2m host communities leads to opportunities for mutual benefit, it also leads to conflict. By focusing on the needs and challenges of host communities where we operate, AngloGold Ashanti can create opportunities for shared value throughout the lifecycle of our mines. Community incidents In 2017, we set 2030 aspirational goals within the group 17 2016: 2 sustainable development function. These goals form part of our work to operationalise the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and align our performance to deliver against this universal framework. Our 2030 community aspiration is that “Communities are self-sustaining, free from poverty and inequality”. Total procurement spend 15.66% In terms of our relationship with host communities and Our 2030 aspirational local government, this refers to leveraging our position community goal to strengthen institutional capacity, establishing strong partnerships, and stimulating alternative industries beyond aligned with UN SDGs 2017: $2.29bn (2016: $1.98bn) the mine. We also aim to leverage our position with governments to build strong partnerships and influence Focus on initiatives Resettlement sites towards policy certainty in our operating jurisdictions. nurturing self3 This requires us to deeply embed a proactive mindset in our business culture and practices. We must effectively sustaining host manage complex and evolving social risks, and ensure communities 2016: 4 leaders at all levels in the organisation understand and actively contribute to self-sustaining communities. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 35 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Our community and government affairs on cultivating rice paddy in the villages of the high prevalence of artisanal mining by strategy is the catalyst for achieving this Saragulwa and Nungwe, approximately 20km establishing vegetable and cashew nut farming aspiration. We recognise the need to deliver from Geita Gold Mine. In 2016, the project initiatives. Approximately 300 producers in superior social performance. This must be cultivated 310 acres of land, which increased host communities benefit from vegetable characterised by relationships based on trust, to 900 acres in 2017. While local farmers have farming as a result of a partnership between socio-technical innovation and partnerships been cultivating rice in these fields for decades, farmer-based organisations, local government that drive societal upliftment within our scope using traditional seed varieties, yields have and AngloGold Ashanti. Our aim for the of influence. Our success will ultimately increased by up to 225% since the inception cashew farming initiative is to stimulate be measured by community and societal commercial agriculture and address the mine’s of the project and the introduction of improved inclusion in the mining value chain, local rehabilitation requirements by initially cultivating seed quality and modern farming techniques. economic diversification, and securing and 74 hectares as part of a pilot plantation at Approximately 980 farmers participate in this maintaining our social licence to operate. the Sintroko waste dump in Kourouda. We co-operative, benefiting from training and successfully transplanted 1,500 cashew nut product storage in a modern facility. Geita Gold Our actions in 2017 G4-21 G4-27 trees, and developed plantations in 11 villages Mine completed the construction of the storage Strategies toward self-sustaining of Bouré, covering an area of approximately facility in 2017, which means farmers can now communities 1,100 hectares. We helped stimulate youth Local economic development sell produce throughout the year and take employment by outsourcing planting to a Our local economic development programmes advantage of seasonal price fluctuations. To company run by youths in Bouré. are designed in partnership with local ensure sustainability of the programme, farmers government and host communities to increase are also encouraged to partner in an envisaged In South Africa, the income-generating project, economic growth, stimulate income-generating irrigation scheme, facilitated by the mine, using established in the AmaMpondo Kingdom, opportunities, create employment and nurture water from the nearby Lake Victoria. aims to alleviate poverty, create employment, sustainable livelihoods beyond the life of mine. contribute to food security and promote In Guinea, the Siguiri Economic Development gainful use of communal land in areas where In Tanzania, we reported on the launch of the programme (SEDP) primarily involves some of our employees originate. The project Geita Economic Development Programme commercial aquaculture and agriculture. is an integral part of the AngloGold Ashanti (GEDP) in 2015 as a five-year initiative aimed We have established a commercial fish approved 2015-2019 social and labour plan at stimulating employment creation and farming project, which yielded its first harvest (SLP) regulated by the Department of Mineral income generation. The programme involves of 200,000 fish in November 2017. The Resources and is a partnership between establishing large-scale commercial agricultural initiative benefits approximately 60 fishermen AngloGold Ashanti, AB InBev (previously projects, as well as several small and medium and traders, and 300 indirect beneficiaries SABMiller), the district municipality, local enterprises housed in a dedicated centre. along the value chain. We also responded community and local government. Since the One of the agricultural initiatives focuses to issues of food security, malnutrition and project became fully operational in October S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 36 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED 2016, three co-operatives have been and public access. When the project was established, comprising 307 landowners of initiated in 2012, only 3% of residents had VIDEO ON AMAMPONDO PROJECT whom 51% are women. Approximately access to clean and safe water but, as 5,000 community members are beneficiaries a result of the project, by January 2016, of the project. To ensure good governance of that figure had risen to 36%. In partnership the project, the AmaMpondo Development with local government, Geita Gold Mine Trust was registered in April 2017 and constructed the Nyankanga Dam, as well as subsequently held two successful board a water-treatment plant, reservoir tank and meetings. A total of 556.4 hectares was public access kiosks. In 2017, a new pipeline planted in the first season and, although was built to help maintain water supply to yields were lower than anticipated, issues Geita Town. To date, AngloGold Ashanti has were identified and the partnership is wholly invested $5.2 million to fund the project. committed to steering the venture to full In Guinea, we initiated the Bouré Secondary commercial success. In the 2017/2018 promote awareness of agricultural products Education Development Project in response agricultural production season, a committed from Cajamarca. The second phase began in to government’s sectoral education policy budget of approximately $786 000 was requirements, which identified recreational allocated to deal with the challenges January 2017 and involved a train-the-trainer and educational infrastructure development experienced in the first planting season. programme. Following a 76-day period, as priorities. 10 individuals were certified as practical In Colombia, a youth entrepreneurship agriculture technicians, enabling them to programme, in the Cajamarca municipality Click on the play icon to open video return to their communities with new skills where our La Colosa project is situated, was and technologies to improve productivity. The established in partnership with an agricultural VIDEO ON GEITA WATER PROJECT programme participated in a local livestock and education institution. The programme fair and supported the local farmer’s market comprises two phases with the objective of in Cajamarca. We also hosted information strengthening the community’s livestock and sessions about the success of our avocado agricultural skills. The first phase began in production initiative in the region. September 2016 and involved the selection of 16 young leaders who were trained and Infrastructure certified as agricultural technicians. We In Tanzania, the Geita water supply project also facilitated various discussions between provides potable water to Geita Town producers, government and traders to residents by way of domestic connections S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 37 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED The project aims to improve access to In Mali, we embarked on a community water Capacity building qualifications. To date, 111 apprentices have secondary education in the Bouré district project in 2015 to ensure host communities In Tanzania, 23 students from host communities completed the programme and qualified and this was achieved through contributions have access to independent and sustainable and other areas near Geita Gold Mine as artisans. to infrastructure in the Kintinian, Boukaria, water supply beyond the inevitable completed a three-year apprenticeship In Mali, the Sadiola Gold Mine Computer Balato, Fatoya and Didi communities. The closure of Sadiola Gold Mine. Through a programme sponsored by the mine. The Project was established following collaboration project began in 2016 with the construction participatory approach, a community water apprentices qualified as auto electricians, diesel between the host community, student and of a library, classrooms, computer room and management commission was established mechanics, electricians, welders and fitters. parent associations, and the local municipality. educator accommodation units for each of with representatives from the surrounding Sponsorship by AngloGold Ashanti included The aim of the project is to equip students with the five secondary schools in Bouré. communities, who outlined plans for a water tuition fees, transport, accommodation, computer skills with lessons in English through supply system to reach a target population of personal protective equipment, a monthly e-learning. The project is part of the “Hey, In Ghana, the Iduapriem Community Trust 15,000 inhabitants. To date, AngloGold Ashanti stipend, medical insurance and field English Will Help You!” programme, which Fund focused on the provision of educational has completed the construction of a water allowances. The programme includes a has been in place since 2003 and focuses and sanitary facilities for host communities. In reservoir and pumping system fitted with solar combination of theoretical and practical skills on developing skills in spoken and written the Bankyim community, a recreational centre panels. We also initiated an empowerment in safety, firefighting and entrepreneurship. English, as well as respect for cultural diversity. with seating capacity for 500 people was built, programme to ensure the community can Students graduate with an apprenticeship It also addresses health, reproduction and hosting a variety of activities such as youth sustainably manage the system in future. and Hazard and Risk Management Level 1 environmental management. programmes, community meetings and skills In South Africa, we invested in education development programmes. Other newly built infrastructure in our host and labour-sending facilities include the Teberebie Health Centre, communities. In the Merafong municipality, the Abompunso Junior High School and the we built two science laboratories at the New Techiman Early Childhood Development Kamohelo and Phororong primary schools. Centre. The Obuasi Community Trust Fund In the Matlosana municipality, we refurbished also installed mechanised boreholes at three and equipped classrooms at the Geanthone high schools in response to a call for assistance and Kanana secondary schools. We also from authorities. Previously, learners at the built an additional classroom, an early Akrofuom Senior High Technical School, Christ childhood development centre, a computer the King Catholic Senior High School and Asare centre and ablution facilities at Sonata Junior Bediako Senior High School had to dedicate Primary. In the OR Tambo municipality, we a portion of the school day to fetching water. built an administration block at Bholani The construction of the boreholes facilitates Primary School. The projects are included in access to drinking water, reduces the incidence AngloGold Ashanti’s approved 2015-2019 of waterborne diseases, and increases time Social and Labour Plan (SLP), which is available for teaching and learning. regulated by government. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 38 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Online tuition was introduced when classroomqualifications. Additionally, 2,520 learners based lessons became less effective. Internet from surrounding schools benefitting from the connections were established at Sadiola Junior maths, science and English programme, which High School, Mine Junior High School and has a 99% pass rate. Adult education and Kourouketo Junior High School to facilitate training is provided to communities – 1,930 e-learning. Since then, several additional community members have benefitted and partners, including the American embassy, 1,359 have acquired portable skills over the have joined the programme to expand the past six years. training of trainers. In Australia, from 2016, we have provided In South Africa, we provide bursaries, academic support to secondary students at internships, learnerships, school and Eastern Goldfields College and John Paul enrichment programmes, and maths College. These learners are disadvantaged and science classes as part of our youth compared to their city peers in terms development strategy. Our Community Human of academic support programmes. The Resources Development (CHRD) programme intervention included the Australian Tertiary has seen the enrolment of 248 bursars since Admission Rank (ATAR) testing pathways, 2012 in various fields, such as engineering, which assesses learner readiness for metallurgy, commerce, industrial psychology most university programmes. Through and logistics. The programme has produced our sponsorship academic experts visited a total of 97 graduates to date. We have Kalgoorlie in Western Australia to support accommodated 356 community internships students as they prepared for year-end with some resulting in gainful employment examinations. The success of the programme at business units in our operations. We have contributed to the Eastern Goldfields College also partnered with the Mining Qualifications ranking, for the first time in its history, among Authority (MQA) to facilitate internships. the top 50 academic public schools in Western Our mining and engineering learnerships Australia. Further improvements are expected hosted 756 learners to date of which some as 50 learners completed the ATAR pathways found employment within our operations. by the end of 2017. Success in ATAR is Furthermore, in partnership with the a critical step for entry into tertiary level Department of Health, our programme resulted education in Australia, and the programme is in a number of individuals obtaining nursing vital piece in support of education in general. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 39 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Managing impact Performance Standard 5. Where displacement their funds have been kept in an escrow compensation. In 2017, 15 households took Land access and resettlement is unavoidable, affected communities are account in line with government regulations. occupation and six households had not yet Access to land for mining activities, and the fully, fairly and promptly compensated for loss been relocated from Mankessim. A livelihood displacement and resettlement of people of assets. Additionally, we understand our Ghana: Iduapriem Gold Mine (Mankessim) restoration programme for Mankessim involves responsibility to restore or improve the livelihood The Mankessim Resettlement Plan was first agricultural land replacement and economic are complex, emotive issues with long-term approved in consultation with the affected implications for our relationship with host and standard of living of displaced people. development projects. community in 2012. The resettlement action communities. AngloGold Ashanti’s Land Access plan identified 318 impacted households, Ghana: Iduapriem Gold Mine (Teberebie) Land replacement seeks to provide suitable and Resettlement Standard articulates the 69 of which were deemed to be genuinely Teberebie land acquisition stakeholder alternative arable land to project-affected company’s approach to acquiring or accessing affected. Genuinely affected persons are negotiations began in 2014 and were finalised people for subsistence and commercial land and resettlement in instances where those impacted by mining operations. The by August 2015. The Teberebie asset survey farming. In Mankessim, this process began displacement of communities is unavoidable. 69 households were surveyed and valued and valuation report was developed to form in 2017 and will be extended to additional Our process involves an initial assessment of for compensation relating to physical the basis for compensation. In total, 836 community members who were economically land requirements, including the environmental, resettlement. One household opted for cash property owners were impacted and 832 displaced. Farmers were encouraged to compensation at full replacement cost. By social and health impacts. Following our initial were fully compensated by the end of 2017. identify suitable alternative land within the the end of 2016, 21 households had not assessment, a resettlement management Compensation was completed in line with project area, and received equal land size as yet taken occupancy, citing dissatisfaction plan is developed in consultation with local the asset survey and valuation report by and requesting cash compensation. At a replacement for farmland earmarked by the authorities, and the affected community, independent consulting specialists. We have Resettlement and Negotiation Committee company. Negotiations were completed with in line with global best practice as set out not been able to establish contact with the meeting on 29 November 2016, it was Nananom, representing the farmers, and the in the International Finance Corporation’s four remaining project-affected persons but agreed that AngloGold Ashanti would pay Ghana Lands Commission. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 40 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED Implementation began with the 68 of the issues brought up in the complaint. The that benefits the company as well as host project-affected people where the farmers assessment aimed to help CAO gain a better communities. Engagement is a complex and have validated land sizes for processing understanding of the concerns raised in the dynamic process, often subtly influenced and payment. complaint, understand different perspectives by the biases and agendas of individual on the issues, and help the parties make an parties. We are informed by principles of Guinea: Siguiri Gold Mine (Seguelen – Area 1) informed choice about options available to flexibility, authenticity and transparency when On 27 April 2017, the Centre de Commerce address the complaint through CAO’s Dispute we initiate dialogue with our stakeholders. International pour le Development (CECIDE), Resolution and Compliance functions. CAO’s Our approach to community engagement Le Memes Droits Pour Tous (MDT), and assessment of the complaint does not entail is guided by our Engagement Management Inclusive Development International (IDI), any judgement on the merits of the complaint Standard, which stipulates that each on behalf of 380 Kintinian families (the but as an outcome produced a report setting operation must prepare and implement an complainants), submitted a complaint out each party’s version of the events. The engagement strategy that is forward-looking to the Office of the Compliance Advisor report is now available on the CAO website to identify potential developments that may Ombudsman (CAO). The complainants allege alongside the complaint at www.caoaffect stakeholders. that they have suffered from violent forced ombudsman.org. evictions from Area One resulting in physical In Ghana, Obuasi Gold Mine and the and economic displacement and a range of The next step will be for the parties to hold an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) adverse impacts on their health and lives. initial meeting to exchange information. We hosted a public meeting in 2017 to discuss SAG denies these allegations and contends anticipate that the meeting will be held in the the potential redevelopment of the mine. that the resettlement process was conducted second quarter of 2018. Discussions were attended by more than in accordance with the laws of Guinea, 46 communities, as well as paramount, Colombia: El Diamante company/IFC standards and with the consent divisional and local chiefs within the Adansi and As highlighted in our 2016 report, the El of the project affected families. Bekwai communities, local NGOs and other Diamante resettlement, close to our La Colosa stakeholders. The purpose of the forum was to CAO is the independent accountability project, began after the resettlement plan was create an opportunity for members of the public mechanism for the private sector arm of the approved in 2010. In 2017, the remaining to express their opinions on the proposed World Bank Group, the International Finance six families were successfully resettled. This redevelopment plans, as well as proposals for Corporation and the Multilateral Investment brings the physical resettlement to a close as environmental management initiatives, such Guarantee Agency which responds to 51 families initially identified as impacted were successfully resettled. as tailings facilities and water infrastructure complaints from local communities concerned projects. The public meeting was well-attended with the environmental and social impacts of Stakeholder engagement G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 and presented an opportunity for AngloGold IFC/MIGA projects. AngloGold Ashanti recognises that proactive, Ashanti to reiterate our approach to localisation On 17 October 2017, CAO visited Siguiri Gold positive engagement with our stakeholders in terms of providing opportunities for skills Mine for a meeting as part of an assessment can lead to inclusive decision-making development and procurement. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 41 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED In Brazil, we initiated a study culminating in Our engagement efforts during the reporting an updated stakeholder map of the seven year focused primarily on negotiations on the municipalities of influence in our area, new Mining Charter through the Chamber namely Barão de Cocais, Caeté, Nova of Mines, as well as rightsizing of the South Lima, Raposos, Sabará and Santa Barbara Africa operations. These engagements were in the State of Minas Gerais, and Crixás in held with government at national, regional the State of Goiás. The study was based and municipal level, as well as trade union on interviews with 96 key stakeholders and representatives, host communities and civil society organisations, and small, medium included socio-economic analyses of each and micro enterprises. The issues ranged municipality. We also hosted a one-day from repositioning of AngloGold Ashanti’s annual meeting, dedicated to open and South Africa Region operations to the state transparent discussions about company of compliance in terms of mining rights, results and impacts in host communities. particularly mine works, environmental plans, This event was attended by representatives SLPs and impact of the downscaling process of key stakeholder groups, including host on communities. We also engaged with communities, local government, media, civil the regulators and community to discuss society and suppliers. The last meetings were continuity in the planned handover the Vaal held on 26 October in the municipality of River mining rights following the sale of our Sabará (with participation by representatives Kopanang and Moab Khotsong mines. of the municipalities within the State of Minas Gerais) and, on 21 November, in Indigenous peoples the municipality of Crixás. In total, 51 Engagement with indigenous communities stakeholders participated, contributing their must begin at the earliest possible stage of perceptions, ideas and suggestions. the mining life cycle – from exploration and mining to closure. Our approach is guided In South Africa, we reviewed our engagement by the AngloGold Ashanti Management strategy to ensure it remains current and in Standard for Indigenous Peoples, which has line with international best practice. been in effect since 2011. It strives to ensure S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 42 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance CONTRIBUTING TO SELF-SUSTAINING COMMUNITIES CONTINUED our operations understand and respect the Our performance social, economic, environmental and cultural Community incidents Each operation in our portfolio has its interests and perspectives of indigenous own community complaints and grievance 30 peoples. The standard was informed by the mechanism. These are developed with local 25 26 IFC Guidance Note 7 on Indigenous Peoples context and cultural sensitivities in mind to 20 and the International Council on Mining and ensure complaints are received and dealt with 15 17 16 15 Metals (ICMM) position statement on mining in a manner that is transparent and ethical. All 10 and indigenous peoples. complaints and grievances are recorded with 5 an estimated timeline for providing feedback 2 In Australia, we partnered with Goldfields and communicating with the complainant. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Clontarf Academy for Aboriginal boys and In instances where grievances cannot be an Aboriginal-owned contractor, Triodia resolved by the company, with the consent of Mining, at Tropicana Gold Mine to implement the community, it may be referred to a third Community investment ($bn) Transition from School to Work. Based on party for mediation and/or arbitration. (Group less equity) the encouraging results of the partnership, it 25 Community Information Systems 24.1 is currently being replicated at the Kalgoorlie 20 22.5 Our Community Information Management 20.2 Girls Academy, the Eastern Goldfields College System (CIMS) came online in 2017, and is 15 and Kalgoorlie-Boulder Community High being implemented in phases. In the first phase, 14.8 15.2 School. We also partnered with schools to we implemented actions, commitments and 10 provide teacher training and resources to promises, community incident management, 5 assist in meeting new requirements set by complaints and grievances, engagement government for minimum numeracy and strategy, project management, socio-economic 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 literacy standards. development, stakeholder group and stakeholder individual modules. The rest of the Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) modules are scheduled for implementation as ASM remains a key material risk for Proportion of spending on local suppliers part of the second phase in 2018. AngloGold Ashanti. The loss of gold-bearing (%) ore, environmental degradation, the use 68 Argentina 93 Brazil of dangerous chemicals and human rights $2.29 billion 68 % violations against vulnerable groups are of Australia 66 South Africa primary concern. For further information, refer 76 Ghana to the section on artisanal and small-scale in to ta l pr o c ur e m e nt s pe nd 99 Mali mining in our report. 90 68 Guinea Tanzania S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 43 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS R es po ns ible e nvironmental steward sh ip i s a c r i ti c a l a s pe c t o f a c qui r i ng a nd m a i nta i ni ng A ng l oGol d A s h an t i ’s s ocia l licence to op era te. In pu rsuing th i s o utc o m e , w e c o ns ta ntl y s e e k to us e o ur s ha r e o f n a t u r al r es ou r c es e f f icie nt l y and conscien tiousl y. Key features Reportable environmental incidents In 2014, we prioritised three strategic focus IN FOCUS 3 areas as part of our environmental framework. These included securing leadership commitment, enhancing environmental 2016: 1 awareness and organisational capability; creating a deeper understanding of our environmental risks; and ensuring effective Energy consumption (PJ) governance and compliance processes. 3.33% 2017: 30 (2016: 29) Since first prioritising these focus areas, we have progressively evolved them into mature workplans, and have seen the benefit as reflected through in our sustained environmental performance. Our next ambition GHG emissions (kilotonnes) is to achieve our 2030 aspirational goals. 2.68% These goals are aligned with the United Nations SDGs, and aim to elevate our efforts Our 2030 aspirational in order to deliver environmental performance environment goal 2017: 3,953 (2016: 4,062) that positively impacts both the company as aligned with UN SDGs well as broader society. Water use (Megalitres) The 2030 environment aspirational goal is 2.88% AngloGold Ashanti’s to “Eliminate environmental harm, and use approach to water natural resources equitably”. For AngloGold Ashanti, this means continuing to build on management 2017: 52,219 (2016: 50,716) the risk management systems designed to ensure the elimination of environmental harm, S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 44 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED but also leveraging our capabilities in land and the position statement commits AngloGold AngloGold Ashanti operates mines in areas absorbing the full volume in our operations, water management to create value beyond Ashanti to apply robust and transparent water where there is water scarcity, as well as which prevented the extraneous water from our traditional mine boundaries, and driving governance; manage water at operations water abundance. Each scenario affects being released to the environment. integrated closure management. This ambition effectively; and to collaborate with external our water balances differently and a unique requires that we further advance our cultural stakeholders to achieve responsible and management approach is required to satisfy Water use and efficiency maturity, and become more proactive. To sustainable water use. The position statement the needs of mining operations as well 100 1000 achieve this, we are establishing multidiscipline is supported by the ICMM Water Reporting as host communities. During 2017, our Efficiency (Litres per tonne) working groups focused around specific Guide, whose development and case studies operations in Tanzania, Mali and Guinea 80 800 627 639 611 environmental themes to proactively identify we contributed to. AngloGold Ashanti remains experienced reduced rainfall. In Tanzania, this 600 Use (Gigalitres) 593 60 600 and capitalise on opportunities within and well positioned to meet these commitments. necessitated increased water abstraction from 40 400 outside the organisation. By embedding an Lake Victoria through the construction of an In terms of operational water use, we primarily environmental awareness in everything we do, additional pipeline. However, as an added 20 200 draw on three sources of water, in addition to 64 64 60 51 52 we will continue to improve the efficiency with benefit, the additional pipeline also provided 0 0 the rainfall directly harvested on our processing which we make use of natural resources. access to water for irrigation for many of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 facilities. The first is groundwater pumped Use Efficiency communities in its vicinity. Similarly, in Ghana, from borefields, or water that collects in our Our actions in 2017 Iduapriem Mine experienced lower than usual underground operations as it seeps down Water through fissures and cracks. Second, in some rainfall volumes, which required increased Access to water remains an important social, water imports from rainwater collected in jurisdictions where we operate, we purchase environmental and economic issue. As the its Block 7 pit lake. Water imports from the water from utilities. Lastly, we are permitted to global population grows, demand for good Tinkisso River were also increased at Siguiri abstract limited volumes of water from surface quality water required to meet the needs of Mine in Guinea during the 2017 reporting year, sources, such as rivers or lakes, through society, agriculture and industry, continues due to drier climatic conditions. our licencing agreements with governments. to escalate. This often occurs in the face We continually work to optimise the use of In South Africa, removal of extraneous water of mounting water supply pressure caused raw water in our operations, maximise water infiltrating from neighbouring mines is a high by more frequent droughts. As noted in our recycling to the extent practicable and ensure priority for our Vaal River and West Wits mines. 2016 report, the International Council on the safe discharge of excess water to the With the sale of the Moab Khotsong and Mining and Metals (ICMM) released a Water environment. We recognise water recycling as Kopanang mines, the focus will shift to West Position Statement in December of 2016. a key feature of water stewardship, and track Wits and the ~ 5Ml per day of extraneous This water position statement sets out an water recycling efficiency. It is calculated using water draining into the underground operations approach for effective water stewardship, the approach contained in the ICMM Water from the neighbouring Blyvooruitzicht mine. understanding that it requires concerted effort Reporting Guide, which is based on the Water The water from this mine is poor quality and from government, civil society, business and Accounting Framework as published by the mildly acidic, but during 2017 the AngloGold local communities. As a member of the ICMM, Minerals Council of Australia. Ashanti West Wits operation succeeded in S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 45 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED This was accomplished by adjusting the water overwhelmed the facility’s already full Nation’s Environmental Program (UNEP). It extraneous water’s pH, allowing it to be used process water management system resulting is a voluntary programme for gold mining in the mining and gold processing circuits and in an environmental incident. The facility itself companies, focused exclusively on the safe offsetting fresh water imports to the operation. remained stable and freeboard of the dam manufacture, transport, and use of cyanide in However, it remains to be seen whether the was safely maintained. In response to the the production of gold. Companies adopting current solution can be sustained during a incident, we further upgraded our stormwater the Cyanide Code are required to have mining normal and very wet rainfall season. management system to improve our capability operations audited by independent third of managing future storms of similar intensities. parties to determine the status of the code At Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, due to historical implementation. The majority of AngloGold allegations of ground water contamination In Brazil, we received approval from the Ashanti’s operations have been certified from the Sansu community, AngloGold Ashanti regulator to raise our Cuiabá, Queiroz and under the code. During 2017, Tropicana commissioned both the Ghana Council for Córrego do Sítio tailings storage facilities, Gold Mine in Australia received its inaugural Scientific and Industrial Research and Envaserv despite the complex legislative environment certification, which also coincided with Sunrise Research Consult to conduct and investigation. that persists after the 2015 Samarco tailings Dam’s successful recertification for another Results to date highlighted elevated coliform disaster. These operations are also testing three-year period. Córrego do Sítio II in Brazil bacteria and metal concentrations in the the technical, financial and regulatory viability also received full certification while Cerro water which are the result of regional geologyof different deposition methodologies to Vanguardia Mine in Argentina was successfully driven phenomenon and poor sanitation ensure we can make use of the most effective recertified for another three-year period. practices, and not the result of Obuasi’s gold options available. The methodologies are mining operations. primarily focused on the stability of tailings Energy facilities and water management, and we will Most of our energy is generated from fossil fuels, Tailings integrate the learnings at other operations in either being purchased from utilities or generated It is AngloGold Ashanti’s obligation to ensure our portfolio where they may be applicable. by our operations through the combustion of our mine tailings are stable, non-polluting and The development of emergency response fossil fuels. A minor percentage of our energy contained. We are guided by international plans is taking place in consultation with is sourced from hydropower. Since 2013, best practice and have robust systems and local communities to facilitate a common AngloGold Ashanti’s energy consumption has processes in place to manage our facilities. In understanding of the emergency edged downwards as a result of cost savings, our 2016 report, we outlined our approach to response process. energy efficiency initiatives, divestments and tailings management. During 2017, our primary the scaling down of operations. More than focus remained on the water management Cyanide 95% of the company’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) issues on or near our tailings facilities. AngloGold Ashanti is a founding signatory emissions arise from energy consumption. Following an extended period of rain, our to the International Cyanide Management Approximately 68% of 2017 GHG emissions Kareerand facilities in South Africa experienced Code (ICMC). The Cyanide Code was arose from the South African operations due an intense storm event of more than 50mm developed by a multi-stakeholder steering to emission-intensive coal-based electricity rain in less than three hours. This additional committee under the guidance of the United purchased from the national utility. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 46 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED South Africa mines to further reduce variances in electrical renewable energy. Unfortunately, the physical Our operations in South Africa continued to demand and potentially eliminate the need constraints of our mine concession would not experience improved supply reliability of the for diesel powered generation. We also render a solar power field large enough to electricity sourced from the national grid. It is implemented various optimisation initiatives make a hybrid power station design costanticipated that tariff increases will be kept in that improved efficiencies. effective. However, the diesel-powered units line with the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by the in the awarded bid are designed to a wide Continental Africa National Energy Regulator for the 2018/2019 operating band, enabling each generator to Onsite diagnostics across our operations in period. We conduct long-term energy provide electrical power under a variety of load the Continental Africa Region enabled the security risk assessments, which are updated conditions without sacrificing fuel efficiency. identification of incremental energy saving annually to address current conditions while The new power station is scheduled to be opportunities. Tools to aid the refinement and evaluating cost and technology improvements commissioned in 2018. implementation of these initiatives have also in renewable energy. In addition to traditional forms of renewable energy, such as solar been developed. Each site has an Energy Americas Management Plan whose KPI Dashboard In Brazil, hydropower capacity has now power, we continue to evaluate improvements in biofuels, new generation technologies, monitors improvements and simultaneously stabilised but not fully recovered from the and fuel switching. Energy efficiency is a key provides for identifying further energy drought conditions in prior years, providing element in the South Africa Region’s strategy opportunities. Actions across the region improved reliability in electrical power supply. to reduce operating cost – since 2010 we include renegotiation of utility tariffs, replication Energy efficiency improvement and cost have consistently improved our annual energy of best practices from other mines in the reduction activities continue within the region. intensity in terms of GJ per tonne of ore AngloGold Ashanti portfolio, and the increased use of solar power for roadway lighting and We also facilitated the continued treated. The announcement in 2017 to divest other applications. implementation of the ISO 50001 Energy assets will have a pronounced impact on the Management Standard and the AngloGold region and company’s emissions profile. In Tanzania, Geita Gold Mine initiated a large Ashanti Energy Management System. A Australia project to replace an existing power station particular area of focus in 2017 was the During 2017, we completed the conversion of whose units are at the end of their economic valuable, but often overlooked opportunity our on-site electrical power generators from life. The new power station will utilise fuelof employee engagement through increased diesel fuel to natural gas. A small number of efficient generators and a more modern energy awareness. Our operations across diesel generator units remained on site to power station design. During the tender Brazil have deployed actions such as visual address the demands of dynamic electrical process, proposals were received for hybrid aids to stress the value and importance of loads, which are outside the operating power stations utilising both traditional engine energy efficiency, multimedia interactions with capacity of the base-load natural gas units. generators and photovoltaic solar power to employees, and reward and recognition for Efforts are underway at both our Australian lower generation costs and improve our use of onsite energy teams. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 47 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED Ongoing energy projects include the on the national agenda for several years. gold production would remain a suitable carbon intensity improvement in place, the continuation of our ventilation-on-demand The second draft of the Carbon Tax Bill proxy for mining production activity levels. diagram below illustrates our performance control systems, expansion of real-time energy was released during December 2017, and However, the effect of reducing gold grades in to date against the 2007 base year in GHG metering and data analysis, and the addition National Treasury announced implementation mined ore has undermined this assumption. per tonne of ore processed. When compared of automated energy efficiency controls to of the tax from 1st of January 2019. With This is because the primary drivers of to the base year, our 2017 intensity is ~20% production equipment. The latter enables our relatively low direct carbon emissions, energy consumption (and resultant GHG lower but this was already surpassed between systems to shut down high energy consuming AngloGold Ashanti’s main exposure to emissions) in AngloGold Ashanti operations 2013 to 2015, peaking at ~26% below the equipment after a set period of idle time, carbon tax will be through the increased cost are the volume of rock mined, trammed and base. A further improvement in the company’s further improving our energy consumption per of electricity purchased from the national hoisted, distances trucked and tonnages emissions intensity is anticipated after the tonne of ore treated. utility provider, Eskom. The carbon tax on milled in processing plants. In addition, our asset sales and deep-level mine closures in liquid fossils fuels used in the region will be underground mines commonly use significant the South Africa Region, making a sustained An additional opportunity under development imposed at source in addition to current fuel amounts of energy to ventilate and cool the 30% improvement before 2022, within reach. is expansion of the automated underground taxes. Although the initial carbon tax rate is underground workings. As a result, in our ventilation supply and the associated exhaust approximately $10 per tonne of CO2-e, during reporting on GHG performance, since 2013, Biodiversity fan systems. Finally, we are exploring the the first phase, which ends on 31 December the company has adopted a per tonne of In Australia, the Great Victoria Desert replacement of our existing diesel-driven 2022, a series of allowances will reduce the ore processed denominator, replacing gold Biodiversity Trust (GVDBT) initiated three heavy underground equipment with more effective rate anywhere between $0.50 and projects focused on fire history and knowledge ounces produced. This is considered a energy efficient electrically powered machines. $4 per tonne. to facilitate improved fire management. The more appropriate indicator of mining activity Benefits of this proposed conversion includes levels and is also more consistent with broad aim is to protect vegetation and threatened In Australia, Tropicana gold mine submitted a significant reduction in underground air an application to the Clean Energy Regulator industry practice. With our targeted 30% fauna in the Great Victoria Desert (GVD) from contaminants, in addition to improving the for a Calculated Baseline under the Federal lowering carbon emissions. Government’s Carbon Emission Safeguard GHG emissions intensity 2007-2017 Mechanism. This 2016 legislation is aimed Climate change 65 at limiting future growth in Greenhouse Gas Climate change is a global challenge (GHG) emissions. After setting baseline 59 60 60 61 58 posing risk to society and the environment. kg of GHG per tonne treated 52 54 48 46 emission thresholds, the Safeguard 45 43 45 AngloGold Ashanti can contribute to climate Mechanism will require that companies 39 change mitigation by reducing emissions submit carbon credits or pay penalties for and improving our efficiency of fossil energy excess emissions. 26 use. In South Africa, our direct (Scope 1) emissions are dwarfed by our indirect In 2007, AngloGold Ashanti set a greenhouse 13 (Scope 2) emissions – 100 kiloTonnes CO2-e gas intensity improvement target of 30% in 0 of direct emissions vs 2,633 kiloTonnes of the long term, which was later clarified as 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CO2-e of indirect emissions in 2017. The 15 years (2022). It was framed using ounces 41.3kg/TT target line 30% South African carbon tax legislation has been of gold produced on the assumption that S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 48 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED devastation caused by large late-season Water withdrawal by source fires. The first was the Cultural Burn Rule and Our performance Biodiversity Mapping project, which involved 2017 SDR: Environmental Incidents passing on traditional knowledge from the Tjilpi and Minyma elders to the rangers and other Ground water use Mine Waste Solutions, South Africa % Site: 25 36 family and community members to improve Surface water use Date: 21 February 2017 Utitlity and/or other land management. The elders and rangers external water visited 44 remote sites by helicopter, and Incident: Following a significant storm event of 50mm rain in less than three suppliers related to 39 exchanged skills such as how to search and hours, the return water dam at the Kareerand Tailings Storage Facility production care for Nganamara (Malleefowl) and traditional (TSF) overflowed into an adjacent drainage line that drains towards the fire management practices. downstream Vaal River. In addition, tailings material from the surrounding area also spilled towards and into the Vaal River. The Kareerand tailings We also undertook the Northern Australia storage facility remained stable during the incident and freeboard of the and Rangelands Fire Extension project in dam was safely maintained. partnership with Charles Darwin University to complete long-term fire history mapping Corrective Operations at Kareerand were suspended and extensive downstream water for the Great Victoria Desert. This resulted action: sampling was initiated. Midvaal Water Company was notified to ensure in full fire history data for the period 2000 – water quality monitoring was maintained and tracked. The Department 2016 becoming publicly available. Finally, the of Water and Sanitation and the National Nuclear Regulator were notified of Traditional and Contemporary Fire Patterns the incident. project involved obtaining and stitching together old aerial photography for the region, dating back to the 1960s. The project is in Energy consumption and intensity GHG emissions and intensity Emissions intensity (Kilograms CO2 per tonne) partnership with the Department of Biodiversity, 60 6 Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per tonne) 50 0,40 Conservation and Attractions, and the objective Emissions (Megatonnes CO2e) 5 48 Consumption (Petajoules) is to locate fire scars. Personal interviews were 40 45 43 45 46 0.35 40 also conducted with elders about traditional 0,35 4 30 0.32 burning practices to include indigenous 0.31 0.33 3 20 0.30 cultural knowledge. The outcomes from these 0,30 2 20 projects will be utilised by the GVDBT and land 10 1 managers to guide future fire management 33 32 29 29 30 4.6 4.6 4.2 4.1 4.0 0 0 0,25 0 planning with the re-introduction of traditional 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 patch-burn practices to protect vegetation and Consumption Intensity Emissions Intensity threatened fauna from large wildfires. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 49 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CONTINUED 2017 SDR: Environmental Incidents continued Site: Obuasi Gold Mine, Ghana Date: 26 June 2017 Incident: Between 19 and 26 June, Obuasi received approximately 164mm rain. On 26 June, following 85mm of overnight rain onto the partly re-mined Kokoteasua TSF footprint, an estimated 22,700m3 of water had built up behind a soil containment boundary located at the lowest point of the footprint. The storm water overwhelmed and washed away the boundary containment resulting in an uncontrolled release of water. The water flooded a downstream pumping station and flowed into the Kokoteasua stream. The released water combined with rainfall run-off from surrounding community catchment areas and this resulted in the flooding of a school and nearby houses. The rainfall experienced between May and June of 2017 was the highest recorded for this period of the year since 1942. Corrective The incident area was barricaded to avoid unauthorised entry to the flooded action: area. The Environmental Protection Agency was notified and the affected community engaged on the incident. Interventions were initiated to ensure the school operated without interruption. The containment boundary was restored and reinforced. Site: Obuasi Gold Mine, Ghana Date: 16 October 2017 Incident: On the morning of 16 October a report emerged that intruders had cut into the tailings pipeline to the South TSF. This resulted in the spillage of water treatment plant sludge and effluent into the local environment. Corrective The pumping of effluent was stopped and laterite soil and waste rock action: material was used to block the flow of effluent. Repair work was completed on the day of the incident. The Environmental Protection Agency was notified, and the incident of vandalism reported to the police. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 50 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS Mining ma ke s u se of lan d tem poraril y, and i nte g r a te d c l o s ur e m a na ge m e nt a i m s t o e ns ure a positive leg acy b e yond m in in g. Key features Although gold mining companies strive to IN FOCUS maximise gold extraction from operations, gold resources are finite and operations inevitably go into closure. Mining makes use of land temporarily, and integrated closure management aims to ensure a positive legacy beyond mining. AngloGold Ashanti understands that integrated mine closure is a complex process that requires focused attention on social, environmental and financial aspects during all stages of the mine lifecycle. Closure planning begins at exploration, is implemented concurrently with operations, and extends beyond closure until we Insights into trends relinquish our tenure. Our approach to in integrated closure integrated closure management seeks to management ensure that our mining operations are left in a condition that minimises the adverse impacts on people and the environment. This Reflecting on our work is guided by our Closure Planning Standard as chair of the ICMM to set a consistent benchmark across our working group on operations, and ensure multi-disciplinary identification and management of current and closure future closure risks and liabilities in a manner that adds value. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 51 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED In terms of the global landscape, we observe Integrated closure management has been disciplinary gap assessments against our increasing demands from stakeholders elevated to a priority issue at the ICMM, and standard at several of our operations to better for higher levels of transparency and the working group focused on sharing global understand integrated closure compliance accountability concerning the socio-economic and regional trends and leading-practice, and in the areas of social and workforce closure, and environmental aspects of closure. There drafting tools to assist member companies. as well as bio-physical closure aspects. is also increased focus on closure costs, with This included commencing the update of the These assessments enable us to direct our several governments proposing legislation ICMM member closure toolkit from 2008 to interventions where they are most that will require mining companies to provide reflect current concepts and practices. The acutely required. financial assurance that reflects full cost of the working group hosted two workshops to date, estimated life of mine closure costs. PostIn Australia, Tropicana Gold Mine commenced and at the most recent workshop in Santiago, closure, governments and other land owners a process of implementing noteworthy changes Chile, the AngloGold Ashanti Colombia team are also increasingly reluctant to be burdened based on the results of the gap assessment. had an opportunity to share closure planning with post-closure risks, which are often An awareness session at the mine was held to work and challenges. This yielded valuable inadequately understood or quantified, and improve technical team understanding of the feedback on our approach and performance this impacts the ability of mining companies to requirements of our closure standard, and how as benchmarked against our peers. relinquish liability. a multi-disciplinary approach to closure can be Our actions in 2017 integrated into the operation. Accountability for As a member company of the International closure cost estimation was assigned to the Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we Embedding a strategic approach integrated mine planning function and the cost are actively involved in international industryIn 2016, AngloGold Ashanti reported on model was revised to better reflect operational level closure conversations, and chaired its incorporating strategic closure capability costs. Other initiatives related to addressing closure working group throughout 2017. into our mine planning function. Our aim knowledge gaps and improving the way closure is to ensure the integration of closure activities become integrated in operational considerations into long-term strategic VIDEO ON OUR APPROACH TO activities continue to be progressed. choices and to drive a range of activities INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT and improvements. During 2017, we further Social closure planning enhanced the profile of integrated closure In 2017, the group community discipline management with senior mine management, continued to create a common approach and improved our strategic planning process for the assessment of critical social closure to be more inclusive of complete closure aspects in existing closure plans. The work costs. By continuously raising the profile focused on evaluating and understanding of integrated closure management in the the operational status of closure plans and business, we embed awareness of closure approaches across the group, and served as risks and opportunities and protect the future gap analyses to inform the development of a value of our assets. We also performed intergroup framework and standard. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 52 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The development of the framework, including To implement successful rehabilitation associated standards setting out minimum programmes at our operations, we need to requirements, is anticipated to be completed be aware of environmental risks, changing and implemented across the organisation by land use practices, climatic conditions, the end of 2018. new infrastructure as it affects the mine’s footprint, and evolving community dynamics. In South Africa, we established Enterprise As responsible stewards of the land under Development Centres (EDC) in the Matlosana our control and influence, AngloGold Ashanti and Merafong municipalities in partnership is accountable to governments and host with local government. The objective is to communities for ensuring that land used for incubate existing and new Small, Medium and mining activities meets the agreed postMicro Enterprises (SMME), and to stimulate closure completion criteria. alternative industries beyond the life of mine. These centres serve as a hub for identifying, The application of geospatial developing, capacitating and mentoring technology in mine reclamation at established and upcoming entrepreneurs, and Iduapriem Mine in Ghana provide access to the internet, information booklets, and opportunities to review enterprise feasibility with the assistance from EDC officials. The centres offer advice on funding options from various institutions and an enterprise registration service. The primary sectors targeted by the EDC include agriculture, manufacturing, retail and services. Over the next three years, local enterprises and suppliers will be developed to stimulate the creation of sustainable business in the area, independent of the mine. In Brazil, at our Córrego do Sítio I mine site, rehabilitation activities have been concurrently Land use and rehabilitation implemented with mining operations since Access to productive land is a highly emotive 1992. While the site is in various stages issue. At AngloGold Ashanti we understand of regeneration, an area of approximately our responsibility to ensure disturbed 379.25ha has been planted with native mining land can be closed to safe and nonvegetation. Various rehabilitation and polluting land beyond our mining activities. conservation strategies are used. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 53 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance INTEGRATED CLOSURE MANAGEMENT CONTINUED For instance, for slope areas the so called were landscaped to improve the efficiency of Our performance ‘green carpet strategy’ is used and rapidly the rinsing pilot project. growing or aggressive native species are Total amount of land planted. Other areas require a conservation Following the retrenchment of 87 employees in disturbed and not yet approach to ensure native seed banks are 2015, Phase 2 saw 92 employees retrenched rehabilitated closing Total amount of land established and genetic diversity protected. in August 2017, and a further 38 in October 2017 Total land managed balance rehabilitated to date Apart from the ecological benefit, concurrent 2017 as part of Phase 3. The last group of 51 Land disturbed or rehabilitation activities support mining by employees was retrenched on 31 December rehabilitated (ha) ensuring the stability of mine infrastructure 2017. Following this, labour will be acquired on AGA Mineração 26,237 493 443 through erosion control, dust control and a fixed-term contract basis or by commercial Cerro Vanguardia 54,000 1,600 45 preventing transport of solids through contracts to complete the closure work. Geita 19,627 2,720 551 surface drainage. Concurrent rehabilitation Iduapriem 11,000 1,525 251 As part of AngloGold Ashanti’s objective to also adds significant value to our assets MWS 6,722 3,329 16 leave a positive legacy in the surrounding by reducing potential closure costs or Obuasi 20,146 1,692 206 villages, we constructed teacher’s liabilities and providing evidence of closure Sadiola 30,260 2,202 142 accommodation at the local school, installed being undertaken to stakeholders. From a Serra Grande 2,608 593 79 new water supply infrastructure in four reputational perspective, we have a duty to Siguiri 159,233 1,569 360 villages and built security brick walls around ensure the impact of our mining operations are Sunrise Dam 12,409 1,346 754 four health facilities. In support of local mitigated in a responsible manner. Tropicana 101,611 3,069 224 economic development and food security, VR (Input) 12,246 4,244 1,010 Yatela Gold Mine closure management we constructed chicken runs for nine WW (Input) 3,744 1,310 296 Following the challenges and subsequent poultry farmers, supported a vegetable seed Yatela 22,252 483 547 delays we experienced at Yatela Gold Mine optimisation and gardening programme and Group 482,095 26,176 4,925 in Mali as reported in the 2016 Sustainable installed solar water pumps in six villages. Development Report, we made good progress More projects identified by the community will in the implementation of mine closure activities be implemented in 2018. in 2017. The key closure project activities include Rehabilitation activities focused on securing rinsing and rehabilitation of the heap leach two pits as well as the continuation of pads. This contributed 5,675 ounces of gold in revegetation and maintenance activities on the 2017. Work is scheduled to conclude around waste rock dumps. On the heap leach pads, the end of 2021 with site relinquishment the top surfaces of Pad one, two and three towards the end of 2022. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 54 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS A n gloG old As hanti’s p rim ar y con cern is the s a fe ty o f pe o pl e . Thi s e nc o m pa s s e s t he s af et y of ou r employees as well as our ho s t c o m m uni ti e s . Key features Fatalities to AngloGold Ashanti We take reasonable precautions to protect our IN FOCUS security personnel in the line of duty 0 assets and secure the long-term operational stability of our mines. In the regions where we operate, we are aware of increasing poverty and widening 2016: 2 inequality, which give rise to social issues and safety risks. We also experience increased expectations Injuries to AngloGold Ashanti and activism with communities looking more to personnel in line of duty mining companies for basic service delivery. In 2017, 37.14% AngloGold Ashanti set aspirational goals for 2030, aligned with our intent to operationalise and embed the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2017: 22 (2016: 35) (SDGs). Our 2030 human rights and security goal is “No human rights violations, and communities Fatalities to community members assist in protecting our business”. For AngloGold related to security intervention Ashanti, this means ensuring that human rights 1 and security principles are embedded across our 2030 aspirational organisation, and having resilient security systems security goal aligned to 2016: 0 enabled by technology. It also requires that we nurture community partnerships, based on trust, to the UN SDGs ensure the involvement of host communities in the Injuries to community members prevention of incidents. Our actions are guided by Insight into our related to security intervention AngloGold Ashanti’s global security framework, our preventative and predictive approach 11.11% 2017: 32 (2016: 36) security policy, and the Security Risk Management Standard which sets out the minimum standards for security risk and threat assessment. We are also a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 55 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), which In our Americas Region, we experienced measures are supported by statistical analysis has been implemented at our operations in is recognised as international best practice decreased risk in Colombia as a result of a to establish trends over time. The development Tanzania, Guinea and South Africa. Based for the professional and transparent utilisation peace agreement between the government and implementation of a spatial security risk on the positive in pre-emptive detection and and conduct of security forces. Our VPSHR and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of analysis tool at the end of 2017, which enables apprehension trends we have seen at these Management Standard articulates the Colombia (FARC), and the dismantling of the visualisation of information spatially, will operations, we will continue to extend this company’s position on the principles and how organised crime. In Brazil, we observed an technology to other high-risk operations in further increase our capability to reduce risk, we actively manage compliance. escalating trend of specialised and heavily our portfolio. forecast potential crime locations, and provide armed gangs acting against high-value insight to address both short-term tactical and Many of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations In Guinea, artisanal and illegal mining activities transportation armoured vehicles, banks and long-term strategic security issues. and the associated death of people remained are located in challenging operating jurisdictions, mining companies to obtain valuable assets. a concern at Siguiri Gold Mine. As outlined in and security risks have the potential to directly or For the past three years, we have implemented our community safety programme, the issue indirectly impact our operations. Our actions in 2017 containerised thermal CCTV solutions at many received priority attention throughout 2017. During 2017 in the Continental Africa Region, Predictive and preventative of our high-risk operations with encouraging Our interventions included engagement with we experienced stable to elevated levels of Our approach to security aims to be results. This technology enables AngloGold government and communities, keeping ore security risk. In Ghana and Guinea, the security preventative and predictive. During 2017, Ashanti to detect intruders from a distance, stockpiles clear of artisanal mining activities, risk was stable with challenges involving this yielded a noticeable decrease in injuries and allows our reaction units to respond with and the demarcation of exclusion zones on aspects of illegal mining. In the Democratic to people as a result of illegal activities and situational intelligence. To date, this technology our concession. Republic of the Congo and Mali, we recorded security interventions. We also recorded a an elevated level of security risk due to guerrilla 15% decrease in theft and loss incidents, style attacks by opposing forces in these which we attribute to the various proactive countries, and aspects of general criminality mitigation measures implemented. These posing a risk for our travellers. In South Africa, illegal mining and the risk VIDEO ON GEITA GOLD MINE of intrusion into operational areas remains POLICING FORUM high-risk. Additionally, the Private Security Regulation Authority (PSIRA) issued a directive to all security service providers and employers of internal security, stipulating the powers of private security service providers during demonstrations and/or protest action. This directive limits the company’s powers when dealing with potential conflict situations. Opinion on the matter is being sought through the Chamber of Mines. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 56 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED In Tanzania, the mining industry was non-governmental organisations, and the and sensitive data was leaked, governments Apart from the new data regulation acts, the subject of increased scrutiny by Chamber is required to address the complexity started to enact regulations to force AngloGold Ashanti must also guard its governmental agencies as a result of of illegal mining. One solution currently under companies to govern their own infrastructure complex information management systems legislative changes. These developments investigation is the formalisation of artisanal and to ensure data privacy. In Europe, the General and operational network from external did not significantly impact Geita Gold small-scale mining. AngloGold Ashanti is an Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Act will be cyber threats to ensure operational safety Mine’s bullion shipments, as we proactively active participant and contributing member of enforced from 28 May 2018, which focuses and business continuity of the organisation. established a task team to monitor these discussions. In 2015, AngloGold Ashanti launched a directly on ‘Personally Identifiable Information’ developments and mitigate potential risks. Cyber Defence Programme following a risk and the control thereof. Other countries that We also closely monitored an escalating risk Cyber crime assessment which identified weaknesses have similar acts in effect, or being finalised, in potential land invasions due to political Cyber crime, cyber criminals and their that could potentially leave the company include the United States of America, Australia, rhetoric associated with the changes. tools are becoming more diverse and vulnerable to a cyber attack. To date, we and South Africa. The latter is implementing sophisticated due to the increasing speed have implemented 10 of 11 work streams In South Africa, a multi-disciplinary task team the Protection of Personal Information of connectivity, declining cost of cloud scheduled. The final stream the Cyber Security was established through the Chamber of Mines (PoPI) Act. Personal information stored and computing and the ability to trade in nonOperations Centre (CSOC), aims to improve to discuss concerns and potential interventions processed by AngloGold Ashanti will be bound our analytical and monitoring capability, and regulated crypto-currencies like Bitcoin. around escalating illegal mining in the country. by these data regulation acts to ensure the will proactively flag cyber events that pose Parties agreed that a collaborative approach Following several high-profile corporate private information of all employees remain a risk to the company. The CSOC will come between law enforcement, mine security, breaches, where millions of people’s private private and secure. online in mid-2018. Our main threats during 2017 involved phishing attacks for identity theft or impersonation to secure a financial benefit. In response, we enhanced capability in the company with the recruitment of dedicated resources, the implementation of a cyber framework, and encryption systems for employees. We are also monitoring the potential of sophisticated crime syndicates for use of cyber terrorism to interrupt our mining operations. In 2018, we will embark on awareness initiatives to ensure employees have the requisite knowledge and skills to avoid potential infringements on private information. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 57 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance EMPLOYEE, COMMUNITY AND ASSET SECURITY CONTINUED Our performance Reportable incidents 1  5 % re d u c t i o n in t hef t an d loss in cid ents Fatalities and injuries to communities related to security intervention Fatalities and injuries to AngloGold Ashanti security personnel in the line of duty Fatalities Injuries Fatalities Injuries 2013 2 2013 27 2013 0 2013 51 2014 1 2014 42 2014 0 2014 38 0.063 2015 0 0.06 2015 71 2015 2015 34 2016 0 2016 36 2016 2 2016 35 2017 1 2017 32 2017 0 2017 22 Fatalities and injuries to community members while engaged in illegal activities, not related to security intervention Fatalities Injuries 2013 16 2013 56 2014 12 2014 11 2015 10 0.06 2015 8 2016 11 2016 5 2017 33 2017 18 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 58 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS T he ma gnit ude of artisanal and small-sca l e m i ni ng (A S M ) c o nti nue s to g ro w, a s does g lob al a ttention to the issue . Key features At a global level, and represented by work being IN FOCUS done through the Intergovernmental Forum (IGF) on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development, there is emerging consensus that ASM is here to stay, and a co-existence model between ASM and large-scale mining (LSM) is needed as part of a suite of sustainable solutions. As a source of minerals, ASM contributes to 20% of global gold supply. It is a significant employer and the total number of participants far exceeds the seven million people employed through industrial mining in 2014. This, along with other related aspects, argues for the need to address the escalating challenges associated with ASM. Insight onto our The environmental and health impacts of ASM framework on ASM are well recognised and continue to present challenges. Sadly, vulnerable groups, primarily Update on ASM in our women and marginalised communities, remain the most affected. operating jurisdictions Recognising complexity and varied dynamics 11 sites affected across different countries, as the lead global agency seeking to address it, the IGF has by ASM identified and is exploring potential approaches to manage the interface between ASM and LSM: S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 59 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED • Separating ASM and LSM by creating “ASM While alternative livelihoods remain a ASM activities across our operations. Flowing finance, as well as enhanced capability for zones” with proven geological reserves consideration as part of the suite of options from the framework, we focused on: improved productivity with better safety, health • Fostering co-operation between LSM to respond to ASM, global progress has only • Strengthening global interactions to and environmental performances. and ASM been seen in enhancing downstream activities. influence and shape the dialogue in order to The movement of artisanal miners into As a global corporate citizen, while the impact • Promoting continued dialogue and accelerate collaboration and progress alternative sectors has not been perceived as is only seen in the long term, these activities communication between ASM and LSM • Implementing the framework at company feasible, given high unemployment rates and are necessary to influence the dialogue that (facilitated by governments) operations limited employment opportunities in countries shapes a future of mutual benefit. We are All the proposed approaches are underpinned where ASM is prevalent. A limitation of this Our global interactions have primarily been confident that our argument will be supported by efforts to formalise ASM in order to mitigate view is that it assumes retaining the status quo through the IGF while implementation has in time by the results we will show from the health and environmental impacts, and to in these countries and does not fully consider focused on Tanzania, Ghana and Colombia implementation of these approaches in our provide participants with greater sociothe need to actively work towards creating where the ASM challenge is most pressing. own operations. economic and legal protection and support. alternative industries in the industrialisation of While progress in this area is slow, emerging under-developed countries. Interactions with the IGF Addressing the ASM-LSM interface in principles of formalisation include inclusivity For the past two years, AngloGold Ashanti Tanzania of ASM participants in their design, enabling Our actions in 2017 has been an active participant as an industry Over the past few years, AngloGold access to finance and technological support, In 2016, AngloGold Ashanti approved a leader in IGF activities, speaking on panel Ashanti’s Geita Gold Mine has been active in and streamlining licensing processes. framework guiding co-existence with legal discussions at the last two annual general supporting the formalisation of ASM through meetings (AGMs), and at the IGF session our support of the Lwamgasa Formalisation during the 2017 Mining Indaba in Cape Town, Project in collaboration with the Ministry South Africa. of Minerals and the World Bank. After its initiation, the project slowed down due to At the most recent IGF AGM in October 2017, a range of factors, including lack of clear we spoke on our approach and experiences mandates and coordination between various in managing the interface between ASM government agencies. and LSM activities. The AngloGold Ashanti ASM framework and strategy were outlined During the 2017 reporting period, accelerated along with our work in this area in Colombia by work being done by the IGF, a series of and Ghana. Recognising the complexity of site visits with multi-stakeholder dialogue were the challenge, we have continued to pursue held in Geita. Led by the International Institute our position of harmonious co-existence, for Environment and Development (IIED), and supporting ways to formalise and enable supported by Tanzanian NGO Haki Madini, the ASM access to prospective territory (including dialogue focused on: relinquishing parts of the mine tenement) and • Women in ASM S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 60 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED • ASM interface with agriculture and other of Ghana to clear our operational areas from this group of miners to alternative forms land use as well as challenges and solutions illegal mining activities, and the relocation of of economic livelihoods. The project for sustainable livelihoods illegal miners at Obuasi Gold Mine to identified demonstrated limited success and, by 2015, a • The business case for ASM: opportunities relinquished land was completed early in baseline update of the project footprint found and challenges for growing mining and 2017. Currently there are five ASM mining sites large groups of miners in the area. promoting linkages around our reduced footprint where artisanal Led by government, and within the existing • ASM-LSM-government interface mining is taking place under the authority of legal framework and formalisation process, a the Minerals Commission. AngloGold Ashanti new concept of a co-existence programme Multi-stakeholder participation included provides technical and logistical advice, and was developed with a total of 209 artisanal ASM operators and their representative support when requested. miners considered for inclusion. organisations, mining companies, the Tanzania Chamber of Mines and government. Developing a co-existence model During 2017, development of the project was Through the dialogue, working groups have in Colombia accelerated through a collaborative effort The presence of artisanal miners in the been established along these themes with between the government, AngloGold Ashanti Gramalote tenement for decades is well activity plans developed within the context and USAID’s Oro Legal Program. The project recognised, and is considered one of the of the country National Action Plan on ASM. has been incorporated into Gramalote’s main risks to the successful establishment AngloGold Ashanti will continue to participate approved environmental impact assessment, of formal mining operations. Our approach through the Chamber of Mines and the work and is consistent with the company framework is underpinned by the development of a cobeing done will be used to accelerate the on ASM, the United Nation’s Universal existence model with relevant authorities and company’s direct activities in the Lwamgasa Declaration on Human Rights, and World civil society. ASM project while exploring co-existence Bank guidelines. The focus is on providing opportunities around our mine site. Initial efforts to address the challenge were legal, social and technical support for the undertaken in 2012 and 2013, involving formalisation of the artisanal miners, and for Advancing ASM in Ghana a group of 153 artisanal miners located the mining and processing of gold in identified As reported in 2016, the initiative in around the Gramalote deposit. At the time, areas of the Gramalote tenement. In this way, conjunction with the Minerals Commission the solution focused on the conversion of the co-existence project aims for harmonious S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 61 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) CONTINUED and sustainable interaction between the Addressing the challenges of The numbers recorded are limited to rolled out company-wide in 2017, including business and artisanal miners. illegal mining information the illegal miners choose to share formalised awareness training programmes Beyond the recognised challenges of legal and it is possible that shared information through local community forums. The project is in four stages and focuses on is understated as activities involve criminal ASM, the illegal form brings additional risks the detailed investigation of the complexities of invasion and/or intrusions of company elements. While AngloGold Ashanti has limited Our performance and establishing a business case for operations. As a consequence, there is control over these fatalities, we recognise that Our reporting on performance in ASM is largely the artisanal miners, enabling permitting potential for high numbers of fatalities and/ it does expose us to significant reputational within the legal and regulatory framework, qualitative, dealing with application of the or injuries to illegal miners on the company risk, particularly when issues are raised by implementation, and providing ongoing company framework in areas where ASM is tenement. Given the illegal and criminal nature concerned stakeholders. We need to clearly support to the miners for successful outcomes. demonstrate reasonable actions in responding most significant, and discussed in the section of the activities, which must be resolved within as a responsible citizen. on our actions in 2017. host country legal frameworks by appropriate By the end of the 2017, the first stage of the law enforcement agencies, the company does project was underway with the signing of a In this setting, our influence is limited to More quantitative details on our performance not directly interact with illegal miners. memorandum of understanding with USAID’s creating awareness of the dangers associated in contributing to socio-economic Oro Legal Program, subsequent to the Sadly, during 2017, the company received with illegal mining. Our activities are framed development, as relates to ASM, can be initial engagement of relevant stakeholders, reports of 33 fatalities among illegal miners within a broader community safety and found in Contributing to Self-Sustaining including the artisanal miners. while they were conducting illegal activities. security awareness framework, which was Communities. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 62 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS E m be dde d in our com pan y value of Dig ni ty a nd R e s pe c t i s a n u nde rs t a nding of the crucial role An gloGo l d A s ha nti m us t pl a y i n u pho lding a nd resp ecting hu m an rig hts. Key features Number of human rights reported As a global mining company with our roots in IN FOCUS incidents under VPSHR 3 South Africa, we have a deep appreciation for the basic human rights of citizens in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our background is informed 2016: 2 by the South African Bill of Rights, which outlines the right for every citizen to life, equality and Number of human rights allegations human dignity. In the context of our mining under VPSHR operations, respect for human rights not only 2 extends to our immediate areas of operation, but also across the mining value chain and among state actors, where we have influence. 2016: 6 2030 aspirational Our approach to human rights is guided by our company Human Rights Policy, and the human rights goal Percentage security personnel trained 94% Human Rights Due Diligence Standard and aligned to the Guideline. Our frameworks are furthermore UN SDGs 2016: 94% informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Embedding human Incidents of violations involving the Rights (UNGP) and are aligned to international rights in our business rights of indigenous peoples best practice. They apply to all our operating 0 jurisdictions to complement national legislative Progress on frameworks where these may be lacking. responsible sourcing 2016: 0 We are also active members of initiatives including Business and Human Rights, the S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 63 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED Voluntary Principles on Security and Human mining industry is under increasing pressure to embed awareness and understanding of of the SAQ to ensure potential vendors have Rights (VPSHR), the Extractive Industries from NGOs for detailed public disclosure of the UNGP principles. Training takes place access to designated AngloGold Ashanti Transparency Initiative (EITI), the International processes and interactions involving host in the form of induction, classroom-based, resources where they may require assistance. Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and communities beyond traditional legislative or refresher or online training. By 2017, a total of In instances where we discovered risks that the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). reporting requirements. AngloGold Ashanti 29,189 employees across the organisation had could be mitigated, we advised vendors of We further recognise that human rights affect believes that positive engagement, collaboration received human rights training. required adjustments prior to the start of our every area of our business, and upholding the and coordinated efforts with NGOs will yield the business relationship. principles of our framework is the responsibility most beneficial outcomes and we endeavour to Responsible sourcing of every AngloGold Ashanti employee. uphold such. Responsible sourcing refers to AngloGold Ashanti’s commitment to look at procurement In 2017, AngloGold Ashanti set 2030 Our actions beyond the traditional aspects of cost and aspirational goals, aligned with our intent to quality, and to investigate the labour, ethics Embedding human rights operationalise and embed the United Nations and environmental practices of our direct The AngloGold Ashanti Human Rights Due Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). and indirect suppliers. As a global citizen in Diligence (HRDD) Standard was designed Our 2030 human rights goal is “No human the diverse geographic locations where we to consider human rights risks throughout rights violations”. In the context of AngloGold work, we have a responsibility to act lawfully, the lifecycle of our operations. Assessments and with integrity wherever we do business. Ashanti’s business, this means ensuring human are done at the pre-feasibility stage of a Our approach to responsible sourcing rights principles are embedded across the mining operation, and risks are continuously demonstrates our understanding of the organisation, and stakeholder partnerships identified and mitigated throughout the severity of potential human rights infringements frame the way we conduct our business. operation’s life. Assessments also consider in our supply chain, and the reputational risks Currently, our systems include human rights the aspects unique to each operation such this could hold for the company. risk and impact assessments, and we have as the geographical location and country grievance mechanisms, aligned with the risk; the risks which AngloGold Ashanti may Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the UNGPs, in place. inadvertently cause or contribute to; and the conditions for doing business with AngloGold We believe in dialogue, and understand potential and actual impacts. Ashanti. In 2016, we reported on the that formal processes for engagement with implementation of a supplier self-assessment The standard was approved in 2016, and questionnaire (SAQ) to assess areas of stakeholders is crucial for nurturing twoway conversations that engender trust. We implementation commenced in 2017. Selfgovernance, human rights, environmental and also appreciate the value of participating in assessments were completed by each mining safety practices. In 2017, we further evolved national and international dialogue to share our operation in our portfolio, and served as gap this assessment tool to be more precise and experiences while learning from others. analyses for understanding where there may user-friendly for potential vendors. We moved be the potential to infringe upon human rights the SAQ from a paper-based system to an During the reporting year, AngloGold Ashanti and to direct our interventions where they are online platform, which advanced our analytical noted intensifying human rights activism by most acutely required. We also focused our capability. Additionally, we implemented robust non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The efforts on human rights training, which aims engagement processes around completion S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 64 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS CONTINUED Our performance Site: Geita Gold Mine, Tanzania Site: Geita Gold Mine, Tanzania Self-reported human rights incidents Date: 2017/6/4 Date: 2017/11/10 Every allegation or incident with the potential for a human rights implication is thoroughly Incident: Members of the police Incident: A member of the third-party investigated and analysed. Where we need to contingent on the mine assaulted a security provider at the mine assaulted a act, we do so immediately. We also use the suspect during the apprehension process. suspect in the security control room. information obtained through our analyses for Corrective action: As part of our Corrective action: As part of our learning and continuous improvement across agreement with Public Security, which contractual agreement with all service the company. stipulates zero tolerance for any form of providers, which stipulates zero human rights abuse, the officers were tolerance for any form of human rights immediately relieved of their duties abuse, the guard was immediately Site: Geita Gold Mine, Tanzania at the operation. relieved of his duties at the operation. Date: 2017/4/11 Incident: Members of the police contingent on the mine used unjustified force in apprehending and restraining a suspect. Corrective action: As part of our agreement with the Public Security, which stipulates zero tolerance for any form of human rights abuse, the officers were immediately relieved of their duties at the operation. Use of force awareness training was re-emphasised for all security staff. In addition, a formal communique was sent to the authorities, who assured us that the offenders would receive an appropriate sanction through disciplinary processes. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 65 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS We f ace unpre c ed ented ch ang es rela ted to bo th te c hno l o g y a nd the w a y i n w hi c h w e c o nduc t ou r b u s i n es s n ow a nd int o t he future. Th is m anifests i n the w a y w e m a na ge ta l e nt, de v e l o p ne w w o r k pr o c es s es , r ed es i g n e quipme nt a nd reskill employees f or site -ba s e d o r r e m o te w o r k . Key features Training and development expenditure Over the past two decades the pace of IN FOCUS $36.3m (2016: $34.9 million) change in the world of work has accelerated dramatically, and it will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. This is largely driven by technology developments, changing expectations and capabilities of individuals Composition of board and new business requirements. While the 36% women 2016: 27% mining industry is commonly regarded as lagging in terms of adopting new technology, we are not immune to these changes. We face unprecedented changes related to both technology and the way in which we conduct Composition of board our business. This manifests in the way we 45% HDSA manage talent, develop new work processes, redesign equipment and reskill employees for site-based or remote work. Insight into how 2016: 45% (HDSA: Historically Disadvantaged South Africans) In AngloGold Ashanti’s International we evolve strategic Operations, our objective is to become a frameworks Proportion of senior management from world-class operator, safe and profitable in established in 2016 local communities all circumstances. Through the company’s 86% Operational Excellence programme, the business leverages off service and support Updates on diversity disciplines toward realising the full potential and inclusion (2016: 78%) of assets. The role of all employees is critical, requiring them to be appropriately placed S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 66 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED in roles and fully capable to drive value as • Employee engagement and commitment accountability for operational execution individuals and in teams. and performance within the context of the • Integrated talent management and group strategy. Corporate leads have group In the South Africa operations, the challenge is succession planning accountability in their function for aspects framed by significant structural rationalisation • Simplified and integrated global human such as governance, policy and standards; of the business, with reduction in employee resources information systems maintaining health of discipline; and ensuring numbers and a need to retain talented and global cross-functional talent management and scarce skills in a downsizing environment, In 2017, we focused on strengthening succession planning. while transitioning employees who remain the frameworks and accelerating their into new roles and those who are separated implementation. At the AngloGold Ashanti Review of role clarity and work practices into a new work life. The structural changes Global Human Resources conference held in across teams within and across functions also have implications on work processes at 2017, discipline leaders took stock of is underway, ensuring that managerial operational levels. progress in the implementation of the practices are aligned to the operating model frameworks and developed roadmaps for principles (matrix organisation). The need to deliver on our business strategy, accelerated implementation. coupled with the challenging business Integral to implementing the operating environment, places an increased focus on Organisational design and operating model is building capability in change people as we strive to ensure the company model management. To this end, we developed remains competitive and consistent in the The way in which we design our organisation a change management toolkit consistent delivery of excellence. and allocate accountabilities and authorities with current theories of change. The toolkit sets the tone and shapes how we work has been socialised with Human Resources Our actions in 2017 together and implement people-related leadership across the group, and its testing processes such as talent and performance and validation within the company began in In September 2016, we established six management. Historically, there has not been the last quarter of the year. It is anticipated strategic frameworks to focus our actions sufficient clarity on the company’s operating that the finalised toolkit will be implemented in to enable business responsiveness and model, with varying interpretations and the first quarter of 2018. competitiveness: application. This sometimes resulted in unclear • Organisational design and operating model roles and responsibilities. • Health of disciplines In May 2017, AngloGold Ashanti formally • Capable global leaders and a highadopted a matrix operating structure with performance business culture regional operations having full authority and S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 67 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED Integrated talent management and Integrated talent management approach succession planning Over the past few years, AngloGold Ashanti has recognised that an integrated talent management approach is central to enabling Identify the company to remain competitive, navigate STR ATEGIC FOC US RE A an d CO sts Im co the volatile macro-economic environment and pro d, ure ve ea dit po rh pen OU ove l ex rtfo lio AS RE ise ita qu tim ap R Op c ali ty achieve strategic objectives. In advancing our Supporting our strategy for Retain Assess talent management capability, 2016 and 2017 Ensu re fin sustainable cash flow improvements nality optio Integrated talent and returns g-term l flexib ancia ain lon were devoted to building on existing talent ility Maint management management practices, and strengthening Focus on people, safety and sustainability the talent management approach and process. This was also supported through the Human resources Leadership Deploy Develop Business strategy Engaged talent Business results development of a Talent Management Toolkit strategy competency framework and System to ensure an integrated and consistent approach across the group. The primary focus at the outset has been These were considered by the respective on the CEO talent pool which comprises Chief Operating Officer and the relevant potential talent for senior roles. Attention functional Executive Vice President, prior has been placed on succession planning to a consolidated review by the Executive for critical roles; development planning Committee under the CEO’s accountability. and prioritisation; talent movement and A key aspect of the approach is that it has placements; and talent retention. Beyond the driven a shift from the historically silo-based CEO talent pool which focuses on leadership approach where talent management was bench strength, three other talent pool contained within operating regions. Now there categories are being addressed, namely: is a global view of talent, with those in the critical scarce skills; emerging talent for future CEO pool being treated as company talent as leadership; and localisation talent in the opposed to operational or regional talent. Continental Africa Region. For mission critical and scarce skill talent, who The process started with general managers are functional and/or specialist professionals and operational leadership conducting at the cutting edge of their respective fields, business unit and site based operational we proactively identify retention risks and talent reviews. implement the required retention strategies. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 68 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED This is supported by a range of formal and organisational structures, staffed by competent • Focusing on the implementation of As part of this integrated approach, a informal development interventions to develop people with appropriate work processes to development plans and continuing with Leadership Competency Framework and and retain talent in critical talent areas – achieve our business objectives. Significant career guidance toolkit was approved by the executive in May underpinned by the following development traction was achieved at the International 2017. The framework is underpinned by sound A comprehensive annual talent and guiding principles: Operations, particularly relating to metallurgy, principles and values-based ethical leadership. succession update was presented to the • Prioritising and accelerating the development mining, geotechnical, and Greenfields and Remunerations Committee and the Board in of high potential succession candidates brownfields exploration. The next phase will November 2017. cover all disciplines across the regions and • Development is driven by established the group, drawing from the successes and individual development needs and aligned learnings of the first phase. Our leadership philosophy: Values-based with business capability requirements Business leadership The Chairman’s Young Leaders Programme, ethical leadership • Key retention and employee engagement • Strategic and commercial focused on emerging talent, is well established drivers are considered acumen and in its third year. From the 2015 and 2016 • Development follows blended learning Safety • Stakeholder management intakes, 76% (of 17 participants) have been and the 10% (formal programmes), 20% Di • Innovation promoted or have had their roles expanded gn (informal programmes) and 70% (on the job i • Operational excellence to assume greater responsibility. Nine young ty experiences) principles iro ect leaders joined the 2017 programme and nm Self leadership esp • Priority is given to on-the-job learning, prior en successfully completed their rotations. t dr • Emotional intelligence to considering international business schools an It is anticipated that they will continue Env BUSINESS PEOPLE • Safety mindset Our Health of Discipline framework was successful career development and • Teamwork and positioned as a company-wide consistent progression as with previous graduates. Now Technical collaboration approach, and aims to achieve the that a critical mass of young leaders has Expertise • Adaptability and resilience following objectives: progressed through the programme, the next People leadership intake of young leaders into the programme • Continuous supply of functional, technical • Clear vision and direction will be in 2019. Co and leadership competence in critical roles ive setting In the interim, the following key interventions iti SELF rsi • Execution of succession planning for un ty • Enables and drive will be undertaken: mm es D critical skills performance • Launch of a mentorship programme where • Leading and building • Career management through clear and candidates will be mentored by members of Accountability diverse teams relevant processes to design career the senior leadership team • Ensures accountability paths for all key employees and key talent segments • Ensuring visibility of talent through ongoing engagement with the senior leadership In 2017, implementation of the initial phase team, including “Know your talent of the framework was accelerated to ensure engagement sessions” e.g. breakfast with that the various disciplines have effective the Chairman, CEO and other senior leaders S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 69 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED The toolkit outlines the required competences current number of expatriate roles still existing determined as being most significant as they and behaviours for each leadership roles. in the Continental Africa Region is due to the are strong drivers of engagement. A range of availability of technical skills in Engineering, interventions were undertaken, underpinned The framework and toolkit has been socialised Mining, Geology, and the Process Plant. The by the roll-out of the ‘How We Work’ people with Human Resources leadership across General Manager and Head of Department practices which aim to build supervisor and the company, and building capability of talent pools retain special focus, as a result manager capability in managing and engaging practitioners for its implementation and of management commitment to localise employees in the workplace. A key aspect entrenchment is underway. In 2018 the focus senior management roles and ensure ongoing of this roll-out was improving the quality will be on entrenching the required leadership leadership from this group. and consistency of individual performance approach and monitoring practices. management in the business, along with Employee engagement Localisation is a key driver for talent and alignment of performance and reward. AngloGold Ashanti initiated a global succession management across our operations engagement survey in August 2014, with a In the 2017 engagement survey response in the Continental Africa Region. Our deliberate view to conduct it every two years. In early rate / particpation by employees was 79%. approach to reduce expatriates and create 2017, the group engagement survey was Results showed an improvement of the overall opportunities for local employees has seen a repeated to assess progress made, and to engagement score compared to that seen in net reduction of 40.8% expatriates since 2013. identify further work to be done to continually 2014 (from 69% in 2014 to 76% in 2017), as The reduction of expatriates is a combination increase levels of employee engagement. The well as compared to large organisation (72%) of the appointment of local successors and the survey was conducted by an external provider. and industry benchmarks (71%). The response redundancy of some expatriate roles due to Customised questions, were included with rate / participation by employees was 79%. local skills development. Between January 2016 specific focus on safety, company values and October 2017, 62.5% of expatriate roles Notwithstanding the improved 2017 and ethics. The survey also focused on the were localised. The main contributors to the performance, more work is required in the following dimensions, with a representative areas of senior leadership practices, managerial sample of employees surveyed across all Number of expatriates in Continental Africa effectiveness and ethics if we are to fully levels, including age, gender, race and tenure: Region achieve our aspiration of having employees 250 • Company values and leaders who embody and demonstrate 240 200 211 • Organisational vision our company values, and embedding a culture 183 • Senior leadership practices of continuous improvement. The employee 150 166 142 • Innovation engagement survey also indicated that working 100 on entrenching and ensuring demonstrable • Ethics 50 and visible company values and principles by In 2014 three areas required improvement, employees and managers across the group is 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 namely senior leadership practices; managerial a key positive engagement driver for effectiveness; and ethics. These were AngloGold Ashanti. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 70 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED Engagement scores AGA AGA Large Industry Performance scores by main survey attributes 2017 2014 organisation benchmark* AGA 2014* benchmark* Proffesional growth/Personal development 7 9 85 82 Overall engagement 10 14 76 69 72 71 Safety 8 9 83 79 Organisational vision 7 12 82 76 Innovation 7 10 82 76 I am proud to tell others Work environment 11 10 80 76 7 10 83 76 79 78 I work for my company Values 10 14 79 72 Teamwork 8 13 74 71 Immediate management 13 13 66 60 I am optimistic about 12 14 74 64 70 68 Performance feedback 18 17 66 60 the future of my company Ethics 18 16 65 59 Company information on communication 15 20 65 59 My company inspires me Work/life balance 18 18 65 63 12 16 72 66 66 66 to do my best work Stakeholder focus 19 16 63 57 Senior leadership practices 18 23 40 54 Frequency (%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 Managerial effectiveness 23 24 53 47 Remuneration/reward 30 31 39 35 Unfavourable Neutral Favourable Frequency (%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Data is rounded to the nearest number * Number indicates % favourable score Unfavourable Neutral Favourable Data is rounded to the nearest number The 2017 engagement survey indicated that requisite people management practices within * Number indicates % favourable score for AngloGold Ashanti there is good understanding of the company AngloGold Ashanti. values, however, there is room to improve. There will be specific focus on enhancing Having taken heed of the results of the Diversity and inclusion its aspects, embracing diversity is a source and ensuring awareness in embedding our Employee Engagement Survey conducted As a global company, AngloGold Ashanti of value rather than a challenge which needs values as a key leverage area to improve our in 2014 and 2017, we will be conducting a embraces and recognises employees from to be managed. employee engagement. A dedicated team diverse backgrounds. This includes cultural, follow-up, which is in line with our two-year In 2014, the CEO started a bursary scheme in was also established during the year to deeply geographical and gender diversity, along with plan. As a company, it is important for us to conjunction with University of Witwatersrand understand the ethics perceptions experienced the need to address localisation requirements understand our employees’ perceptions of the in South Africa. It is aimed at supporting by employees, and to determine the best ways and the many forms of discrimination arising company’s vision, culture, work environment from diversity. All of our policies linked to the education of deserving historically to address them. and our policies. We are committed to keeping diversity and inclusion are underpinned by our disadvantaged South African students from our ‘How We Work’ will continue as a global the employees’ views confidential and to give position that we must treat each other the same operating areas, with a strong bias in favour of management system to enable accountable all employees a platform to express their views regardless of race, religion, gender, disability woman students. Total contributions into the leadership and the implementation of the on the company. status, size, age, or country of origin. In all bursary by the CEO have been approximately S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 71 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED R2.25 million ($180 000), which was matched Through the year we initiated participation in Labour relations practices were enforced to influence and shape equally by the company. So far, the bursary or continued to subscribe to various bodies Employee transition framework in South Africa the desired organisational culture. has benefitted, in whole or in part, 25 students, and interest groups focusing on gender With the significant structural and rationalisation of whom 20 have graduated with a degree. diversity. Through networking we acquire best challenges within the South Africa Region, an Supported by implementation of the A number have completed their Honours Employee Transition Framework was developed Employee Transition Framework, key practices as well as influence a progressive and three students have successfully passed rationalisation activities have been completed diversity agenda. and implemented during the year. It is a their Initial Test of Competency (ITC) Board or are well on track to completion, including framework of policies, procedures and practices examination conducted by the South African Through the 30% Club Boardwalk, 25 women closure of TauTona and Savuka Mines and the to guide practitioners at business unit level Institute of Chartered Accountants. The bursary at management level have participated in West Wits Hospital; sale of Kopanang Mine on the application of typical human resources is currently supporting four remaining students, this development initiative to nurture aspiring to Heaven-Sent and sale of Moab Khotsong functions in a rapidly-declining business and and the CEO and company are working with leaders in senior management positions, and Mine to Harmony. rapidly-reducing workforce. This ensured a the university on how to best utilise the current the AngloGold Ashanti CFO hosted a table at standardised approach across business units Continental Africa employee labour relations surplus in the fund, to assist those who are the annual Boardwalk event. The company within the region, consistent with legislation, During 2017 the Continental Africa Region presently registered at the university, but in need also joined the South African and Australian company policy and collective agreements, successfully completed annual wage of funding. chapters of Women in Mining (WIM), an while enabling application suited to a specific negotiations for the period at all sites. Despite The company also continued to work actively in organisation which, amongst other things, context and life of mine. labour stoppage challenges at our Mali strengthening women representation at board, supports development initiatives including operation, and protracted wage negotiations at executive and senior leadership levels, and coaching and mentoring and enabling suitable Implementation of the framework enabled Siguiri Gold Mine in Guinea, the labour relations compares favourably to peers in the mining work environments. appropriate and dynamic organisational climate remained stable across the region. industry. A challenge however remains in design with effective manpower planning with Through its focus on women’s development ongoing development of employees for current appointing female leaders to technical positions. In Guinea, the 2017 wage negotiations for in South Africa, the company received a and future roles. The dilemma of retention Siguiri Gold Mine involved four months of number of accolades at the 2017 Gender or purposeful exit of employees’ relative to negotiation and required mediation from the Mainstreaming awards. Among companies production profiles was addressed, along with Diversity and inclusion (%) Ministry of Employment and the General (Global women representation) listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the development of a suitable portable skills Labour Inspection to conclude a one-year AngloGold Ashanti was placed first in the framework for life after AngloGold Ashanti. 8 wage agreement. Despite a challenging 17 • Americas category of Economic Empowerment of wage negotiation climate, labour relations % 21 • Australia Women; second in Women on Boards; and Beyond meeting legislative and regulatory remained calm. • CAR third in the three categories of Empowerment requirements, activities also focused on 8 • Corporate of Women in the Community, Women on optimising labour relations and enhancing In Ghana, the labour relations climate was 46 • SAR Executive Committees in Multinationals and employee engagement and performance. stable. Following the postponement of the Gender Reporting. Required managerial leadership behaviours and proposed unitary negotiations by the Ghana S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 72 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance TALENT MANAGEMENT, SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CONTINUED Chamber of Mines, Iduapriem Gold Mine one-year wage agreement was implemented Labour Inspector. Despite uncertainties, • A strong talent pipeline with most of the successfully concluded a two-year wage effective January 2017. the 2017 annual wage negotiations were population being between 26 and 45 years agreement early in 2017 with the Ghana successfully concluded and implemented of age Mineworkers Union of the Ghana Trades Union In preparation for the negotiations, and to effective January 2017. The wage agreement • 7% year-on-year improvement in identifying Congress for the 2016 and 2017 period. In an facilitate constructive engagements, a jointconcluded with two recognised unions women successors – this continues to be a effort to address the often-protracted nature of capacity building workshop in collective mainly focused on improving the social and focus area negotiations, we committed to the development bargaining and negotiation skills was employment conditions of employees. of a wage adjustment framework in partnership completed. • Representation of historically disadvantaged South Africans in the CEO talent pool is with the union to serve as a guide for future In Mali, the labour relations climate was Our performance negotiations. We also further participated in joint 14% higher year-on-year negatively impacted by several national strike Achievements in integrated talent management capacity-building efforts to ensure negotiators and succession planning included: • Retention risks managed proactively with actions organised by the national mining union, are equipped with skills in effective negotiation. expanded retention strategies including as well as uncertainly relating to the Sadiola • The cover ratio for Executive Committee At Obuasi Gold Mine, which is currently under a structured focus on both formal and Sulphide Project (SSP) and the potential that members and other key leadership roles care and maintenance, the annual renewal and informal development interventions the mine would be placed in limited operations shows strong bench strength across maintenance of the conditions of employment and care and maintenance. Key employee the Group • Talent management governance structure of fixed-term contract employees was carried streamlined across the organisation with actions involved an employee job evaluation • A strong focus on appointing from within out. This also included the 2017 annual clear guidelines for talent pool identification and categorisation exercise as guided and for key positions, with 80% positions salary adjustments. required by the in-country law; a revised mine filled internally In Tanzania, despite the current geopolitical production bonus roll out and communication • Good leadership talent retention (senior and and legal challenges, we continued to engage to stakeholders; and the Yatela Mine closure executive management positions) with a 3% constructively with relevant stakeholders. and retrenchment process approval by the turnover rate The majority trade union, Tanzanian Mines Energy Construction and Allied Workers Union (TAMICO), conducted a general election for Board gender representation (%) Executive team gender representation (%) Senior leadership gender representation (%) employee representatives for the first of a new (2014 to 2017) (2014 to 2017) (2014 to 2017) 8 40 8 40 150 16 five-year term of office. Key focus areas relating 8 8 36% 15.4% 33% 33% 33% 33% 11.7% 13.3% to employees and collective bargaining at 7 7 120 12.3% 6 27% 27% 27% 30 6 30 121 12 Geita Gold Mine included a labour transitioning 6 6 6 6 107 90 Percentage Percentage Percentage 98 88 Number Number Number strategy to support the mine moving from an 4 20 4 20 8 4 open-pit mining operation to an underground 60 3 3 3 3 3 3 mining operation. We also reached agreement 2 10 2 10 30 4 2 on a compressed working week shift roster 16 16 0 0 0 0 0 15 15 0 effective from December 2017. The annual 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 wage negotiations were concluded Men Women % Women Men Women % Women Men Women % Women amicably with the majority union, and a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 73 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK GRI DATA TABLES QUESTIONS P olit ical a nd regu la tor y un certain ty and r i s k e s c a l a te d dr a m a ti c a l l y dur i ng the y e a r, m a r k e d b y a c omp l ex i nt erpla y be t ween p olitical, economic an d s o c i a l fa c to r s a t c o untr y a nd r e g i o na l l e v e l s . Current tax Key features $176m Political and regulatory uncertainty and IN FOCUS risk escalated dramatically during the year, marked by a complex interplay between (2016: $234 million) political, economic and social factors at Government royalties country and regional levels. In times of economic instability, inequality and high levels $114m (2016: $101 million) of social discontent and activism, populist political candidates and policies come to the fore, generating high levels of business uncertainty and threats to business continuity. Employment taxes $268m Host governments continue to implement both proand anti-business reforms to leverage the recent rise in commodity prices (2016: $237 million) or to increase inward investment in a bid to Production, property and other taxes kick-start growth. Across Sub-Saharan Africa, $101m the sector is facing far reaching legislative reform and changes to stability and mining development agreements. (2016: $84 million) Our compliance as a The negative impacts on the mining sector Total taxes paid in our operating responsible citizen jurisdictions arising from increasing political and regulatory risk are multi-faceted. Reacting to increased Insight into our actions that drive development $659m (2016: $656 million) volatility detracts from focusing on operating performance; operational costs rise, while the ease of doing business becomes more limited; and access to capital becomes more S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 74 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED difficult or costly, with flight of capital to more government authorities to a transformational on or after 1 October 2017. On this basis receptive markets. During the year, emerging one – underpinned by mutual benefit, integrity and led by Group Compliance, the company and actual regulatory changes were most and transparency – is likely to be the best undertook an internal programme consistent prominent in South Africa and Tanzania. protection for future business success. with the application regime to align to the Regulatory changes resulting in increased applicable recommended practices. resource rents are not limited to Sub-Saharan Our actions in 2017 Africa or the developing world. During the We approach compliance mindfully, partnering As the significance of political and regulatory year Australia and Brazil also made proposals with the business and stakeholders to aspects increase in determining our success, to hike mining royalties as part of broader assess, manage and mitigate ethical and our thinking and actions have continued to economic reform programmes. regulatory risk. Although compliance is an mature over the past year. We reflect on our embedded function at AngloGold Ashanti, in actions in the themes of: Upcoming elections in key mining markets in that all employees are responsible for being the next 12 months, including Latin America • Compliance as a responsible citizen compliant, the Board has delegated the and Africa, will pose a significant risk to • Transformational actions to drive local and responsibility for implementing and executing political, economic and social stability. These national development the compliance programme to management. are likely to result in substantial shifts in policy • Our actions in country-specific contexts Both the Audit & Risk and the Social, Ethics direction which may trigger strategy changes & Sustainability Board Committees approved by the industry. Complying to national laws and regulations, the compliance programme and monitored along with being open and transparent is a activities and its effectiveness during the year. AngloGold Ashanti is acutely aware of the necessary foundation to navigating the political negative perceptions held by many host and regulatory landscape. In the absence The programme covers both regulatory communities and countries – often formed as of being a responsible citizen we cannot be compliance and alignment to non-binding a result of actions, or lack of actions, by mining trusted and we cannot compete. But this alone codes and standards such as principles set companies. The resultant low levels of trust is is not enough to navigate the current landscape out in the United Nations’ Global Compact a powerful constraint to effectively navigating and the challenges it poses. We need to do and the Organisation for Economic Copolitical and regulatory uncertainty and risk. more to distinguish ourselves, and by doing so operation and Development’s Good Practice protect and enable business success. Guidance for compliance programmes. With convergence between formal mining The programme also includes maintaining licencing requirements and the growing Compliance as a responsible citizen a register of material laws and regulations importance of the social licence to operate, Our approach to compliance is framed by and their related controls and compliance a prerequisite to business continuity is the King IV Report on Corporate Governance requirements. These are monitored on ensuring that trust is restored in the mining for South Africa (King IV). This was published an ongoing basis and departments and sector, and this is strengthened through the on 1 November 2016 and incorporated into individuals responsible for compliance with industry’s actions. Redefining a transactional listing requirements of the Johannesburg Stock key legislation are involved with updating and often conflict-ridden relationship between Exchange Listing Requirements in June 2017, the legal registers. These are accessible the company, local communities and formal affecting annual reports submitted to the JSE across the Group and a non-compliance alert S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 75 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED mechanism to escalate instances of nonall relevant employees within the company to and potential violations of the code. All compliance has been put in place. In 2017, ensure awareness and compliance. whistleblowing complaints are thoroughly the compliance programme was assessed investigated and acted on as appropriate, and by external legal counsel. The findings were Manager and supervisor anti-bribery and outcomes are reported to the Audit and Risk positive and regularly presented to the Board. anti-corruption training in the company has and the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Board historically utilised licenced training from Committees on a regular basis. In July 2017, the International Ethics third-party content providers. During 2017, Standards Board of Accountants (IESBA) development of bespoke anti-bribery and Compliance as a responsible citizen regarding implemented the Non-Compliance with anti-corruption training for group-wide rollout tax management goes beyond payment of Laws and Regulations (NOCLAR) standard, in 2018 commenced. The training will focus taxes and includes a comprehensive approach which amended the IESBA Code of Ethics for on specific company policies and procedures to tax risk management. Our tax strategy Professional Accountants. NOCLAR assists developed to assess, manage and mitigate the which is aligned with the company strategy auditors and accountants in deciding how best risk of bribery and corruption. and objectives, is to manage all our taxes in to act in the public interest when becoming a transparent, responsible and sustainable aware of non-compliance or suspected During the year, a multi-disciplinary team manner, respecting the differing interests of all non-compliance committed by their client was established to revise and update our our stakeholders. The Group Tax Management or employer. NOCLAR can be defined as Code of Business Principles and Ethics. The Policy sets out the governance framework, having a direct effect on the determination team comprises participants from Group and comprises five key components: of material amounts and disclosures in the Compliance, Group Internal Audit, Group • Our commitment to compliance financial statements; and/or be fundamental to Human Resources and Group Sustainable • Embracing a responsible attitude to AngloGold Ashanti’s business and operations Development. Recognising that the company arranging our tax affairs or its ability to avoid material penalties, for and its external landscape have evolved example fraud, bribery and corruption, threats significantly since the code was first issued in • Effective risk management to public health and safety, and money 2010, the intent of the review is to update the • Board ownership and oversight laundering. In the event that an accountant or code to reflect current challenges faced by • Maintaining a constructive approach in auditor becomes aware of non-compliance, employees daily. The review is expected to be engaging with tax authorities appropriate steps should be taken to raise completed at the end of the second quarter of the NOCLAR with management or through 2018, when it will be formally rolled out across In keeping with best practice, the AngloGold whistleblowing; understand whether there is the company, along with practical training. Ashanti Board has endorsed and formalised an external reporting requirement; address the the tax control framework. Formal company consequences of the NOCLAR; and reduce The company continues to have an extensive, director roles and responsibilities for tax risk the risk of re-occurrence. AngloGold Ashanti robust and independent whistleblowing system management are in place, and oversight is socialised the requirements of the standard to in place to deal with alleged ethical misconduct provided through the Audit & Risk Committee S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 76 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED of the Board. A tax register is in place and expectations of the mining industry are maintained, with a tax summary prepared probably greatest. Emblematic of changing every quarter end reflecting on the history of political and regulatory landscapes, tax disputes globally. Tax risks are assessed by stakeholders are more vocal about their needs, the respective financial managers and by the with progressive convergence and clarity of Through the relationships Group Tax Department, along with reasons for government and community expectations. we create and how the any movements in the amounts due to or by These expectations centre on a ‘fair deal’ company is experienced in tax authorities. where communities must benefit from mining, a positive way, communities and lives must perceptibly change for the Tax risks are evaluated as either remote, better through mining activities. serve as the primary defence contingent or probable. Tax provision is raised to protect our business in for probable tax exposure, but not for those Our operations are often seen to be categorised as remote or contingent. volatile circumstances. prosperous in the face of poverty. A ‘fair deal’ Regular summarised progress updates are comprises access to employment from mining Central to this is the need companies, local supply chain development presented to the Audit & Risk Committee, for us to be authentic and increasing portions of local content used considering how tax issues and risks are in the mining value chain. Mining companies and genuinely committed trending, and in February 2018 a testing plan are also well placed to act as a catalyst to achieving a fair deal, to determine the effectiveness of the tax control framework was presented to the committee. creating opportunities beyond mining. contribute to real benefits Delivering on these aspects and leveraging being experienced by the The Integrated Report 2017 includes a statement from the Board attesting to the off core competences within the business community, and openness adequacy of policies and processes in place to is a potentially transformational way to and transparency. navigate political and regulatory uncertainty. manage tax risk. This is based on the assumption that This is how we build trust. Transformational actions to drive local communities endure beyond development changing political dynamics. As political Beyond compliance to regulatory frameworks representatives must ultimately answer to and societal norms, business is increasingly their constituencies, community development expected to play a greater role in societal presents powerful protection against political development. Across business sectors, uncertainty and risk. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 77 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance NAVIGATING POLITICAL AND REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AND RISK CONTINUED On this basis, we have developed a two-pronged approach for application across the various gross domestic product (GDP). Despite these new mining government agency. The company jurisdictions where we operate, and where political uncertainty and risk are prominent. challenges, AngloGold Ashanti continues to will continue to navigate the changing contribute meaningfully to communities at an legislative environment through the Brazilian operational level. More insight into these efforts Mining Association. can be found in the section on Contributing to Corporate leadership In Colombia, the overarching priority in self-sustaining communities. activity to influence the 2017 was implementation of the peace policy landscape In Tanzania, rapidly implemented legislation accord reached by the government and the that is perceived as discriminatory against Revolutionary Armed forces of Colombia foreign mining groups and in favour of local (FARC) in late 2016. The process, however, operators was experienced, along with greater was slowed down later in the year by the ENSURING COHERENCE government control of private sector activities. Colombian Constitutional Court ruling to end the ‘fast track’ mechanism for passing Additionally, more stringent local listing provisions of the FARC peace accord. It is and ownership requirements, changes to likely that the parallel economy associated with the mining code, the signalling of intent the armed conflict will take much longer to Mine-based activity to to change stability agreements, banning unravel, and this may present implications to protect business continuity the company’s projects. of ore exportation, and stringent scrutiny of financial and operating practices were An emerging trend is the use of popular observed. In response, the company initiated consultation to prevent an array of public and and maintains engagement with high-level The first pathway of activities is leadership beyond compliance are found in the section on private projects. Specifically, in AngloGold government officials to facilitate mutuallyengaging at various political and industry levels Contributing to self-sustaining communities. Ashanti project areas, part of the solution lies beneficial outcomes. with the formalisation of artisanal mining on the to positively shape evolution of the policy and regulatory landscape. This is generally countryCountry-specific developments In Brazil, the political and economic landscape company’s tenement, and a comprehensive In South Africa, the gazetting of the 2017 saw widespread public unrest, sweeping project for harmonious co-existence between specific, but may be supported by global or Reviewed Mining Charter by the Department corruption scandals and low economic growth the mine and artisanal miners is underway. regional initiatives. of Mineral Resources presented the greatest after having been in recession. Investment Another aspect of the solution includes Long-term success in the area is enabled challenge, with industry in disagreement with designing and implementing the mining agencies have downgraded the country to by our practices at an operational level, the key provisions of the Charter. The Charter projects in a way that protects adjacent sub-investment level, but despite this, the gold where local stakeholders must experience has subsequently been challenged legally by livelihoods and industries, such as the local sector experienced modest growth. us in a positive way. Positive experiences the Chamber of Mines, of which AngloGold farming industry. require more than compliance to regulatory Ashanti is a member. Additionally, mining Proposed legislative reform in the mining frameworks, and must be transformational in continues to decline in the country which industry focuses on raising royalties (2-4% of nature. Details of our transformational actions results in progressively smaller contributions to revenue), revising regulations and creating a S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 78 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance SECTION 6 DATA No data is reported for particular sites in certain years for the following reasons: Economic value-added statement 120 • Obuasi went on care and maintance in 2016 Reporting Assurance 121 TABLES • CC&V was sold during 2015 Our 2017 suite of reports 122 • Navachab was sold during 2014 • Tropicana’s first full year of production was 2014 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 79 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 All injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) All injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) 8 7.48 7.71 7.49 Group 7.49 7.71 7.18 7.36 7.48 7.36 7.18 6 Americas 3.29 3.96 5.61 3.79 4.74 EMPLOYEE Continental Africa 0.39 0.51 0.50 1.56 1.97 4 SAFETY South Africa 12.68 12.02 10.81 11.85 12.63 2 Australia 8.53 9.49 8.56 10.73 7.91 Fatal injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) 0 Group 0.06 0.06 0.09 0.04 0.05 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Americas 0.00 0.05 0.05 0.09 0.00 Continental Africa 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 0.03 Fatal injury frequency rate South Africa 0.11 0.09 0.13 0.06 0.07 (per million hours worked) 0.10 Australia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost time injury frequency rate (per million hours worked) 0.08 0.09 Group 5.69 5.74 5.17 5.18 5.19 0.06 0.06 0.06 Americas 1.86 1.33 1.79 1.29 1.43 0.05 0.04 Continental Africa 0.15 0.13 0.22 0.54 0.67 0.04 South Africa 10.08 9.62 8.63 9.29 9.97 0.02 Australia 3.76 5.38 4.00 3.28 2.94 0.00 Occupational fatalities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group 7 7 11 6 8 Americas 0 1 1 2 0 Injury severity rate Continental Africa 0 0 1 0 2 (per million hours worked) 350 South Africa 7 6 9 4 6 300 326 313 314 Australia 0 0 0 0 0 250 277 Injury severity rate (per million hours worked) 247 200 Group 314 313 326 277 247 150 Americas 77 59 149 92 91 100 Continental Africa 3 3 12 12 41 50 South Africa 582 547 550 511 469 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Australia 5 1 4 0 18 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 80 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 New cases of noised induced hearing loss (Group) New cases of silicosis (number of cases) 200 Group 107 131 142 210 297 182 Americas 0 0 2 0 0 150 142 147 Australia 0 0 0 0 0 132 EMPLOYEE AND Continental Africa 0 0 0 9 4 100 COMMUNITY South Africa 107 131 140 201 293 HEALTH 50 68 Percentage of individual silica dust samples exceeding the OEL of 0.1mg/m3 (South Africa only) 2.20 2.21* 1.23 1.31 1 0 Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) (number of cases) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group 132 147 68 182 142 Americas 77 72 0 0 0 Australia 1 0 0 0 0 All occupational disease frequency rate Continental Africa 0 4 4 152 104 (Group) 8 South Africa 54 71 64 30 38 7 7.68 7.23 7.13 7.03 Greenfields Exploration 0 0 0 0 0 6 6.62 All occupational disease frequency rate (AODFR) 5 (per million hours worked) 4 Group 7.03 7.13 6.62 7.23 7.68 3 Americas 3.67 3.56 0.10 0.00 0.00 2 Australia 0.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 Continental Africa 0.00 0.13 0.12 3.78 1.70 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 South Africa 12.39 11.8 12.11 12.05 15.10 Greenfields Exploration 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 New cases of occupational TB (South Africa only) 255 285 315 385 447 New cases of occupational TB Occupational TB incidence rate (South Africa only) 1.01 1.02 1.26 1.57 1.49 (South Africa) New cases of malaria 500 Ghana 477 342 307 – – 400 447 Mali 127 101 274 – – 385 Guinea 959 965 1,528 – – 300 315 285 Tanzania 123 96 135 – – 255 200 Malaria lost time frequency rate Ghana 51.27 42.11** 27.86 – – 100 Mali 28.18 21.47 55.12 – – 0 Guinea 127.84 125.38 203.77 – – 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Tanzania 10.65 9.25 15.77 – – G4-22 * 2016 restated after receipt of final laboratory quartz analysis for Q4 2016 **2015 malaria frequency rate was restated as a result of a miscalculation of the number of hours worked S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 81 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Proportion of spending on local suppliers (%) Proportion of spending on local suppliers (%) 68 Argentina Argentina 93 89 76 22 88 93 Brazil 68 % Brazil 66 88 94 94 93 Australia 66 CONTRIBUTING TO South Africa SELF-SUSTAINING United States – – – 51 89 76 Ghana COMMUNITIES 99 Mali Australia 99 99 99 99 99 90 68 Guinea South Africa 68* 68 99 99 98 Tanzania Ghana 90 87 79 79 69 Mali 76 84 78 78 73 Guinea 68 73 72 72 69 Tanzania 68 68 60 75 84 Total procurement spend ($ billion) Group ($ billion) 2.29 1.98 2.1 2.6 – Centrally managed 1.54 1.24 1.3 1.1 – Regionally managed suppliers 0.75 0.74 0.8 1.0 – Number of sites on or adjacent to indigenous territories with formal agreements with indigenous people 0 0 0 2 – Sites where resettlements took place 3 4 1 2 – Operations with impacts on communities (%) 100 100 100 100 – * BEE expenditure includes all spend for suppliers with valid BEE certificates as at 01 January 2017. This also includes 15% of spend on suppliers whose certificates expired between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2017. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 82 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Group annual community investment ($million) Sites with local community engagement plans (%) 100 100 100 100 – 25 24.1 Community incidents 17 2 15 16 26 20 22.5 20.2 Community investment (economic value distributed) CONTRIBUTING TO 15 ($ million) 14.8 15.2 SELF-SUSTAINING 10 COMMUNITIES Group (less equity) 24.1 20.156 15.22 14.80 22.54 continued South Africa 5.97 4.60 6.29 8.07 8.39 5 Corporate 1.16 1.20 0.84 1.06 0.47 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 South Africa Operations 4.81 3.42 5.45 7.02 7.92 Continental Africa 9.02 7.56 6.01 3.93 13.28 Ghana 0.53 0.26 0.34 0.36 1.50 Iduapriem 0.41 0.20 0.13 0.15 0.30 Obuasi 0.12 0.06 0.20 0.21 1.20 Mali 0.50 0.46 0.28 0.26 0.18 Morila 0.05 0.01 0.04 0.08 0.06 Sadiola 0.33 0.44 0.19 0.15 0.04 Yatela 0.12 0.01 0.05 0.02 0.08 Tanzania 6.33 4.18 3.76 1.97 5.49 Geita 6.33 4.18 3.76 1.97 5.49 Guinea 0.89 1.71 0.50 0.22 1.33 Siguiri 0.89 1.71 0.50 0.22 1.33 Namibia – – – 0.04 0.06 Navachab – – – 0.04 0.06 DRC 0.77 0.96 1.13 1.08 4.73 Kibali 0.77 0.96 1.13 0.65 4.14 Mongbwalu – 0.00 0.00 0.43 0.58 Australia 0.68 0.55 0.34 0.25 0.46 Sunrise Dam & Tropicana 0.68 0.55 0.34 0.25 0.46 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 83 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Americas 9.83 9.02 4.16 3.66 5.76 Argentina 8.89 5.81 0.71 1.22 1.10 Cerro Vanguardia 8.89 5.81 0.71 1.22 1.10 CONTRIBUTING TO Brazil 0.49 2.14 1.72 0.86 1.77 SELF-SUSTAINING AGA Brazil (Mineração) 0.38 1.76 1.57 0.71 1.30 COMMUNITIES continued Serra Grande 0.11 0.38 0.14 0.15 0.47 Colombia 0.45 1.05 1.19 0.99 1.90 Colombia Greenfields 0.05 0.08 0.03 0.13 0.34 Quebradona 0.10 0.17 0.32 0.00 0.00 Gramalote 0.19 0.14 0.16 0.20 1.04 La Colosa 0.11 0.67 0.68 0.66 0.53 USA 0.01 0.01 0.58 0.58 0.99 Cripple Creek & Victor – – 0.53 0.52 0.80 Denver Office 0.01 0.01 0.04 0.06 0.19 Less equity-accounted investments (1.46) (1.56) (1.57) (1.11) (5.36) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 84 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Reportable environmental incidents 3 1 4 5 10 Environmental fines 0 0 0 0 0 AngloGold Ashanti defines a significant fine as one that exceeds $100,000. No such fines were paid in 2017. RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Financial Implications and opportunities 2017 due to climate change Climate change poses challenges and opportunities to AngloGold Ashanti and consideration of these factors influences business-planning processes. Regulatory responses to climate change in the form of carbon pricing and budgeting are increasingly being considered in the jurisdictions in which we operate and as more participating countries ratify the 2015 Paris Agreement. It is however noted that economic concerns appear to be delaying the implementation of these in some jurisdictions. The South African Carbon tax legislation has been on the national agenda for several years and the second draft of the Carbon Tax Bill was released during December 2017. Although the date of promulgation was not announced by National Treasury, it is anticipated to come into force in 2019. With relatively low direct carbon emissions, AngloGold Ashanti South Africa’s main exposure to the carbon tax will be through the increased cost of electricity purchased from Eskom, the national utility provider. The carbon tax on liquid fossils fuels used in the region will be imposed at source as an addition to current fuel taxes. Although the initial carbon tax rate is R120 per tonne of CO2 equivalent, during the first phase, which ends on 31 December 2022, a series of allowances will reduce the effective rate anywhere between R6 and R48 per tonne. In Australian government introduced a carbon emissions safeguard mechanism, aimed at limiting future growth in GHG emissions. Our operations at Sunrise Dam and Tropicana submitted baseline emission reports in accordance with the regulatory scheme. In the unlikely event that emission thresholds are exceeded over time, AngloGold Ashanti will need to address this through carbon credits, which may have a financial implication. AngloGold Ashanti participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and submits a comprehensive report to the CDP annually. Financial implications and opportunities due to climate change are discussed in more detail there. Our annual reports to the CDP are available on the CDP (https://www.cdp.net) and AngloGold Ashanti (http://www.anglogoldashanti.com/sustainability/reports) websites. Number of non-monetary sanctions Two environmental compliance orders were received in Tanzania, one for operating a borehole without a valid permit and a second in regard to dust monitoring and management. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 85 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 IUCN red list species total number Critically Endangered Category: of IUCN red list species and national IUCN: One species of amphibian at La Colosa Project. conservation list species with habitats National: One tree species at Gramalote. in areas affected by the operations Endangered Category: RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL IUCN: One species of mammal at AGA Mineração (Brazil); one species of plant, STEWARDSHIP two species of bird and one species of amphibian at La Colosa Project; one continued species of mammal and one species of amphibian at Gramalote Project. National: One species of plant and one species of fish at AGA Mineração Brazil and two plant species at La Colosa. Vulnerable category: IUCN: Six species of tree at Obuasi; one species of bird and two species of fish at AGA Mineração (Brazil); two species of plant, one species of amphibian, two species of mammal and three species of bird at La Colosa Project (Colombia); one species of mammal, two species of bird and one species of tree at Gramalote project Colombia); two species of tree, one species of plant and one species of insect at Geita (Tanzania). National: One species of plant in South Africa. Two species of plant, two species of mammal and one species of fish at AGA Mineração (Brazil); three Flora Species at La Colosa and two species of tree at Gramalote. Near Threatened Category: IUCN: Two species of mammal at Cerro Vanguardia; three species of bird and two species of mammals at AGA Mineração Brazil; one species of amphibian and one species of bird at La Colosa Project; one species of mammal; one species of bird and two species of tree at Gramalote and one species of plant in South Africa. National: Two species of plants in South Africa, one amphibian and one bird at La Colosa. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 86 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Direct raw materials per operation Direct raw materials per operation (Ore processed (kilotonnes)) Ore processed (kilotonnes) Argentinia 3,309 Brazil 4,424 Argentina 3,309 3,141 3,304 3,300 2,434 Australia 11,687 RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Cerro Vanguardia Australia Sunrise Dam 3,309 11,687 4,033 3,141 10,968 4,041 3,304 10,037 3,880 3,300 9,528 3,821 2,434 4,708 3,479 kt South Africa Ghana Mali 38,877 5,058 5,030 continued Guinea 11,677 Tropicana 7,654 6,927 6,157 5,707 1,229 Tanzania 5,358 Brazil 4,424 4,095 3,914 3,767 3,545 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 2,999 2,778 2,607 2,478 2,294 Serra Grande 1,425 1,317 1,307 1,289 1,251 Ghana 5,058 5,129 5,656 7,111 6,517 Iduapriem 5,058 5,129 4,702 4,873 4,793 Obuasi – – 954 2,238 1,724 Guinea 11,677 12,062 11,741 11,895 11,939 Siguiri 11,677 12,062 11,741 11,895 11,939 Mali 5,030 5,093 5,546 7,183 7,422 Sadiola 5,030 4,908 5,062 5,027 4,857 Yatela – 185 484 2,156 2,565 Namibia – – – – 1,420 Navachab – – – – 1,420 South Africa 38,877 39,497 36,786 38,426 39,243 Mine Waste Solutions 26,322 26,083 24,451 24,818 23,977 Vaal River 7,940 8,987 9,082 10,206 11,753 West Wits 4,615 4,427 3,253 3,402 3,512 Tanzania 5,358 5,517 5,152 5,186 4,040 Geita 5,358 5,517 5,152 5,186 4,040 USA – – 11,210 19,303 20,753 CC&V – – 11,210 19,303 20,753 Group 85,419 85,504 93,346 105,699 102,021 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 87 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Liquid fossil fuels Liquid fossil fuels (kilolitres) (kilolitres) Argentina 18,761 16,050 17,028 18,379 19,706 Argentinia 18,761 Brazil 18,741 Cerro Vanguardia 18,761 16,050 17,028 18,379 19,706 Australia 66,198 RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Australia Sunrise Dam Tropicana 66,198 14,193 52,005 65,141 12,345 52,796 103,496 21,336 82,160 110,600 26,974 83,626 42,490 23,166 19,324 kl South Africa Ghana Mali 5,186 25,834 37,209 continued Guinea 58,318 Brazil 18,741 16,718 15,078 15,811 13,109 Tanzania 88,454 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 13,037 11,224 10,700 11,890 8,813 Serra Grande 5,704 5,494 4,378 3,921 4,296 Ghana 25,834 13,903 13,377 10,550 29,984 Iduapriem 25,434 13,568 11,865 4,902 21,057 Obuasi 400 335 1,512 5,648 8,927 Guinea 58,318 58,629 53,913 47,195 55,822 Siguiri 58,318 58,629 53,913 47,195 55,822 Mali 37,209 35,995 36,689 42,478 66,418 Sadiola 36,952 33,451 33,671 36,479 53,365 Yatela 257 2,544 3,018 5,999 13,053 Namibia – – – 0 13,785 Navachab – – – 0 13,785 South Africa 5,186 5,260 6,871 6,257 6,107 Mine Waste Solutions 2,625 165 95 30 235 Vaal River 1,735 3,485 3,708 4,660 4,240 West Wits 826 1,610 3,068 1,567 1,632 Tanzania 88,454 77,649 74,307 81,251 84,123 Geita 88,454 77,649 74,307 81,251 84,123 USA – – 22,367 51,393 51,178 CC&V – – 22,367 51,393 51,178 Group 318,701 289,345 343,125 383,914 382,722 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 88 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Lubricants (kilolitres) Lubricants (kilolitres) 8,000 Argentina 414 441 517 519 339 7,086 Cerro Vanguardia 414 441 517 519 339 6,000 6,401 6,133 5,932 Australia 1,098 715 910 826 – 5,102 RESPONSIBLE 4,000 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 472 177 409 475 – STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 626 538 501 351 – 2,000 continued Brazil 954 1,025 939 944 759 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 698 782 690 702 506 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Serra Grande 256 243 249 242 253 Ghana 378 500 458 488 – Iduapriem 353 462 346 124 – Obuasi 25 38 112 364 – Guinea 680 92 106 135 104 Siguiri 680 92 106 135 104 Mali 371 376 388 459 1,088 Sadiola 359 360 347 424 791 Yatela 12 16 41 35 297 Namibia – – – – 78 Navachab – – – – 78 South Africa 801 802 676 676 1,050 Mine Waste Solutions 29 18 17 31 14 Vaal River 251 319 297 252 294 West Wits 521 465 362 393 742 Tanzania 1,236 1,152 1,087 1,126 2,161 Geita 1,236 1,152 1,087 1,126 2,161 USA – – 824 1,229 1,507 CC&V – – 824 1,229 1,507 Group 5,932 5,102 6,133 6,401 7,086 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 89 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Cyanide (tonnes) Cyanide (tonnes) 35,000 Argentina 1,278 1,072 1,015 960 836 30,000 31,476 30,732 Cerro Vanguardia 1,278 1,072 1,015 960 836 25,000 27,153 24,394 24,111 RESPONSIBLE Australia 4,011 4,696 4,130 4,398 1,121 20,000 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 1,202 1,244 1,360 1,178 1,121 15,000 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 2,809 3,452 2,770 3,220 – 10,000 continued Brazil 1,426 1,261 1,289 1,163 936 5,000 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 878 728 746 580 525 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Serra Grande 548 533 543 583 411 Ghana 1,440 1,340 2,305 3,832 4,371 Iduapriem 1,440 1,340 1,240 1,200 1,480 Obuasi – 0 1,065 2,632 2,891 Guinea 2,508 2,378 2,392 2,543 2,864 Siguiri 2,508 2,378 2,392 2,543 2,864 Mali 2,003 2,778 2,603 2,204 3,831 Sadiola 1,779 1,926 1,731 1,826 2,511 Yatela 224 852 872 378 1,320 Namibia – – – – 680 Navachab – – – – 680 South Africa 10,122 9,672 9,573 10,101 9,688 Mine Waste Solutions 6,430 6,349 6,469 6,193 5,833 Vaal River 1,975 1,863 2,020 2,567 2,301 West Wits 1,717 1,460 1,084 1,341 1,554 Tanzania 1,323 1,197 1,105 1,970 1,974 Geita 1,323 1,197 1,105 1,970 1,974 USA – – 2,740 4,305 4,431 CC&V – – 2,740 4,305 4,431 Group 24,111 24,394 27,153 31,476 30,732 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 90 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Explosives (tonnes) Explosives (tonnes) 80,000 Argentina 4,368 4,005 3,616 3,777 5,406 70,000 70,502 Cerro Vanguardia 4,368 4,005 3,616 3,777 5,406 60,000 Australia 22,426 15,433 14,678 13,115 1,183 50,000 53,765 52,136 RESPONSIBLE 46,310 40,000 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 1,049 2,060 827 741 1,183 41,203 30,000 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 21,377 13,373 13,851 12,374 – 20,000 continued Brazil 5,863 4,046 4,283 3,874 4,022 10,000 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 4,382 2,300 2,662 2,512 2,307 0 Serra Grande 1,481 1,746 1,621 1,362 1,715 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ghana 9,148 7,515 5,399 2,840 8,670 Iduapriem 9,148 7,515 5,181 2,732 8,670 Obuasi 0 0 218 108 – Guinea 899 1,295 997 820 1,138 Siguiri 899 1,295 997 820 1,138 Mali 1,826 858 226 1,079 6,166 Sadiola 1,826 858 226 1,079 4,536 Yatela – 0 – – 1,630 Namibia – – – – 5,921 Navachab – – – – 5,921 South Africa 1,615 2,410 2,507 3,509 7,659 Mine Waste Solutions – – – – – Vaal River 479 570 1,242 1,644 4,536 West Wits 1,136 1,840 1,265 1,865 3,123 Tanzania 5,991 5,640 6,073 7,338 10,025 Geita 5,991 5,640 6, 073 7,338 10,025 USA – – 8,531 17,413 20,312 CC&V – – 8,531 17,413 20,312 Group 52,136 41,203 46,310 53,765 70,502 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 91 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total acid consumption (tonnes) Total acid consumption (tonnes) 120,000 Argentina 1,945 1,952 1,830 1,828 1,284 100,000 109,935 Cerro Vanguardia 1,945 1,952 1,830 1,828 1,284 80,000 RESPONSIBLE Australia 1,646 1,423 1,326 1,453 487 76,197 80,473 60,000 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 571 572 594 480 487 61,438 54,944 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 1,075 851 732 973 – 40,000 continued Brazil 1,352 1,822 1,631 1,113 138 20,000 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 1,336 1,798 1,611 1,098 114 0 Serra Grande 16 24 20 15 24 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ghana 189 191 483 729 991 Iduapriem 157 191 310 124 354 Obuasi 32 0 173 605 637 Guinea 1,201 559 156 236 201 Siguiri 1,201 559 156 236 201 Mali 550 723 619 391 841 Sadiola 550 723 619 391 762 Yatela – – – – 79 Namibia – – – – 40 Navachab – – – – 40 South Africa 47,861 54,589 103,620 74,356 71,929 Mine Waste Solutions 4,380 9,686 34,565 6,429 2,287 Vaal River 42,697 43,795 68,255 67,219 68,910 West Wits 784 1,108 800 708 732 Tanzania 199 178 178 173 146 Geita 199 178 178 173 146 USA – – 93 194 140 CC&V – – 93 194 140 Group 54,944 61,438 109,935 80,473 76,197 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 92 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total alkali consumption (tonnes) Total alkali consumption (tonnes) 300,000 Argentina 2,234 2,083 1,960 1,559 1,939 250,000 269,045 268,933 Cerro Vanguardia 2,234 2,083 1,960 1,559 1,939 200,000 215,071 RESPONSIBLE Australia 22,303 25,965 21,942 10,401 11,310 ENVIRONMENTAL 150,000 Sunrise Dam 6,811 9,581 9,214 9,781 11,310 STEWARDSHIP 133,641 132,653 Tropicana 15,492 16,384 12,728 620 – 100,000 continued Brazil 22,886 18,108 15,111 14,752 17,212 50,000 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 21,258 16,738 13,858 13,397 15,179 0 Serra Grande 1,628 1,370 1,253 1,355 2,033 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ghana 3,609 3,127 6,505 21,741 23,733 Iduapriem 3,609 3,124 3,220 1,202 4,183 Obuasi – 3 3,285 20,539 19,550 Guinea 15,117 15,633 13,336 10,356 12,795 Siguiri 15,117 15,633 13,336 10,356 12,795 Mali 8,368 12,016 13,043 12,954 9,532 Sadiola 8,368 11,065 9,945 6,396 2,340 Yatela – 951 3,098 6,558 7,192 Namibia – – – – 630 Navachab – – – – 630 South Africa 53,986 50,932 74,994 81,203 68,920 Mine Waste Solutions 24,824 21,698 30,775 27,467 16,855 Vaal River 25,613 26,387 42,016 52,012 49,288 West Wits 3,549 2,847 2,203 1,724 2,777 Tanzania 4,150 5,777 5,125 4,284 3,474 Geita 4,150 5,777 5,125 4,284 3,474 USA – – 63,055 111,683 119,500 CC&V – – 63,055 111,683 119,500 Group 132,653 133,641 215,071 268,933 269,045 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 93 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Non-hazardous waste by type (tonnes) Ferrous metal waste 19,949 17,796 17,772 16,730 25,000 Non-ferrous metal waste 824 1,892 1,301 968 1,700 RESPONSIBLE Total 20,773 19,688 19,073 17,698 26,700 ENVIRONMENTAL General waste STEWARDSHIP Recycled 1,839 4,845 9,242 3,792 3,000 continued On-site disposal 45,350 44,243 41,668 35,486 36,500 Off-site disposal 854 9,389 1,353 1,362 500 Total 48,043 58,477 52,263 40,640 40,000 Hazardous waste by type (tonnes) Battery waste (tonnes) Recycled 361 109 141 46 89 On-site disposal – – – – – Off-site disposal 0.02 1 13 0 9 Total 361 110 154 46 98 Hydrocarbon waste (m3) Recycled 2,291 1,992 2,439 2,310 1,078 On-site disposal 0.25 327 131 296 204 Off-site disposal 1,495 2,843 5,665 552 155 Total 3,786 5,162 8,235 3,158 1,437 Other hazardous waste including fluorescent lighting and chemical and solvent waste (tonnes) Recycled 703 614 963 413 87 On-site disposal 30,577 23,849 27,135 24,140 8,302 Off-site disposal 97 226 900 386 230 Total 31,377 24,689 28,998 24,939 8,619 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 94 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Tailings deposited by country Tailings deposited per country (megatonnes) (Megatonnes) Argentinia 7.65 Argentina 7.65 3.14 3.30 3.30 1.08 Australia 11.69 Australia 11.69 10.97 10.04 9.53 4.71 Brazil 4.42 RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Brazil Ghana 4.42 5.06 4.10 5.13 3.91 5.66 5.78 7.11 3.20 11.09 Mt Ghana Guinea Mali 5.06 11.68 5.03 continued Guinea 11.68 12.06 11.74 11.90 11.93 Tanzania 5.36 Mali 5.03 5.09 5.55 7.18 4.85 South Africa 38.88 Namibia – – – – 1.42 Tanzania 5.36 5.52 5.15 5.19 4.04 South Africa 38.88 39.50 36.79 38.43 39.75 USA – – 11.21 19.30 0.00 Group 89.76 85.50 93.35 107.72 82.07 Overburden and waste rock placed per country (megatonnes) Argentina 18.62 16.45 14.64 20.70 23.43 Australia 85.81 66.11 50.40 52.56 24.40 Brazil 11.45 9.16 9.02 7.92 5.38 Ghana 30.29 22.72 17.09 5.03 29.96 Guinea 7.97 11.89 11.84 9.64 10.86 Mali 8.13 7.87 10.52 7.28 44.19 Namibia – – – – 12.57 Tanzania 29.31 28.37 24.19 29.76 33.76 South Africa 0.00 0.00 0.00 – 0.73 USA – – 16.99 36.20 45.61 Group 191.56 162.56 154.69 169.09 230.89 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 95 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Energy consumption and intensity Energy consumption (Petajoules) Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per tonne) 50 0,40 Argentina Consumption (Petajoules) 40 Cerro Vanguardia 1.90 1.76 1.69 1.71 1.72 0.35 0,35 RESPONSIBLE Australia 30 0.32 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 2.18 2.03 1.97 2.29 2.14 0.30 0.31 0.33 20 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 4.14 3.59 3.17 3.23 0.73 0,30 continued 10 Brazil 33 32 29 29 30 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 1.77 1.64 1.53 1.48 1.40 0 0,25 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Serra Grande 0.56 0.54 0.48 0.48 0.45 Consumption Intensity Ghana Iduapriem 1.46 1.02 0.89 0.62 1.25 Obuasi 0.26 0.30 0.56 1.46 1.77 Guinea Siguiri 2.40 2.58 2.50 2.36 2.31 Mali Sadiola 1.55 1.40 1.40 1.59 2.11 Yatela – 0.10 0.12 0.24 0.52 Namibia Navachab – – – – 0.74 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 0.83 0.74 0.73 0.76 0.62 Vaal River 4.61 4.87 4.89 5.31 5.63 West Wits 4.61 4.93 5.03 5.24 5.54 Tanzania Geita 3.49 3.07 2.93 3.21 3.32 USA CC&V – – 1.16 2.37 2.42 Group 29.76 28.55 29.06 32.34 32.68 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 96 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Energy intensity (Gigajoule per metric tonne treated) Argentina Cerro Vanguardia 0.58 0.56 0.51 0.52 0.71 RESPONSIBLE Australia ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 0.54 0.50 0.51 0.60 0.60 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 0.54 0.52 0.52 0.57 0.60 continued Brazil AGA Brazil (Mineração) 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.60 0.61 Serra Grande 0.39 0.41 0.37 0.37 0.41 Ghana Iduapriem 0.29 0.20 0.19 0.13 0.26 Obuasi 0.00 0.00 0.59 0.65 1.03 Guinea Siguiri 0.21 0.21 0.21 0.20 0.19 Mali Sadiola 0.31 0.28 0.28 0.32 0.43 Yatela – 0.54 0.25 0.11 0.20 Namibia Navachab – – – 0.52 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 Vaal River 0.58 0.54 0.54 0.52 0.48 West Wits 1.00 1.11 1.55 1.54 1.58 Tanzania Geita 0.65 0.56 0.57 0.62 0.82 USA CC&V – – 0.10 0.12 0.12 Group 0.35 0.33 0.31 0.30 0.32 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 97 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 GHG emissions and intensity Emissions intensity (Kilograms CO2 per tonne) 60 GHG emissions (kilotonnes of GHG) 6 Emissions (Megatonnes CO2e) Argentina 5 48 45 45 46 43 Cerro Vanguardia 106 120 115 118 119 4 40 RESPONSIBLE Australia 3 ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 122 113 116 135 122 20 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 250 223 220 224 51 2 continued Brazil 1 4.6 4.6 4.2 4.1 4.0 0 AGA Brazil (Mineração) 52 41 41 36 32 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Serra Grande 24 19 15 14 15 Emissions Intensity Ghana Iduapriem 124 108 95 74 113 Obuasi 36 41 79 198 199 Guinea Siguiri 163 194 189 178 175 Mali Sadiola 106 104 104 118 156 Yatela – 7 9 18 38 Namibia Navachab – – – – 42 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 201 207 193 201 165 Vaal River 1,242 1,282 1,232 1,360 1,415 West Wits 1,290 1,375 1,331 1,420 1,445 Tanzania Geita 238 228 218 238 246 USA CC&V – – 204 281 233 Group 3,953 4,062 4,162 4,613 4,566 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 98 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 GHG emissions intensity (Kilogram of GHG per tonne treated) Argentina RESPONSIBLE Cerro Vanguardia 32 38 35 36 49 ENVIRONMENTAL Australia STEWARDSHIP Sunrise Dam 30 28 30 35 35 continued Tropicana 33 32 36 39 – Brazil AGA Brazil (Mineração) 17 15 16 15 14 Serra Grande 17 14 12 11 12 Ghana Iduapriem 25 21 20 15 24 Obuasi – – 83 88 115 Guinea Siguiri 14 16 16 15 15 Mali Sadiola 21 21 21 24 32 Yatela – 40 18 8 15 Namibia Navachab – – – – 29 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 8 8 8 8 7 Vaal River 156 143 136 133 120 West Wits 280 311 409 417 412 Tanzania Geita 44 41 42 46 61 USA CC&V – – 18 15 11 Group 46 48 45 43 45 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 99 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 NOx, SOx Oxides of Nitrogen (tonnes) 2,925 4,496 3,916 1,097 1,685 RESPONSIBLE Oxides of Sulphur (tonnes) 170 4,052 9,346 4 30 ENVIRONMENTAL Number of processing plants certified in full compliance STEWARDSHIP to the International Cyanide Management Code 17 15 15 15 16 continued Percentage of processing plants certified in full compliance to the International Cyanide Management Code (%) 94 83 79 75 76 Indicator Value 2017 The 401,000 ha Niger-Tinkisso Ramsar site is an extensive area of river and freshwater ponds and marshes between Water sources significantly affected by and around the Tinkisso and Niger Rivers, however its boundaries are not clearly defined. As many as 101,000 ha of 0 withdrawal of water the Ramsar site may overlap the (159,000 ha) Siguiri mine concession in Guinea. The mine abstracts less than 0.5% of the Tinkisso River’s annual flow. Number of sites that have been assessed 15 AngloGold Ashanti adopted a Biodiversity Management Standard in 2014. It requires all active AGA-managed as requiring a BMP operations or major projects to undertake biodiversity risk assessments and where necessary, implement a Biodiversity Action Plan. By the end of 2017, not all the AGA-managed operations or major projects had completed the required biodiversity risk assessments. (Note that Activities were suspended at La Colosa due to a Force Majeure). Number of sites in need of a BMP that 13 By the end of 2017, 13 of the 15 AGA-managed operations had confirmed the need for and developed biodiversity have a BMP in place and operational action plans. Percentage of company operations that 100 100% of AngloGold Ashanti operations have a closure plan in place. Details of closure liabilities are given in the annual have closure plans Integrated Report and financial provisions for closure are given in the Annual Financial Statements. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 100 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Water use and efficiency Water use (Megalitres) 100 1000 Argentina Efficiency (Litres per tonne) 80 800 Cerro Vanguardia 1,487 1,152 1,121 1,079 964 627 600 639 611 Use (Gigalitres) 593 60 600 RESPONSIBLE Australia ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 1,115 1,779 1,772 1,866 1,828 40 400 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 5,668 5,798 4,876 4,883 2,097 continued 20 200 Brazil 64 64 60 51 52 AGA Mineração 5,292 5,292 5,959 6,233 6,346 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Serra Grande 1,504 1,623 1,507 1,921 1,379 Use Efficiency Ghana Iduapriem 2,137 936 750 342 795 Obuasi 0 0 3,129 3,696 3,685 Guinea Siguiri 6,349 3,395 5,145 5,375 6,478 Mali Sadiola 3,476 3,940 4,625 4,051 4,330 Yatela – 4 33 17 254 Namibia Navachab – – – – 1,005 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 6,002 6,475 7,974 11,191 9,737 Vaal River 10,813 12,275 13,259 13,402 14,331 West Wits 3,688 4,411 3,949 2,626 3,160 Tanzania Geita 4,689 3,637 3,249 4,101 4,484 USA CC&V – – 2,252 2,937 3,042 Group 52,219 50,716 59,601 63,721 63,916 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 101 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Water use efficiency (kilolitres per tonne) Argentina Cerro Vanguardia 0.45 0.37 0.34 0.33 0.40 RESPONSIBLE Australia ENVIRONMENTAL Sunrise Dam 0.28 0.44 0.46 0.49 0.53 STEWARDSHIP Tropicana 0.74 0.84 0.79 0.86 1.71 continued Brazil AGA Mineração 1.76 1.90 2.29 2.52 2.77 Serra Grande 1.06 1.23 1.15 1.49 1.10 Ghana Iduapriem 0.42 0.18 0.16 0.07 0.17 Obuasi 0 0 3.28 1.65 2.14 Guinea Siguiri 0.54 0.28 0.44 0.45 0.54 Mali Sadiola 0.69 0.80 0.91 0.81 0.89 Yatela – 0.02 0.07 0.01 0.10 Namibia Navachab – – – – 0.71 South Africa Mine Waste Solutions 0.23 0.25 0.33 0.45 0.41 Vaal River 1.36 1.37 1.46 1.31 1.22 West Wits 0.80 1.00 1.21 0.77 0.90 Tanzania Geita 0.88 0.66 0.63 0.79 1.11 USA CC&V – – 0.20 0.15 0.15 Group 0.61 0.59 0.64 0.60 0.63 Note: Yatela reposted nil owing to closure status (production is rinsing of HLP), subtracted from total AngloGold Ashanti data. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 102 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Percentage of water reused as per Total volume of water reused Material issues 2017 the MCA Water Accounting Framework by the organisation Total water used for production purposes Water reused (%) (Kl) (Kl) Cerro Vanguardia 78 7,229,606 9,275,660 Geita 63 12,461,171 19,914,364 Iduapriem 61 7,854,928 12,937,202 RESPONSIBLE AGA Brazil (Mineração) 78 24,905,705 31,826,904 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MWS 90 87,440,747 96,804,544 continued Sadiola 78 16,102,053 20,701,173 Serra Grande 72 5,878,351 8,192,553 Siguiri 76 34,044,947 44,585,715 Sunrise Dam 61 3,910,568 6,435,718 Tropicana 65 10,660,027 16,334,354 VR (Input) 59 23,204,206 39,133,863 WW (Input) 76 28,784,407 38,028,394 Group 75 259,553,883 344,170,443 Material issues Location Quantity Destination pH Level Conductivity Water discharge AUSTRALIA Sunrise Dam 3,096,328 kL of groundwater from underground and pit dewatering Lake Carey, a salt lake 7.54 187.92 mS/cm BRAZIL AGA Brazil (Mineração) Queiroz Plant 924,464 kLof Queiroz Plant effluent water was discharged following arsenic precipitation with ferric sulphate. Velhas River 7.7 2.72 mS/cm Cuiabá Mine 95,591 kL of Cuiabá Mine effluent water was discharged following pH adjustment with sodium hydroxide. Sabará River 7.6 0.36 mS/cm, Lamego mine 547,282 kL of excess Lamego mine water was discharged following flocculation and removal of suspended solids. Papa Farinha Creek 8.2 0.81 mS/cm Córrego do Sítio Mine 738,459kL of excess Córrego do Sítio Mine water was discharged following removal of suspended solids through flocculation. Conceição River 7.5 0.73 mS/cm 877,189 kL of excess Córrego do Sítio Mine water was discharged following arsenic precipitation with ferric sulphate and pH adjustment with hydrated lime. Conceição River 7.4 5.21 mS/cm S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 103 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Location Quantity Destination pH Level Conductivity Serra Grande An estimated 630,720 kL of excess water following arsenic precipitation and cyanide destruction at the Final Effluent Treatment Plant. Vermelho River 7.21 0.46 mS/cm An estimated 1,173,840 kL of excess water from the Mina Nova mine was discharged following suspended solids precipitation with flocculant. Vermelho River 7.62 0.35 mS/cm RESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL An estimated 246,010 kL of excess water from the Palmeiras Mine was discharged STEWARDSHIP following suspended solids precipitation with flocculant. Gerais stream 7.77 0.18 mS/cm continued GHANA Iduapriem 4,478,461.88 kL of directly captured rainfall and surface runoff was discharged from the Block 7 & 8 pit ( No treatment was required). Local environment 7.1 0.27 mS/cm 2,008,438 kL of treated effluent water was discharged from the Reverse Osmosis plant. Local environment 7.8 0.9 mS/cm Obuasi 1,005,704 kL of excess water from the South Treatment Plant's OTP Pond was treated and discharged from the South Reverse Osmosis Plant. Nyam River 6.49 0.24 mS/cm Obuasi 2,253,938 kL of water from Pond 3 was treated and discharged from the South Reverse Osmosis Plant. Nyam River 6.99 0.23 mS/cm Obuasi 392,722 kL of treated runoff water from the Pompora and Kokoteasua TSFs was discharged via the Pompora Reverse Osmosis Plant. Kwabrafo River 6.45 0.13 mS/cm. MALI Sadiola 806,747 kL of water from dewatering of the Farabakouta North Pit (No treatment was required). Farabakouta Stream 7.9 47.8 mS/cm SOUTH AFRICA West Wits 530,601 kL of purified sewage effluent was released from the Aquatic Dam. Elandsfonteinspruit 7.52 4.83 mS/cm S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 104 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) 2017 2016 Material issues Operation Restoration Decommissioning Restoration Decommissioning Rehabilitation liabilities per operation ($ million) South Africa 17.8 100.7 14.8 80.4 Great Noligwa (1) 3.4 28.2 – – Kopanang – 9.3 1.1 12.1 INTEGRATED Moab Khotsong 3.3 15.5 4.2 29.1 CLOSURE MANAGEMENT TauTona (2) 4.1 17.1 3.6 11.9 Mponeng 2.5 6.1 2.6 5.5 Legacy projects – Vaal River – 3.0 – 4.2 – West Wits – 0.4 – 0.3 – Other 0.2 – 0.2 – First Uranium SA 4.3 20.3 3.1 16.4 Nufcor – 0.8 – 0.9 Continental Africa 252.5 178.4 261.7 168.1 Ghana Iduapriem 30.1 14.2 35.7 8.3 Obuasi (3) 149.8 61.6 154.0 62.2 Guinea Siguiri 29.1 30.3 28.1 27.9 Mali (4) Morila – 9.0 – 7.0 Sadiola 14.1 12.5 14.7 12.5 Yatela 4.2 9.0 4.5 10.1 DRC Kibali (4) – 10.5 – 9.5 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 105 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) 2017 2016 Material issues Operation Restoration Decommissioning Restoration Decommissioning Tanzania Geita 25.2 31.3 24.7 30.6 Australasia 42.5 28.9 Australia INTEGRATED Sunrise Dam 27.1 15.0 19.7 10.0 CLOSURE Tropicana 27.5 18.7 22.8 18.9 MANAGEMENT Americas 106.3 40.3 108.1 41.0 continued Argentina Cerro Vanguardia 48.2 18.0 45.8 17.5 Brazil AngloGold Ashanti Mineração 42.0 15.3 44.9 16.5 Serra Grande 9.4 7.0 9.6 7.0 United States of America Other 0.5 – 0.5 – Colombia La Colosa 5.8 – 7.0 – Gramalote (4) 0.4 – 0.3 – Other – – 3.7 – Group 431.2 353.1 430.8 318.4 Less equity accounted investments included above (4) (18.6) (41.0) (4.9) (39.1) Less liabilities held for sale included above (5) (3.4) (25.7) – – Group 409.2 286.4 425.9 279.3 (1) Includes Vaal River shared infrastructure which does not form part of the liabilities held for sale. (2) Includes Savuka. (3) Includes Mpasatia (Bibiani pit). (4) The equity-accounted investments refer to the Mali assets, Kibali in the DRC and Gramalote in Colombia. (5) Includes the liabilities held for sale of Moab Khotsong, Kopanang and Nufcor. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 106 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Total amount of land newly Total amount rehabilitated Total amount of Total land of land newly within the Total amount land disturbed disturbed and not disturbed within reporting period of land and not yet yet rehabilitated the reporting to agreed upon rehabilitated rehabilitated Total land 2017 opening balance year end use to date closing balance managed Land disturbed or rehabilitated (ha) AGA Mineração 494 12 13 443 493 26,237 INTEGRATED Cerro Vanguardia 1,615 – 15 45 1,600 54,000 CLOSURE Geita 2,737 19 36 551 2,720 19,627 MANAGEMENT Iduapriem *1,486 41 2 251 1,525 11,000 continued MWS 3,329 – – 16 3,329 6,722 Obuasi *1,692 – – 206 1,692 20,146 Sadiola 2,134 87 18 142 2,202 30,260 Serra Grande 592 2 1 79 593 2,608 Siguiri 1,521 48 – 360 1,569 159,233 Sunrise Dam 1,220 154 28 754 1,346 12,409 Tropicana 3,081 91 103 224 3,069 101,611 VR (Input) 4,241 3 – 1,010 4,244 12,246 WW (Input) 1,310 – – 296 1,310 3,744 Yatela 515 – 32 547 483 22,252 Group 25,968 457 249 4,925 26,176 482,095 * Differs from 2016 closing balance owing to land use recategorisation and remapping during 2017 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 107 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Fatalities and injuries to community members related to security interventions Fatalities 1 0 3 1 2 EMPLOYEE, Injuries 32 36 34 42 27 COMMUNITY Fatalities and injuries to community members whilst AND ASSET engaged in illegal activity, and not related to security SECURITY interventions Fatalities 33 11 10 12 16 Injuries 18 5 8 11 56 Fatalities and injuries to AngloGold Ashanti personnel in the line of duty Fatalities 0 2 0 0 0 Injuries 22 35 71 38 51 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 108 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of sites/operations where ASM takes place adjacent or near the mine 11 11 13 15 – ARTISANAL AND SMALL SCALE MINING (LEGAL AND ILLEGAL) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 109 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 Operations and suppliers identified as having As an organisation there are no instances of forced labour at any of the operations. AngloGold Ashanti subscribes to the significant risk for incidents of child labour and International Labour Organisations principles and as such have internal global policies to this effect, namely: measures taken to effectively abolish child labour • Fundamental Human Rights Policy • Code of Business Principles and Ethics RESPECTING Regional head of departments, general manager’s and all management are responsible for the implementation of the policies. HUMAN RIGHTS Operations and Suppliers identified as having AngloGold Ashanti is committed to upholding the basic labour rights enshrined in the Fundamental Rights Conventions of significant risk for incidents of forced or the ILO and in the legislation, regulations and practices of the countries where we operate. The company does not employ compulsory labour child labour, nor do we employ workers younger than 18 years of age in roles where they would be exposed to hazardous work, even if local legislation permits this. We note that children are involved in ASM activity on or around concessions where we operate. These activities are not regulated by the company. AngloGold Ashanti Human Rights Policy Code of Business Principles and Ethics Human Resources strategy covers this. Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples 0 Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of human rights grievances/community allegations or incidents under VPSHR Reported incidents 3 2 1 2 3 Allegations 2 6 4 – 2 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria 77.59 100 47.9 10 – Percentage of suppliers that were screened using criteria for impact on society 30.59 100 47.9 10 – Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria 30.59 100 47.9 10 – Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria 30.59 100 47.9 10 – Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation's human rights policies or procedures 94 94 91 97 – S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 110 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total average number of employees 51,480 52,649 52,266 58,057 66,434 Permanent 36,072 38,377 38,749 43,073 48,159 Contractors 15,408 14,272 13,517 14,984 18,275 TALENT Training and development expenditure ($ million) MANAGEMENT, SKILLS South Africa 28.34 29.45 29.00 37.00 45.00 DEVELOPMENT Americas 2.26 2.00 1.60 2.00 3.00 AND EMPLOYEE Australia 1.2 0.90 0.90 1.00 2.00 RELATIONS Continental Africa 4.5 2.50 3.00 2.00 11.00 Number of grievances relating to unfair labour practices (number) 14 0 2 0 – Minimum periods regarding operational changes Argentina 1 month – – – – Brazil 30 days 1 month – – – Colombia 12 months 12 months – – – Ghana 1 month 1 month – – – Guinea 1 month 1 month – – – Mali 1 month 1 month – – – South Africa Management and Officials 30 days 30 days – – – Miners and Artisans 24 hours 24 hours – – – Category 4 to 8 Employees 24 hours 24 hours – – – Tanzania 1 month – – – – Strikes/lock-outs 0 0 0 – – S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 111 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Composition of governance bodies Board Nationality (%) TALENT South Africa 55 55 55 55 67 MANAGEMENT, American 18 18 18 0 0 SKILLS Australian 9 9 9 27 11 DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE British 9 9 9 9 11 RELATIONS Indian/British 9 9 9 9 11 continued Composition by HDSA (%) HDSA 45 45 45 45 56 Non-HDSA 10 10 10 10 11 Non-South Africans 45 45 45 45 33 Gender (%) Men 64 73 73 73 80 Women 36 27 27 27 20 Executive committee Nationality (%) South Africa 56 55 55 55 60 Spanish 11 11 11 11 10 Australian 11 11 11 11 10 American 11 11 11 11 10 Indian/British 11 11 11 11 10 Composition by HDSA (%) HDSA 33 33 33 33 30 Non-HDSA 22 22 22 22 30 Non-South Africans 45 45 45 45 40 Gender (%) Men 67 67 67 67 70 Women 33 33 33 33 30 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 112 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Employees covered by collective bargaining (%) Argentina 99 99 99 99 99 Australia 0 0 0 0 0 TALENT Brazil 100 100 100 100 100 MANAGEMENT, Colombia 0 7 11 12 – SKILLS Ghana 96 96 96 88 97 DEVELOPMENT Guinea 95 95 95 100 100 AND EMPLOYEE Mali 98 97 97 95 97 RELATIONS continued South Africa 91 94 92 97 93 Tanzania 90 87 88 86 82 USA 0 0 0 0 – Employment equity across all levels (South Africa only) (%) Board 45 46 46 56 – Top Management 43 50 50 43 – Senior Management 42 41 39 40 – Middle Management 52 51 49 49 – Junior Management 60 60 59 57 – Core and critical skills 56 55 54 53 – Proportion of senior management from local community (%) Argentina 100 100 100 100 – Australia 82 89 90 100 – Brazil 100 90 100 100 – Corporate 91 88 88 87 – Ghana 44 42 68 – – Guinea 25 25 33 – – Mali 0 0 33 – – Tanzania 0 8 20 – – Colombia 100 100 100 44 – South Africa region 99 100 100 100 – USA 86 0 0 100 – S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 113 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 Operations assessed for risk related to corruption (%) 100 Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees NAVIGATING were dismissed or disciplined for REGULATORY AND corruption 0 (2016: 7; 2015: 2) POLITICAL RISK Significant risk related to All business units were assessed for risks related to bribery and corruption in 2017, including through the use of on-site assessment corruption identified through risk as part of our combined assurance audit program, as well as an assessment performed by an independent third party. As with any assessment multi-national extractives organization that operates in high-risk jurisdictions, risks were identified related to our suppliers, agents and intermediaries, interactions with government officials, procurement generally, conflicts of interest, giving and receiving gifts, etc. Group Compliance has specific measures to assess, manage and mitigate each of these risks, with a variety of policies, procedures, trainings, messaging, communications, etc. as part of a holistic “best practices” anti-corruption programme. Communication and training We revised policies related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, including the Policy on Conflicts of Interest. All employees without on anti-corruption policies and online access receive annual DVD training (with or without local-language facilitators, as needed) that includes attention to bribery and procedures corruption matters. As well, utilising a risk-based approach, “live” in-person training is also provided, covering not just bribery and corruption but related issues such as conflicts of interest, receiving gifts, interacting with government officials, and procedures for hiring agents and intermediaries. These trainings and communications are in addition to our posters, corporate email communications, regular compliance newsletters and other newsletter articles, compliance intranet portal communications, as well as SMS communications in certain jurisdictions. S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 114 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 Confirmed incidents of corruption Through various reporting mechanisms, including via our thirdThrough various reporting mechanisms, including via our thirdand action taken party whistleblowing hotline, AngloGold Ashanti employees and party whistleblowing hotline, AngloGold Ashanti employees and contractors have reported allegations of corruption in the various contractors have reported allegations of corruption in the various regions where we operate. regions where we operate. In 2016, four employees had their NAVIGATING employment contracts terminated and another three resigned REGULATORY AND In 2017, no employees were dismissed or disciplined for during investigations. In addition, four supplier contracts were POLITICAL RISK corruption and four supplier contracts were terminated following terminated following investigations of corruption allegations. There continued investigations of corruption allegations. was one criminal matter related to an alleged sexual exploitation of a job applicant by a human resources manager in Tanzania that is being prosecuted by the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau in Tanzania. Number of contracts with business partners that were terminated 4 4 Report public legal cases of corruption brought against the organisation or its employees 1 1 Monetary value of significant fines 0 (1) 1 Total number of non monetary sanctions 0 0 (1) AngloGold Ashanti defines a significant fine as one that exceed $100,000 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 115 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Payments to government ($ million) Argentina 151.7 89.8 111.1 96.1 122.4 Dividends paid to the government 9.0 6.1 3.4 – 8.4 NAVIGATING Taxation paid 70.5 15.8 26.7 21.8 33.4 REGULATORY AND Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 34.1 36.0 35.9 34.6 38.6 POLITICAL RISK Other indirect taxes and duties 4.5 2.8 4.0 4.3 4.3 continued Employee taxes and other contributions 22.8 18.5 21.3 17.1 15.4 Property tax 0.1 – – – – Other 10.7 10.5 19.8 18.3 22.3 Australia 74.0 84.1 42.6 67.1 49.2 Taxation paid 27.5 41.3 2.2 7.7 6.8 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 18.6 16.1 16.1 19.6 16.3 Employee taxes and other contributions 27.9 26.7 24.3 39.8 26.1 Brazil 126.0 129.1 87.9 119.1 140.9 Taxation paid 45.3 62.8 29.0 43.8 66.1 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 14.4 11.4 9.7 0.2 3.0 Other indirect taxes and duties 8.1 4.5 3.8 3.6 3.2 Employee taxes and other contributions 48.3 40.5 37.7 53.6 57.1 Property tax 2.2 2.3 0.9 0.2 1.5 Other 7.7 7.6 6.8 17.7 10.0 Colombia 11.8 11.8 11.3 15.1 22.1 Taxation paid 0.4 1.2 1.2 – Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 4.2 2.7 1.7 2.8 4.5 Other indirect taxes and duties 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 Employee taxes and other contributions 5.1 5.8 6.0 7.7 10.3 Property tax 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other 1.8 1.8 2.2 4.3 6.9 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 116 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 DRC 27.8 26.1 30.9 21.7 23.1 Taxation paid 5.2 3.7 – 0.5 – Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 9.2 – – 7.0 – NAVIGATING Other indirect taxes and duties 5.1 4.6 14.0 6.0 14.0 REGULATORY AND Employee taxes and other contributions 3.8 3.5 3.7 6.8 4.3 POLITICAL RISK Property tax – – – 0.1 3.7 continued Other 4.5 14.3 13.2 1.3 1.1 Ghana 37.7 26.1 26.9 55.9 68.5 Dividends paid to the government – – – – 0.7 Taxation paid 13.7 3.7 0.1 – 3.5 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 12.6 11.0 11.2 23.0 26.7 Other indirect taxes and duties 2.0 1.6 2.4 8.0 9.8 Employee taxes and other contributions 9.3 9.7 13.1 24.7 27.5 Property tax 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 Guinea 100.2 40.5 69.2 67.8 93.3 Dividends paid to the government 9.8 9.0 5.2 16.5 16.5 Taxation paid 40.1 5.6 38.7 18.1 41.6 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 21.6 16.5 15.3 22.1 26.7 Other indirect taxes and duties 20.0 1.5 1.3 2.6 2.4 Employee taxes and other contributions 8.6 7.8 8.7 8.5 6.0 Other 0.1 0.1 – – 0.1 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 117 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Payments to government ($ million) cont. Mali 24.7 33.5 29.6 29.4 57.6 Dividends paid to the government 0.5 4.4 6.7 – 3.7 NAVIGATING Taxation paid 4.1 8.2 0.9 1.2 18.4 REGULATORY AND Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 7.3 7.0 7.7 9.5 17.0 POLITICAL RISK Other indirect taxes and duties 4.4 5.1 4.7 7.2 11.3 continued Employee taxes and other contributions 7.4 8.2 8.5 10.0 6.3 Property tax 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.5 Other 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.7 0.4 South Africa 118.1 106.3 104.6 143.6 157.0 Taxation paid – 0.4 4.2 15.7 12.3 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 4.8 5.2 4.6 17.9 11.8 Employee taxes and other contributions 105.0 92.9 88.7 100.2 121.7 Property tax 3.4 3.6 2.6 4.4 4.8 Other 4.9 4.3 4.5 5.4 6.2 Tanzania 141.0 133.3 134.5 123.7 69.8 Taxation paid 51.1 54.4 57.7 58.8 8.8 Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) 47.7 44.0 50.9 42.8 34.7 Other indirect taxes and duties 15.3 12.2 1.9 1.3 5.7 Employee taxes and other contributions 22.1 16.9 17.8 16.5 16.6 Other 4.8 5.8 6.2 4.3 4.0 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 118 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance DATA TABLES (CONTINUED) Material issues Indicator 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Payments to government ($ million) cont. USA 7.7 6.2 24.6 30.5 28.5 Taxation paid – – – 3.5 3.5 NAVIGATING Withholding tax (STC, royalties, etc) – – 0.8 0.7 0.3 REGULATORY AND Employee taxes and other contributions 7.7 6.2 17.1 18.5 17.3 POLITICAL RISK Property tax – – 1.5 1.6 1.4 continued Other (production mine tax) – – 4.7 5.2 4.1 Other (severance tax) – – 0.5 1.0 1.9 Total value of political contributions Brazil – – – 0.8 – Colombia – – 0.5 0.3 – Financial assistance from government ($ million) 30.3 30.1 37.8 39.5 24.6 Argentina 7.1 7.7 4.0 5.4 5.4 Cerro Vanguardia 7.1 7.7 4.0 5.4 5.4 Australia 19.8 18.8 29.4 30.5 15.1 Sunrise Dam (diesel fuel rebate) 3.9 3.2 29.4 30.5 15.1 Tropicana (diesel fuel rebate) 15.9 15.6 – – – South Africa 3.4 3.5 4.3 3.5 3.9 Skills development levy credits 0.8 0.8 0.8 1.1 2.0 Mining qualification association discretionary grant 2.6 2.6 3.4 2.4 1.9 AngloGold Ashanti Health – State-aided drugs 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 119 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance ECONOMIC VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December INPUTS – ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (82%)(2) OUTPUT – ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (100%) (1) G  old income increased by 7% as a result of a 1% increase in the gold price received and 5% increase in $’m 2017 2016 $’m 2017 2016 gold sales. EMPLOYEES 1,002 858 (2) E  conomic distribution providing TOTAL INCOME 4,558 4,263 human, financial, social, natural Salaries and wages 966 823 Gold sales and by products (1) 4,510 4,223 and manufactured capital, FOCUS ON PEOPLE, SAFETY AND Training and development 36 35 Interest received 15 22 guided by business objectives SUSTAINABILITY and material issues identified Royalties received 18 9 SUPPORTING BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND MATERIAL ISSUES GOVERNMENT 659 656 through the operating process Profit from sale of assets 8 4 to ensure sustainable long-term Current tax (4) 176 234 Income from investments 7 5 value retention for stakeholders, Royalties (5) 114 101 underpinned by our key ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED (18%) behavioural programme operational NAVIGATING Employee taxes (5) 268 237 REGULATORY AND excellence, implemented at POLITICAL RISK Production, property and other taxes (5) 101 84 every step of the business from $’m 2017 2016 exploration through the entire chain COMMUNITY(3) 27 23 to divestment / disposal. VALUE RETAINED 823 855 (3) C  ommunity and social investments Social licence to operate Gold revenue by region – 2017 % Value retained per year exclude expenditure by equityRegion specific economic development Gold Gold by by revenue revenue region region – 2017 – 2017 % Value % Value retained retained yearyear per per 20 accounted joint ventures. 709 1,104 20 20 20 MANAGING plans 709709 1,104 1,104 20 20 (4) C  urrent 18 COMMUNITY 20 20 • Americas 20 20 20 20 15 16taxation includes normal EXPECTATIONS AND • Americas 18 18 taxation and witholding taxation on • Americas 16 16 • South Africa $m 15 15 DEMONSTRATING 10 SUPPLIERS AND SERVICES 1,839 1,691 • South Africa • South Africa • Continental Africa dividends paid per jurisdiction in $m $m CONTRIBUTION 10 10 Production costs 5 which the group operates. • Continental Africa • Continental Africa • Australasia • Australasia 5 5 (5) E  mployee, production, property Corporate expenditure and • Australasia 1,895 1,101 0 and other 2013 2014 taxes 2015 and 2016royalties 2017 other overheads 1,895 1,895 1,101 1,101 0 0 reported on a cash basis. 2013201320142014 201520152016201620172017 Rehabilitation expenditure Exploration and evaluation Taxation per country $m (4) Breakdown of contribution – 2017 Across the group, we are due Audit, governance and assurance Breakdown of contribution Breakdown – 2017 2017 of contribution 2016 – 2017 refunds for input tax and fuel duties South Africa 1 (2) OPTIMISE OVERArgentina 46 51 6 • Employees for an amount of $252m (2016: HEAD, COSTS • Employees 26 • Government $199m; 2015: $195m), including PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 208 180 6 6 Australia • Employees 28 24 % AND CAPITAL Brazil 26 26 • Government 31 50 • Community attributable amounts of equity • Government %% EXPENDITURE Finance cost and unwinding of 169 180 Ghana 14 13 • Community 49 18 • Supplier accounted joint ventures, which have obligations Guinea • Community 33 31 49 49 states18 remained outstanding for periods 18 • Supplier • Capital providers United of America (16) • Supplier (7) Dividends 39 – Tanzania 41 72 1 longer than those provided for in the • Capital providers • Capital(2)providers Other 1 2 TOTAL DISTRIBUTION 3,735 3,408 1 respective statutes S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 120 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance REPORTING ASSURANCE We engaged Ernst & Young to undertake Development Report 2017, our assurance an assurance engagement in respect of approach also includes a review of this report Angolgold Ashanti’s reported compliance and of our ongoing sustainability performance with the International Council on Mining and performed by AngloGold Ashanti’s Group Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Internal Audit team. Framework Subject Matters 1 – 4, as reported in the Sustainable Development Report 2017. Group Internal Audit provided assurance for Specifically: the 2017 sustainable development reporting in terms of the Group Internal Audit Charter • Subject Matter 1: Alignment of AngloGold as approved by the company’s Audit and Ashanti’s sustainability policies to the Risk Committee. The audits were performed ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and Mandatory in accordance with the Institute of Internal Requirements in ICMM Position Statements. Auditors’ Standards for the Professional • Subject Matter 2: Material sustainable Practice of Internal Audit. development risks and opportunities and the views and expectations of our Internal assurance includes a programme stakeholders. of combined assurance assessments, • Subject Matter 3: The existence and comprising site visits and reviews, undertaken status of implementation of systems and during the course of the year. These approaches that the company is using to assessments determine the validity, accuracy manage material sustainable development and completeness of the relevant GRI G4 risks and opportunities. indicators in our reports, together with various data transfer and integrity checks. • Subject Matter 4: Performance against a number of key performance indicators This Sustainable Development Report 2017 chosen for reporting which reflect the issues was approved by the Social, Ethics and which are material for the business. Sustainability Committee and the Board of • AngloGold’s self-declared assertion that the Directors on 19 March 2017. Report is “in-accordance with” the corelevel GRI G4 Guidelines. In addition to obtaining external assurance USEFUL LINKS for selected key sustainability performance indicators as reported in the Sustainable View EYs full assurance report here S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 121 Our 2017 performance Leadership About this report Strategy Material issues Data tables Reporting assurance OUR 2017 SUITE OF REPORTS AngloGold Ashanti Limited’s (AngloGold Ashanti’s) Click on any of the links below to download the relevant PDF 2017 suite of reports comprises: Integrated Report <IR> is the primary Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve document in our suite of reports and Report <R&R>, presented in line with the provides a comprehensive overview SAMREC and JORC codes, provides of our performance in relation to our detailed information on all our operations strategic objectives and the outlook for the and projects. company. Both financial and non-financial <IR> Annual Financial Statements <AFS> performance are reviewed. are prepared in accordance with the <SD>  <WWW> Notice of Annual General Meeting and International Financial Reporting Integrated Report Sustainable Development Report www.aga-reports.com Summarised Financial Information Standards (IFRS). (Notice of Meeting) <NOM> is produced and posted to shareholders in line with A dedicated annual reporting website, the JSE Listings Requirements and www.aga-reports.com, hosts PDFs of the the requirements of the South African full suite of these reports to facilitate ease NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MINERAL RESOURCE AND ORE RESERVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL MEETING 2017 REPORT 2017 STATEMENTS 2017 Companies Act, 71 of 2008, of access by and communication with as amended (Companies Act). our stakeholders. Sustainable Development Report <SDR>, compiled in line with the Global Reporting Initiatives’ (GRI’s) latest G4 guidelines, is published together with the accompanying GRI scorecard and supplementary data. <NOM>  <R&R> <AFS>  Notice of Annual General M  ineral Resource and Annual Financial Meeting and Summarised Ore Reserve Report Statements Financial Information (Notice of Meeting) S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O PM EN T REPO RT 2017 122 w w w.an g log old as h an t i.com / w w w.a g a-rep ort s .c o m
