WeCare 2016 Annual Report Sustainability, Nordic Choice Hospitality Group At Nordic Choice we share a tradition and a culture of doing more than what is expected of us – for our guests, our staff, the society, and the environment. We want to be in the hotel business in many years to come. This means we should work in harmony with, and not at the cost of the world around us. At Nordic Choice Hotels, we call this work WeCare. WeCare deals with how we, simultaneously in our daily operations, take care of people, the environment – and manage this with profitability. We believe that we cannot be profitable, without taking care of people and the environment. But we also know that we cannot take care of people and the environment, if we don’t make a profit. We have mapped out how all of our 190 hotels across Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, impact upon their environment and communities, we have listened to the opinions of our guests, suppliers, and representatives from important public interest groups. This research has allowed us to define the areas we will target. Our main focus areas are:  Diversity amongst employees  Ethical and sustainable trade in our supply chains  Community engagement in our neighbourhoods  Global social responsibility by fighting human trafficking  Environmentally friendly operations  Tasty, healthy and sustainable food The Sustainability report will describe the work carried out in the focus areas above, as well as outline how we will achieve continuous improvements:  We will create opportunities for people inside and outside our business.  We will conduct our business towards a positive impact on our ecosystems and biodiversity.  We will make our guests feel a little bit better when checking out than they did when checking in. WeCare is part of our identity and culture – which we are proud of. Footnote: The report is in accordance with G4/Core reporting standards. 1 Our obligations Nordic Choice Hotels wants to contribute to the realisation of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We believe that innovation, and a new look at commonplace solutions will play a vital role in this work. We have highlighted the following areas as particularly relevant for us: Nordic Choice Hotels supports and respects Global Compact’s ten principles for environment, anticorruption, human rights, and workers’ rights.1 As a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, we have committed to contribute to respecting Human Rights and Labour Rights in our supply chains, and strengthen the support of fair trade in business life in general. Nordic Choice Hotels is certified according to environmental standard ISO 14001:2004. There is ongoing work to upgrade to ISO 14001:2015. How do we ensure compliance  Our board is the driving force in our Sustainability work.  We have shared responsibility for implementing measures in all hotels and entities, and also collaborate internally to achieve good results.  We consult with experts.  We have established internal notification procedures.  We work transparently and document our results. We publish an annual report that includes the WeCare efforts.  We use the report to analyse our work and to set new ambitious goals. 1 This means that we as a minimum will support: UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, UN’s International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and UN’s International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, UN’s Declaration on the Rights of the Child, and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work from 1998. 2 Our guests are a target for success – also regarding sustainability Sustainability is important to our guests, and we know this issue will become even more important in the future. Businesses and organisations we deal with also emphasize sustainability more often when choosing which hotel chain to deal with, and this is highly appreciated by us. We therefore work actively to involve both customers, and guests in our sustainability work. We will provide good information about our work, and make sure it is easy to contribute and share feedback on how we can improve. Our target We will make our guests feel a little bit better when checking out than they did when checking in Why it is important Our guests should be able to make up their own mind about our work, and give us feedback so we can improve. For guests wanting to contribute to our ongoing work, we should create solutions to make this option easily available. What we do All chains and all hotels should, through their activities, campaigns, and information, tell and involve guests in our WeCare work. Some examples: Clarion’s Green Stay Clarion Hotels launched, as the first chain, our concept “Green Stay” which gives guests staying at the hotel for more than one night, the option to say no thanks to room cleaning. This solution is more environmentally friendly and the hotel will donate funds to UNICEF for every skipped cleaning. In 2017, the project will be expanded to include all our chains and named “Sweet Dreams Stay”, as part of our UNICEF project “Sweet Dreams”. Fairtrade “Fika” for 115 000 Every year, Nordic Choice Hotels takes part in Fairtrade’s event “Fairtrade Challenge”. The hotels hand out free organic Fairtrade coffee to guests and passers and create attention in social media. The most successful hotel is invited on a trip to Honduras with our coffee supplier Løfbergs Lila, to visit our coffee farmers. In 2016, we served free coffee to 115 000 people during a few hours, as part of Fairtrade Challenge. MSC and ASC certification In 2015, Yasuragi was the first hotel and the first sushi restaurant in Sweden certified for MSC and ASC, and in 2016, these certifications also included all Clarion hotels in Sweden. This way, the hotels can accentuate their sustainability work and simultaneously give their guests the option to choose consciously sustainable solutions. Our results Results, client satisfaction surveys (G4-PR5): Loopon NPS 2015: 44,9% Loopon NPS 2016: 45,2% 3 Change: + 0,3 WeCare question for guests in Loopon: “I feel that this hotel takes responsibility for the environment, people, and society.” Loopon WeCare 2015: 69,3% Loopon WeCare 2016: 69,1% Change: 0,2 As part of the Sustainable Brand Index 2017, Nordic Choice Hotels was appointed best in the travel industry for sustainability. Nordic Choice Hotels was ranked number 8 among Norway’s most sustainable brands this year, independent of industry. Sustainable Brand Index is Scandinavia’s biggest survey of businesses and sustainability. The survey is made annually and covers the biggest companies in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway. In total 24 000 consumers contribute to the evaluation. Responsible operations Our target Our business must be operated free of bribes and corruption Why is it important Corruption is criminal and harms the confidence of the businesses involved. What we do We have our own guidelines for employees and our suppliers, focusing on bribes and corruption. Our results Results, legally enforceable verdicts (G4-SOS): No legally enforceable verdicts in 2016. Our target Both guests and employees should feel safe, knowing that we have good routines for secure and responsible handling of personal data Why is it important Protection of privacy is a human right. Each individual has the right to decide how their personal information should be used and distributed. What we do Our work to ensure we comply with the EU’s new Directive for Protection of personal data (2018) has commenced. Our results Results, complaints, breaches on privacy/personal data regulations (G4PR8): No complaints about breaches on privacy/personal data regulations were received in 2016. Our target We want to have good procedures in place to handle both internal and external whistle blowers. Why it is important A good notification system will enable us to solve problems at an early stage if unduly behaviour is revealed. What we do We have ethical guidelines for employees and suppliers, focusing on our whistle blower procedures and why whistle blowing is important. In 2017, we will implement a new whistle blower tool for employees and external partners or suppliers. Our result No notifications were received in 2016. 4 Our focus areas A hotel company with a warm heart We will create opportunities for people inside and outside our business. Our employees are our most important resource. Here are the most relevant of the UN’s sustainability targets affected by this work: Our target We want our employees to thrive and learn new things at work, and there should be a good collaboration between managers and employees Why is it important Happy, competent and responsible employees is the main reason why our guests return again and again. What we do In 2015, a new employee survey was introduced, and in 2016, we made the survey again to utterly improve how we are responding to our employees’ needs. During 2016 and 2017, all hotels (except NHR; the independent hotels) implemented Culture Club, a program to increase happiness and wellbeing, and create awareness about our culture. NHR, on their side, introduced “7 habits” for all managers in NHR. Having our own job website, “Karrieresidene”, makes it easier to recruit internally. These job pages were further developed in 2016. A clear recruitment policy that includes internal recruitment, was created and implemented. Our first company group trainee was employed in 2016. Our results Results, employee survey assessing happiness and wellbeing: The Beat eNPS 2015: 27,9 The Beat eNPS 2016: 36,9 Change: +32,2% Scale -100 to 100. 30 is a good result. Results, employee survey assessing our employees experience with, and attitude to sustainability: The Beat WeCare 2015: 52,5 The Beat WeCare 2016: 58,1 Change: +10,6% Our target Low absence caused by illness and lowest possible number of injuries. Why it is important The job should not cause bad health for our employees. 5 What we do #PulsforUNICEF is a project ran every autumn. For every day an employee is physically active (has a higher pulse) for at least half an hour, Nordic Choice give 20 NOK to UNICEF and our mutual project, Sweet Dreams. In 2016, 800.000 NOK was donated to UNICEF from project #PulsforUNICEF. Our results Results illness absence and injuries (G4-LA6): Illness absence is increasing in Norway and Sweden, while the absence in Denmark has stabilized after the increase in 2015. Illness absence 2015: 4,65 % i Norge og 3,69% i Sverige Illness absence 2016: 4,75 % i Norge og 3,7 % i Sverige Illness absence in NCH is lower than industry average and total illness absence in the respective countries. All hotels in Nordic Choice are legally independent entities and will report individually on potential injuries. Our target We want our share of female managers to be on the same level as our share of female employees. Why it is important The hotel industry is a typical female workplace, but traditionally managers have been male. What we do? We find our share of female managers to be on a satisfactory level compared to our share of female employees, and will not effectuate any particular measurements to promote further change. Our results Gender equality statistics (GA-LA 12): Share, female managers in all of NCH 2016: 65% Share, female department managers: 2015: Norway: 58%. Sweden 66% 2016: Norway 51%. Sweden: 56% Our target We want to be recognised for staff diversity, and increase our share of middle managers with a non-Scandinavian origin Why it is important Our guests represent diversity. Diversity among our employees is both a necessity and a competitive advantage. What we do In 2016, a decision was made to develop and launch Diamond Club. Diamond Club is a great tool to promote internal career opportunities, and has an explicit target to increase our share of middle managers with a nonScandinavian origin. Our results By the end of 2016, Nordic Choice Hotels totalled more than 13 000 employees, spread across 177 nationalities (G4-LA12). Share, employees with a non-Scandinavian origin: 2015: 34% 2016: 38% Share, middle managers with a non-Scandinavian origin: 2015: 13% 2016: 11% Our target We will be an including employer and a preferred partner for organisations concerned about this issue Why it is important With a big number of work places not requiring skilled education, we have the opportunity to, responsibility for, and pleasure to employ people who otherwise often will be excluded from working life. 6 What we do Clarion Auditions Chef project with “NAV” and “Arbetsformidlingen” Recruitment of newly arrived refugees Cooperation with “Ringer i Vannet(N)” and “Samhall” (S). Internships Together with learning place PS:hotell, we signed a unique agreement in 2016, where the target is to annually lift at least 10 people who have suffered exceptional challenges when back at work. In collaboration with Red Cross, we offer internships and work practice for victims of human trafficking. Our results In 2016, more than 650 unemployed people were offered an internship in one of Nordic Choice’s hotels through the company’s collaboration with among others, NAV, Arbetsformidlingen, Samhall and Ringer i Vannet. 26% continued to permanent employment after the internship period was finalised. Outside the hotel stairs Responsibility outside the hotel stairs, refers to us taking responsibility for more than our employees and guests. Here are the most relevant of UN’s sustainability targets affecting this work: Our target We care about working conditions in our supply chains, and will contribute to improvements. Why it is important We have more than 200 central suppliers, and approximately one third of our orders are for food. All our central suppliers have offices in the countries where we are operating, while their supply chains cover numerous countries. The fact that working conditions in supply chains might be very bad, is a well-known problem. The probability that there will be social dumping and illegal working conditions in several of the industries related to hotel business – like construction work, cleaning services, transport and service industries, is huge. This means that we must have clear requirements for responsibility and responsible working conditions, both with our suppliers and in their supply chains. 7 What we do We have our own Code of Conduct for suppliers based on acknowledged conventions from UN and ILO. These are included in all our trade agreements. When signing new contracts, we prioritise suppliers concerned about responsible working conditions and human rights in their own business and supply chains. In general, we will exclude suppliers informing us that they are not able to comply with our ethical guidelines. If the supplier wants and has the opportunity to meet our requirements with various improvement measures, we will then make a plan together with the supplier for how we can achieve compliance with our ethical guidelines. Improvement plans can also be made if our suppliers don’t have targets and plans in place for their own fair trade work, or lack routines for how to follow up their suppliers. Our work with suppliers is based on collaboration, to achieve continuous improvements. Suppliers not wanting nor achieving improvements, are not wanted as our business partners. In 2016, we introduced sustainability minimum requirements for responsible working conditions and environment for all our suppliers. All new suppliers will be considered based on these minimum requirements. We invited all suppliers in Norway and Sweden to attend courses about sustainability minimum requirements, in collaboration with Initiative for Ethical Trade. The feedback from our suppliers was very positive. We have categorised our suppliers according to risk of breach of our ethical guidelines and sustainability minimum requirements. Based on this, we have made an action plan for improvement measures for our suppliers. Reviews and further meetings with our suppliers is also part of this work. The action plan is continuously implemented and updated. We have been a member of Ethical Trade Initiative (IEH) since 2008. Our results Sustainable trade is a continuous work for steady improvements. We can never say that we have reached our goal and guarantee that this will never occur, for example, child labour in one of our supply chains, but we can guarantee that we are working to avoid it. Our rapport to Ethical Trade Initiative (IEH) can be downloaded from: www.etiskhandel.no/medlem Our target We will contribute to positive changes in the local communities we are part of. Why it is impportant Our hotels should be a good neighbour, and with more than 190 hotels, there are many neighbourhoods where we can make a difference. This is part of our culture. What we do In 2016, we launched an internal WeCare fund, where the hotels can apply for support for their local projects. During the year, more than 20 hotels 8 received funds from the foundation, for projects providing more city bikes, concert and ball for people with a disability etc. Here are more examples for local WeCare projects: Lonely Christmas Tree Seeking Presents In December every year, our hotels arrange an extensive voluntary campaign called “Lonely Christmas Tree Seeking Presents”. In 2016, we collected 55 000 Christmas presents for disadvantaged children and youths in the hotels own neighbourhood. The guests are warmly welcome to participate and put a present under the Christmas tree in one of our hotels. For every present donated, Nordic Choice Hotels give additionally 10 NOK to UNICEF’s work to protect child victims of human trafficking. Bumble bee hotel in Tønsberg In 2016, Quality Hotel Klubben put up a bumble bee hotel in the nature reserve Ilende near Tønsberg, as their comment to the steadily decreasing number of bumble bees and bees around the world. Hope for children For many years, Clarion Collection has raised money, presents and clothes to families in need in the Baltic states. The project was realised after an initiative from employees with their origin from the Baltic states. Joy of life for the elderly in Stavanger Quality Airport Hotel Stavanger have an annual event where they invite elderly people from local nursery homes to a ball – with music, drinks and food. 150 elderly people with companions come together and can enjoy a day where they are the centre of attention. Garbage cleaning in Gothenburg Nordic Choice’s hotels in Gothenburg arranged a city clean in their local communities, in collaboration with Gothenburg City in 2016. Garbage bags, gloves and trash pickers were provided and huge amounts of garbage was removed. Dancing gala at Gardermoen In 2016, Clarion Hotel & Congress Oslo Airport arranged a dancing galla for people with special needs. The band Ole Ivars played dancing music for the large number of 430 dance loving guests. Our results More than 150 hotels took part in our Christmas campaign “Lonely Christmas Tree Seeking Presents”, where more than 55 000 presents were given to disadvantaged children in our neighbourhoods. Our target We will contribute in the fight against human trafficking. 9 Why it is important Human trafficking is one of the three biggest illicit industries. The refugee crisis makes human trafficking even more prevalent, also in the countries we are operating. Human trafficking is among the world’s biggest criminal businesses, and harm more than 1.2million children every year. Especially in South East Asia, is sex tourism and abuse of children big, and an increasing problem. As a responsible operator in the travel industry, we have chosen to contribute in the fight against human trafficking of children in Cambodia. What we do Nordic Choice is a signature partner to UNICEF and has collaborated with UNICEF since 2008. Since 2012, the collaboration has focused on human trafficking. In 2016, we renewed our agreement with UNICEF and obliged to help even more children victimised by human trafficking. We launched the project Sweet Dreams, which more significantly involves our employees and guests in UNICEF’s work for children affected by human trafficking. For every night a guest stays with us, we will contribute to a safe night’s sleep for children affected by human trafficking. Involvement of employees #PulsforUNICEF – four weeks during autumn: For every day an NCH employee is physically active for at least half an hour, we give 10 NOK to UNICEF. More than 4000 employees participated in 2016. Run for UNICEF: For every employee who takes active part in the Holmenkollen relay in Oslo as member of a NCH team, NCH gives 300 NOK to UNICEF. 100 000 NOK was donated to UNICEF in 2016. Field trip: Three of our employees were part of a field trip with UNICEF in Cambodia in 2016. Christmas presents: Instead of buying Christmas presents for employees, many hotels chose to donate Christmas presents to UNICEF. In 2016, this totalled 400 000 NOK. Instead of Easter eggs to employees, we rather donated 150 000 NOK to UNICEF. Involvement of guests As part of Christmas campaign “Lonely Christmas Tree Seeking Presents”, we collect Christmas presents from guests, employees and others. For every Christmas present collected, we donate 10 NOK to UNICEF. In 2016, 55 000 Christmas presents and value coupons were collected for UNICEF. Members points: Every year, we give our members the opportunity to donate their total member points to UNICEF. In 2016, their donation was slightly under 300 000 NOK. 10 Communication at the hotels: In 2016, we rolled out communication at our hotels to increase awareness about UNICEF, their work for trafficking victims and our collaboration. Small labels were placed in all rooms at our hotels. Emergency response We contribute to UNICEF’s humanitarian emergencies after big catastrophes. In 2016, we had no individual campaigns for this field. We have developed guidelines for handling suspicion about prostitution happening at our hotels, with input from prostitutes. In collaboration with Red Cross, we offer internships and work practice for human trafficking victims. Our results In total, Nordic Choice Hotels donated 3 680 000 NOK to UNICEF in 2016. For every night a guest stays with us, we donate to our Sweet Dreams project. In 2016, the result was 110 000 safe nights for children. In addition, comes the donations from employees and the company, donating in total 70 000 safe nights. 11 Sustainability in all aspects We will conduct our business towards a positive impact on our ecosystems and biodiversity. We work systematically to reduce our environmental footprint. Here are the most relevant of UN’s sustainability targets affecting this work: In 2012, we set the targets for our sustainability work up to 2016. An overall goal was that staying at our hotels should be more sustainable than staying at home. We achieved some of our targets, but not all of them. Our target All our hotels environmentally should be certified according to ISO 14001 Why it is important Greenhouse gas emissions, bad use of resources and pollution threaten our coming generations and the globe’s biodiversity. What we do The environmental management system ISO 14001 enables us to focus on the most important environmental aspects for hotels, and on continuous improvements, for which new targets will be set every year. In order to securely implement the work at our hotels, we are using a self-developed environmental management tool called Penguin. Requisitions All Nordic Choice’s hotels will have an internal audit during a 3-years period. The auditing company DNV-GL give us a certification based on a certain number of audits at our hotels and in the main office. Training Training of all employees is an important part of our environmental management system. Nordic Choice provide our own e-learning program for environmental work directed at all employees. Environment coordinator Every hotel appoints their own environmental coordinator who coordinates, initiates and takes responsibility for implementing measures at the hotel, in addition to registering and providing environmental data. Many courses and events are also arranged for the coordinators every year. Sustainability coach In collaboration with Sustainergies in Sweden and GreenCo in Norway, 60 students in Sweden and 30 students in Norway work as sustainability coaches at one of our hotels every year. One day a month, they will support the hotel in further development and implementation of the hotel’s environmental work. The coaches also conduct audits for ecological food at the hotels. 12 Our results Nordic Choice Hotels is certified in accordance with the ISO 14001:2004 environmental standard. We currently work to be certified for ISO 14001:2015. We are proud to be certified according to ISO 14001, and also proud of DNV-GL’s comment after their latest audit: “Nordic Choice has a leadership that is visible, clear and bold about their sustainability focus.” 4300 employees completed our sustainability e-learning course in 2016. They represent 35% of our employees. In addition, many hotels provided plenary sessions of the learning. Participants were not registered, so the number is unknown. In 2017, we will implement a new Learning Management System in NCH for better sustainability learning, control and for registering employees attending learning sessions. Our target We will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions Why it is important Greenhouse gases cause global warming. In order to conserve our globe like we know it, there must be a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. What we do Reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions is a consequence of the number of measures NCH implements as part of our environmental work. Our results Greenhouse gas emissions, scope 1 (G4-EN15 and G4-EN18) Since 2012, we have reduced our CO2-emissions per guest night by almost 20%. CO2-emissions per guest night: 2015: 3,05 kilo 2016: 2,65 kilo Total emissions: 2015: 27 570 tons 2016: 25 500 tons Target We will sort our wastes, so it can be recycled Why it is important Waste sorting contributes to a higher degree of recycling, and better utilization of the waste resources. What we do No central activities were conducted to reduce the residual waste in 2016, but the hotels continually work to improve their waste sorting routines and find better waste sorting solutions. Our results Waste volumes based on our largest fractions (G4-EN23): Residual waste: 44% Wet organic waste: 28% Cardboard/paper: 11% Glass: 10% Fatty acids from grease separator: 4% The numbers are collected from our hotels in Norway. Swedish data was not available but is likely to be similar to Norway’s. Since 2008, we have reduced our residual waste by almost 50%. 13 2015:0,6 kilo/guest night 2016: 0,5 kg/guest night Target 2016: Reduce with -10% from 2012. Results: -16,7% Our target We will reduce our energy per m3 Why it is important About 75 percent of the world’s energy consumption is covered by oil, coal and natural gas, these, contribute strongly to the world’s greenhouse gas emissions. What we do Our LED project was accomplished in 2016 – LED bulbs replaced incandescent light bulbs and halogen bulbs. One of our employees was certified for energy mapping, and initiating the work in accordance with legal Swedish energy requirements. What we have Energy intensity use per Sq m (G4-EN5): achieved 2015: 209,0 kWh/m2 2016: 216,2 kWh/m2 Change: 3% Our target All our hotels should use renewable energy – if possible Why is it important Fossil energy and other non-renewable energy sources have a huge negative impact on greenhouse gas emissions. What we do Since 2007, we have bought renewable source guarantees from Ishavskraft. When having the option, we have continually replaced former energy sources with renewable energy. Several of our hotels have invested in earth heating and solar energy. In 2016, Yasuragi and Quality Hotel Friends, among others, invested in solar panels on the roof. What we have Share of hotels using renewable energy: achieved 2015: 80% 2016: 81% Our target Minimum number of transportations Why it is important Transportation contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. What we do Our hotels continually work to reduce the suppliers’ transportation to and from the hotel, by reducing orders, improving internal ordering procedures etc. Introducing “Menybank” as a purchase planning tool has simplified this work. Several of our suppliers have also started to coordinate transportation to reduce the number of goods deliveries. In Norway, Bama contributed by coordinating deliveries for seafood, fruit and vegetables, leading to 5000 less transports in 20??. Together with our suppliers, we have introduced volume discounts as an incentive for fewer and larger deliveries. 14 What we have Our procedures for mapping and surveillance of transportation is under achieved audit, since we want to go from measuring deliveries, to measuring transportation emissions. 2015: Average 1281 deliveries per hotel 2016: Average 1267 deliveries per hotel Change: -1% During 2017 and 2018 we will develop a more relevant indicator to measure transportation development and the consequences for emissions. Our target We will reduce our consumption of chemicals Why it is important Use of chemicals can harmfully impact animals, humans and the environment. What we do All chemicals we use are divided into categories red, yellow and green (=environmentally friendly) and registered in a central substance index. The hotels continually work to reduce the use of red and yellow chemicals. In collaboration with our suppliers, we continue to find more environmentally friendly products and methods. In Norway and Sweden, several hotels have now introduced ultrapure water and use ozone water for purification. Both methods contribute to substantially less chemical use. What we have Use of chemicals (total cleaning chemicals). achieved 2015: 35 grams/guest night 2016: 33 grams/guest night Change: -5,7% Since 2012, the volume of chemicals has been reduced by 20%. Target 2016: Reduce -20% from 2012. Results: -20% Our target We will reduce the water consumption per guest night Why it is importan? Access to clean water is a major global challenge. In the Nordic region, we aspire to reduce water consumption, partly to reduce the need of energy for heating, and to reduce the use of chemicals for water purification. What we do In 2016, we continued our work to change to water-saving shower heads for higher efficiency. What we have Water consumption per source (from communal water source for all achieved hotels) (G4-EN8) 2015: 221,1 liter/guest night 2016: 216, 0 liter/guest night Target 2016: Reduce by -20% from 2012. Results: -10,6% Our target We request environmental requirements from our suppliers Why it is important In order to achieve good results for our environmental work, we are dependent on good collaboration with our suppliers. What we do In 2016, we introduced sustainable minimum requirements regarding responsible working conditions for our suppliers. All new suppliers will be 15 evaluated in accordance with our minimum requirements, where various environmental aspects are integrated. We have our own ethical guidelines (CoC) for suppliers. These are also incorporated in our environmental requirements. What we have All trade agreements with central suppliers have specific environmental achieved requirements based on our sustainable minimum requirements and CoC guidelines for suppliers. G4-EN32: Screening of new suppliers, environment: All our suppliers are evaluated based on environmental requirements, and to a smaller or larger degree depending on???. Legge til dette? G4-EN33 (management system): Follow up existing suppliers, environmental work: We have made an action plan for our existing, central suppliers, based on our own assessment of the supplier’s work for environmental and social responsibility matters. We will offer tasty, healthy and sustainable food. The most relevant of the UN’s sustainability targets affecting this work are: Nordic Choice Hotels is the first MSCand ASC-certified hotel chain in the Nordic region. Our hotels are ISO 14001 certified, and certified for organic requirements according to KRAV in Sweden and Debio in Norway (Ø-brand). Our target All our hotels should offer tasty, healthy and sustainable food, based on Nordic Choice Hotels’ food platform Why it is important Food production is the single biggest cause of deforestation, loss of biodiversity and destruction of the oceans. 30 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions are related to food. Research shows that intake of food with a substantial share of vegetables, berries and fruits, coarse corn products and fish, can prevent bad health and illness. What we do Already in 2012, we made a food platform describing our guidelines, and various food related focuses of interest at our hotels:  Less food waste  Less red meat, more fruit and vegetables  Increased amount of ecologically produced food  Sustainable seafood  No red listed animal species  Only sustainably produced palm oil  Local food The food platform is continually updated according to current research and knowledge. 16 What we have All our chains have their food concepts, guidelines and procurement achieved routines in place to secure compliance of our food platform. Also see below. Our target We don’t throw away food Why it is important About 30 percent of food produced in the world ends as waste. What we do We will conduct various measurements in order to reduce food waste at our hotels – here are some examples: Smaller plate, less waste Previous scientific surveys at hour hotels, showed a significant reduction of food waste from our buffets when reducing the size of the plate. The new plate resulted in around 20% less waste. The work was continued in 2016, and a new and smaller plate was introduced as the standard for our buffets. New measurement method Measurement contributes to positive change, which means that getting the correct measurements is important. In 2016, we started implementing our new IT system, enabling us to easily collect data for number of guests visiting a hotel restaurant. This enables us to implement a new beneficial indicator measuring waste per food consuming guest from 2017, which is a more automated and correct measurement. Menu bank In 2016, we upgraded our menu bank, and made it easier for the hotels to estimate portion sizes and the correct amount of food, leading to less food waste. New recipes for leftover food were also provided. Courses In collaboration with our suppliers, we arranged several courses about processing basic food, and how to make new dishes based on leftover food. Reduce food waste – “Kutt Matsvinn” 2020 Our suppliers are familiar with our focus on food waste, and in 2016 Norgesgruppen in Norway launched their campaign “Kutt matsvinn 2020” as a consequence of our work. As part of this, we have obliged to reduce our food waste by 20% during 2020, together with other prosecutors in the restaurant industry, like Scandic. Our results Total food waste measured per guest night in 2016, was reduced by 19% compared to 2015. In 2017, we will implement a new and more accurate indicator for food waste per food consuming guest. The data set includes conference guests, and lunch and dinner guests. 17 Our target We will serve less red meat, and increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables Why it is important Concerning both our health and the environment, we should eat more fruit and vegetables, and less meat. 15 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions origins from the meat industry. On average, we are eating more than twice as much red meat and processed meat products than recommended by the health authorities. What we do All chains have created and implemented food concepts which contribute to reduced meat consumption, and increasing the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Our purchasing department has provided better purchasing tools, and our suppliers contribute with innovative products and services. Additionally, we have conducted further initiatives – here are some examples: Menu bank Vi have created a menu bank where all hotels can search for healthy recipes containing more fruit and vegetables, and less red meat. “Nudging” We «nudge» at the buffets to encourage guests to eat healthier – more vegetables and less meat. By placing fish and vegetables in front of the meat at the buffet, we reduced our meat consumption by 10% and increased the consumption of salads by 25%. Banquets and served lunches We more rarely serve red meat at banquets and served lunches, since we are now more able to manage the food choices. Chicken sausage and ham In Sweden we have launched a chicken sausage (Prinskorv) to replace the pork sausage. This has reduced the meat consumption with several tons! Meanwhile, our supplier is delivering smaller diameter hams that fit our bread rolls much better, which also contributes reducing our red meat consumption. Meat balls + Greens Together with our suppliers we now make meatballs with 1/3 vegetables, less salt and fat. What we have Estimating the total amount of meat and fruit/vegetables served at our achieved hotels, will require better statistics from our suppliers than currently available. 18 Our target We will offer a good selection of organic products Why it is important Organic food is grown without using pesticides and fertilizers, and with a minimum use of artificial additives. In addition, there are strict regulations for livestock farming, and the animals should live in accordance with their distinctive characteristics. What we do We are certified: In Norway by Debio, in Sweden by KRAV. We work systematically to find good organic alternatives and expand the selection to include more food product groups. What we have All our hotels have a minimum selection of organic food (examples, eggs achieved and coffee) In 2016, our hotels served around 3400 cups of organic Fairtrade coffee per hour. During 2016, we served more than 10 million organic eggs. Most hotels offer fully organic menus if the guest prefers. Our target We will only serve sustainable, certified seafood Why it is important Ocean life is an important resource, and we must manage it responsibly. What we do We work actively to increase our share of certified sustainable seafood, in addition to certifying our restaurants according to standards from Marine Stewardship Council’s (MSC, a certification body for sustainable wild caught fish) and Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC, a certification body for farmed fish and other seafood). Both schemes will secure sustainable management of the oceans. All our hotels in Sweden were certified in 2016. (Hotels in Norway: 2017) What we have Sweden: Almost 40% of the fish we buy is certified. achieved 2015: Yasuragi was SMC/ASC-certified as the first hotel, and first sushi restaurant in Sweden. 2016: Clarion Sign Yasuragi was MSC/ASC certified Norway: 10% of the fish we buy is certified. Our target We will not serve foods in danger of extinction, causing harm for the environment, or associated with bad animal welfare Why it is important Serving any of these foods is against our core values. What we do Based on advice from WWF, the Norwegian and Swedish Biodiversity Information Centre, and the Norwegian Animal Protection Alliance, we have created our own “Red list”, which identifies the products we are not allowed to serve at our hotels. On the red list: scampi, blue and yellow finned tuna, redfish, eel, goose liver and duck liver. The list has now been further developed and expanded. 19 What we have Our hotels did not serve any of the species mentioned in our “Red list” in achieved 2016, according to reports from our suppliers, the hotels themselves, and internal audits. Our target We only allow sustainably produced palm oil. Why it is important Production of palm oil is related to severe environmental harm, in addition, breeches on human rights. What we do Our requirement is that products containing palm oil must only contain sustainable palm oil certified according to Roundtable’s (RSPO) two strictest levels for sustainable palm oil, which means; eighter as identity “preserved” or “segregated”. Stemmer dette? Evt “one of Roundtable’s (RSPO) two strictest levels”? What we have In 2012, we decided to only allow sustainable palm oil. Since none of our achieved suppliers could offer us the product at the time, we decided to go palm oil free. Firstly, at Quality Hotel Fredrikstad, and later at all hotels in our Clarion chain in 2014. Since 2015, we have only allowed sustainably produced palm oil in all our hotels. EAT EAT is a foundation working to find sustainable solutions for the way we eat and our global food system in the future, when the world’s growing population is expected to reach 9 billion people. EAT will contribute to collaboration, and encourage politicians, scientists and businesses, to go in the same direction. EAT arrange conferences, meetings, seminars, etc. and has gained a position as one of the most important global players within food, health and sustainability in a very short time.  NCH was part of the initiative to start EAT in 2013, and their first conference was arranged in Stockholm, at Clarion Hotel Sign in 2014.  Since 2014, NCH has arranged Local EAT Awards, where we select ten regional winners and a first prize winner within food, health and sustainability, in Norway and Sweden.  NCH is EAT’s most substantial commercial contributor. 20 Nordic Choice will serve tasty, healthy and sustainable food. Acknowledged food certification schemes help us to maintain our targets. Here are the certification schemes we are part of: ”KRAV” is the official Swedish Fairtrade is an international certification brand for organic food, and system supporting farmers and workers guarantees that the product is in third world countries, and organically grown. guaranteeing a minimum price for the farmer. “Ø-merket” by Debio is the MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) is a official Norwegian brand for certification system guaranteeing that organic food, and guarantees that the seafood origins from sustainable wild the product is organically grown. caught fish. “EU-økologisk” is the EU’s official ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) is brand for organic food, and a certification system guaranteeing that guarantees that the product is the seafood origins from sustainable fish organically grown. farming. “Luomo” is the official Finnish ISO 14001 is an environmental brand for organic food, and certification system. guarantees that the product is organically grown. “Ø-merket” is the official Danish brand for organic food, and guarantees that the product is organically grown. 21 Nordic Choice’s work and the sustainability targets Nordic Choice Hotels want to contribute to realise the UN’s Sustainability Targets. We believe that innovation and a new look at commonplace solutions, will play a significant role in this work. Here is an overview of our targets: Low absence due to illness and the lowest possible number of injuries. We will serve less red meat and increase the consumption of fruits and vegetables. We want our staff to thrive and learn new things at work, and it should be a good collaboration between leaders and employees. We want our share of female managers to be at the same level as for female employees. We want to be acknowledged for being a multicultural business. We want to be an including employer. We care about the working conditions in our supply chains, and will contribute to improvements. We will contribute in the fight against human trafficking. We will contribute to positive changes in the local communities we are part of. We have environmental requirements for our suppliers. We will not throw away food. We will sort our waste, so it can be recycled. We will reduce our consumption of chemicals. We will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. We will reduce our energy consumption per m3 We want the lowest possible number of transportations. We will only serve sustainable and certified seafood. We will reduce the water consumption per guest night. We will serve a good selection of organic products. We will not serve foods that are endangered by distinction, harmful for the environment, or associated with bad animal welfare. We will only use certified palm oil. We collaborate actively with our guest to achieve our sustainability targets. We listen to and collaborate with experts and others concerned about our business. We were part of the initiative to start EAT in 2013, and are their most substantial commercial contributor. We are member of the Initiative for Ethical Trade We are part of UN’s initiative Global Compact. 22 23
