These are the results of having an integrated, collective approach to the Company’s bottom line while considering the sustainable development of our brands. With around 5 million daily visits to our stores, driven also by the attractiveness of our private brands, in 2017 we maintained In 2017, Jerónimo Martins celebrated 225 our commitment to enhance people’s years of activity. We know from experience quality of life through our product’s that businesses can only aspire to longevity if nutritional profiles. 718 tonnes of fat, 64 they are guided by both ambition and a strong tonnes of saturated fat, 85 tonnes of sugar sense of environmental and social and 59 tonnes of salt were prevented from responsibility. entering the market by our reformulation programme. Being a decade-long supporter of the In what the Environment is concerned, our United Nations Global Compact’s teams were able to better channel waste to Principles, we are strongly committed to recovery (reaching almost 85% of the total making a positive contribution to waste produced) and put into practice sustainable development through the way several actions that led to a 14.3% we do our business in the countries where reduction of our carbon footprint for each we operate. 1,000 euros sales. In a globalized world marked by strong political positions with repercussions in the 782 tonnes of fat, 85 of sugar and 59 of economic, cultural and social landscapes, salt did not enter the market as a result 2017 was a year filled with challenges, also of our reformulations programme. in the food retail sector. We are committed to making our With the expansion of our stores in products healthier for the 5 million Portugal, Poland and Colombia, we consumers that daily visit our stores. reached sales of 16.2 billion euros, broke the 100,000-employee mark, successively bolstered our market relevance and We continued to guarantee that our confirmed our position amongst the biggest Group’s Companies buy at least 80% of retailers in the world. their merchandise from local suppliers, 2 positively contributing to communities’ socioeconomic development. We also have important commercial relationships with these partners in order to fight food waste upstream the chain. By incorporating “ugly vegetables” in our soups in Portugal and in Poland or in 4th range products (washed and pre-cut vegetables ready to use), or by selling them at a reduced price in our Recheio cash & carry stores, over 13,600 tonnes of these raw materials were placed on the market. Attentive to local social dynamics surrounding our stores, we know we have a role to play when it comes to helping to overcome situations of extreme vulnerability, such as hunger. In 2017, over 10.6 thousand tonnes in food were donated to people in need. Another example of community focus is the set of programmes dedicated to our workers’ welfare, totalling over 18.7 million euros. Some challenges are more easily overcome, others are much harder to address they remind us that we still have a long way to go. As a food Company crossing three centuries, sustainability is definitely part of our DNA and code of behaviour. That is why we work with others for global change. With creativity and teamwork, we can take part in tackling the challenges set by the United Nations in what concerns 3 hunger, food security and nutrition, among And we shall never forget the values that others, while also accomplishing our need to be put into practice every day at business targets. the core of our 225 years’-old business: while living the present and creating the Collaboration, we believe, is the fuel to necessary financial value we must respect keep us going in our fight. A powerful tool people – consumers, workers, communities for a more inclusive, prosperous and – and the planet’s limited resources we are society-driven world. so dependant on. Fighting food waste calls for a strategy that must engage everyone in the supply chain. In 2018 we have integrated 13,600 tonnes of “ugly fruit and vegetables” in many of our products and donated almost 11,000 tonnes of food surplus to hundreds of charities. The Corporate Responsibility chapter in our annual report is only part of a bigger story. A story that ensures us a place in important international sustainability indices which August 2018 recognise the best companies making a long-term investment in the development of their business while also achieving strong social, environmental and governance performance. We will certainly continue to strongly invest in the continuous improvement of the balance between profitability and sustainability. 4
