UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MARCH STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Broste Copenhagen reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. At Broste Copenhagen we want to be an active part of the society in which we live and act – as individuals, as citizens, and as a business, both now and in the future. That is why our CSR policies are an important aspect of the way we think and act in any connection. We run our business in accordance with UN’s ten Global Compact principles that safeguard workers’ rights and environmental considerations, and function as a defense against corruption. The labels are our customers’ guarantee that we keep out promises, so that they may choose products that do not damage people, society, and environment – we want our customers to feel safe in their choices. This annual Communication on Progress, describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kim Larsen, CEO Broste Copenhagen HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Vision We believe that our main resource is the people working for and with Broste Copenhagen. We want to do more than just be compliant to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights including the Danish legislation and the European Human Rights Declaration. We want to go further than just adhere to local laws and regulations. At Broste Copenhagen we want to promote a culture that includes consideration and care all over the world. Progress Broste Copenhagen is getting more recognized in different parts of the world, and as our brand expands on a more global scale we are aware that we have to be even more vocal about our commitment to be a social compliant business. Since we joined the UN Global Compact our CSR strategy has become a more central part of our business and the framework for these Communications on Progress has helped us shape our desired approach towards becoming even more responsible. Since we joined the initiative and submitted our first COP four years ago we have been working on a CSR strategy that is measurable and progressive. We have created our own Code of Conduct which we expect all our suppliers to adhere to and we have incorporated ethical rulesets for joint commerce, conducted employee satisfaction surveys and made audits of our most important suppliers. We have made it obvious to the designers of our products, to all our suppliers and our staff, that we will never engage or be complicit in any human or labour rights abuse and we have made our policies available to all interested parties. We feel that the next step in our journey towards becoming more due diligent and a more responsible business is following the guidelines of established initiatives within the CSR field. Even though a label of recognition is not important to us we feel even more confident that our approach is correct when it is done in accordance to initiatives that has social responsible business conduct as their main focus and can provide a strong worldwide network of accredited, experienced and independent auditing companies. Results We are pleased that there have been no reported incidents in regards to human and labour right abuses since Broste Copenhagen was founded. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed rights for all, with a zero tolerance of noncompliance. We have spent a lot of time since our last Communication on Progress researching accredited organisations in regards to social responsibility. We have mainly chosen to follow the standards from BSCI a business-driven platform that works to promote social improvements in the supply chain. We found BSCI relevant as it provides tools to help companies with global supply chains. As a start we have chosen to demand that our suppliers are a part of the BSCI initiative. We have chosen to also accept suppliers that are members of the SadeX initiative. It makes it a lot easier for us to trust that our suppliers have decent working conditions in place and that the workers are secured properly. Further we know that areas like hygiene, health and safety, waste management, Child and young labour, Labour practices (including forced labour), worker representation, working hours, disciplinary practices and discrimination is topics that has been evaluated. In China we have 30 suppliers in total. 21 is so far part of the BSCI and we are communicating with the remaining 9. If they do not want to become a member of the initiative our plan is to seek for alternative suppliers. Until our next communication on Progress our plan is to have all of our suppliers to be part of the initiative. Afterwards we will focus on our suppliers in other countries. Finally, we have also decided that Broste Copenhagen will sign up as a member of either BSCI or DIEH (The Danish Ethical Trading Initiative). ENVIRONMENT Vision Our vision is clear in regards of environmental awareness and sustainable business conduct. Environmental awareness has been a cornerstone to our business since Broste Copenhagen was founded. Now more than ever, we feel that it is important to communicate just how important it is to us. We strive to minimize any adverse impact on the environment, by following ethical and sustainable production criteria and creating products that will both endure to everyday use and inspire the consumer to cherish them. Progress We follow all relevant environmental laws and regulations in the countries we operate and are dedicated to act in accordance to these. Further all suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct with guidelines of the UN Global Compact and its principles. Reuse, recycling and in general just conscious choices of material are recurring in many of our products and we also focus on the story of the products. We take great responsibility in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and along the entire supply chain. One of the important aspect for Broste Copenhagen is the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers but we also focus on environment awareness in general as it is important to us, when we decide which products that will be included in our product range. In 2017 we have had workshops with Bureau Veritas in regards of training and education of our staff so that we become even better at defining limits of certain chemicals in our products. Results When this Communication on Progress is published we have 209 products with different environmentally focused labels. The distribution is; Öeko-tex standard: 88 items, FSC: 63 items, Nordic Ecolabel: 33 items, GOTS: 23 items, Organic Exchange: 2 items. Further we have a broad selection of products based on different principles of sustainability, but without accredited certifications. We have made a list of relevant certifications on the next page. We will continue to establish a more systematic approach towards having environmental friendly products in our product range. It is our goal and ambition to increase the number of certified products by measuring and compare past progress in regards to our percentage of labeled products. In 2015 we changed our entire lighting system at our warehouse with an impressive result and we in 2017 we invested in new energy savings lighting in the office space as well. We are also proud that our catalogue is now Cradle to Cradle Silver certified. This means that all the catalogues do not pollute in any way, they do not consume the resources of our earth and if disposed properly it will become part of the earth’s natural cycle after use. In 2018 we will also change our Code of Conduct so it is specific to different suppliers and introduce more stringent rules in general. Our suppliers will have to do a checklist in regards of specific products so that we can make sure that relevant laws and rules are complied. Recycled materials We use products made of recycled material as part of our CERTIFICATIONS environmental strategy to minimizing waste. It conserve natural resources and energy consumption is restrained. Glass is an ideal sustainable product with many advantages. Most importantly, glass can be GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) recycled again and again without it deteriorating. Only textile products that contain a minimum of 70% organic fibres can become GOTS certified. All chemical inputs must meet specific environmental and toxicological criteria ensuring your skin is less exposed when in contact with the material. The Standard is recognized as the world's leading processing standard for textiles made from organic fibres. It ÖEKO-TEX defines high-level environmental criteria along the entire organic textiles supply The ÖEKO-TEX® Standard 100 is an independent chain and requires compliance with social criteria as well. Aswell as Organic testing and certification system for textile raw materials, Exchange we want to support this initiative and we are proud that more than 75 intermediate and end products at all stages of production. ÖEKO-TEX 100 is of our products carry this label. a health care label, which predominantly ensures the end-user against toxic fumes. So far Broste Copenhagen has 18 products with this label. FSC FSC We actively support the international recognized non-profit Nordic Ecolabel organization FSC™. In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees The Nordic Ecolabel is a voluntary eco-labeling scheme than the forest can reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of that evaluates a product's impact on the environment nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ guarantees that flora and fauna are protected throughout the whole life cycle. The label guarantees, among other things that and that the people who work in the forest are guaranteed education, safety and a climate requirements are taken into account, and that CO2 emissions (and fair pay. other harmful gasses) are limited where it is most relevant. Organic Exchange Foofsafe The Organic Exchange is a non-profit business organizaFood Safe is a label that Broste Copenhagen uses to guarantee tion focused on creating environmental and social benefits products are tested and food safe approved when used for consumption through the expansion of organic agriculture. The first project of food and liquids. Some of our ceramic and glass products used for food contact focuses on transitioning 10% of the world’s supply and demand of cotton to are produced according to EU Regulative 1935/2004 and complies with organic cotton within 10 years. The Organic Exchange also works to help consolidation Act 822. Many of our ceramic products for interior purposes like the increase consumer awareness and Broste Copenhagen want to participate and Box “Jenny” Brass are Food Safe labeled. help this development. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Broste Copenhagen has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. Our dedication to addressing and advancing anti-corruption and uphold our business integrity aspect is embedded in our values, code of conduct and CSR policies. We believe in the responsibility promoting trust and fairness including designs that is manufactured under supervision that can reduce risks associated with unethical behavior. Progress As a principle in our policy facing unethical conduct we feel obligated to lead an investigation if any suspicion towards corruption is detected. If necessary, we will always undertake and participate in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with local communities to our global supply chain. Results We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zero-tolerance.
