Operational Excellence. Sustainable Value. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT US 3 SAFETY AND HEALTH 129 Message from our CEO 4 Management Approach 131 2017 Key Performance Achievements 6 Safety Leadership and Accountability 137 Map of Projects and Operations 11 Injury and Illness Performance Metrics 140 Our Company 12 Occupational Health and Wellness 141 Our Corporate Governance 14 Safety Case Studies 143 Supply Chain Management 18 Creating a Culture of Safe Execution 143 Commitment to External Initiatives 19 Using Technology to Make Our Mines Safer 145 Reducing Exposure through a ABOUT THIS REPORT 20 Monitoring Network 146 Scope and Content 20 Boundary and Limitations 20 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 147 Assurance 23 Management Approach 149 Thank You 26 Materials 152 Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 153 OUR PRIORITIES 27 Water Management 163 Materiality Analysis 27 Waste and Hazardous Materials Management 171 Methodology 28 Biodiversity Management 173 Top Material Topics 30 Environmental Compliance 175 Sustainability Performance Index (SPI) 33 Environmental Stewardship Case Studies 176 Goldcorp and the United Nations A “Deer-est” Conservation Effort at Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 34 Peñasquito Mine 176 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 40 All the Buzz at Red Lake and Porcupine Mines 177 Management Approach 42 Figuring Out the True Cost of Water 178 Governance and Accountability 47 MINE CLOSURE 179 Executive Compensation 50 Management Approach 181 Business Ethics and Compliance 51 Mine Closure Objectives and Initiatives 187 Public Policy Advocacy 53 Mine Closure Case Studies 189 Contributions to Political Parties 53 Community Water Projects – Water Services Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 54 for Generations to Come 189 Strategy and Governance Case Studies 57 Forest Recovery: Marlin’s Environmental Goldcorp’s Innovation Strategy 57 Legacy 190 IBM Watson: Gaining New Exploration Insights Innovation and Leadership in Reclamation through Artificial Intelligence 59 and Tailings Management 192 Optimizing Safety and Performance through Accenture’s Connected Mine 60 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES 193 Our People: Engaging and Motivating COMMUNITIES 62 Our Employees 193 Management Approach 64 Environmental Stewardship: Protecting Sustainable Benefits for Communities 71 Our Water Resources 194 Stakeholder Engagement 81 Diversity: Building an Inclusive Workplace 194 Human Rights 88 Communities: Improving Relationships with Communities Case Studies 99 First Nations 194 Community Response Systems in Practice: What Lies Ahead 195 Assessing the Effectiveness of Our New Community Response System Assessment 99 GRI INDEX TABLE 196 Local Employment in Peñasquito 100 GLOSSARY 205 Peñasquito Supports the Opening of La Plaza Community Square 102 CONTACT US 210 OUR PEOPLE 103 Management Approach 106 Our Workforce 110 Talent Acquisition and Development 112 Diversity and Inclusion 117 Labour and Management Relations 122 Our People Case Studies 124 Diversity in Mining 124 Investing in Our People 125 Building Mining Leaders of Tomorrow 127 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 2 About Us We are a senior gold producer focused on responsible mining practices with safe, low-cost production from a high-quality portfolio of mines. Being a world-class gold producer means collaborating with our partners to achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. We’re constantly looking for ways to innovate – to be safer, more productive and responsible in the ways we conduct our operations. We believe that our business should create economic and social benefits for all of our stakeholders, and that the places where we mine should be in a more advantageous position because of our presence in those communities. Our values are simple. BE SAFE. BE PRODUCTIVE. BE RESPONSIBLE. Make sure every one of our people Deliver consistent and reliable Do the right thing and honour our goes home safe at the end of every financial and operational performance commitments. Be respectful and shift, and that our mines are Safe by ensuring our asset portfolio is ethical, and invest in the well-being Enough For Our Families. world-class, sustainably developed, of our people, our communities and operating to the highest and our planet. standards of excellence. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 3 About Us MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We are proud to present Goldcorp’s 12th annual Sustainability Report demonstrating our unwavering commitment to transparency and accountability and reasserting our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value, which guides our aspirations and our actions. Goldcorp is mid-way through the execution of our fiveyear 20/20/20 plan to position us as a highly focused, profitable and sustainable senior gold producer. Every element of our strategy revolves around safe, responsible and profitable mining activities that create enduring value for all our stakeholders. For us, sustainability and stakeholder engagement are top of mind in everything that • Investing in people. We know that having the right we do – from the day we arrive in a community to the day talent is key to successful execution of our strategic we leave. We recognize that we are guests in the areas in priorities. To that end, we have hired industry leaders for which we operate. As guests, we have a responsibility to mine management, technical services and head office treat the ecosystems and environments under our care functions. We also augmented our Board of Directors with the utmost of respect. Our overriding objective is to with the appointments of Matthew Coon Come and leave the environment within our areas of influence in as Charlie Sartain to: (i) better represent our stakeholders, productive a condition as that in which we found it. This our commitment to social responsibility, and the includes providing lasting social and economic benefits in communities we partner with; and (ii) to increase the the communities in which our employees live and work. operational expertise of our Board. We hold ourselves to a high standard of accountability • Investing in our sustainable future. In 2017, we advanced and transparency and set ambitious performance targets our Towards Zero Water vision and the EcoTails project. through our Sustainability Performance Index (SPI). This Both of which aim to significantly reduce the use of measure ensures we are continuing to meet operational, fresh water and minimize risk associated with tailings financial, environmental and social expectations. Since management. Not only is this the right approach to announcing our 20/20/20 plan in 2017, we have delivered ensuring sustainability and protecting surrounding consistently on those promises. communities, it also has the potential to significantly Our “Beyond 20/20” strategy will see us continue to invest reduce our mining footprint and operating costs while in our future with our Century project in Ontario, our Joint setting a benchmark for the industry. We also announced Ventures in Chile and in other development-stage projects. Canada’s first, fully electric underground mine at Borden, Our value-creating activities in 2017 included: which will eliminate the use of diesel fuel and propane gas in the movement of ore. • Repositioning our portfolio and re-investing capital in our core assets through the divestment of • Advancing our Sustainability Excellence Management CAD$500 million in non-core assets. System (SEMS). Our SEMS compliance and monthly report card shows we are made significant headway in • Growing our gold reserves, net of depletion, by our sustainability performance in 2017. The report card approximately 26%, from 42.3 million to 53.5 million continues to provide us with a valuable baseline for ounces, and keeping on track to achieve our target of evaluating future progress. 60 million ounces of gold mineral reserves by 2021. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 4 About Us Keeping our people safe remains our top priority. We are In 2018 and beyond, we will continue to nurture innovation extremely proud that we achieved Zero Fatalities in 2017. to drive down costs, increase productivity, lower our water Our injury frequency rate also dropped notably in 2017 and energy consumption and reduce our carbon footprint. due to the continuous and ongoing focus of our dedicated These are the hallmarks of an efficient mining company. workforce. Safety is firmly embedded into our corporate Within the changing global landscape, we remain steadfast culture, and we are committed to ensuring that all our in our commitment to operating in accordance with people return home each day feeling healthy, fulfilled international best practices in every jurisdiction in which and respected. we have mines and projects. We are active members of the We fully realize how vital technology is to our success. International Council on Mining & Metals, and we continue Innovation in Canadian mining is bolstering our ability to to report in line with their Sustainable Development deliver materials to global markets as efficiently, Framework. We also act in accordance with the principles responsibly and cost-effectively as possible. Goldcorp’s of the United Nations Global Compact. We are signatories #DisruptMining challenge is playing a pivotal role in of the United Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and helping accelerate the pace of innovation in our industry Human Rights and implement its principles throughout our by encouraging cross-sector collaboration. This annual operations. We understand the importance of being event attracts entrepreneurs and established business engaged corporate citizens, and we are committed to our executives from across North America. Together, we share continued involvement in national and international our innovative ideas with other leaders in mining, organizations that work to improve sustainability in technology and venture capital, with a goal of uncovering mining. The future of our industry and our company is the next revolutionary concept that will change the face exciting. We look forward to delivering long-term of mining. sustainable value to all our stakeholders as we strive to achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. I invite you to explore our Sustainability Report, and on behalf of the entire Goldcorp family, I thank you for your interest and welcome your feedback. David Garofalo President and Chief Executive Officer Goldcorp Inc. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 5 About Us 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS The following table provides some of our key performance achievements in 2017. Throughout the report we share information on six categories: Strategy and Governance; Communities; Our People; Safety and Health; Environmental Stewardship and Mine Closure. We conclude the report with a reflection on some of the challenges we faced in 2017 and how we addressed them. For more information about our corporate annual objectives, please refer to our Corporate Scorecard in our annual Management Information Circular. KEY PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS GOAL DESCRIPTION WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2018 Strategy and Governance Grow awareness and understanding about 96% completion in company-wide AntiExecute Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance topics. Corruption online training. training strategy for both online and offline populations. In-person training on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption to key stakeholder groups Strengthen our Workplace Respect program throughout the organization – including to further support our commitment to third parties. diversity and inclusion. Active awareness presence with an average Review, update and rationalize our Ethics of two postings per quarter on Goldcorp’s and Compliance policies. intranet, referring employees to the Ethics and Compliance Program. Continuously improve on Anti-Bribery and Successful compliance with Canada’s Implement automated detection/audit data Anti-Corruption Compliance. Extractive Sector Transparency Measures analytic procedures. Act (ESTMA). Successfully comply with added ESTMA Strengthening of continuous proactive reporting requirements respecting Canadian detection/audit procedures over payments. Indigenous governments. Strengthening of political exposure controls Update of our Anti-Bribery and Antiin employment candidates. Corruption Risk Assessment. Extension of third party due diligence standards to procurement partner. Promote “tone from the top”, ethical culture One-on-one ethical leadership sessions with Support visibility of management’s “tone and site ethical leadership. functional leads at sites. from the top” throughout the organization. Followed-up on or resolved 88% of the Drive efforts to further potentiate “tone at ethics-related cases/complaints during the middle” through ethical leadership the year. coaching sessions. Ethics Committee meetings completely executed and facilitated throughout the year. Strengthening of Ethics and Compliance team. Enhance sustainability performance Completion of baseline SEMS audits at all Continue our internal assurance process to through implementation of our Sustainability operating sites in 2017. The Sustainability continually improve SEMS across all sites, Excellence Management System (SEMS) and Performance Index (SPI) was developed and tracking corrective action plans as part of the compliance assurance. launched. The SPI is a scorecard, reviewed SPI, and evolving SEMS to the next level to monthly, that consists of practices and match the company’s maturation process. performance indicators in all four areas of Additionally, the SPI results are now a sustainability: Safety & Health, Environment, component of the corporate scorecard, Community Relations and Security. formalizing the link between sustainability practices & performance to employee compensation. Each site’s objective will be to improve its overall score by at least 5%. Implement centralized risk management tool Implemented centralized risk management Improve integration of risk management to contain site and enterprise risks, controls tool and updated risk matrix and assessment through: and mitigating actions. methodology to distinguish Impacts to Goldcorp and Impacts to Stakeholders and/ (i)  enhanced collaboration between functions or Receiving Environment. regarding respective oversight efforts (audit, assurance, compliance); and (ii) the clarification of risk tolerance to strengthen decision-making and enhance our capacity to achieve operational plans and objectives. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 6 About Us GOAL DESCRIPTION WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2018 Communities Update Community Contribution Strategy Enhanced our Community Contributions Employ approach to strengthen reporting on to align, measure and maximize impacts. Strategy. Focused on increasing the value impacts in 2018. and potential impact of our local contributions and initiatives. Our sites and offices now use a consistent procedure and criteria for reviewing, evaluating and scoring potential funding opportunities. This has supported our teams to improve community contributions management, planning and budgeting. It has also strengthened our understanding of the overall impact of our contributions on local communities. Broaden awareness of Human Rights Policy Updated the human rights training course, Integrate additional training of Indigenous and Human Rights Due Diligence Program. re-certifying over 950 employees and Peoples as part of the human rights training contractors. Furthered the collaboration with activities throughout the company. the Ethics department to deliver an integrated program to standardize human rights training across the operations. Enhance stakeholder partnerships and Monitored corporate affairs risks in the Monitor risks in the regions in which we relationships in key regions and monitor regions, as part of our country risk operate and enhance partnerships with overall corporate affairs risk in those regions. assessment processes and enhanced stakeholders. stakeholder partnerships. Our key focus will be to systematically track the implementation of commitments made in our community agreements. People Focus on career development opportunities The performance management survey Facilitate the growth of our people and for our people, to enable them to continue to conducted in 2016 identified that employees focus on employee engagement. Support grow in our decentralized organization. desired more feedback from their managers employees and managers in the and a formalized career development development planning process. process to help them better manage their careers. In response to this, we added a development planning tool to the performance management process. The employee performance management process and strategy now fully integrates both the development planning tool and our StepUP Behaviours. Establish and implement a leadership Facilitated development planning and Continue annual talent reviews to identify development program that includes succession planning for officers, senior successors for officers, senior management, identification of high-potential employees management and critical roles. and other key critical roles. and creation of personal development plans. Introduced the Future Leaders program and Identify new cohort groups for the Future identified an initial cohort group of high Leaders program in order to build our talent individuals. talent pipeline Continue rolling out Creating Choices and In 2017, we launched the third installment of Continue running the Creating Choices suite Growing Choices programs. the Creating Choices program. Named of programs across the company. In addition “Future Choice,” the program equips women to sessions for women, in 2018 we aim to for, and empowers them to achieve, establish gender-inclusive sessions of sustainable success long after mining Creating Choices, allowing all employees to operations have ceased. Continued our gain the benefits of these courses. women’s training, development and mentorship programs, Creating Choices, Growing Choices and now Future Choices. To date, over 1,800 women have graduated from this suite of programs. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 7 About Us GOAL DESCRIPTION WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2018 Broaden the scope of diversity activities A key achievement for 2017 was the Engage all sites on the implementation of throughout the organization. development of a multi-year overarching the Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for increase understanding of diversity and Goldcorp, inspired by the Global Diversity inclusion across the organization. and Inclusion Benchmarks.1 The Strategy takes a broad view of diversity and aims to improve our inclusive work environment through improvements to practices across human resources, leadership, sustainability, stakeholder engagement and communications. Safety and Health Achieve Zero Fatalities. There were no occupational fatalities in 2017. Continue achieving Zero Fatalities. Reduce All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) Exceeded our goal and completed the year Set individual commitments across our to 0.90. with an AIFR of 0.71, a 37% improvement operations to help us achieve an AIFR of 0.64 over 2016. (10% improvement over 2017). Continue rolling out StepIN through 2017. StepIN continued in 2017, with increased Shift focus to exposure control (building on Introduce StepUP – a corporate leadership focus on the quality of employee Industrial Hygiene characterizations in 2017). training program – in 2017, with Safety engagements through training and coaching. A 10% reduction in exposure to three key Leadership as one of its core competencies. StepUP was rolled out in 2017 and included priority hazardous substances will be a core behaviour focused on Safety established as a goal for 2018. Leadership (We Speak Up For Safety). Occupational Health activities in 2015–2016 focused on establishing a standardized approach to exposure characterization and risk quantification. Sites have been developing baseline datasets through 2017 based on this foundation. Environmental Stewardship Wrap up the Water Stewardship Strategy. The operating sites completed the Water Plan and execute water-saving projects in Transition to, and begin advancing, Towards Stewardship Strategy milestones, 2018 and make progress towards the Zero Water (H2Zero) as our water positioning us to focus and advance our performance milestones established in our stewardship focal point. H2Zero initiative. A variety of important tasks H2Zero Water Accounting Framework. were completed aimed at defining, Additionally, the SEMS standard for water documenting, and kick-starting the progress stewardship will undergo an update to of H2Zero including: further improve clarity, internal compliance and support conformance with updated (i)  Developed and rolled out the Goldcorp external drivers from the International Water Accounting Framework which Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) and defines the targets, milestones and Key the Mining Association of Canada (MAC). Performance Indicators (KPIs) of the H2Zero vision. (ii) Executed a water valuation model for all operating sites, resulting in the Water Valuation Toolbox and a company-wide set of “true costs” for the full spectrum of water activities at our operations. Update our Sustainability Excellence We are committed to managing energy Each operating site has established an Management System (SEMS) standard consumption and related greenhouse gas annual target for GHGs for 2018. to incorporate energy and climate (GHG) emissions. We updated the Energy Achievement of this target is an indicator in change management into standard and Climate Change Management standard our Sustainability Performance Index (SPI). operational practice. within SEMS to ensure that management of this aspect is fully incorporated into standard practices. 1 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 8 About Us GOAL DESCRIPTION WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2018 Analyze the results of the Cerro Negro wind The feasibility study analyzing a wind Further consider this alternative in 2018. farm feasibility study. farm at Cerro Negro was advanced in 2017 and while the study results were interesting, another renewable energy alternative was also considered. Recent expansion to renewable energy power supply in Argentina resulted in the alternative to consider an agreement with a third party renewable energy power supplier. There is an existing wind farm in the adjacent province of Chubut that is already established and that has recently expanded. Purchasing renewable energy from this third party would allow Cerro Negro and Goldcorp to ensure compliance with the Argentinian renewable energy supply regulatory requirements as well as to continue to support the international climate change agenda. The accomplishments listed in the table above detail the stepping stones implemented in 2017 and planned for in 2018 to prepare the organization to embark on the execution of key sustainability goals. Delivering results in key areas will enable our mines to fulfill the vision expressed in our vision statement, Together, Creating Sustainable Value, and to provide a platform to showcase positive contributions to the world we all share. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 9 About Us LONG TERM SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES KEY MILESTONES (MEDIUM TERM – 2021) KEY MILESTONES KEY MILESTONES ALIGNED WITH (LONG TERM – 2027) AREA OF FOCUS (SHORT TERM – 2019) 20/20/20 PLAN “BEYOND 20/20” Indigenous Peoples • Definition of meaningful • Publication of targets and • Meaningful participation of participation through key performance indicators Indigenous Peoples in participatory engagement. (KPIs) to deliver increased development of Goldcorp’s participation. mining projects. Communities • Site disclosure of social • Set individual commitments • Demonstrate the value of our performance metrics including at each site to be a catalyst operations through improving human rights performance and of positive change in the socio-economic outcomes value creation in host communities in which and empowering host communities. we operate. communities to thrive long after mine closure. • Use SDG targets to measure impacts of strategic community contributions. People • Increase understanding of • Recognition of Goldcorp as a • Cultivate a pipeline of engaged diversity and inclusion across “Progressive Organization”, as leaders who can help the organization. defined by the Global Diversity perpetuate Goldcorp’s culture and Inclusion Benchmarks.1 and values. • Continue investment in leadership development • Recruiting, retaining and • Build an inclusive workforce investment focusing on developing a high-performance that reflects the population culture, collaboration and workforce, through leadership of the communities where communication. training, succession planning, we operate. career development, fair remuneration and working conditions. Safety and Health • Achieve Zero Fatalities. • Focus on making our workforce • Significantly eliminate serious “Fit for Work” by advancing injuries, illnesses and fatalities. • Improve air quality with three key elements: a focus on diesel • Continue our journey towards particulate matter. • Mental health zero injuries by driving our AIFR to zero. • Set individual commitments • Fatigue management across our operations to • Prevention of drug and help us achieve an alcohol abuse improvement in our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR). Water Stewardship • Reuse/recycle efficiency at • Reuse/recycle efficiency at • Operations achieve the lowest all operating sites where those operating sites with possible mineral processing baseline is <75%, improves baseline at less than 50% have raw water intensity measured by at least 10%. increased their reuse/recycle by m3 per tonne processed. efficiency by 20%. • Disclosure in the Annual • New tailings facilities store Sustainability Report of • New water input for use only dewatered tailings. progress on Towards Zero outside of mineral processing Water (H2Zero) targets. at operations is significantly reduced from baseline. Closure • Completion of all major • Development and • All existing closed sites are in a reclamation works at Marlin. implementation of a tool that post-closure monitoring state. allows for more adequate • All new projects have updated • Where possible, all closed sites consideration of closure costs closure cost estimates in the where we retain ownership in present day value. approved model format. have been re-purposed with • The Marlin Mine reclamation a sustainable post-closure • All operating sites have work is complete with only land use. identified at least one limited care & maintenance progressive reclamation • All progressive reclamation and monitoring activities opportunity. opportunities available have required. been implemented. • All new projects have been designed for closure. 1 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. Note: The Diversity and Inclusion Strategy will be executed in 2021. Goldcorp will then reflect on successes and challenges before embarking on the next phase of its Diversity and Inclusion efforts. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 10 About Us MAP OF PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS All production as at December 31, 2017 Coffee, Yukon, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 100% Musselwhite, Ontario, Canada Musselwhite Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 236 Coffee Ownership: 100% YUKON, CANADA Borden, Ontario, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 100% Cochenour, Ontario, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 100% Red Lake, Ontario, Canada Cochenour Éléonore Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA QUEBEC, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 209 HEAD OFFICE Ownership: 100% VANCOUVER Porcupine, Ontario, Canada Red Lake Century Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 272 Porcupine Ownership: 100% ONTARIO, CANADA Éléonore, Quebec, Canada Borden Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 305 Ownership: 100% Century, Ontario, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 100% Peñasquito, Mexico Peñasquito Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Zinc/Lead MEXICO Pueblo Viejo DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Gold production (thousands of ounces): 476 Ownership: 100% Pueblo Viejo, Dominican Republic Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Copper Marlin Gold production (thousands of ounces) GUATEMALA (our share): 433 Ownership: 40% Marlin, Guatemala Gold production (thousands of ounces): 40 Mine closed in 2017 NuevaUnión, Chile Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 50% Alumbrera, Argentina Minerals produced: Gold/Copper Gold production (thousands of ounces): 70 Ownership: 37.5% NuevaUnión Alumbrera Cerro Negro, Argentina ARGENTINA CHILE Minerals produced: Gold/Silver Gold production (thousands of ounces): 452 Norte Abierto Ownership: 100% CHILE Norte Abierto, Chile Exploration project as at December 31, 2017 Ownership: 50% Operations Development Joint Venture Operations Cerro Negro Joint Venture Development ARGENTINA Offices Closed 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 11 About Us OUR COMPANY We are a leading gold producer; we are focused on responsible mining practices with safe, low-cost production throughout the Americas. In 2017, our operations, projects and offices engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. Our operating cash flows are from the sale of gold and by-products, such as silver, copper, lead and zinc. Our principal producing mining properties are: the Éléonore, Musselwhite, Porcupine and Red Lake mines in Canada; the Peñasquito mine in Mexico; the Cerro Negro mine in Argentina; and the Pueblo Viejo mine (40% interest) in the Dominican Republic. Our principal product is gold doré with the refined gold bullion sold primarily in the London spot market. In addition to gold, we produce silver, copper, lead and zinc primarily from concentrate produced at the Peñasquito mine. These are sold to third party smelters and refineries. Headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, we employ and contract over 14,000 people throughout the Americas. Our vision is to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders. With a portfolio of large, long-life assets that provide economies of scale, coupled with low cash costs and underpinned by a strong balance sheet, we continue to optimize our portfolio of assets and reinvest in the pipeline of organic opportunities to drive increasing net asset value (NAV) per share. In 2017, we achieved gold production of 2.6 million ounces. We paid over US$480 million in wages and salaries and over US$415 million to contractors. We were (and are) focused on our renewed growth strategy, which projects a 20% increase in gold production, a 20% increase in gold reserves and a 20% reduction in all-in sustaining costs (AISC ) by 2021. At the same time, we aimed (and aim) to deliver increasing cash flows over the next four years. We also launched “Beyond 20/20” to maximize our long-term portfolios by continuing to grow low-cost gold production from expanding gold mineral reserves through exploration and development. For a full review of our 2017 financial performance, please refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2017. OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE We are a leading gold producer engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. At December 31, 2017, our principal producing mining properties were the following: PRINCIPAL PRODUCING MINING PROPERTIES BY-PRODUCTS GOLD SILVER ZINC LEAD COPPER Canada Red Lake X Porcupine X Musselwhite X Éléonore X Latin America Peñasquito X X X X Alumbrera X X Pueblo Viejo X X X Cerro Negro X X 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 12 About Us SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING 2017 Our financial highlights demonstrate that we experienced a number of important events in 2017: • We progressed our growth plan, which was rolled out in 2017. This plan is expected to deliver a 20% increase in gold production, a 20% increase in gold reserves and a 20% reduction in all-in sustaining costs (AISC) by 2021. In this pursuit, we maintain our commitment to being responsible stewards of the environment and building collaborative partnerships with communities, governments and all other stakeholders for mutual success. We also launched “Beyond 20/20,” investing in our long-term portfolio to continue to grow low-cost gold production from our growing gold mineral reserves. • On February 17, 2017, we acquired New Gold Inc.’s 4% gold stream on the El Morro deposit. NuevaUnión is a coppergold-molybdenum project that combines our El Morro project with Teck’s Relincho project to produce a 50/50 joint venture. The projects are 40 km apart in the Huasco Province of the Atacama region in Chile. • On April 7, 2017, we completed the sale of our Los Filos mine, located in Mexico, to Leagold Mining Corporation. This allowed us to focus on our core assets so as to drive increasing net asset value per share. At the time this report was published, our ownership of Leagold was 12.2%. • On April 27, 2017, Mr. Peter Dey retired from our Board. • On May 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Cerro Blanco gold-silver project, located in Guatemala, to Bluestone Resources Inc. Our holdings in Bluestone represent less than 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company. • In May 2017, our Marlin mine in Guatemala ceased production. The mine was in operation for 12 years, producing 2.3 million ounces of gold and 63 million ounces of silver. • On June 9, 2017, we completed the acquisition of a 50% interest in the Cerro Casale project (“Cerro Casale”), and 100% interest in the Quebrada Seca exploration project located in the Maricunga Gold Belt in Chile. This resulted in Barrick Gold Corporation and Goldcorp each owning 50% of the project and subsequently forming a 50/50 joint operation. • We announced the appointment of Mr. Matthew Coon Come to our Board of Directors, effective as of July 26, 2017. Mr. Coon Come has a long history of achievement in the areas of Indigenous affairs and environmental stewardship, making him an ideal candidate to help guide us as we work with our Indigenous partners to advance our operations in a mutually beneficial and environmentally sustainable manner. • On July 26, 2017, we announced that Mr. Russell Ball, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Development, would be departing his position and Mr. Jason Attew, formerly our Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy, would be appointed as his successor. Mr. Attew became our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Development on October 26, 2017. • On August 2, 2017, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Exeter Resource Corporation (“Exeter”). Exeter’s key asset is the 100% owned Caspiche project, located within the Maricunga Gold Belt in Chile. Following the completion of the acquisition, the Caspiche project was transferred into the joint venture with Barrick, which resulted in Barrick and Goldcorp respectively holding an indirect 50% interest in each of the Cerro Casale and Caspiche projects (now combined as the Norte Abierto Project). The joint venture includes a 100% interest in each of the following projects: Cerro Casale, Caspiche and Quebrada Seca. • On October 18, 2017, we completed the sale of our 21% interest in the San Nicolas copper-zinc project, located in Zacatecas, Mexico to Teck. This transaction is consistent with our strategy of optimizing our portfolio of assets and unlocking value by monetizing non-core assets such as San Nicolas. • On November 7, 2017, we completed the sale of our 100% interest in the Camino Rojo oxide project, located in Zacatecas, Mexico to Orla Mining Ltd. (“Orla”). We now own approximately 19.9% of Orla’s issued and outstanding common shares. • In late 2017, Marlin was the first gold mine in Guatemala to be responsibly closed and audited to verify that cyanide facilities have been safely decommissioned and that the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) no longer applies to the operation. Further information regarding these and other events is available in our Annual Information Form and Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 13 About Us OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our values are reinforced through good governance and strong leadership. We implement these values through our internal systems and corporate policies and guidance. All of our employees and contractors must comply with our Code of Conduct and related corporate policies. Together, the Code and policies ensure that best industry standards and ethical practices are implemented throughout the organization, and that we comply with applicable regulations and standards. Acting ethically is a fundamental element of our value of Being Responsible, and the Code is intended to help us achieve and maintain our commitment to act with integrity. POLICY AND GUIDANCE STRUCTURE Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is our commitment to acting with integrity and is a key component of our company’s values. It is intended to be more than just a policy: it is a tool to help us outline how we should behave when conducting our business. It is applicable to all employees and contractors. Sustainability Excellence The SEMS is our integrated management system focused on Safety and Health, Management System (SEMS) Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility and Security. The SEMS provides the Framework and Standards framework for sustainability management and specific performance standards to facilitate the implementation of our policies consistently across the company. It applies to all phases of the business, from property acquisition and exploration, through construction and production, to reclamation and closure. Corporate Guidance, Our sites develop the context-specific tools and procedures that respond to their specific Procedures and Tools needs. These tools and procedures align with our corporate policies and include, but are not limited to, site-level grievance procedures, site-level security management plans and site-level hazardous material management procedures. Training We train our employees and contractors to ensure that our workforce respects and applies our policies, standards, procedures and tools across the company. Our training includes workplace respect, anti-bribery and anti-corruption training, human rights training, safety leadership training and code of conduct training. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 14 About Us KEY CORPORATE POLICIES The policies that guide our workforce are the backbone of our performance. The following table describes our key policies, many of which can be found on our website. OUR CORPORATE POLICIES Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy elaborates on our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption by outlining specific prohibition of bribery as well as facilitation payments. The policy, together with its applicable standards, also includes specific compliance requirements for gifts and entertainment, political and charitable contributions, third party risk management and transparency of our accounting books and records. The principles in our Code of Conduct summarize what we expect from our workforce and provide valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy provides guidelines for developing meaningful and effective strategies for engaging with stakeholders, establishing grievance mechanisms, identifying socio-economic opportunities and making meaningful and sustainable contributions to the communities in which we operate. In 2017 we developed an overarching Sustainability Policy combining our health, safety, environment and social performance, which was rolled out at the beginning of 2018. The Human Rights Policy commits us to integrating human rights best practices into all of our business and decision-making processes. International humanitarian laws were consulted in developing the policy. The policy mandates that we operate in a way that respects the human rights of employees and the communities in which we operate and respects the rights, interests, perspectives and traditions of Indigenous Peoples. It includes our commitment to seek to establish constructive dialogues and partnerships with a variety of stakeholders on human rights performance. The Goldcorp Investment Framework (GIF) provides direction over major investments decisions that meet our financial and operational criteria, including sustainability considerations. It helps guide our investment decisions to allocate capital to projects with the highest, risk-adjusted rates of return. The Framework ensures investments are aligned with our vision, pillars and values, and guarantees that they achieve optimal shareholder value based on a consistent and sustainable decision-making framework. The Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy is an important component of our securities laws and stock exchange rules compliance process. The policy includes guidelines on disclosure of material information, the confidentiality of undisclosed material information and the preparation and release of communications made on our behalf. It prohibits anyone from trading in our securities when that person is in possession of material, non-public information, and it provides for the imposition of trading blackout periods. The Environmental and Sustainability Policy states that Goldcorp and our subsidiaries are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. Resources will be focused to achieve shareholder value without neglecting our commitment to sustainable development. The needs and cultures of the local communities will be respected. In 2017 we developed an overarching Sustainability Policy combining our health, safety, environment and social performance, which was rolled out at the beginning of 2018. The Occupational Health and Safety Policy ensures that we develop and implement effective management systems to: identify, minimize and manage health and safety risks; promote and enhance employee commitment and accountability; provide training and information; strive for continuous improvement by setting targets and measuring results; and provide the resources to achieve a safe and healthy work environment. In 2017 we developed an overarching Sustainability Policy combining our health, safety, environment and social performance, which was rolled out at the beginning of 2018. The Security Policy commits us to respecting human rights and promoting the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Our Diversity Policy commits us to workplace diversity and sets out the guidelines by which we will endeavour to increase diversity throughout the company, including at the Board level. In 2017 we developed a Diversity and Inclusion Policy which was rolled out at the beginning of 2018. Our Community Contributions Policy establishes requirements for donations, sponsorships, sustainability funds and investments – made in and/or with local communities, stakeholder groups and community partners – to help us make a meaningful impact in the areas in which we have a presence. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 15 About Us SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) Created and rolled out in 2014, the SEMS is our integrated management system for Safety and Health, Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Security. Composed of a framework and clearly defined standards, the SEMS provides organizational structure, responsibilities and practices for implementing and maintaining a desired level of sustainability performance. It is designed to apply across the entire mining lifecycle. Through its implementation, we can effectively deliver on our commitments, measure and monitor our impacts, and achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Historically, the various components of sustainability – whether CSR, safety and health, security or environment – were viewed as separate responsibilities. SEMS incorporates sustainability into our core business at all levels, so that everyone at Goldcorp understands they all have a role to play in implementing sustainability throughout our company. As part of the SEMS Sustainability Compliance Assurance Standard, sites conduct a SEMS compliance self-assessment at least once between each audit. As determined by our multi-annual planning cycle, in 2017, Peñasquito, Musselwhite, Red Lake and the Coffee project completed compliance self-assessments. In addition, Equity Silver and Marlin completed a SEMS compliance audit. Under SEMS requirements, each site prepares action plans that consist of multiple tasks designed to address the audit or self-assessment findings. These action plans are prioritized based on the severity of the findings and are approved by each audit team. SEMS leadership provides oversight on each site’s audits and selfassessments. Corporate and sites work together to make adjustments as needed based on these findings. Moving forward, we will continue implementing SEMS standards across our sites, and will assess compliance with the system, strengths and areas of opportunity. In 2017, we developed and implemented the Sustainability Performance Index (SPI) to measure both the adoption of SEMS practices and performance in certain key areas of sustainability. The SPI consists of groupings of various indicators that have been developed based on our current level of maturity. Performance is tracked on a monthly basis. The SPI is also used to monitor the progress on the SEMS action plans discussed above. Moving forward the SPI score will be reflected in the company’s overall scorecard, leading to integration of sustainability performance with compensation practices. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 16 About Us THE SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) The SEMS is Goldcorp’s integrated management system composed of a PLAN framework and a set of standards for implementing and maintaining a desired level of sustainability performance throughout the company. It is SEMS intended to be fully integrated into all core business functions and STANDARDS emphasizes responsibility and accountability at all organizational levels. IMPROVE EXECUTE OVERARCHING SEMS STANDARDS SEMS The SEMS framework has a set of overarching standards that are applicable across the company and throughout the mining life cycle. These standards represent performance benchmarks that all of our sites are expected to meet. SEMS STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC AREAS In addition to the overarching standards applicable to all functions, the R E VIE W SEMS contains standards specific to Safety and Health, Environmental Protection, Community Relations and Security. Safety and Health Standards Help Goldcorp create a safe and healthy workplace by stipulating the requirements for implementing and monitoring safety practices, initiatives and programs. Environmental Protection Standards Stipulate the requirements for the effective management of materials, water, energy, and waste and hazardous materials. They define the requirements for environmental monitoring and exploration, closure, and reclamation planning. Community Relations Standards Require each Goldcorp operation to understand the local social, cultural, economic, political and institutional context and create locally adapted engagement and impact management plans. Security Standards Help Goldcorp ensure that security management at all sites reflects our commitment to respect human rights, everywhere we do business. GOLDCORP SEMS OBJECTIVES (CYCLE) The SEMS core objectives are designed to cover all aspects and activities that have the potential to affect the sustainability of our sites and the communities where we operate. PLAN > Establishing objectives, process and structure necessary to deliver results and desired outcomes EXECUTE > Implementing plans or processes to consistently and effectively manage risk and meet regulatory and voluntary commitments REVIEW > Monitoring and evaluating performance and results IMPROVE > Sharing leading practices and developing a culture of continuous improvement SEMS connects every task that is completed, at each site and at all levels of our organization. The system provides a systematic approach to the operational framework and ultimately leads to sites increasing their overall net asset value (NAV). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 17 About Us SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Our Supply Chain Management teams operate at the global and mine site levels to manage contracts with many suppliers, ranging from multi-nationals to nearby small businesses. The team manages procurement of the hundreds of thousands of items and services that each mine requires on a daily basis, from food to tires to construction materials. Supply Chain Management’s ability to source high quality goods and services at the lowest price is essential to competitiveness. But in a socially and ethically responsible organization like ours, our task doesn’t end at price. Every purchase is evaluated against a long list of priorities, as established in the due diligence provisions of the Goldcorp Commercial Practice standards. They must evaluate and balance each supplier’s location and assess whether they are capable and qualified to meet the mine’s logistical and technical requirements. Each vendor is also reviewed for their compliance with labour practices, human rights, ethics, anti-corruption and safety standards. The Supply Chain Management team’s work is central to our adherence to the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard, which provides assurance that our actions do not contribute to human rights abuses or breaches of international law. In 2017, the Supply Chain Management team implemented a strategic initiative to consolidate and standardize processes to deliver additional cost savings across our operations, without compromising reliability, quality, ethics or our existing partnerships with local suppliers and communities. ENSURING THAT SUPPLIERS FOLLOW OUR STANDARDS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICS Across our industry, demands for ethical compliance are increasingly strict. At Goldcorp, we need assurance that our corporate values are observed at every link of our supply chain. The Supply Chain Management team, in collaboration with our Ethics and Compliance team, have established risk-based compliance due diligence procedures for new vendors. Using specialized tools, new vendors undergo a risk assessment based on the type of goods or services they will be suppling Goldcorp. The results of the risk assessment determine the depth of the due diligence to be conducted. The due diligence could go from a simple reference check to a comprehensive full integrity check executed by third party experts that dive into the histories of the suppliers and their principals. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 18 About Us COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES As a multi-national company with responsibilities to our people, our communities, our industry and the environment in the areas in which we operate, we have been steadily increasing our presence on national, international and industryspecific boards and organizations.1 In keeping with our commitment to social responsibility, we have adopted a number of voluntary codes and other external instruments that we consider particularly relevant to our business. We will continue to monitor the advancement of sustainable development initiatives in civil society to ensure we remain a responsible company wherever we do business. The table below summarizes our external commitments and initiatives: EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS AND INITIATIVES EXTERNAL STANDARDS AND COMMITMENTS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS Catalyst Association for Mineral Exploration BC Business for Social Responsibility Extractive Industries Transparencies Initiative International Council on Mining and Metals Devonshire Initiative International Cyanide Management Code Mining Association of Canada World Economic Forum World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety Transparency International Standard Ontario Mining Association Voluntary Principles on Security and Human United Nations Global Compact Rights Plenary Quebec Mining Association United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Boreal Leadership Council Prospectors and Developers Association United Nations Guiding Principles on of Canada Business and Human Rights World Gold Council Voluntary Principles Association Camara Minera de Mexico (CAMIMEX) Camara Argentina de Empresarios Mineros (CAEM) Fédération des chambres de commerce du Québec (FCCQ) Gremial de Industrias Extractivas (GREMIEXT) Northwest Mining Association Yukon Chamber of Mines Yukon Chamber of Commerce Yukon Gold Mining Alliance Centre for Northern Innovation in Mining (CNIM) American Exploration & Mining Association Ontario Chamber of Commerce 1 We disclose our participation in organizations that meet the following definition and thresholds: memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which we: hold a position on the governance body; participate in projects or committees; provide substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; view membership as strategic and receive more than US$25,000 financial support. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 19 About This Report Open and transparent communication is key to how we operate and is embodied in our annual Sustainability Report. Each report is a milestone on our sustainability journey that not only shows our stakeholders how far we’ve come but also demonstrates the opportunities that lie ahead. SCOPE AND CONTENT Information in this report covers the 2017 calendar year, which coincides with our financial year. We report annually on our sustainability performance. Our previous Sustainability Report covered the 2016 calendar year and was published in July 2017. In this year’s report we have included select site-specific data for 2017 focusing on our material topics performance data. Moving forward we will continue to follow this practice and will be able to show year-over-year trends. This report follows the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and aligns with the principles established by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM). This year’s report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Under the GRI Standards, companies must focus their reporting on topics that reflect an organizations economic, environmental and social impacts and/or substantively influence the decisions of stakeholders. Following these standards, we have determined a number of topics relevant to Goldcorp in 2017. These can be found in our Materiality Matrix. More information on the organizations mentioned above can be found on the GRI, the UNGC, and the ICMM websites. This report is accessible in three formats: an online version, a downloadable PDF and a printed publication. To receive a printed publication, please contact us. All versions of our report contain a GRI index to show the GRI indicators used and where they can be found within the report. BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS This report focuses on the seven Goldcorp-managed sites that were in operation during 2017. These seven sites are in four countries: Canada, Mexico, Guatemala and Argentina. Data that are reported in the following sections adhere to the reporting procedures utilized in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2017: About Us, Our Company, Contributions to and from Government, and Mine Closure. Some data, where noted, are non-GAAP measures on an attributable basis, which include discontinued operations and our share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 20 About This Report The table below summarizes our sites as of December 31, 2017. There were no specific limitations on the scope or boundary of this report. GOLDCORP SITES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 SITE LOCATION TYPE OF SITE OWNERSHIP % INFORMATION REPORTED Canadian Operations Éléonore Quebec, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Musselwhite Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Porcupine Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Red Lake Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Latin American (LATAM) Operations Cerro Negro Santa Cruz, Argentina Operation 100% Fully reported Marlin Guatemala Operation/Closed 100% In production until May 31, 2017. Information included for the full year where appropriate. Peñasquito Zacatecas, Mexico Operation 100% Fully reported Exploration Projects Borden Ontario, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted. Camino Rojo Zacatecas, Mexico Exploration Project Sold in 2017 to Orla Mining Limited. Select data reported, where noted. Century Ontario, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted. Cerro Blanco Guatemala Exploration Project 100% Sold in 2017 to Bluestone Resources Inc. Select data reported, where noted. Cochenour Ontario, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted. Coffee Yukon, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted. Closed El Sauzal Chihuahua, Mexico Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted. Equity Silver British Columbia, Canada Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted. San Martin San Ignacio, Honduras Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted. Divested Los Filos Guerrero, Mexico Divested 100% Sold in 2017 to Leagold Mining Corporation. As we no longer have operational control, we have not included it in our 2017 report. Operation – Joint Ventures Alumbrera Catamarca, Argentina Operation – 37.5% Managed by Glencore plc. Select data Joint Venture reported, where noted. Pueblo Viejo Dominican Republic Operation – 40% Managed by Barrick Gold Corporation. Joint Venture Select data reported, where noted. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 21 About This Report SITE LOCATION TYPE OF SITE OWNERSHIP % INFORMATION REPORTED Exploration Project – Joint Ventures NuevaUnión Atacama, Chile Exploration 50% 50/50 Joint Venture with Teck Resources. Project – Joint Select data reported, where noted. Venture Norte Abierto Atacama, Chile Exploration 50% 50/50 Joint Venture with Barrick Gold Project – Joint Corporation. Select data reported, Venture where noted. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 22 About This Report ASSURANCE We engaged Ernst & Young LLP (“EY”) to provide limited assurance on selected assertions and selected performance information included in our Sustainability Report for the year ended December 31, 2017. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Management of Goldcorp Inc. (“Goldcorp”): SCOPE OF OUR ENGAGEMENT Goldcorp is a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (“ICMM”) and is therefore committed to obtaining assurance over specified assertions in its Sustainability Report in accordance with ICMM’s Sustainable Development (“SD”) Framework: Assurance Procedure. We have been engaged to provide limited assurance on the selected assertions and selected performance information below included in Goldcorp’s Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 (the “Sustainability Report”). Our limited assurance engagement was performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 3000”), the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), and the ICMM SD Framework: Assurance Procedure. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance and sustainability practitioners. SELECTED ASSERTIONS • ICMM Subject Matter 1: Goldcorp’s assertion that it has aligned its sustainability policies and procedures with the 10 ICMM SD Principles and associated mandatory requirements set out in the 8 ICMM Position Statements in effect as at 31 December 2017. • ICMM Subject Matter 2: Goldcorp’s assertion that its material SD risks and opportunities are based on its own review of the business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. • ICMM Subject Matter 3: Goldcorp’s assertion regarding the existence and status of implementation of systems and approaches used to manage the material SD risks and opportunities (or, “topics”) as stated in the Sustainability Report. • ICMM Subject Matter 4: Goldcorp’s assertion regarding the following Specified Performance Indicators as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (“GRI Standards”): 1. 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 2. 303-3: Water recycled and used 3. 305-1: Direct greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions (Scope 1) 4. 305-2: Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 5. 413-1: Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. ICMM Subject Matter 5: Goldcorp’s assertion regarding the Sustainability Report being in accordance with the core option of the GRI Standards as well as the GRI G4 Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures (“MMSD”). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 23 About This Report CRITERIA • ICMM Subject Matter 1: ICMM’s 10 SD Principles and the mandatory requirements set out in the 8 ICMM Position Statements. • ICMM Subject Matter 2: Goldcorp’s material SD risks and opportunities based on its review of the business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders in line with GRI Standards. • ICMM Subject Matter 3: Goldcorp’s description of systems and approaches used to manage its material SD risks and opportunities and the implementation of these systems and approaches. • ICMM Subject Matter 4: The GRI Standards reporting criteria for specified disclosures 303-1; 303-3; 305-1; 305-2; 413-1, as well as The Greenhouse Gas Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition (2012) published by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (the “GHG Protocol”). • ICMM Subject Matter 5: The GRI Standards and the GRI G4 MMSD. GOLDCORP MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES The Sustainability Report was prepared by the management of Goldcorp, who is responsible for the integrity of the assertions, statements, and claims made therein (including the assertions over which we have been engaged to provide limited assurance), the collection, quantification and presentation of the Specified Performance Indicators and the selection of and adherence to the stated criteria. In addition, Goldcorp management is responsible for the identification of stakeholders and the determination and prioritization of material topics based on its review of the business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. Goldcorp management is responsible for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the reporting process and ensure that the Sustainability Report is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL In accordance with International Standards on Quality Control 1, EY maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. LIMITATIONS Our scope of work did not include providing conclusions in relation to: • The appropriateness of the criteria for the purposes described above. • The completeness or accuracy of information relating to areas other than the subject matters. • Information reported by Goldcorp other than in its Sustainability Report, such as information contained on its website. • Any comparisons made by Goldcorp against historical data. • Management’s forward-looking statements. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 24 About This Report ASSURANCE PROCEDURES The procedures performed in a limited level assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from and are less in extent than those in a reasonable level assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited level assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable level assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion that specified assertions in Goldcorp’s Sustainability Report have been fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria. Our limited assurance procedures for the subject matters included but were not limited to: • Interviewing a selection of staff and management, including senior executives, to gain an understanding of (1) the status of implementation of the ICMM SD Principles into Goldcorp’s own strategy and policies and (2) Goldcorp’s identification of SD risks and opportunities as determined through its review of the business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. • Reviewing selected documented policies and procedures and assessing alignment with 10 ICMM SD Principles and other mandatory requirements set out in the 8 ICMM Position Statements. • Reviewing the Sustainability Report to determine whether (1) the description of the stakeholder engagement process is consistent with our understanding of the process based on the procedures we performed; (2) the material topics identified during our procedures have been adequately disclosed; and, (3) Goldcorp has reported on its systems and approaches utilized to manage selected material SD risks and opportunities and whether their description is consistent with our understanding of those processes based on the procedures we performed. • Interviewing selected personnel responsible for the Specified Performance Indicators to gain an understanding of the data collection and collation process. • Undertaking analytical procedures and substantive testing on a limited sample basis over the Specified Performance Indicators. • Reviewing the Sustainability Report content for the disclosure of performance information around the selected material SD risks and opportunities. The sites selected for testing are representative of Goldcorp’s diverse geographic locations. The sites visited included: • Éléonore, Quebec, Canada • Peñasquito, Zacatecas, Mexico OUR CONCLUSION Subject to the section on limitations above and on the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance engagement, we conclude that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the five subject matters are not, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the stated criteria. Ernst & Young LLP Chartered Professional Accountants Vancouver, Canada 24 May 2018 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 25 About This Report THANK YOU We would like to thank everyone who has provided guidance on this process and contributed to this report, including site and corporate staff and management, our Board of Directors and the internal and external stakeholders who participated in the materiality analysis process. This report is a product of a great deal of collaboration and effort from individuals who are passionate about the work we do, sustainability and increasing our transparency. Quisiéramos agradecer a todos aquellos que han brindado orientación sobre este proceso y han contribuido con este informe, incluidos el personal y la administración corporativo y del sitio, nuestra Junta Directiva y las partes interesadas internas y externas que participaron en el proceso de análisis de materialidad. Este informe es producto de una gran cantidad de colaboración y esfuerzo por parte de personas apasionadas por el trabajo que hacemos, la sustentabilidad y el aumento de nuestra transparencia. Nous tenons à remercier toutes les personnes qui ont servi de guide sur ce processus et qui ont contribué à ce rapport, y compris les employés et les dirigeants des sites et du siège social, notre conseil d’administration et les parties prenantes internes et externes qui ont participé au processus d’analyse d’importance. Ce rapport est le produit de nombreuses collaborations et d’efforts considérables d’individus qui sont passionnés par le travail que nous faisons, par le développement durable et par l’augmentation de notre transparence. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 26 Our Priorities MATERIALITY ANALYSIS In order to realize our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value, we must understand the economic, environmental and social impacts of our business – and we need to recognize the assessments and/or decision-making of our stakeholders. For the purpose of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) definition of materiality: “Those topics and indicators that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” These material topics can have a significant financial impact and are also relevant for stakeholders who focus on our financial results. Understanding our significant sustainability impacts and the sustainability topics that matter most to our stakeholders enables us to focus our efforts on our key challenges and opportunities, which in turn will contribute to: TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE. Provides an opportunity to engage Helps prioritize sustainability with stakeholders and discuss reporting topics and targeted what matters most to them communications for stakeholders Informs risk management Improves understanding and and strategic planning response to stakeholder needs and concerns 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 27 Our Priorities METHODOLOGY In 2017, we evolved our materiality analysis to align with best practices and be in accordance with the updated GRI Standards, including the GRI Principles for Defining Report Content. We ensured that the update was also in line with our five-year materiality analysis engagement plan, which we created in 2015. Our materiality analysis includes a desktop analysis and stakeholder interviews1. Stakeholders that participated in our materiality analysis interviews included the Board of Directors, employees and community members. A look at who we have asked, and who we will be asking, to participate in our materiality analysis interviews is shown below: 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Corporate Executive Team • Mine General Managers • Site management • All employees and • Senior Executive Team • SRIs • Academics • LATAM site trade unions contractors with access to a • SRIs computer • NGOs • LATAM site security • NGOs providers • Stakeholder groups • Government organizations representing all areas • Government organizations • Industry associations • Canada site trade unions • Industry associations • Aboriginal groups • Canada site security • Aboriginal groups providers • Peñasquito – local • Academia groups communities • Board of Directors • Suppliers • Trade unions • Police/military Below is the breakdown of our 2017 Desktop Analysis: DOCUMENTS REVIEWED FOR DESKTOP ANALYSIS 5% 7% 31% 10% Trend Documents Paper Company Reports External Standards Norms & Regulations 23% Industry Reports Internal Documents NGO Reports 24% 1 In 2014, we sent out a survey to internal and external stakeholders to identify and validate our top sustainability priorities. We had over 200 respondents. In 2015, we complemented the survey results with 51 in-depth stakeholder engagements. In 2015, we also implemented a multi-year engagement plan, designed as a phased approach, to ensure the inclusive and representative participation of varied stakeholder groups across our areas of operation. As part of this plan, in 2016 we conducted 63 in-depth stakeholder interviews and 28 stakeholder interviews in 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 28 Our Priorities The table below provides a description of our Materiality Analysis methodology: MATERIALITY ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 1 2 METHODOLOGY DESIGN RESEARCH AND IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS In line with the materiality principle (a GRI reporting principle in the newly released GRI Standards), We conducted desktop research, reviewing we conducted a best practices scan on current processes and external standards and regulations, global and industry trend recommendations in order to implement updates on our reports, peer sustainability reports, voluntary agreements and materiality analysis methodology. This action was in line with commitments, media scans, internal documentation and our five-year materiality analysis strategy. policies, as well as materiality analyses and feedback from the stakeholders we had consulted in previous years. In 2017, we included a focus on NGO reports from groups identified through our internal stakeholder mapping process. 3 4 MATERIAL TOPIC ASSESSMENT AND ENGAGEMENT AND VALIDATION PRELIMINARY PRIORITIZATION Building on the results of our desktop research, materiality We applied a relevance scale ranging from 0 to 4 to assess the analyses and feedback from our stakeholders consulted in topic’s significance to the broader society, our stakeholders and previous years, we validated topics through interviews with the company. both internal and external stakeholders. In these interviews, stakeholders were asked to rank topics from a 0 (no significance/not important) to 4 (critical significance/critical importance) scale. Stakeholders were also given the opportunity to provide additional topics that were not covered within the interview, as well as to offer feedback on the process, the report and our company. 5 REVIEW AND FINAL CATEGORIZATION AND PRIORITIZATION The results of these interviews were aggregated and analyzed, resulting in a final categorization and prioritization of material topics. As we strive for continuous improvement, we recognize the importance of staying abreast of best practices and evolving our processes accordingly. In 2017, we reviewed and updated our materiality analysis process. These updates helped advance us along our continuous improvement journey and are in line with updated standards and best practices, including the GRI Standards. To retain the knowledge gained from previous years, we incorporated the results from our 2014-2016 materiality analyses into our desktop research. This research helped inform our preliminary list of material topics. From here, we revised our 2017 stakeholder interview questionnaires. We used the 2017 interviews to inform us about where the material topics were placed on our materiality matrix. Moving forward we will continue to enhance our materiality analysis process, an action in line with our multi-year materiality engagement plan. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 29 Our Priorities TOP MATERIAL TOPICS The topics identified throughout our materiality analysis process and shown in our materiality matrix form the main content of our Sustainability Report. The Materiality Matrix provides a visual representation of the ranking of topics, which were all found to be of average to critical significance and importance through our engagement and validation process. Our 2017 Sustainability Report provides information on the topics found on our Materiality Matrix, organized in five categories: Strategy and Governance; Communities; Our People; Safety and Have comments on our Health and Environmental Stewardship. 2017 Material Topics and Materiality Matrix? SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com UNDERSTANDING OUR MATERIAL TOPICS1 2017 MATERIAL TOPICS Strategy and Governance Anti-Corruption Ensuring the prevention of corruption and bribery throughout all company activities and supply chains. Business Ethics and Compliance Ensuring the highest ethical standards are maintained. Ensuring the highest standards of integrity and compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. Enterprise Risk Management Managing issues and events that could cause reputational, financial, political, operational and/or strategic impacts. Ensuring we have robust risk management processes at the site, regional and corporate levels to assess both internal and external risks that could impact us. One of the many ways we manage our external risks is through the country risk assessment exercises, which we conduct quarterly in countries in which we operate. Governance and Accountability Ensuring senior management is accountable for environmental, social and economic issues. Maintaining the highest ethical standards to prevent human rights violations, corruption and bribery throughout activities and supply chains. Complying with all applicable laws, regulations and company policies. 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 30 Our Priorities 2017 MATERIAL TOPICS Communities Economic Impact Creating positive economic impacts for communities in which we operate. This includes both direct and indirect economic impacts through the tax revenues and royalty payments we direct around the world capital expenditures made through local capacitybuilding, and purchase of goods and services in the communities in which our mines are located. Human Rights Ensuring human rights are upheld through all business activities. Rights of, and Engagement with, Engaging early and transparently with Indigenous Indigenous Peoples Peoples to build strong and collaborative relationships. Stakeholder Engagement Ensuring stakeholders participate in early and ongoing meaningful and transparent engagement. Supply Chain Management Selecting vendors to partner with, by balancing our requirements and priorities, including (but not limited to): ethics; anti-corruption; labour standards and local procurement. Every vendor relationship must meet our economic, logistical and sustainability standards. Sustainable Benefits for Strategically investing to build partnerships and local Communities capacity through community investment, procurement and employment activities. Our People Diversity and Equal Opportunities Encouraging diversity of gender, ages, cultures, backgrounds and skills throughout the Board of Directors, management team, employees, contractors, business partners and suppliers. Employee Recruitment, Recruiting, retaining and developing a highRetention and Development performance workforce, through leadership training, succession planning, career development, fair remuneration and working conditions. Safety and Health Workforce Safety and Health Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for our workforce. Environmental Stewardship Energy Management and Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas Climate Change (GHG) emissions. Investing in alternative energy sources for operational efficiencies and cost savings (e.g., solar, wind). Environmental Compliance Ensuring the highest standards of integrity and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and company policies. Water Management Optimizing water consumption and discharge while maximizing water quality. The material topics, data, and case studies included in each section of our report have been mapped to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 31 Our Priorities 2017 MATERIALITY MATRIX CATEGORIES: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP OUR PEOPLE CRITICAL Environmental Compliance Water Management Governance and Accountability IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS WHEN MAKING ASSESSMENTS Workforce Safety and Health Business Ethics Enterprise Risk Anti-corruption and Compliance Management Human Stakeholder Engagement Rights Sustainable Benefits for Communities Economic Employee Recruitment, Impact Retention and Development Rights of, and Engagement with, Indigenous Peoples HIGH AND/OR DECISIONS REGARDING GOLDCORP Energy Management Diversity and Equal and Climate Change Opportunities Supply Chain Management AVERAGE AVERAGE HIGH CRITICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS FROM GOLDCORP 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 32 Our Priorities SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INDEX (SPI) The SPI was designed to measure and track site performance in key sustainability areas, in line with the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). The SPI includes a mix of proactive (practices indicators) and reactive (performance indicators) metrics that will evolve over time as sustainability performance progresses. In 2017, we focused our efforts on establishing the right mix of metrics to determine a sustainability performance baseline across our operating sites and set targets for improvements in 2018. To ensure accountability, our Executive Management tracked the results of the SPI on a monthly basis, and the Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors did so on a quarterly basis. Establishment of the baseline was linked to our overall annual performance scorecard. In 2017 the company’s overall SPI score was calculated by monitoring monthly execution of activities in the following key sustainability areas: SPI KEY SUSTAINABILITY AREAS AREA METRIC EXAMPLES METRIC TYPE Overall Sustainability • High severity events management practices Practices indicator • Corrective action plans practices Safety and Health • Sites’ AIFR target met Performance indicator Environment • Sites established GHG and water performance targets Performance indicator Social • Adequate grievance investigations practices Practices indicator Security • Security personnel management practices Practices indicator Looking ahead, we will use the SPI as a key driver for measuring sustainability performance. In 2018, each site’s objective will be to improve its overall score by at least 5%. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 33 Our Priorities GOLDCORP AND THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations and its member states, are ambitious and will require collaboration between many sectors. This universal set of goals aims to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and advance prosperity by 2030. The private sector and companies like ours have a critical role in meeting these objectives. THE SDGs AND THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR Businesses like ours have a tremendous impact on communities. We provide local jobs and use local supply chains, which in turn creates jobs and builds human capital. We build physical and institutional infrastructure and support technology transfer. The resulting growth in products and services can have multiplier effects that improve communities’ financial sustainability. We are committed to playing a key role in achieving the SDGs. The table below shows a snapshot of our involvement in 2017 in the areas in which we operate. It also demonstrates how this involvement ties back into the SDGs. Moving forward we will analyze where we can create the most positive impact with regards to the SDGs and generate a strategy to align this work throughout our organization. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 34 Our Priorities GOLDCORP AND THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG)1 EXAMPLES AT GOLDCORP LOCATION OF EXAMPLES GRI LINKS Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 202-1; GRI Standard 203-2; Local Employment in Peñasquito Communities Case Study GRI Standard 204; GRI Standard 413-2; Building Mining Leaders of Tomorrow Our People Case Study MM5; MM6; MM7; MM8; MM9 Coffee Gold supports First Nation Youth at the Above Ground Blog Skookum Jim Friendship Centre Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 201-1; GRI Standard 203-1; Water Management Environmental GRI Standard 411-1; GRI Standard 413-2; Stewardship Section GRI Standard 203-2; MM5; MM6; MM7; MM8; MM9 Goldcorp’s Innovation Strategy Strategy and Governance Communities Section: Case Study GRI Standard 203-2; MM8 Optimizing Safety and Performance through Strategy and Governance Our People Section: Accenture’s Connected Mine Case Study GRI Standard 401-2 Community Contributions Communities Section Safety and Health Section: GRI Standard 403w-2; Peñasquito Supports the Opening of La Plaza Communities Case Study GRI Standard 403-3 Community Square Environmental Stewardship Section: Using Technology to Make Our Mines Safer Safety and Health GRI Standard 305-1; GRI Standard 305-2; Case Study GRI Standard 305-3; GRI Standard 305-6; Coffee Gold Supports First Nations Youth at Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 305-7; GRI Standard 306-1; the Skookum Jim Friendship Centre GRI Standard 306-2; GRI Standard 306-3; Empowering Others to Understand Addiction Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 306-4; MM1; MM3 Goldcorp’s Porcupine Helps TADH Foundation Above Ground Blog Hit $15 Million Fundraising Goal Inspiring a Generation – 2017 North American Above Ground Blog Indigenous Games Marlin’s Sustainable Healthcare Legacy Above Ground Blog Mining Community Raises $1.15 Million for Above Ground Blog BC Children’s Hospital Peñasquito: 10 Years of Being a Socially Above Ground Blog Responsible Company The Social Side of Mining – Marlin’s SocioAbove Ground Blog Economic Legacy Thomas Mark – Community Champion Above Ground Blog Strengthens Bonds Between Éléonore and Cree First Nation 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 35 Our Priorities UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG)1 EXAMPLES AT GOLDCORP LOCATION OF EXAMPLES GRI LINKS Community Contributions Communities Section Our People Section: GRI Standard 404-1 Learning and Development Our People Section Building Mining Leaders of Tomorrow Our People Case Study Investing in Our People Our People Case Study All the Buzz at Red Lake and Porcupine Mines Environmental Stewardship Case Study Forest Recovery: Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Mine Closure Case Study Back to Nature, Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Above Ground Blog Economic Stimulators, Even After Marlin’s Above Ground Blog Closure Investing in Green Energy Development and Above Ground Blog in Argentina’s Youth Through Education Marlin’s Educational Legacy Continues to Above Ground Blog Multiply, Even After Closure Opening Doors and Young Minds Above Ground Blog Peñasquito: 10 Years of Being a Socially Above Ground Blog Responsible Company Support for Students of Social and Above Ground Blog Sustainable Innovation Continues The Social Side of Mining – Marlin’s SocioAbove Ground Blog Economic Legacy Community Contributions Communities Section Strategy and Governance Section: GRI Standard 102-22; GRI Standard 102-24 Diversity in Mining Our People Case Study Communities Section: Building Mining Leaders of Tomorrow Our People Case Study GRI Standard 201-1; GRI Standard 202-1; Changing the Face of Gender Diversity in Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 203-1; GRI Standard 204; Mining – From the Top Down and Bottom Up GRI Standard 406-1; GRI Standard 414-1; Economic Stimulators, Even After Marlin’s Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 414-2 Closure Our People Section: Elsa Nielsen: They Thought I Couldn’t Do It! Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 401-1; GRI Standard 401-2; GRI Standard 404-1; GRI Standard 404-3; Inclusivity Strengthens Century Project Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 405-1; GRI Standard 405-2 Inspirational Milestone at Cerro Negro Above Ground Blog The Social Side of Mining – Marlin’s SocioAbove Ground Blog Economic Legacy YWCA Women of Distinction Awards Above Ground Blog 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 36 Our Priorities UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG)1 EXAMPLES AT GOLDCORP LOCATION OF EXAMPLES GRI LINKS Water Management Environmental Communities Section: Stewardship Section MM8 Figuring Out the True Cost of Water Environmental Environmental Stewardship Section: Stewardship Case Study GRI Standard 303-1; GRI Standard 303-2; GRI Standard 303-3; GRI Standard 304-1; Community Water Projects – Water Services Mine Closure Case Study GRI Standard 304-2; GRI Standard 304-3; for Generations to Come GRI Standard 304-4; GRI Standard 306-1; Back to Nature, Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 306-2; GRI Standard 306-3; Cleaning Up to Conserve Water at Peñasquito Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 306-5; MM1; MM2; MM3 Goldcorp’s EcoTails Technology Challenges Above Ground Blog Mining’s Historical Relationship with H2O Porcupine Gold Mines Reduces Freshwater Above Ground Blog Use from Porcupine Lake to Almost Zero Protecting Truly Precious Resources – Above Ground Blog Goldcorp’s Towards Zero Water Strategy Underground UV Water Treatment and Above Ground Blog Recycling System Gives New Life to Used Water at Musselwhite Energy Savings and Initiatives Environmental Communities Section: Stewardship Section GRI Standard 201-1; GRI Standard 203-1 Back to Nature, Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Above Ground Blog Environmental Stewardship Section: GRI Standard 302-1; GRI Standard 302-2; Investing in Green Energy Development and Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 302-3; GRI Standard 302-4; in Argentina’s Youth through Education GRI Standard 302-4 Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 201-1; GRI Standard 202-1; Building Mining Leaders of Tomorrow Our People Case Study GRI Standard 202-2; GRI Standard 203-2; Creating a Culture of Safe Execution Safety and Health GRI Standard 204-1; GRI Standard 406-1; Case Study GRI Standard 407-1; GRI Standard 408-1; Reducing Exposure Through a Monitoring Safety and Health GRI Standard 409-1; GRI Standard 414-1; Network Case Study GRI Standard 414-2; MM8 Using Technology to Make Our Mines Safer Safety and Health Our People Section: Case Study GRI Standard 102-41; GRI Standard 102-8; GRI Standard 401-1; GRI Standard 401-2; A Second Chance at Safety Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 402-1; GRI Standard 404-1; Economic Stimulators, Even After Marlin’s Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 404-2; GRI Standard 404-3; Closure GRI Standard 405-1; GRI Standard 405-2; MM4 Safety and Health Section: GRI Standard 403-1; GRI Standard 403-2; GRI Standard 403-3; GRI Standard 403-4 Environmental Stewardship Section: GRI Standard 301-1; GRI Standard 301-2; GRI Standard 301-3; GRI Standard 302-1; GRI Standard 302-2; GRI Standard 302-3; GRI Standard 302-4; GRI Standard 302-5; GRI Standard 303-3 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 37 Our Priorities UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG)1 EXAMPLES AT GOLDCORP LOCATION OF EXAMPLES GRI LINKS Goldcorp’s Innovation Strategy Strategy and Governance Communities Section: Case Study GRI Standard 201-1; GRI Standard 203-1 IBM Watson: Gaining New Exploration Strategy and Governance Insights Through Artificial Intelligence Case Study Optimizing Safety and Performance through Strategy and Governance Accenture’s Connected Mine Case Study Reducing Exposure Through a Monitoring Safety and Health Network Case Study Using Technology to Make Our Mines Safer Safety and Health Case Study Innovation and Leadership in Reclamation Mine Closure Case Study and Tailings Management And the #DisruptMining 2017 Winners Are… Above Ground Blog Bringing Virtual and Augmented Reality to the Above Ground Blog Forefront of Mining Cisco’s Connectivity Solutions Paving the Way Above Ground Blog for the Next Generation of Mine Finalists at #DisruptMining Event to Face Above Ground Blog Impressive Lineup of Judges Five Finalists Set to Take Stage at Above Ground Blog #DisruptMining Goldcorp and Integra Gold Team with IBM, Above Ground Blog Microsoft, Accenture and Cisco for #DisruptMining Moving Operations to the Next Level Above Ground Blog Support for Students of Social and Above Ground Blog Sustainable Innovation Continues Underground UV Water Treatment and Above Ground Blog Recycling System Gives New Life to Used Water at Musselwhite Winze Materials Handling System Helps Above Ground Blog Optimize Operations at Musselwhite Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 203-2 Our People Section: GRI Standard 102-8; GRI Standard 401-1; GRI Standard 404-1; GRI Standard 404-3; GRI Standard 405-2 Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 203-1 Peñasquito Supports the Opening of La Plaza Communities Case Study Community Square All the Buzz at Red Lake and Porcupine Mines Environmental Stewardship Case Study Marlin Mine Open Pit Closure Mine Closure Section Community Water Projects – Water Services Mine Closure Case Study for Generations to Come Peñasquito: 10 Years of Being a Socially Above Ground Blog Responsible Company Thomas Mark – Community Champion Above Ground Blog Strengthens Bonds Between Éléonore and Cree First Nation 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 38 Our Priorities UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL (SDG)1 EXAMPLES AT GOLDCORP LOCATION OF EXAMPLES GRI LINKS Water Management Environmental Communities Section: Stewardship Section MM8 Marlin Mine Open Pit Closure Mine Closure Section Environmental Stewardship Section: GRI Standard 301-1; GRI Standard 301-2; Back to Nature, Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 301-3; GRI Standard 302-1; Cleaning Up to Conserve Water at Peñasquito Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 302-2; GRI Standard 302-3; Goldcorp’s EcoTails Technology Challenges Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 302-4; GRI Standard 302-5; Mining’s Historical Relationship with H2O GRI Standard 303-3; GRI Standard 305-1; GRI Standard 305-2; GRI Standard 305-3; Porcupine Gold Mines Reduces Freshwater Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 305-6; GRI Standard 305-7; Use from Porcupine Lake to Almost Zero GRI Standard 306-1; GRI Standard 306-2; Protecting Truly Precious Resources – Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 306-3; GRI Standard 306-4; Goldcorp’s Towards Zero Water Strategy MM1; MM3 Underground UV Water Treatment and Above Ground Blog Recycling System Gives New Life to Used Water at Musselwhite Goldcorp’s Innovation Strategy Strategy and Governance Environmental Stewardship Section: Case Study GRI Standard 201-2; GRI Standard 302-1; GRI Standard 302-2; GRI Standard 302-3; Energy Savings and Initiatives Environmental GRI Standard 302-4; GRI Standard 302-5; Stewardship Section GRI Standard 305-1; GRI Standard 305-2; Forest Recovery: Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Mine Closure Case Study GRI Standard 305-3; GRI Standard 305-4; Eco-Offsetting at Éléonore Above Ground Blog GRI Standard 305-5 Innovation and Leadership in Reclamation Mine Closure Case Study Environmental Stewardship Section: and Tailings Management GRI Standard 304-1; GRI Standard 304-2; GRI Standard 304-3; GRI Standard 304-4; GRI Standard 305-1; GRI Standard 305-2; GRI Standard 305-3; GRI Standard 305-4; GRI Standard 305-5; GRI Standard 305-7; GRI Standard 306-1; GRI Standard 306-3; GRI Standard 306-5 Community Contributions Communities Section Environmental Stewardship Section: GRI Standard 304-1; GRI Standard 304-2; A “Deer-est” Conservation Effort at Environmental GRI Standard 304-3; GRI Standard 304-4; Peñasquito Mine Stewardship Case Study GRI Standard 305-1; GRI Standard 305-2; All the Buzz at Red Lake and Porcupine Mines Environmental GRI Standard 305-3; GRI Standard 305-4; Stewardship Case Study GRI Standard 305-5; GRI Standard 305-7; Forest Recovery: Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Mine Closure Case Study GRI Standard 306-3; GRI Standard 306-5; MM1; MM2 Back to Nature, Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Above Ground Blog Eco-Offsetting at Éléonore Above Ground Blog Community Contributions Communities Section Communities Section: GRI Standard 103-2 Community Response Mechanisms Communities Section Human Rights Due Diligence Mechanisms Communities Section Security Practices Communities Section Community Response Systems in Practice: Communities Case Study Assessing the Effectiveness of Our New Community Response System Assessment Innovation and Leadership in Reclamation Mine Closure Case Study Communities Section: and Tailings Management GRI Standard 203-2 Forest Recovery: Marlin’s Environmental Legacy Mine Closure Case Study To learn more about the SDGs, please visit the United Nations SDGs website. 1 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 39 Together, Creating Sustainable Value Strategy and Governance We believe that corporate governance (how the Board of Directors oversees and governs our company) and our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value are essential to enhancing shareholder value and protecting our employees. CASE STUDIES GOLDCORP’S INNOVATION STRATEGY IBM WATSON: GAINING NEW OPTIMIZING SAFETY AND SEE PAGE 57 EXPLORATION INSIGHTS THROUGH PERFORMANCE THROUGH ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACCENTURE’S CONNECTED MINE SEE PAGE 59 SEE PAGE 60 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 40 Strategy and Governance HIGHLIGHTS OUR DIRECTORS AND 100% OF OUR 96% OF OUR “ONLINE” OFFICERS REPRESENT BUSINESS UNITS EMPLOYEES 10 NATIONALITIES, were analyzed for risks related (i.e., employees with permanent to corruption. access to a computer as part of are 19% women, speak 6 languages their work responsibilities) between them and self-identify completed our Anti-Bribery and with more than 20 distinct cultures Anti-Corruption course. and ethnicities. We announced the appointment of Matthew Coon Come to our Board of Directors in July. Mr. Coon Come was the Grand Chief of the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istche) and the Chairperson of the Cree Regional Authority, holding the position for over 20 years. He also served as National Chief of the Assembly of First Nations from 2000 to 2003. Mr. Coon Come is known nationally and internationally for his groundbreaking work in First Nations government and activism, effectively raising the standard of Indigenous rights in Canada. He has brought an incredible breadth of knowledge and experience to our Board, and we are extremely pleased that he has joined us. In July, the Company also announced that, as part of a planned succession, Russell Ball, Executive Vice-President Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Development, would be leaving the organization. Jason Attew, was appointed to Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Development effective October 26, 2017. We completed the sale of Los Filos to Leagold, the Cerro Blanco Project to Bluestone Resources and the Camino Rojo Oxide Project to Orla. We acquired Exeter Resource Corporation and closed the formation a 50/50 joint venture with Barrick Gold, where the newly formed entity, later named Norte Abierto, will develop the Cerro Casale and Caspiche deposits in the Maricunga District of Chile. INSIGHTS FROM: ACHIEVEMENTS MATERIAL TOPICS DAVID GAROFALO SEE PAGE 6 SEE PAGE 30 SEE PAGE 43 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 41 Strategy and Governance MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS The mining industry is recovering from a prolonged depression of weakened commodity prices. Despite the rise in inflation, efforts have been made to keep costs from rising; in some cases, costs have remained the same or are lower. External stakeholders continue to demand that companies demonstrate how they are managing risks and mitigating impacts. In addition, they expect more transparent disclosure on all business fronts, from operational performance, to executive compensation to community engagement. Around the globe, regulators continue to focus on the enforcement of anticorruption legislation. Meanwhile, heightened attention is being placed on companies’ efforts to provide workplaces free from harassment and discrimination. Talent attraction and retention continues to be a challenge as the majority of the current mining workforce ages into retirement, but at the same time there is great opportunity. Employers must focus on retaining and maintaining top talent for effective and skilled management, and for succession planning of senior leadership positions. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to demonstrate that we have the appropriate organizational structures and accountabilities in place to reduce risks. They want us to generate superior returns from high-quality assets, while being transparent in our reporting on performance, trends and outcomes. Have comments on WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? why our Strategy and Good governance is the foundation on which we build our responsible Governance is important management and industry-leading results. We strive to provide our shareholders and other stakeholders with clear and concise disclosure about to you? our policies, programs and performance. SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com OUR STRATEGY In 2017, we launched a bold, five-year growth plan to increase our production by 20%, reduce our all-in sustaining costs by 20% and grow our reserves by 20%. Our strategy is to build governance and accountability mechanisms that position our company to optimize results and safeguard long-term success. Strategic management appointments provide our leadership team the opportunity to manage events that could have reputational, financial, operational, environmental or community impacts. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) as well as our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework help us better identify, manage and mitigate these impacts. We also perform ongoing risk assessments for the local and national geographical areas in which we work. These are multi-faceted assessments that take into consideration the environmental, social, political and economic risks of the countries in which we operate. The Board of Directors and our Executive Management team recognize the importance of strong corporate governance to effectively manage our company and to protect employees and shareholders. Our approach to issues of corporate governance is designed to ensure that our business and affairs are conducted to enhance long-term shareholder value. Guidelines and requirements for ethical practices are incorporated into various SEMS standards. For more information on our policies, please visit this report’s section on our Corporate Policies. We are a member of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC). Therefore, our four Canadian operations adhere to the principles of Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM), which is the MAC’s commitment to responsible mining. Established in 2004, TSM is a set of tools and indicators to drive performance and ensure that key mining risks are managed responsibly. Adhering to the principles of TSM demonstrate leadership by: engaging with communities, driving world-leading environmental practices and committing to the safety and health of employees and surrounding communities. The four Canadian operations are in various stages of site assessments and implementation verification. Additionally, the national mining association in Argentina (Cámara Argentina de Empresarios Mineros) agreed to adopt TSM; therefore, we are also working with the mining association to define the appropriate system in Argentina where our Cerro Negro mine is located. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 42 Strategy and Governance INSIGHTS FROM: DAVID GAROFALO Talking Strategy and Governance with David Garofalo, President and Chief Executive Officer 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS FOR GOLDCORP THAT COME TO MIND? 2017 was an extremely eventful year for us. Our major achievement was Zero Fatalities. Every day we strive to ensure we are Safe Enough For Our Families. Through our focused efforts on safe work practices we have been able to drive down our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) across the company. While these results are encouraging, we recognize that there’s still room for improvement and are continuously striving to further reduce our AIFR to ensure that no one gets hurt on the job. We also completed our baseline evaluation of water use and expenditures for all our mines and processes as part of our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) initiative. This gave us a much better understanding of how much water we use at our sites and how much human and physical energy is expended managing and moving water. It enabled us to take more informed and effective actions to reduce water use. Completing this study was a significant step towards getting us closer to a 100% reduction in water use, which will also help reduce our carbon footprint. Have a question for David? We are focused on measuring what matters, particularly monitoring and SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com measuring the effectiveness of our various sustainability programs. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) provides us with a systemized, structured framework for monitoring the performance and effectiveness of our programs, so that we can confidently deliver on our commitments. On the production side, we saw our restructuring efforts pay off in 2017. It was a pivotal year for us in this regard. For example, gold production exceeded 2.5 million ounces. Our 2017 corporate scorecard aligns with our strategic direction and is based on four broad performance categories: operational excellence, financial excellence, financial excellence, growth and leadership. What is more, our corporate scorecard was much improved over past years. These achievements show that our culture of operational excellence is reaping rewards, and we are more results-oriented than ever before. 2. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE CHALLENGES FOR GOLDCORP IN 2017 AND WHAT DID THE COMPANY LEARN FROM THEM? The magnitude of our water challenge came into focus in 2017 with the completion of our water baseline study. We are at the bottom of the mountain looking up, which is both daunting and exciting. Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) really is an ambitious objective, and we are committed to doing what it takes to get as close to zero water use as technology will allow us. We also completed an employee opinion survey (EOS). Improving communication from the top of the company and career path movement for employees were two opportunities that were highlighted. We immediately began taking decisive action to address these issues. For example, we started posting more jobs internally and began interviewing more internal candidates for available positions. We launched the Future Leaders program which, along with succession planning, will support our goal of providing career opportunities for our employees. There is a lot we can continue to do on the communications side to make sure our employees better understand our vision and goals. We’ve clarified our corporate values by summarizing them in three key points that underpin everything we do as a company: Be Safe, Be Productive and Be Responsible. We expect all our employees to internalize these values. It gives all of us at Goldcorp a foundation for our day-to-day conduct. We are continuing to work hard to build an engaging and inclusive corporate culture that everyone at Goldcorp can be proud of. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 43 Strategy and Governance 3. GOLDCORP HAS PUBLICLY COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE MINING PRACTICES. WHAT DOES THIS MEAN TO GOLDCORP, AND HOW IS GOLDCORP ENSURING SUSTAINABLE MINING PRACTICES ARE EMBEDDED THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY? Sustainable mining has a number of facets. It entails not putting a strain on precious resources such as water and the environment. It involves making a meaningful economic and social contribution to the communities where we operate, and it encompasses being financially responsible by building a diversified portfolio of assets that provide employment opportunities and create value. With regards to the environment, our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision is helping us decrease our total environmental footprint by reducing water intake at our mines and minimizing our carbon footprint. The cornerstone of our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) strategy is the EcoTails project, currently underway at Peñasquito and Éléonore, which could eliminate the need for conventional slurry tailings. In addition to reducing water consumption, EcoTails could allow for faster and more economical land reclamation. One of the exciting aspects of EcoTails is that once we have proven the technology, it has very broad application across the entire industry. Sustainable mining also involves building meaningful relationships in the communities in which we operate. As a responsible company, we have an obligation to engage members of the communities in the areas in which we operate and share the benefits. Ways in which we can do this include employment opportunities, training, local procurement, forming mutually beneficial partnerships and contributing to social, educational or environmental programs. Building sustainable communities is all about providing opportunities for people to grow and prosper, and we are proud of the contribution we have made in expanding infrastructure, funding education and healthcare programs and providing clean drinking water in the areas in which we operate. 4. IN 2017, GOLDCORP LAUNCHED A FIVE-YEAR GROWTH PLAN CALLED THE 20/20/20 PLAN. WHAT IS THIS PLAN? HOW DID GOLDCORP PERFORM IN 2017 WITH REGARDS TO THIS PLAN, AND WHAT’S IN STORE FOR GOLDCORP BEYOND 20/20/20? In 2017, we launched a bold, five-year growth plan to increase our production by 20%, reduce our all-in sustaining costs by 20% and grow our reserves by 20%. We intend to grow our production by 20% by optimizing the operations we built up over the last five years or so – such as the Éléonore mine in Quebec and the Cerro Negro mine in Argentina. We plan to bring these assets up to nameplate capacity by 2018. Investing in brownfield opportunities such as the Borden Project outside of Timmins is also a key component of our 20/20/20 plan. We also plan to invest about $300 million in the Coffee Project in the Yukon, a new geological district, which is expected to add about 200,000 ounces a year of production. We’re also focused on developing new opportunities through our NuevaUnión and Norte Abierto joint ventures in Chile. A key part of our plan is to drive down all-in sustaining costs from $850 per ounce to about $700 per ounce. Part of this will be achieved through economies of scale as we grow our annual production from 2.5 million to 3 million ounces, with the remainder coming from operational efficiencies. We saw great momentum in the first year of our 20/20/20 plan. Our all-in sustaining costs for 2017 were $824 per ounce, which was consistent with our midpoint guidance of $825 per ounce. We achieved nearly $200 million in efficiencies last year and are on track to deliver another $50 million in savings by mid-2018. One of our key objectives over the next four years is to grow our reserve base. We’ve made excellent progress in this area, having increased our reserves by 26% in 2017. Overall, we’re in a great position to comfortably deliver on our 20/20/20 plan. In early 2017, we rolled out a new plan “Beyond 20/20,” which outlines our plans for organic growth through our next generation of mines. This includes new opportunities from our NuevaUnión and Norte Abierto joint ventures in Chile, the Century project in the Porcupine District, Red Lake mine’s Cochenour project and our Borden project. Combined, we believe these opportunities place us in a good position for meaningful future growth. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 44 Strategy and Governance 5. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR GOLDCORP (I.E., FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? Our overriding goal over the long-term is to grow the value of our business by sustaining production in the three to four million ounce range from a portfolio of six to eight mines. We’re focused on improving the quality and value of our business, rather than on chasing volumes. We haven’t been shy about rotating our portfolio and are pleased with the portfolio we’ve assembled over the last year and a half. We sold non-core assets that weren’t really going to move the needle in terms of improving our production base or driving economies of scale. We reinvested that capital into new opportunities in the Yukon and Chile, both of which have great production potential. We currently have a portfolio that we see as core to the business. And our focus over the next five to ten years will be on making our assets more efficient by increasing production, reducing costs and growing reserves. On the sustainability front, we have developed a series of long-term sustainability goals through to 2021 and beyond. These goals will guide our efforts to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce, improve safety and health and continue to build positive relationships with local communities and Indigenous Peoples. The goals also cover environmental stewardship initiatives and improved standards for mine closure. 6. LOOKING BACK ON THE LAST TWO YEARS AS CEO, HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON? In the first year I was CEO, I had a strong focus on operations optimization, so as to ensure that, we could consistently achieve our objectives. We improved our operating discipline, divested of some assets, invested in cutting-edge technology to improve efficiencies and established a solid foundation from which we will be able to grow. We realized over a half billion dollars of proceeds from the sale of non-core assets and, as I mentioned earlier, deployed that capital into the Coffee project and into the Chilean Norte Abierto joint venture with Barrick. We think each has the potential to meet that District scale of 400,000 to 500,000 ounces of production per annum. We’re very focused on bringing forward our next generation of projects, which include the Century Project in the Porcupine District and NuevaUnión, our joint venture with Teck. So, it’s been a very busy, yet gratifying two years. We have a licence to grow from the market and are moving forward with our strategy to achieve long-term growth. 7. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING THAT WILL CHANGE THE WAY MINING IS APPROACHED, CONDUCTED AND PERCEIVED IN THE FUTURE? Virtually every area of mining is undergoing a technological seismic shift, and we’re leading the way in the adoption of innovative technology. We are commercializing three groundbreaking innovations that promise to change the face of mining in the 21st century: 1) EcoTails – We are testing EcoTails technology to drive down water usage, streamline waste management and reduce our carbon footprint. Essentially, we want to get the mining industry out of tailings, which are inherently risky. Developing and commercializing this technology will greatly enhance the mining industry’s social licence to operate. 2) Waste to Ore – Our waste to ore demonstration plant is now running at Porcupine mines. This plant uses sensor technology to determine which rocks have a higher probability of mineralization. An air knife then separates the individual rocks with grade from the remaining waste rock. This eliminates 20–30% waste coming up from going through the mill processes, lowering operational costs, reducing energy use and minimizing the footprint of waste products. 3) IBM Watson – Goldcorp is using IBM Watson to help uncover new exploration opportunities at Red Lake Gold Mines. Watson is significantly speeding up our ability to analyze information and test hypotheses. We are using Artificial Intelligence to identify new patterns in the data, highlighting areas for further investigation by geologists. In an industry that has been traditionally slow at adapting to new technologies, Watson has the potential to revolutionize exploration in mining. Another area that we’re very proud of is our sponsorship of #DisruptMining, the innovation accelerator designed to encourage the development and commercialization of new technologies and ideas to address some of the biggest opportunities and challenges in mining. 2017’s #DisruptMining challenge attracted more than 100 submissions of creative ideas and disruptive technologies that will benefit the entire mining industry. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 45 Strategy and Governance 8. WITH GOLDCORP’S FOCUS ON INNOVATION, WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR EMPLOYEES, JOBS AND BENEFITS FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES? HOW WILL GOLDCORP ENSURE THAT AN INCREASE IN INNOVATION WON’T MEAN A DECREASE IN JOBS AND BENEFITS FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES? Great question. Some people fear that jobs will decrease as innovation increases. I do not believe this will happen. I believe that by using new technology to reduce costs at our operations, we will be able to do more. New technology will help make our mines safer and more economic. By deploying technology to improve efficiencies and drive down costs, we’re making more reserves economic, so marginal deposits will now come into play. New models of operation will require new skills and training. This will entail retraining miners to operate new machinery and new technology or to work alongside and support automated systems. New processes, procedures and technologies bring with them new employment opportunities, which is very exciting for the current and future workforce. 9. RECOGNIZING THAT MINING IS A MALE-DOMINATED INDUSTRY, WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO INCREASE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION THROUGHOUT ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS? Currently about one-tenth of our staff is female. This statistic hasn’t really moved in the past ten years. It’s not just gender diversity that we need to focus on. We need to look at inclusion more broadly. We need to be a reflection of the societies in which we operate. This will require better recruitment practices at the entry level. Our internally run mining schools have started to attract more females to roles such as mine operators and the trades. We also make a concerted effort at all our operations to hire locally in order to create a workforce that truly reflects the makeup of the communities around them. This is a key component of our long-term sustainability strategy. Creating leaders of tomorrow in the mining industry starts at the grassroots. Future leaders have to come up through the ranks and learn the business from the bottom up, so it’s important to focus on inclusion and diversity in the recruitment process. A good example is Sophie Bergeron, Mine General Manager at Éléonore. If you look at her history as a mining engineer, mine captain, project manager, etc., she was the most qualified person for the job. She worked her way up through the company and earned her stripes. She demonstrated a fundamental understanding of the industry throughout her career, which led to her eventually achieving a senior management position. We need to recruit and retain a diverse group of people early in their careers who are willing to learn the ropes. That’s how you build a diverse and inclusive workforce. 10. WHAT KIND OF COMPANY DO YOU SEE GOLDCORP BECOMING IN 20 YEARS? My vision for Goldcorp over the next 20 years is that we will have grown a talent management system that will have cultivated long-term employees who will have decades’-long careers with us. We already have systemized talent management and succession programs. We are focusing on internal promotions for key positions. While other companies poach talent, we develop talent. Essentially, we’re working to build a company our employees are proud to work at so that we can continue to attract the best and brightest at all levels of the organization. We’re building a culture of continuous improvement at Goldcorp and are recognized as a leader in innovation. As part of this process, we are cultivating a generation of leaders with the skills and foresight to continue to build and operate a sustainable portfolio of assets that provide value to our employees, partners, shareholders and communities. In the communities in which we operate, we want to have a positive and lasting impact spanning generations. We want to elevate the opportunities available that improve standards of living and ensure that the business infrastructure we’ve developed continues in our communities long after we’re gone. That is the responsible thing to do today and in the future. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 46 Strategy and Governance GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY STRUCTURE As of December 31, 2017, the Board comprised of ten directors, each of whom were selected for their skills, experience and knowledge of the mining industry and various aspects of corporate governance and management. The Board fulfills its mandate directly and through its committees at regularly scheduled meetings or as required. Board committees currently consist of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, the Governance and Nominating Committee and the Sustainability Committee. All committees are independent of management and report directly to the Board. More details on our Board and its functions can be found in our Management Information Circular. INDEPENDENCE In 2017, two of the ten Board members were not independent as defined by Canadian and USA securities laws: Mr. David Garofalo and Mr. Ian Telfer were not independent, as Mr. Garofalo was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Goldcorp and Mr. Telfer had an employment agreement with Goldcorp for his continued service as Chairman. The independent directors frequently met as a group when there was a scheduled Board meeting. Additional information on Board independence is available in our Management Information Circular. QUALIFICATIONS AND EVALUATION ON PERFORMANCE The Governance and Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for identifying and recruiting new candidates for nomination to the Board. The committee develops and recommends a long-term plan for Board composition to the Board for approval. This plan is updated annually. The committee is also responsible for providing new directors with an orientation and education program, and for facilitating ongoing director education. The Board conducts annual effectiveness evaluations of the performance of the Board, the Chairman, the committees and the individual directors. The Governance and Nominating Committee annually reviews and makes recommendations to the Board regarding these evaluations . Further information about the nomination, selection and evaluation process of the Board and its Committees can be found in the Governance section of our website and in our Management Information Circular. Listen to our Board member and Chair, Sustainability Committee, Clem Pelletier on the importance of leaving a positive legacy at https://youtu.be/AsMJpIskaAg. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 47 Strategy and Governance ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS At Goldcorp, we recognize the importance of strong and consistent engagement with our shareholders. We have policies and processes in place that ensure we understand and, when appropriate, address shareholder concerns. Our “Shareholder Engagement and Say on Pay Policy” is reviewed by our Board annually and is aligned with the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance model policy on Engagement with Shareholders on Governance Matters. For further specifics regarding our shareholder engagement please see our 2018 Management Information Circular. ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS EVENT WHO ENGAGES DETAILS Non-deal roadshows, Directors and senior We engage with institutional investors throughout the year to provide meetings, calls and discussion management public information on our business, operations and sustainability initiatives and to receive feedback on our governance processes and executive compensation. Quarterly conference call Senior management We engage with the investment community to review our most recently and webcast released financial and operating results. Guidance news release Senior management We release this to the media, usually in early January, to report on our financial outlook for the coming year and to provide an overview of business operations and strategies. News releases Senior management We report on any material changes with respect to our company throughout the year through these media releases. Broker-sponsored conference Senior management We speak at industry investor conferences about public information on our business and operations. Investor Day Senior management We invite select Goldcorp investors and analysts to attend this event at the beginning of the calendar year. We make live webcasts and presentations available on our website. Meetings, calls and Investor relations We engage with brokers and retail shareholders to address any discussions shareholder-related concerns and to provide public information on our company. Regular meetings Directors We hold these with shareholder advocacy groups, such as the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance, to discuss governance issues. Regular meetings Senior management We hold these with the Pension Plan of the United Church of Canada and The Presbyterian Church in Canada to discuss governance issues. Shareholders and employees may communicate directly with our Board of Directors by telephone, email, mail and/or at our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. For more information on how to contact our Board, please visit our website or see our Management Information Circular. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 48 Strategy and Governance OVERSIGHT OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is overseen by the Board of Directors’ Sustainability Committee. The primary function of the Sustainability Committee is to review and monitor the sustainable development, environmental, health and safety policies and activities of Goldcorp on behalf of the Board. Members of the Sustainability Committee are independent. The full text of the Sustainability Committee’s terms of reference is available at www.goldcorp.com. In 2017, the Sustainability Committee considered, reviewed or approved the following matters: MATTERS CONSIDERED, REVIEWED OR APPROVED BY THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE AREA ACTIONS Policies and standards Oversaw the release of and reviewed the 2016 Annual Sustainability Report. Oversaw the management of the Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Incident reviews/Health and Safety Received quarterly updates on health, safety and sustainability. Received 2016 Safety and Health Annual Report. Received 2017 Marlin safety verification audit. Reviewed and discussed our safety and health strategy for achieving Zero Fatalities. Mine visits and updates Traveled to the Éléonore, Musselwhite, Peñasquito, and Cerro Negro mines and the Coffee project. Scheduled proposed visits to the NuevaUnión and Norte Abierto projects, and the San Martin and Marlin closed sites. Received presentations concerning current and future dam raises at the Peñasquito tailings dam. Committee operations Approved amendments to the Sustainability Committee Terms of Reference. Received updates on corporate social responsibility, reclamation and environmental matters. Conducted annual self-evaluations. For more information on our oversight of sustainability, please see our Management Information Circular. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 49 Strategy and Governance EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Our long-term corporate strategy is central to all of our business decisions, including decisions respecting executive compensation. We endeavour to provide our shareholders with superior returns while maintaining our company-wide commitment to safe, responsible mining and sustainability excellence. Our compensation programs are designed to attract, motivate and retain diverse, high-calibre executives and align their interests with superior and sustainable performance over the long-term in a manner that is fair and reasonable to our shareholders. The following key principles guide the development of our compensation programs: Goal 1: ALIGNED TRANSPARENT Pay for performance Goal 2: Align interests of management STRATEGIC COMPETITIVE with shareholders Goal 3: RISKRESPONSIVE Attract, retain SENSITIVE and inspire key talent Aligned – The use of equity-based incentives and share ownership guidelines aligns executives’ long-term financial interests with those of our shareholders, and encourages behaviour that drives sustainable long-term performance. Strategic – By linking short-term and long-term incentive compensation to our company performance through stretch performance targets, we attach rewards to the successful execution of our business strategy. Competitive – The use of the Pay Comparator Group ensures we understand the external market for talent, informing how we design our programs to help us recruit and retain experienced, diverse and high-calibre executives in the competitive mining industry. Transparent – By being transparent, we seek to ensure that executives and shareholders understand the following our executive compensation programs: their objectives, mechanics and the compensation levels and opportunities provided. Risk-sensitive – Designing compensation programs that support our Enterprise Risk Management system helps to ensure that management is focused on generating sustainable shareholder value within a risk managed environment. Responsive – By emphasizing operational performance measures that are directly influenced by the prices of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, we tie our executives’ compensation to the fluctuations of commodity prices and our performance delivered against that backdrop, further strengthening the connection to our performance. The Board recognizes that executive compensation practices and policies are evolving in Canada as well as globally. It undertakes an annual internal review to ensure our practices and policies are effective in achieving our objectives. Since 2012, we have provided shareholders with an advisory “Say on Pay” vote regarding our executive compensation program. This vote helps us engage constructively, obtain meaningful feedback and ensure accountability for executive compensation. For more information on executive compensation and the governance role of the Board’s Human Resources and Compensation Committee, please see our Management Information Circular. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 50 Strategy and Governance BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Acting ethically and with integrity is fundamental to one of our values – Being Responsible. Over the years, we have worked hard to ensure that an ethical culture resides in the way we conduct every aspect of our business. CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct (the Code) outlines the guiding principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by all employees, officers, directors and third parties who work for, or on behalf of, our company. The principles in the Code summarize what we expect from our workforce and provide valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. Aspects of the Code include but are not limited to: compliance with the law, prevention of conflicts of interest, respect in the workplace, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, third-party compliance and oversight, anti-competitive practices and zero tolerance for fraud. Through a combination of in-person and online training – supported by structured awareness and communication campaigns – we make every possible effort to ensure that everybody working for, or on behalf of, our company clearly understands the principles that must be followed while doing their job. For example, in 2017, we presented the first Ethical Leadership award to recognize an employee who went above and beyond his job responsibilities to promote ethical behaviour within his workplace. Also, given our focus on safe production, a video message making a clear connection between acting ethically and being Safe Enough For Our Families was developed and shared companywide. These are examples of how we ensure our employees relate to and understand the principles included in our Code. We review and update the Code every three to five years to ensure it remains current and relevant to the business and regulatory environments in which we operate. The Code was last updated and approved by the Board in 2014 and the next review will take place in 2018. In 2017, the reports-to-employees ratio was 1.52 reports (including queries and requests for guidance) for every 100 employees1, compared to an average of 1.4 across all industries, as stated by NAVEX Global’s 2017 Ethics and Compliance Hotline Benchmark Report2. The level of ethics and compliance awareness at Goldcorp is reflected in the number of Code of Conduct concerns and inquiries escalated through our available reporting channels. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Goldcorp’s Code emphasizes the importance of transparency and outlines the steps to disclose potential or actual conflicts of interest that may arise in the ordinary course of business. SANCTIONS AND FINES In 2017, we did not receive significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations that prohibit restraints of trade, unfair practices, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and abuses of economic power. In addition, in 2017, we did not receive any reported fines that on an individual basis exceeded US$100,000 for health and safety, employment and corporate social responsibility matters. For further information on environmental fines and sanctions, please visit the Compliance section, under Environmental Stewardship. Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading: Our obligations under the provisions of securities laws and stock exchange rules relating to the disclosure of material information are guided by our Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy, which ensures that we and all persons to whom this policy applies meet their obligations regarding the timely disclosure of all material information. 1 Includes full-time contractors. 2 Ratios are estimated and relate to full time employees; ratios do not include contractors. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 51 Strategy and Governance MANAGEMENT OF FRAUD AND CORRUPTION RISK Our commitment to acting with integrity includes not engaging in or tolerating fraud or corruption. We invest time and resources to create awareness about acting with integrity. This means clearly defining the expectations we have for employees and third parties who work with us regarding ethical behaviour. 100% of our business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption during the reporting year. In addition, corruption risk is re-assessed on a quarterly basis as part of our Enterprise Risk Management process. We take an integral approach to fraud and corruption risk management. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program is a combination of the following elements: (i) preventive (e.g., structured training and third party vetting/due diligence, clear policies and monitoring of employee awareness); (ii) detective (e.g., recurrent detection data analytic procedures) and (iii) reactive (e.g., an effective ethics reporting process that constitutes an important component of the company’s control environment). Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program is complemented by: a system of internal controls over our financial reporting process; our entity-level controls and transactional controls (e.g., such as delegation of financial authority for expenditures, transaction authorization requirements, segregation of duties and information technology security). The Code of Conduct and our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy are foundational to our compliance program. In 2017, we continued placing significant effort on anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance. Highlights include: • We delivered in-person Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption training to the senior management team and to supervisors and managers at our operations located in jurisdictions assessed as high risk. • We trained and recertified the following individuals/groups on the company’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy: third party business partners and service providers who may or do interact with the government on our behalf. • We continued strengthening our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program’s effectiveness through recurrent transaction-based detection efforts and structured third-party onboarding due diligence. • We completed Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA) report. ESTMA requires extractive companies to disclose certain types of payments made to governments relating to extractive activities. We introduce all employees to our anti-corruption policies and procedures during their onboarding process. We place a special communication focus on those whose roles pose a higher level of risk. During 2017, we rolled out an updated course that combines our Code of Conduct and Human Rights training, which we offered to our “online” employees (i.e., employees with permanent access to a computer as part of their work responsibilities). During 2017, a separate and stand-alone online training specifically focused on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption was also rolled out to a risk-based determined targeted audience, reaching a completion of 96%. 100% of the contractors and vendors on-boarded during 2017 went through our risk-based third party due diligence process. We undertake periodic, formal and stand-alone anti-corruption risk assessments which are complemented by our Enterprise Risk Management process. This process provides a well-structured avenue to escalate significant risks to senior management and, as applicable, to the Board. All reports of alleged fraud received during 2017 have been resolved or are currently under active investigation. We have zero tolerance for fraud and corruption and in cases where fraud allegations are confirmed, the individual(s) and/or entities involved face disciplinary measures that could include termination of employment or contract and criminal and/ or civil liability as applicable. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 52 Strategy and Governance ETHICS COMMITTEE In order to address Code matters in a timely, unbiased and appropriate manner, we have an internal Ethics Committee that oversees the Ethics and Compliance program. Our Ethics Committee is a multi-disciplinary group of corporate employees and officers chaired by our Executive Vice President and General Counsel. The Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review the ethics-related cases/complaints received, discuss external enforcement trends and regulatory changes and monitor the progress of the company’s annual Ethics and Compliance plan. The Ethics Committee’s responsibilities are outlined in the committee’s charter and the fulfillment of these responsibilities is subject to an annual self-assessment. Quarterly, the Audit Committee of the Board receives a written Ethics and Compliance report covering the topics outlined above. ETHICS TRAINING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING The preventive element of our Ethics and Compliance program includes delivery of structured training to our workforce and consistent awareness efforts, as well as monitoring of the effectiveness of our overall preventive efforts. In addition to our standard new hire onboarding program, in 2017, we delivered in-person ethics and compliance training at three different locations, completed the global annual Code of Conduct refresher and certification training and delivered an in-person anti-corruption refresher to the global senior management team. Towards the end of 2017 as part of the bi-annual supplier re-certification process, we also delivered live anti-bribery and anti-corruption refresher training to our agents and service providers that interact, or may interact with government entities representing, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. Our annual Code of Conduct training and certification process is mandatory. Employees are required to review key topics of the Code through an online training module (refreshed every year) and then re-certify compliance. In Q4 2017 when the course was rolled out, over 3000 employees and contractors from the target population (e.g., employees with permanent access to a computer) enrolled in the course and re-certification. We will report the completion rate in our 2018 Sustainability Report. Every two years, a similar approach is taken in relation to our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. During 2017, over 900 employees completed the bi-annual Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption online training. These employees were selected following a risk based approach. PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY We believe that we can contribute to the development of sound public policy by providing accurate information on our mining activities. To achieve this, we participate in government outreach related to the mining industry. Some of the public policy campaigns we participated in during 2017 include: Ontario’s Red Tape Review; Pan Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate; Canadian Impact Assessment Act and Ontario’s 2017 Long-Term Energy Plan. Throughout the policy submissions, we called for a fair and transparent regulatory regime, supported a price on carbon with the proceeds being invested back into the economy and a provincial electricity system that maintains competitiveness in Ontario. CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES In keeping with our commitment to engage responsibly with the communities in which we operate, we have a standalone Political Contributions Policy. In 2017, prior to amending our policy to prohibit all political contributions, we made a contribution of approximately CAD$1,200 to the Yukon Party. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 53 Strategy and Governance ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) The nature of our business and the competitive environment in which we operate requires some level of risk-taking to achieve our strategic objectives and create growth and shareholder value. A company-specific operating framework has been developed to better protect and enhance shareholder value. A WELL-OPERATED ERM FRAMEWORK ENABLES US TO: Protect existing value Deliver projects on time Adapt to the changing and assets and on budget environment and minimize financial, reputational and legal impacts Meet internal and external Inform strategic Improve organizational commitments decision-making, prioritize efficiencies and maximize activities and allocate opportunities with our resources effectively stakeholders The primary focus of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process is the identification and assessment of significant risks and the implementation of suitable risk responses. The process includes top-down and bottom-up risk identification and assessments from operations, projects, subject matter experts, and management and functional leads; application of standardized risk assessment criteria in terms of likelihood and consequence and development of risk treatment strategies. On a quarterly basis, significant risk information from these and other sources is consolidated and reviewed through Site/Regional Risk Calls, which involve an assessment and discussion of internal and external risks. Internal risks are identified primarily by operations management during the planning and forecasting process and also through other forums such as risk workshops and SEMS audits. External risks emerging from environmental, social, political and economic issues where we operate are identified primarily through a country-level risk assessment process. However, some external risk, such as cyber-security and workplace respect, are identified through other risk management activities. All risks are revisited and updated regularly to ensure that the previous risk assessment is still appropriate and risk impact and likelihoods are updated where applicable. Significant risks are consolidated and reviewed with senior management and then reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. The full Board is entrusted with the responsibility of overseeing the significant risks to which our business is exposed and ensuring that there are processes in place to effectively identify, monitor and manage them. A significant risk is one that, if it were to occur, could materially impact our ability to meet or support our business objectives. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 54 Strategy and Governance The Board delegates responsibility for the execution of certain elements of risk oversight to Board committees to ensure appropriate expertise, attention and diligence. The committees oversee their relevant risk areas and report to the Board regularly. This oversight responsibility includes the procedures and programs implemented to mitigate risk and the allocation of adequate resources to address risk. Management is responsible for ensuring that the Board and its committees are kept well informed of changing risks. INPUTS Sources of risk information and inputs into the risk governance structure Site/Project Level Risk Review Identify, assess, mitigate and monitor/ communicate site level risks Allocate resources Review and escalate risks to the next RISK OPERATIONS FUNCTIONS EXTERNAL level of management WORKSHOPS RISKS Projects, Quarterly Risk Oversight Quarterly Sustainability, Updates and Follow-up Tailings, etc. Standards Flow of risk information Risk Aggregation Review, monitor and aggregate risk insight SITE/REGIONAL RISK Country Risk across multiple sites/locations CALLS Assessments Filter intelligence to sites Escalate risks to senior management Political and Other External Risks (targeted risk intelligence) Executive Risk Management Review and discuss consolidated risk for ERM MEETINGS WITH Corporate validation and mitigation SENIOR MANAGEMENT Development Escalate risks to the Board Oversight/Governance Oversee management Define risk appetite BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ensure risk framework is in place Quarterly ERM Updates Be aware of significant risks In 2017, the Risk Integration Project was initiated to update the company-wide risk governance processes and implement a centralized online risk-management tool. This tool allows us to gather a more comprehensive list of risks from different participants of the Risk Management process. It also allows us to rank them according to their impact on Goldcorp, the stakeholder or the receiving environment (i.e., employees , environment and communities). In 2018, the Risk Integration Project will continue with a focus on ensuring collaboration with internal functions, formalizing risk management standards and implementing target risks rankings. As well, an ERM Committee to oversee risk management governance and resourcing across the company will be implemented. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 55 Strategy and Governance Several topic-specific risk assessments were carried out in 2017. These are discussed further in the table below.1 SELECTION OF TOPIC-SPECIFIC RISK ASSESSMENTS CARRIED OUT IN 2017 # OF SITES EXAMPLES OF POTENTIAL RISKS RISK ASSESSMENT ASSESSED PURPOSE OF ASSESSMENT IDENTIFIED Tailings Risk Assessment 5 Identify and analyze conditions or events Uncontrolled process water discharge associated with our tailings facilities that could impact communities, the environment and/or the safety and health of our workforce. Projects Risk Assessments 6 Identify and analyze risks associated with Lack of properly skilled people projects that could negatively affect the project’s success or our company. Safety Risk Assessments All Identify, analyze and build an inventory of Equipment falling into open holes, resulting risks and associated controls used to in a fatality manage the potential consequences for all locations. Site Risk Assessments All Analyze existing risks under new Corporate Various operating Risk Matrix methodology for input into sites Centralized Risk Management Tool. THE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE The precautionary principle states that when an activity raises threats of harm to the environment or human health, precautionary measures should be taken, even if some cause-and-effect relationships are not fully established scientifically. We adopt a risk-based approach to business development. Prior to their implementation, new projects (and upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations) undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impact. For new projects, this is usually in the form of an impact assessment, in which the existing (baseline) conditions are described, the proposed project is outlined, potential impacts (both positive and negative) are pinpointed and modifications and controls are identified to minimize potentially adverse impacts. Provision is made in the assessment process for public consultation and input. We are committed to engaging in consultations with potentially affected host communities prior to making significant development decisions, regardless of any legal requirement to do so. For upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations, the level of assessment is commensurate with the potential impacts of the proposed change. 1 This list includes the risk assessment where the Corporate ERM team was involved in 2017; thus it is not exhaustive. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 56 Strategy and Governance STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CASE STUDIES GOLDCORP’S INNOVATION STRATEGY Companies today are facing increasing pressure to rethink all aspects of their operations in order to manage more effectively, boost productivity, improve safety and operate in a more environmentally sustainable manner. Deloitte’s 2017 mining trends report highlighted the need for miners to unlock productivity through innovation and digital thinking: going beyond driverless trucks, sensors and advanced analytics to reduce cost, streamline equipment maintenance and prevent safety incidents. New technology such as drones, real-time modeling and geo-coding are driving the next wave of productivity gains. Mining lags behind other industries in its digital maturity. Increasing the pace of technological innovation and adoption represents a massive opportunity to fundamentally reshape our business, optimize all aspects of our operations and drive net asset value (NAV) growth. We are already successfully applying many integrated digital solutions throughout our operations, but we need to do more to leapfrog us into the next generation of mining. “Our innovation strategy is to develop and harness new technologies to improve results in three key areas: exploration, safety and operational efficiency,” says Todd White, our Chief Operating Officer. “The key to productive, radical innovation at Goldcorp is getting the right information to the right people at the right time.” In addition to embracing innovation to improve efficiency and drive productivity, we are playing a leadership role in developing new technologies to advance our sustainability efforts by reducing water consumption and energy use, helping secure stronger societal support for our projects. As part of our Innovation Strategy, we are targeting new technological opportunities in six areas, covering every stage of the mining life cycle, from exploration and development to operations and reclamation: • Big Data and Machine Learning: Unlike traditional computer systems, which are programmed by people to perform fixed tasks, cognitive computing systems, leveraging AI, have the ability to learn through their interactions with both data and humans. This has been taken a step further at Goldcorp with IBM Watson. Watson, which is being piloted at our Red Lake Gold Mines, is using the following technologies and methods to enhance exploration geology: • Cloud Computing (IaaS and PaaS) • Advanced Data Warehousing • Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) Acceleration • Three-Dimensional Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI) • Machine Learning • Deep Learning • Neural Networks • Computer Vision • Virtual and Augmented Reality: Microsoft’s HoloLens virtual and augmented reality (VAR) technology promises to take mine planning and virtual interaction to a whole new level. The HoloLens projects three-dimensional digital images into one’s field of view as if it were appearing before them in real life. This technology will enable mining professionals to communicate and collaborate from remote locations by visualizing and interacting with high-definition holograms of the mine. To more accurately define ore tonnage and grade, VAR users can interact with and manipulate holographic images to visualize mine design, a bench in a pit or a block model. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 57 Strategy and Governance • The Connected Miner: The Internet of Things, cloud computing and mobile solutions are enabling the connected mine of the future. Connectivity is the technological backbone of the 21st century mine; it improves communication, response, and productivity. Creating a mobile-enabled workforce supported by digital identification, tracking and monitoring of personnel and equipment – as we have done at our Éléonore mine for Ventilation on Demand technology – is just the beginning. • Autonomous Mining Operations: Driverless trucks connected wirelessly, as well as remotely monitored autonomous drilling, mucking and hauling operations removes workers from hazardous environments boosting safety and providing more reliable, efficient operations, consistent with the results we are starting to achieve at Red Lake and Peñasquito. Watch a video of Epiroc autonomous drills at our Peñasquito mine: https://youtube/9LCiXDWML3s. • More Sustainable Mines with Smaller Environmental Footprints: As a sustainable company, we are committed to finding new ways to reduce our environmental footprint through greater use of renewable energy and carbon neutral equipment. Our Borden Gold project is set to become the first modern day all-electric mine in Canada, dramatically reducing GHG emissions and improving worker safety and health. Filtered/dry tailings and a concerted effort to drastically reduce fresh water use in mine operations underpin our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) strategy. One aspect of tackling the challenge is our new EcoTails technology representing a giant leap forward in tailings management. • Operations and Reclamation: Advanced data collection and real-time analytics improve insight-based decisionmaking and continuous optimization – from mine planning and preventative equipment maintenance right through to production and reclamation. At Goldcorp, planning for mine closure starts long before the mine even opens. Analytics, simulation monitoring and enhanced three-dimensional technologies are essential supports for geotechnical, hydrogeological and geochemical modeling. They ensure that a reclaimed mine site is structurally sound and leaves behind a positive sustainable legacy. This is the approach we’re taking in closing the Marlin mine, where we’ve already used 3.2 million cubic metres of filtered tailings mixed with cement to create an engineered structure in a seismically sensitive area, where drought and floods alternate with the seasons. • Safety and Environmental Re-Engineering: We will continue to advance our use of smart sensors and monitoring to improve safety and enhance preventative maintenance as part of our tailings stewardship program. At Equity Silver, a customized automated monitoring system using radio monitoring stations, digital cameras and strategically-placed sensors and prisms capture: real-time information on water levels, the structural integrity of the dam and other important parameters that ensure dam safety and reliability. Virtually every area of mining is undergoing a technological seismic shift. At the forefront of the innovative transformation of mining are disruptive technologies – groundbreaking new technologies that replace existing technologies and shake up an industry. Our #DisruptMining challenge has catalyzed accelerated innovation. Helping to bridge the gap between mining and technology, #DisruptMining has encouraged new ideas, generated new opportunities and tackled problems more efficiently. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 58 Strategy and Governance IBM WATSON: GAINING NEW EXPLORATION INSIGHTS THROUGH ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Our Exploration and Technology groups have been working with IBM since 2017 to determine how the Watson cognitive computing platform can improve our mineral exploration program (IBM Watson has already been successfully-deployed in the Oil and Gas and the Medical industries). Starting at Red Lake Gold Mines (RLGM), Goldcorp and IBM are now jointly-creating the first-ever Watson Mining and Exploration platform. At RLGM, we have over 140 Block Models, 80 years of drill data logs, and thousands of maps and other data. Of the time spent using data, 80% is spent searching for and manipulating the data. Our goal is to empower our geologists to be more efficient at what they are trained to do, which is to analyze the data to provide strategic opportunities for the business. In 2017, we completed Phase 1 of IBM Watson Mining and Exploration. This phase was focused on constructing the foundation. In order to provide new insights, we ingested complex, structured three-dimensional data from a wide range of sources – including drill logs and geological and block models – along with unstructured data. In 2018, we are completing Phase 2. Our goals for this phase are: • Empowering exploration geologists to locate key information and insights in a fraction of the time (compared to traditional methods); • Providing the ability to ask new questions of data, unlocking new insights; • Making material improvement in historical and future data quality. Our stretch goals are: • Identifying new correlations in the data; • Fostering the ability to analyze other datasets, resulting in different conclusions; • Improving predictions on areas with sparse data; • Identifying new zones of mineralization. Predicting deposits more accurately could: increase the success rate for discovering new reserves at existing sites; make drilling more focused and productive, reducing the cost of adding to reserves; and allow for more accurate assessment of the asset value of acquisitions. Learn more by watching our video found at, https://youtu.be/Ij7pTSPk48A. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 59 Strategy and Governance OPTIMIZING SAFETY AND PERFORMANCE THROUGH ACCENTURE’S CONNECTED MINE The accelerating use of internet-enabled remote devices, sensors, predictive analytics and machine learning in the mining industry is providing companies with unprecedented insight into their operations. While the Internet of Things (IoT) enables better utilization of assets and improved decision-making, many companies face the problem of consolidating the data collected from different systems and vendors into one cohesive reporting and control system. As a result, valuable data collected from remote devices is sometimes relegated to “production silos,” rather than incorporated into a company-wide monitoring and reporting platform. Over the last five years, we have been working with Accenture and other technology service providers to develop a digital roadmap to consolidate the flow of information, improve visibility and optimize workflows, productivity and safety. Accenture works closely with our other service providers to integrate different technology components into a central platform for monitoring, reporting and gaining more responsive control of mine operations. Creating a connected mine, enabled by cloud and IoT technology, provides mine supervisors and head office personnel from multiple sites with real-time visibility and control over the entire production chain. “A connected mine uses the concept of ‘data agents’ to capture source information from sensors and devices, then transfers that information into a cloud platform,” says George Long, Accenture’s Senior Manager, Digital Transformation in Mining Projects. Once in the cloud, we employ data analytics utilizing Microsoft Azure IoT Suite to create a digestible and accessible dashboard of vital information. The system also sends alerts to notify our staff when something in the mine deviates from the norm or needs attention. Accenture’s Digital Twin module test applies “What If” scenarios in a virtual environment to identify the risks and rewards of emerging trends. Machinery scheduling and maintenance, fatigue monitoring and drill and blast enhancements are just a few of the operational areas that benefit from actionable insight and foresight made available when these predictive analytics and machine learning algorithms are applied to real-time and historical data. “It is a planning tool enabling the company to determine the next best action it should take based on what’s happening today,” says Horacio Vergara, Managing Director of Natural Resources at Accenture Mexico. “This can range from running blasting scenarios to integrating automation. It provides miners with more in-depth training experience by allowing them to see the expected outcome when a change is made to a specific process.” Luis Canepari, Goldcorp’s Vice President, Technology, believes the biggest impact a connected mine concept will have is in the area of safety. This was the focus of Accenture’s Life Safety Solution (ALSS), which we installed at our Cerro Negro mine last year. ALSS is a wireless-enabled, multi-gas detection system that helps protect workers in potentially hazardous environments. The communications and data infrastructure at Cerro Negro, developed collaboratively with Industrial Scientific, Cisco and AeroScout, integrates Wi-Fi and location-based technologies with multi-gas detectors to remotely monitor people, equipment and air quality in the underground mine. The project involved the installation of a fibre optic network underground along with the adaptation of a Wi-Fi Mesh network. This meant placing multiple wireless mesh nodes throughout the mine that “talk” to each other. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 60 Strategy and Governance “Having data and telephony services inside the mine allows for more fluid communication and data exchange when needed. This helps planning and operations personnel to quickly share information from their respective work sites to make timely decisions,” states Canepari. The most notable improvement has been in risk reduction. Previously, standard operating procedure involved waiting two hours after blasting before re-entering the mine to check air conditions. Now, the ambient conditions within the mine is known immediately, reducing downtime and improving productivity considerably. Canepari adds, “A connected mine solution is just the beginning. Goldcorp is embarking on a Digital Transformation journey to make us more efficient and safer. I’m really excited to be part of it.” Watch Luis Canepari in Accenture’s Voice of Transformation video: https://youtube/oaQo4jIzfAo. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 61 Empowering Communities. Building Capacity. Communities Through our vision, Together, Creating Sustainable Value, we strive to generate enduring value for and with local communities – value that lasts beyond the operating life of our mines. We value our stakeholder relationships and adopt an approach that is based on mutual benefit, open dialogue, trust and respect for human rights, including the rights of Indigenous Peoples. CASE STUDIES COMMUNITY RESPONSE LOCAL EMPLOYMENT PEÑASQUITO SUPPORTS THE SYSTEMS IN PRACTICE: ASSESSING IN PEÑASQUITO OPENING OF LA PLAZA THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR SEE PAGE 100 COMMUNITY SQUARE NEW COMMUNITY RESPONSE SEE PAGE 102 SYSTEM ASSESSMENT SEE PAGE 99 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 62 Communities HIGHLIGHTS WE CONTRIBUTED 96% OF SECURITY PERSONNEL APPROXIMATELY US$9.94 MILLION IN CASH underwent training on the Voluntary Principles, which included both Goldcorp Security personnel and and US$6.98 million in-kind to local communities. Community contract security personnel. contributions include donations, community investments, sponsorships and infrastructure investments. 75% OF EMPLOYEES 36% OF GOODS AND SERVICES were drawn locally and regionally, with 24% recruited were purchased locally and regionally, accounting for more nationally and 1% recruited internationally. than US$700 million of spending. We updated our community contributions strategy by refining our focus areas with the aim of aligning them with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Global Compact. We increased our focus on the intended impacts of our contributions. We held a two-day global Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) workshop attended by our CSR personnel from our six operating mines, three of our projects, one closed site and our corporate offices. The goals of this workshop were to strengthen our community of practice by sharing experiences and lessons learned and to plan for 2018. Our Éléonore site piloted a new grievance mechanism to facilitate meaningful conversations with our stakeholders. Due to the successful pilot, we will work with other sites to undergo similar processes. Our Red Lake and Peñasquito mines created new local employment strategies to promote economic growth and offer more opportunities to the communities closest to the mines. INSIGHTS FROM: ACHIEVEMENTS MATERIAL TOPICS BRENT BERGERON SEE PAGE 7 SEE PAGE 31 SEE PAGE 66 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 63 Communities MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS There is an increasing expectation and need for companies to not only improve transparency but also play a proactive role in ensuring developmental, societal and environmental benefits for all. As a part of this companies are being urged to be active participants in global initiatives such as the implementation and achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. This expectation and need results in heightened attention on all companies, especially those with a global reach and larger scale. Additionally, extractive industries, including mining, face additional scrutiny due to the negative history some may associate with our industry. Governments, society and stakeholders are demanding more from companies and have an expectation of responsible social performance and sustainable development initiatives from industry. To increase our transparency, as well as to gain and maintain both the trust of our stakeholders and a social licence to operate, we must go beyond following national and industry regulations: We must understand and respond to a wide range of issues that matter to our stakeholders. As well, we must build respectful relationships with all parties involved in order to address concerns and create mutually beneficial opportunities. Early, meaningful and ongoing engagement has become a standard best practice, with particular attention paid to the rights of Indigenous Peoples, human rights, water and land access, environmental protection, local economic development, jobs and the creation of sustainable local benefits. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders expect us to minimize our negative social and environmental impacts and maximize benefits through long-term partnerships with local communities and Indigenous groups. Often, before any impacts are realized, what people want most is information. Communicating how we work is a critical step and must continue throughout the life of a mine. This means we must engage with communities early and understand their concerns and Have comments on why priorities. We have consistently heard that local communities want us to invest our approach to Local in local, sustainable development, and to contribute to development objectives Communities is important through local hiring, local procurement and community contributions. They want us to integrate respect for human and Indigenous rights throughout our to you? business and in everything we do. SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? Building strong and respectful community partnerships is foundational to our success. Our staff and local communities are often one and the same. We often source from and work with local businesses. We are constantly aware that we operate on land that is of great importance for local populations, and they entrust us with its careful stewardship. Without community support, we cannot operate safely and sustainably. In the short term, having strong, proactive engagement with communities ensures continuous operation. Over longer-term horizons, our operations can also be a catalyst for enduring sustainable development in surrounding regions, providing mutual benefits for us and the communities in which we operate. Understanding and addressing stakeholder concerns is essential to our ability to mitigate our impacts and identify positive opportunities to build sustainable value. Building strong, lasting relationships with local communities can improve our ability to single out and manage risks and to identify opportunities. It can also help facilitate successful longer-term operations. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 64 Communities OUR STRATEGY Our focuses are to generate value for our stakeholders, build strong partnerships through active engagement and make positive and long-lasting contributions in the communities where we operate. Our strategy builds on our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standards to focus on three pillars: Sustainable Stakeholder Relationships, Sustainable Economic Benefit and Human Rights. The foundation of this strategy is an integrated approach to risk management for all three pillars. TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE Sustainable stakeholder Sustainable Human rights relationships economic benefit INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT, BUSINESS PLANNING AND ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL LEARNING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our management approach to sustainability, corporate social responsibility and human rights is led by our Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability with specific accountability assigned to the Corporate Director of Corporate Social Responsibility. Additionally, each of our operations has sustainability managers and CSR/community relations teams. Hear our Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability, Brent Bergeron, share what it means to be a leader in sustainability at https://youtu.be/wfMmhkAY-vM. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 65 Communities INSIGHTS FROM: BRENT BERGERON Talking Sustainability and Community Engagement with Brent Bergeron, Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION THAT COME TO MIND? There were numerous highlights during the year, but one area that we’re particularly proud of is the leadership role Goldcorp played as a catalyst for positive change in the global mining industry. Our involvement with the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) and the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) facilitated this achievement. We worked closely with MAC on the evolution of its Toward Sustainable Mining initiative (TSM), which commits participating companies to undertake climate change related actions consistent with the Government of Canada’s responsibilities under the Paris Climate Change Accord. We were instrumental in encouraging the adoption of TSM by the Mining Association of Argentina. In the past three years, four other countries – Finland, Spain, Botswana and the Philippines – have adopted TSM for their mining sectors, establishing a new international standard for safe, sustainable and responsible mining. At our operations, we’ve continued to elevate our sustainability performance Have a question for Brent? through innovation and partnerships. This is particularly significant at our SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Borden and Marlin mines, which are at different stages of the mine life cycle. Borden, the world’s first all-electric underground mine, required customized battery-powered equipment that had never been used before and which was a development challenge we undertook in partnership with our suppliers. We also worked closely with the Government of Ontario to help meet the province’s climate change obligations and fulfill their cap-and-trade requirements. Borden is our blueprint for the mine of the future, and for that reason it is being closely watched by companies around the world. At Marlin in Guatemala, which ceased production in May 2017, we worked closely with local communities to ensure the region would continue to benefit long after mine closure. This included constructing an award-winning flood protection spillway, building miles of paved roads, strengthening education programming and providing clean water for communities. The Marlin mine reclamation work is complete, but we will be on site for the next ten years, monitoring reclaimed areas and providing any required maintenance. The success of both these projects underlines how addressing broader societal issues is best achieved through partnership, consultation and cooperation, and illustrates our commitment to creating sustainable value. 2. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE CHALLENGES IN 2017? WHAT DID THE COMPANY LEARN FROM THEM? In early 2017, our Coffee project team submitted a project proposal1 to the Yukon Environmental and Socio-Economic Assessment Board (YESAB) for review, an essential step for the project to move to a full environmental assessment. Following the submission, YESAB notified us that it was interrupting the assessment process, stating that we had not met our obligations to adequately consult with the Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in, Selkirk First Nation and the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun. In response, the Coffee team worked diligently to reach out to affected First Nations communities, provide additional information on the project proposal and address their concerns. We submitted an updated project proposal to YESAB in Q4 2017. This experience taught us a valuable lesson about the risks and implications of moving faster than the speed of trust, getting ahead of ourselves, and we have committed to improving our engagement and consultation practices with host communities and First Nations to build lasting and mutually-beneficial relationships in our operating areas. 1 According to YESAB (http://www.yesab.ca/submit-a-project/): “A project proposal for a Designated Office evaluation contains information about the proposed project, where it will be located, how it will be accomplished, when it will occur and other information that will be considered by the assessor when conducting an evaluation.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 66 Communities 3. THE AREA OF SUSTAINABILITY – IN PARTICULAR, SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – IS CONTINUALLY EVOLVING. WITH GREATER DEMAND FOR INCREASED TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY, WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO ENSURE BEST PRACTICES ARE MAINTAINED THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY AND ITS LOCATIONS? There’s no doubt that the demands for transparency and accountability have increased over the years. Comprehensive sustainability reporting and disclosure provides our stakeholders with a better understanding of our business, particularly the opportunities and challenges we are facing and how we’re responding. It’s also important for us internally to identify, manage and measure key sustainability metrics – aligned with our corporate culture – that can be embedded into our day-to-day operations. We continue to raise the bar for ourselves, and this internal accountability also helps us continue to meet market and community expectations. In 2017, we implemented our Sustainability Performance Index (SPI). Throughout the year, we focused on establishing a baseline of sustainability performance that we can build upon. The SPI provides our management team with valuable insights into the day-to-day management of key sustainability activities and behaviours. We made considerable progress in our sustainability efforts over the year and expect continuous improvements at each of our sites. As we examined the results of our efforts, we see that site personnel are now more engaged with each other. They are sharing their experiences, their successes and their challenges, and they are challenging each other to do better. While our SPI is tied to longer-term goals and objectives, it measures sustainability performance on a monthly basis. Complementing our SPI, we have also developed longer-term sustainability goals, which are integrated into our 20/20/20 plan. These goals provide further opportunities to improve performance, which will in turn help us build even greater credibility and trust among our shareholders and partners, as well as among the communities where we operate. 4. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE AFFAIRS FUNCTION (I.E. FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? Our longer-term goals, which take us beyond 2021, revolve around leadership, partnerships, safety and innovation. Through our sustainability initiatives, we are striving to create better and safer working environments for our employees, reduce our overall carbon footprint, gain stronger societal support and approval for our projects and ultimately create value by providing lasting benefits for communities in our operating areas. Sustainability is about more than investing in infrastructure and environmental mitigation measures: It’s also about investing in people and communities. One of our primary long-term goals is to increase the level of participation by Indigenous communities in our projects through strategic partnerships. This includes working with Indigenous youth to improve their vocational and leadership skills. We recognize that our diversity numbers are not where we want them to be, so we are focused on building a more inclusive workforce that genuinely reflects the population of our host communities. Health and safety are also of paramount importance to our company. By deploying smart, clean technology in our mines, our objective is to create safer working environments, remove employees from hazardous locations and continue towards zero injuries by driving down our AIFR. We have made great strides forward in pioneering new sustainable technologies to reduce fresh water consumption, such as EcoTails. We plan to collaborate with other companies and industries on innovative approaches that move us closer to zero fresh water use. Our goal is to continue to reduce our water footprint by reusing and recycling more water at our sites and eventually by eliminating the use of wet tailings. We’re committed to elevating environmental standards for mine closure and reclamation. Our intent is to incorporate reclamation considerations into every stage of the mining process – for new and existing mines – with the aim of leaving an environmentally-sound landscape that can be used in perpetuity. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 67 Communities 5. LOOKING BACK ON THE LAST FIVE YEARS, HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON FROM A SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE AFFAIRS PERSPECTIVE? I’m extremely proud of the progress the company has made over the past five years. We experienced successful growth and have tackled numerous substantive issues such as embracing smart technology to reduce our carbon footprint, making our mines safer, rising to the challenge of reducing water and energy use, building stronger working relationships with First Nations, communities and governments, and publishing our human rights assessment. Overall, in the last five years we have shifted our mindset and adapted to the new realities of the mining industry. It’s no longer good enough for companies in our industry to see themselves as simply mining businesses that produce gold. Instead, we need to step back and consider how we are going to best work with all the communities where we operate to deliver benefits that contribute to our collective well-being. This new reality has driven home the essential role of consultation and collaboration in a modern mining operation. Every community has its unique culture, values and aspirations. We don’t pretend to have all the answers. The only way to earn and maintain our social licence to operate is by working with the community so that residents have a better understanding of what we want to achieve, how we intend to get there, and the targets and the benchmarks we will set for ourselves. This, in turn, helps us better understand what the community’s expectations are from us in terms of protecting the environment and contributing to their socio-economic well-being over the long-term, so important issues and opportunities can be addressed collectively. 6. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING FROM A SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE AFFAIRS PERSPECTIVE THAT WILL CHANGE THE WAY MINING IS APPROACHED, CONDUCTED AND PERCEIVED IN THE FUTURE? We believe that innovative technology is the key to finding safer, more efficient and more environmentally friendly ways to unlock mineral value. Finding new and better ways to operate is a significant challenge facing all mining companies, and we have a shared responsibility to find workable solutions to these challenges. It means developing and sharing technological breakthroughs. It involves working in tandem with governments – rather than being regulated into compliance – to help them meet their climate change and environmental commitments. It also entails forging closer ties with our community partners to get a better understanding of their concerns and objectives for sustainable development. This also applies to our supply chain. In some cases, we’re putting new processes in place that require technology that hasn’t been developed yet, as was the case with Borden. We’ve formed working partnerships with various suppliers to develop and adapt cutting-edge technology to advance our operations. Another example of this action is at our Red Lake mine, where IBM’s Watson supercomputer is helping improve our exploration results. Unfortunately, some industries still view sustainability as something that’s just “nice to do.” As a strategic priority, sustainability needs to be backed by a strong financial business case that is focused on creating measurable, enduring value, making the workplace safer and improving environmental performance. This is how we approach it at Goldcorp. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 68 Communities 7. GOLDCORP HAS BEEN AN EARLY SUPPORTER OF THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs). WHY ARE THE UN SDGs IMPORTANT TO GOLDCORP, AND WHAT PROGRESS HAS GOLDCORP MADE IN ADOPTING THESE GOALS? The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), launched in September 2015, set ambitious targets for all nations. They focus on three key areas of human development: eradicating poverty, protecting the planet and advancing prosperity by 2030. We were an early adopter of the UN’s SDGs because we recognized the inherent value of these long-term goals to both the industry and society at large. Many of our sustainability initiatives are already in lockstep with these SDGs. All our projects, for example, include infrastructure improvements such as roads, access to clean drinking water and funding for schools and hospitals. These provide developmental benefits that exceed the advantages they bring to the mining projects themselves. Our local procurement policies contribute to economic growth and development. Along with other initiatives that protect biodiversity and assist in the reduction of our carbon footprint, our focused efforts to reduce water use through our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision help address water scarcity issues. Still, there’s a lot more that needs to be done. Successful implementation of the SDGs will require hard work and collaboration among various players. There’s a great opportunity to work with governments at all levels, other industries and the private sector to develop a comprehensive approach to addressing the issues the SDGs aim to confront. We are committed to playing an active role in achieving the SDGs. Moving forward, we are evaluating the best areas of focus so that we can have the most pronounced impact, and we are developing a strategy to align this work throughout our organization. 8. SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUES TO GAIN IMPORTANCE AMONG STAKEHOLDERS, COMMUNITIES, COMPANIES AND BOARDS. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO ENSURE SUSTAINABILITY WILL PROVIDE LASTING VALUE FOR THESE GROUPS? There are a number of ways we demonstrate how we are delivering on our sustainability commitments. Accountability permeates all levels of our company. At the organizational level, accountability is an integral part of our Sustainability Performance Index (SPI). It was first added to our company scorecard in 2017 and is included in all annual performance reviews, all the way to the senior executive level. We find that when leaders are held accountable for their sustainability performance, it reinforces the importance of sustainable practices throughout the organization and encourages participation by all employees. At the community level, maintaining open, honest, and continuous dialogue with community leaders, residents, First Nations and others is the best way to gauge whether we are hitting the mark and meeting expectations. Infrastructure improvements, support for social programs, economic opportunities and environmental initiatives must closely dovetail with a community’s goals and aspirations. Building constructive working relationships so that we can work towards achieving common goals requires a concerted effort on everyone’s part. Some of the best ideas that contribute to sustainability performance come from connecting with our peers and cross-collaborating with other industries and governments, both locally and globally. Amongst others, we participate in different working groups of the World Economic Forum. In this way, we are able to engage industry leaders, showcase our successes, learn from each other’s mistakes and bring new ideas to the forefront that help make a meaningful difference locally and globally. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 69 Communities 9. GOLDCORP IS A MEMBER OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF MINING & METALS (ICMM) AND THE MINING ASSOCIATION OF CANADA (MAC). WHY IS IT IMPORTANT FOR GOLDCORP TO BE PART OF THESE EXTERNAL INITIATIVES? WHAT DOES GOLDCORP HOPE TO ACHIEVE BY BEING INVOLVED IN THESE ORGANIZATIONS? Quite simply, you can’t be a force for positive change in the industry unless you have a seat at the table and the ear of decision makers. Active involvement in industry organizations such as ICMM and MAC enables us to advance and promote best practices for safe, sustainable and responsible mining on a global scale. While it’s important for Goldcorp as an industry leader to demonstrate the highest level of sustainability compliance, we also have an obligation to ensure these same high standards are adopted by mining companies around the world. I’ve served as chair of ICMM’s Environment and Society committee for the past two years. During that time, we have advanced several prominent aspirational goals to encourage best mining practices and more stringent sustainability standards. We have also addressed key challenges, such as meeting the UN’s SDGs. It’s important to be part of the international conversation in order to improve compliance levels and proactively address prevailing issues. As producers of minerals and metals, our industry is a few steps removed from the consumer. Our collective involvement in organizations such as ICMM and MAC helps promote a better understanding of mining’s integral contribution to society and the transformational changes that have taken place within the industry to make it more sustainable. This is essential to gaining support for what we do so that we can earn and maintain our social licence to operate around the world. 10. WHAT KIND OF COMPANY DO YOU SEE GOLDCORP BEING IN 20 YEARS? We want to continue to be seen as a responsible, respected and progressive mining company – one that is welcomed into new communities. To maintain that level of trust we need to continue to challenge the status quo, moving away from traditional ways of doing business. This means continuing to integrate ground-breaking technologies into our operations to reduce energy use, minimize water consumption, improve workplace safety and increase efficiencies. We also want to strengthen ties within our host communities, building up existing partnerships with Indigenous communities, governments, NGOs, suppliers and others to generate new ideas for and approaches to environmental, economic and social sustainability. Finally, we want to ensure we are leaving a positive legacy for future generations by consistently upgrading standards for mine reclamation and rehabilitation at all our sites. This is our roadmap for the future; it ensures that we deliver on our commitments and continue to have a positive impact on everyone involved with or affected by our operations. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 70 Communities SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS FOR COMMUNITIES At Goldcorp, we recognize that we have an important opportunity and business imperative to contribute to the positive social and economic development of our host communities and countries. This is why we are working to create sustainable value – long-term social and economic benefits that extend beyond the life of the mine and ensure that communities are in a more advantageous position as a result of our presence. Our mines generate and distribute direct economic value through local employment, local procurement and investments in community programs and infrastructure. Our approach incorporates local hiring and procurement initiatives where possible, including training, educational programs, internships, apprenticeships and small business support and development. It also includes direct cash and in-kind contributions made locally through donations, community investments, sponsorships, partnership agreements, sustainability funds and infrastructure investments. We also contribute through the payment of taxes and royalties to various levels of government in the communities and regions in which we operate. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED1 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED IN USD (OPERATING COSTS, WAGES & ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED IN BENEFITS, COMMUNITY USD (DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CONTRIBUTIONS, GENERATED LESS ECONOMIC COUNTRY GENERATED IN USD (REVENUE) GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS) VALUE DISTRIBUTED) Argentina $609,520,485 $272,154,299 $337,366,186 Canada $1,274,822,527 $875,068,697 $399,753,830 Guatemala $87,011,504 $63,637,984 $23,373,520 Mexico $1,399,757,472 $836,968,340 $562,789,132 Total $3,371,111,988 $2,047,829,320 $1,323,282,668 SUSTAINABLE VALUE Wages and salaries Job creation and smallFinancial support for paid to employees business development community development, and contractors in surrounding communities including capacity building and towns Payments to suppliers for Direct voluntary payments Upgrades to local goods and services to local communities infrastructure 1 This table covers our four operating sites in Canada, one in Mexico, one in Argentina and one in Guatemala (which transitioned into closure during 2017). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 71 Communities LOCAL EMPLOYMENT In accordance with our SEMS, all our sites seek to hire local employees to fill job openings wherever possible. Our human resources and community relations teams collaborate to create and implement hiring strategies with the goal of maximizing local labour and reaching the local skills base. We train skilled and unskilled local community members, including employees in a range of mine-related jobs. We partner with local institutions to support scholarship and apprenticeship programs and deliver technical training. We also offer leadership and mentoring programs for employees looking to advance their careers internally within the organization. In 2017, Red Lake Gold Mines (RLGM) developed a new Local Hiring Strategy to further promote economic growth within the Municipality of Red Lake and with local First Nation communities. The purpose of the strategy was to increase the number of employees who move to Red Lake for employment and work on a local shift schedule. This strategy responded to community concerns about the growing number of employees who resided in locations outside the community in which we had our site and who were flying in and out of the site on a rotational basis; this reduced the economic benefit for the municipality. The local hiring strategy was communicated throughout the community by means of stakeholder meetings and directly with employees at the mine site. As a result of this strategy and effort, 106 new employees were hired in 2017 on a local shift schedule. This represents 100% of the new hires at RLGM in 2017. This strategy has received positive feedback from all stakeholders of the mine including the Municipality of Red Lake, Lac Seul First Nation, Wabauskang First Nation, RLGM employees and local business owners. This strategy has proven to communities and stakeholders that we remain a responsible, communityminded and sustainability driven company. Similarly, in 2017 Peñasquito carried out a local employment strategy – including job fairs, press releases, a recruitment strategy and a training program – to offer more opportunities to the residents living closest to the mine. See our case study, Local Employment in Peñasquito. LOCAL EMPLOYMENT STATISTICS AT GOLDCORP In 2017, 75% of employees were drawn locally and regionally, 24% were recruited nationally and 1% was recruited internationally. LOCAL EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYEES (%) LOCAL REGIONAL NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL OPERATING REGION 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Canada 59% 52% 53% 31% 36% 35% 10% 12% 12% 0% 0% 0% Latin America 41% 47% 25% 28% 25% 39% 28% 28% 35% 2% 1% 1% Total 47% 50% 39% 29% 30% 36% 22% 19% 24% 2% 1% 1% The percentages of local, regional, national and international hires at our Canadian sites in 2017 remained consistent with those in 2016. In 2017, our Marlin mine transitioned into closure, and we sold our Los Filos mine. These two changes in our reporting scope account for the decrease in local employment seen in Latin America from 2016 to 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 72 Communities LOCAL EMPLOYMENT BY SITE 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Cerro Negro Éléonore Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake International 1 0 0 0 0 0 National 36 27 9 33 1 12 Regional 36 49 65 42 11 15 Local 26 24 26 24 88 73 In 2017 we employed a total of 66 senior managers (department head or above) at our operating sites. Of these, 82% are nationals of the country in which the mine is located. OUR AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGE RATIO We routinely pay entry-level wages that are significantly higher than the local legally mandated minimum wage in the areas in which we operate. In 2017, Goldcorp’s mine sites paid entry-level employee wages for both men and women that were an average of 2.3 times the minimum wage in Canada, 2.9 times the minimum wage in Mexico and 3.7 times the minimum wage in Argentina. INCOME PER CAPITA AND AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGE1 (USD) RATIO OF OUR ENTRY-LEVEL WAGE TO RATIO OF OUR ENTRY-LEVEL WAGE TO COUNTRY LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE (MALE) LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE (FEMALE) Argentina 3.7 3.7 Canada 2.3 2.3 Mexico 2.9 2.9 1 Average based on the wage of all Goldcorp employees. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 73 Communities LOCAL PROCUREMENT Our presence in the regions in which we operate can attract and create business opportunities. Understanding the importance of providing both local benefits and local capacity building opportunities, we strive to preferentially engage and support local services at each of our operations, as well as work closely with local businesses to help increase their capacity and grow their businesses. As part of our overarching local procurement approach, our SEMS requires that sites establish local procurement strategies, while our Commercial Practices, policies and procedures provide additional sustainability considerations and help us manage supply chain risk. Realizing the importance of a diverse local employment base, we champion current and aspiring entrepreneurs by creating local business development funds. These funds provide support to local entrepreneurs on projects in the areas in which we operate. In 2017, 16% of goods and services were purchased from local sources, accounting for more than US$320 million of spending. Local is defined by the site’s social area of influence, which is composed of real and potential impacts as well as regulatory requirements. The graphic below summarizes some of the examples of the goods and services we procure from the local communities near our mines. COMMON LOCAL GOODS AND SERVICES PROCURED LOCALLY Catering and food Cleaning and Communications and Welding, fabrication services janitorial services photography services and electrical services Automotive parts Land and air Accommodations and services transportation Hardware and Uniforms and First aid, medical and construction personal protective safety supplies and supplies equipment services 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 74 Communities SPEND ON LOCALLY BASED SUPPLIERS BY SITE1 REGIONAL (STATE/ SITES LOCAL PROVINCE) COUNTRY INTERNATIONAL GRAND TOTAL % LOCAL Cerro Negro $43,394,201 – $143,220,139 $14,043,253 $200,657,593 21.6% Éléonore $144,575,771 $82,673,557 $35,396,091 $3,238,072 $265,883,491 54.4% Musselwhite $42,719,165 $75,292,973 $11,482,506 $8,494,070 $137,988,714 31.0% Peñasquito $11,818,581 $19,691,802 $830,529,867 $154,117,508 $1,016,157,758 1.2% Porcupine $59,818,183 $96,195,427 $24,581,504 $5,556,775 $186,151,889 32.1% Red Lake $18,808,535 $114,166,916 $30,045,505 $1,017,164 $164,038,119 11.5% Total $321,134,435 $388,020,675 $1,075,255,612 $186,466,842 $1,970,877,564 16.3% EXAMPLES OF LOCAL PROCUREMENT AT OUR MINE SITES: Musselwhite: Ojijakoes Community Development Corporation (OCDC) was developed by the community members of North Caribou Lake First Nation in the late 1990s to provide support services to Musselwhite mine. It provides several services to Musselwhite mine which include but are not limited to the following: • Industrial Janitorial Services • Exploration Support, Core Cutting • Warehouse Support • Security Support OCDC focuses exclusively on employing members of the North Caribou Lake First Nation and other community members that are signatory to the Musselwhite Agreement. Recently, OCDC has put a new Board of Directors in place and is evolving its business strategies to ensure sustainability post mine closure. Porcupine: Niiwin Inc., which began operating in 2016, was set up jointly between the four signatory First Nations (Mattagami, Matachewan, Wahgoshig and Flying Post) that are part of the Resource Development Agreement with Porcupine Gold Mines. Each nation owns 25% of Niiwin Inc. The services Niiwin provides include ore haulage between Hoyle Pond mine and Dome Processing Plant as well as reclamation activities, janitorial and security services. Red Lake: Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund was incorporated within the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement between Red Lake Gold Mines and Lac Seul First Nation, and funding was put forward by Goldcorp to support local entrepreneurs from the Lac Seul community. The first Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund application saw a successful Tim Hortons franchise built in Sioux Lookout, a few hours south of Red Lake. Cerro Negro: In late 2017, a “Local Entrepreneurs Contest” was put together with Fundación Iniciativa and the municipality of Perito Moreno. A workshop on business ventures launched the contest and provided the participants with the opportunity to acquire tools to further develop their new ventures. Participants were offered training and financing. The month-long contest received a total of 23 applications, from which eight winners were selected. The assessment criteria included innovation of the products or services offered, management experience, sustainability considerations in areas such as social and environmental impact, safety and return on investment potential. 1 Local is defined by the site’s social area of influence which is composed of real and potential impacts as well as regulatory requirements. These definitions were updated for Cerro Negro, Éléonore and Musselwhite in 2017. Numbers are based on invoiced spend registered in our centralized accounting system. Values are for goods and services and exclude employee costs, taxes, community contributions and agreement payments. 2017 was the first year we applied standardized methodology in defining goods and services procurement across the sites for the purposes of the Sustainability Report, allowing for more consistent and accurate consolidation of information. Value spent reported in the sustainability report does not follow GAAP accounting procedures and will not be reconciled with Goldcorp’s financial reporting. The scope of this data does not include the spending at the Coffee or Borden projects. The Regional value for Cerro Negro is not included as it is equal to the “local” value reported. Cerro Negro defines “local” as the Province of Santa Cruz. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 75 Communities The judging panel included members from Fundación Iniciativa, Goldcorp Cerro Negro and Perito Moreno City Hall. The first-place winner was Puntadas Peritenses, a local provider of professional clothing for the mining industry and the municipality. With their prize money, they plan to purchase more machinery to increase efficiency. Their goal is to reduce costs while keeping the same level of quality currently offered so that clothes are affordable for more people. The business was created by six women with sewing experience. CONTRIBUTIONS TO AND FROM GOVERNMENT We operate in multiple countries and jurisdictions around the world and are subject to various rules regarding contributions to and from government. We are committed to fully complying with the regulatory reporting requirements in the areas in which we operate. Our main contributions to Government are taxes. Some of the taxes we pay, such as corporate income tax and mining taxes, vary with mineral prices and profitability, while other taxes we pay are fixed and so do not fall as profits decrease. In 2017, we paid approximately US$201 million in income taxes. Further information regarding taxes and payments to government is available in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2017. Included in our commitment to acting ethically and to fulfilling external reporting requirements in compliance with: Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA); Quebec’s Bill No. 55, An Act Respecting Transparency Measures in the Mining, Oil and Gas Industries; and our global Government Payments and Contributions Policy. This policy dictates how we identify, approve and report on payments and contributions made to government entities and/or government officials (“government payees”) globally. This policy covers both “routine” and “non-routine” payments and contributions to government1. For information about our ESTMA disclosure, please refer to our 2017 ESTMA report at www.goldcorp.com. TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVES We actively support the objectives of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the World Gold Council (WGC), among other initiatives that support transparency in payments to government. We have sites in Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Argentina, Chile and the Dominican Republic. Of these countries, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Guatemala have implemented the EITI. In 2017, we continue to record payments according to the EITI standards. To learn more about our commitment to the EITI, please visit https://eiti.org/supporter/goldcorp. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Government financial assistance includes grants, subsidies, or rebates received from governments. In 2017, we received CAD$11.1 million in rebates2 from Ontario’s Northern Industrial Electricity Rate Program (NIER), which assists Northern Ontario’s largest industrial electricity consumers to reduce energy costs, sustain jobs and maintain global competitiveness. This program is part of the Ontario Government’s plan to strengthen the economy and support a dynamic and innovative business climate that attracts investment and helps create jobs. We also received rebates from one of our government utilities in Ontario, which funds up to CAD$200,000 per site to advance energy management programs. The Government of Ontario, through its Target GHG Program, will invest CAD$5 million into the Battery Electric Vehicle fleet at the Borden Gold Project. In Quebec, we received a CAD$3.4 million rebate to advance energy efficiency initiatives. We do not have any direct joint venture relationship in which any government holds a position of shared ownership. However, we do on occasion have state-owned institutional investors (for example, public pension funds). 1 Routine payments include taxes, royalties and published rates/fees. Our focus in 2017 was to implement systems required to meet our external commitments, as well as to align our disclosures on information related to payments to governments, including taxes. 2 The NIER rebates were paid out between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 76 Communities COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS Community contributions support our vision of creating sustainable value by enhancing social and economic development opportunities and creating a lasting, positive impact in the communities in which we work. Our community contributions include donations, sponsorships, sustainability funds and investments made in and/or with local communities, stakeholder groups and partners. These contributions support our strategic objectives, benefit communities and aim to build trusting relationships. Community contributions extend beyond taxes, procurement and hiring to include meaningful projects and programs that enhance social and economic development, support the global United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and create lasting benefits and value beyond mine closure. In 2017, we implemented a number of activities to improve the way we approach community contributions. These reflected a shift from traditional philanthropy to a more strategic approach to investing locally and included: • We replaced our Donations Policy with a Community Contributions Policy that can be found at www.goldcorp.com. • We updated our internal standards to include a required analysis of the value of all funding requests and potential projects according to their planned impact on the community and on the company. • We enhanced our internal reporting system to better articulate the outcomes and impacts associated with our community contributions. • We developed a Community Contributions Application Form to increase external accessibility to our funding opportunities and to standardize the information we collect and process. A copy can be accessed at www.goldcorp.com. • We expanded our subject focus areas to include the following categories: a) Education, b) Health, c) Local Economic Development, d) Arts, Culture & Recreation, e) Diversity, f) Governance and g) Environment. • We aligned these new categories of contribution with the global United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to support their implementation and enhance our commitment to the UN Global Compact. • We created an enterprise-wide Community Contributions Strategy template. This helped us develop site-level strategies for investing in communities that respond to locally-identified goals and priorities and also support our strategic objectives. As we continue to change the way we approach our community contributions, we will continue to be more strategic and deliberate about leaving a lasting impact in the areas in which we operate. Our focus next year will be on improving our reporting of our community contribution impacts. To evaluate the impact of our contributions, we will continue to work closely with community partners and funding recipients to identify, monitor and report back with the outcomes and impacts of all our community contributions and initiatives. Total cash community contributions amounted to approximately US$9.94 million in 2017.1 In-kind contributions were valued at roughly US$6.98 million. The table below provides a snapshot of our community contribution focus areas, as well as some highlights from some of our 2017 contributions. Learn more about our 2017 community contributions from our Porcupine Gold Mine (PGM), by watching https://youtu.be/GkMArNRtuq8. 1 Community contributions refer to pre-allocated/committed/contractually obligated contributions and discretionary contributions including: donations, community contributions, infrastructure investments, legacy/ sustainable funds, business investments and sponsorships. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 77 Communities COMPANY-WIDE COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS IN 20171 TOTAL OUR INTENDED IMPACTS GENERAL EXAMPLES SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF SDG2 CONTRIBUTION FOCUS AREAS AND OUTCOMES ACROSS GOLDCORP NOTABLE INITIATIVES ALIGNMENT (USD) Education • Increase access to and/ Scholarships, school Peñasquito implemented $1,206,280 or quality of primary and access for remote areas, their multi-year secondary education teacher training, literacy educational initiative programs, field trips, aimed at benefitting local • Increase access to and/ internships, research/ elementary and secondary or quality of college or program funding, school children. The university programs partnerships with initiative includes a • Support the educational institutions science and sport program development of for primary and secondary educational school students, a infrastructure and/or scholarship program and improve educational an entrepreneurship and resources or equipment technical skill-building program. Peñasquito partnered with Technoserve to deliver these programs. Health • Increase access to and/ Hospitals, clinics, rural Cerro Negro partnered $1,248,532 or quality of healthcare access to physicians and with the local Perito facilities, equipment specialists, healthcare Moreno District Hospital and/or services staff training, medical to enhance the quality of equipment, health services and care. In 2017 • Support community and/ campaigns, crisis support the mine supported a or workplace health variety of healthcare areas programs including prenatal and • Participate in response post-natal care and to and recovery from equipment, neonatal epidemics and/or intensive care, an health hazards extension of the hospital to accommodate additional doctors and offices, a new medical room and administrative offices, among others. Local Economic • Enhance the local skills Technical, vocational and Musselwhite mine $1,704,297 Development base through vocational small business programs, supported the First training, apprenticeships apprenticeships, business Nations Natural Resources and skill development acumen workshops, Youth Employment programs homeless shelters, food Program (FNNRYEP). This banks, breakfast programs local, community driven • Promote initiative works towards entrepreneurship and equity and opportunity for the formalization and Indigenous youth using growth of micro, small natural resource and medium sized management as a enterprises platform to focus on • Address poverty developing work skills, life alleviation and hunger skills, and encouraging youth to achieve an adult life of prosperity, self-sufficiency, and personal growth. 1 Contribution values in this table represent the total reported community contributions in each subject focus area. They add up to approximately US$9.94 million in contributions that was transferred to local communities in 2017. 2 https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/UN-Guidelines-for-Use-of-SDG-logo-and-17-icons-December-2017.pdf 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 78 Communities TOTAL OUR INTENDED IMPACTS GENERAL EXAMPLES SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF SDG2 CONTRIBUTION FOCUS AREAS AND OUTCOMES ACROSS GOLDCORP NOTABLE INITIATIVES ALIGNMENT (USD) Arts, Culture & • Promote sports and Community centres, local We partnered with the $1,473,361 Recreation recreational activities sports activities, tourism, tenth North American programs/infrastructure Indigenous Games (NAIG), • Preserve local cultural of traditional & cultural held in Toronto July 16–23. sites, traditions and importance, art programs, The NAIG is an Olympicheritage festivals, celebrations style competition for • Promote community art, Indigenous youth from tourism and festivals Canada and the US featuring traditional sports and a gathering of 5,000+ Indigenous Peoples in North America. More than 30 youth from our First Nation partner communities at Coffee, Red Lake, Musselwhite and Éléonore participated as athletes and competed in a variety of sports including wrestling, basketball, volleyball and dance. We were a proud supporter of the NAIG, as a sponsor of the overall Games as well as through mine site sponsorships of local First Nation athletes and teams. Diversity • Promote inclusivity and Apprenticeships, Our Corporate office $457,424 equitable opportunities scholarships, skills supported the InnerChange for women and/or training, inclusivity Foundation, with the goal underrepresented programs, shelters, of improving the health groups or minorities medical facilities, outcomes of British mental health services, Columbians living with • Support initiatives aimed community events addictions and related at skill development for (aimed specifically at mental health challenges. women and/or women and/or minority We also continue to underrepresented groups) partner with the Special groups or minorities Olympics BC to support • Support programs and year-round sport and youth services aimed programs, empowering specifically at the health competitions, health and (physical and mental) of leadership programs, and women and/or social change for underrepresented individuals with intellectual groups or minorities disabilities throughout the province. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 79 Communities TOTAL OUR INTENDED IMPACTS GENERAL EXAMPLES SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF SDG2 CONTRIBUTION FOCUS AREAS AND OUTCOMES ACROSS GOLDCORP NOTABLE INITIATIVES ALIGNMENT (USD) Governance • Support increased Roads, sewers, water Cerro Negro contributed $1,385,599 capacity of government management, energy to the expansion of the departments and offices natural gas infrastructure to ensure critical network in Perito Moreno services are delivered to to support the municipal communities government in meeting the needs of the town’s growing population. Twenty-five additional homes were connected to this gas network, reducing pressure on the power grid and driving significant operating cost reduction (particularly heating costs) for those families. The construction of the infrastructure finished in 2017 and the local government in Perito Moreno now manages and maintains this natural gas network. Environment • Environmental crisis Participatory water Porcupine mine partnered $2,461,244 response monitoring, reforestation, with the Mattagami First crisis support Nation Micro Hatchery, • Environmental projects/ allowing students the initiatives in ability to monitor collaboration with approximately 25,000 communities walleye eggs until they hatch. The Mattagami First Nation Chief and Council believe it is important for children to recognize the need to enhance the population of a species that the community relies on throughout the year. Total $9,936,736 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 80 Communities STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We are committed to building relationships based on transparency and trust with all impacted stakeholders. Aiming to tailor our engagement to each stakeholder and the context, our engagement can take various forms, and may range from providing information to consultation and shared decision-making. To see an example of our stakeholder engagement watch our video, Peñasquito Open Doors – Puertas Abiertas at https://youtu.be/Mqe8DO_pbXs. APPROACHES TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our goal is to create mutually beneficial partnerships within the communities in which we operate. We actively seek out partnerships with stakeholders, specifically local communities, government, civil society and non-governmental organizations that share our values, vision and goals. Local site management, along with the support of corporate CSR teams, are responsible for identifying and prioritizing topics related to our sites, as well as Have comments on our engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders to stakeholder engagement discuss these topics. This is a continuous process and regular monitoring for activities? effectiveness is required by our SEMS. SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Stakeholder engagement occurs throughout our mining life cycle. We ensure that we engage with stakeholders from start to finish: from the project phase, through exploration activities, to mine development and operations and into closure. In 2017, our engagements were at the forefront of our all our activities including the new projects we acquired and, the operations we closed and divested. We work hard to ensure our stakeholder engagement process provides: • Relevant, accessible, culturally appropriate and timely information; • Safe channels for stakeholders to express their views; • Mechanisms for incorporating relevant feedback into our decision-making processes. In all engagements – whether it is an informal face-to-face with a local community member, a formal committee meeting with agreement signatories, or as a follow-up on concerns via our community feedback mechanisms – we aim to act in a manner that is: • Inclusive; • Accessible; • Adequately resourced (including training); • Culturally and contextually specific; • Participatory; • Timely and long-term; • Credible, open and transparent; and • Responsive to feedback. We use a variety of formal and informal mechanisms to engage with communities and contribute to their sustainable development. In 2017, five of our sites (Cerro Negro, Peñasquito, Éléonore, Porcupine and Musselwhite) updated their social area of influence maps to better define their Social Area of Influence (SAI), also called the “local area.” Defining the SAI is very important as it is used to determine an operation’s responsibilities. It also provides guidance on the areas within which impacts need to be managed, on which stakeholders should be engaged and where sustainability initiatives can be implemented. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 81 Communities Using the information contained in their area of influence maps, Musselwhite completed a social context assessment, which expanded on the information in their map by providing key social information such as the types of stakeholder groups, the local social issues, the political climate and the potential environmental impacts of the mine. Stakeholder identification maps are the product of a systematic approach, often linked with the site’s area of influence. They help us identify stakeholders that may be directly affected by our operations, whether from the use of land, the effects of air and water emissions, the transportation of hazardous materials or the socio-economic effects of employment and business opportunities that our mines generate. In 2017, 100% of our operations had stakeholder identification maps to help identify who we should engage with on specific topics. Six of our sites (Red Lake, Éléonore, Musselwhite, Cerro Negro, Peñasquito and Marlin) had formal engagement plans based on these maps. They used this information to inform them about which sustainability initiatives could be funded and implemented within their social area of influence. We recognize that there may be vulnerable groups within the communities where we operate who could be disproportionately impacted by, or less able to benefit from, our activities because they may be marginalized and/or historically disadvantaged and disempowered. Our engagement planning is designed to involve vulnerable groups within the communities where we operate in decision-making and socio-economic development opportunities. We aim to achieve this through a variety of methods, such as emails, phone calls, scheduled meetings and interactions with the community. Representatives from all our operations meet regularly with local stakeholders and have programs to contribute to community development through mechanisms, such as community contributions and local hiring and procurement initiatives. ADDRESSING STAKEHOLDERS’ QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS We pride ourselves on the benefits we aim to bring to the communities in which we operate, such as employment, training and investments in community initiatives. However, we also recognize that our mining activities may have potential negative impacts. Effective engagement with local communities is our primary way to identify and mitigate concerns about impacts. Key issues discussed through our engagement include issues related to environmental concerns, land use, access to local employment and economic development opportunities, and pressures on local services and infrastructure. Through these discussions, together with our stakeholders, we identify mitigation and monitoring steps to respond to, and address, these concerns. Depending on the context and site, we tailor our engagement and communication activities to reach vulnerable or hard-to-access groups. We have incorporated an assessment of stakeholder vulnerability into the social impact analysis during the grievance logging process. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 82 Communities The table below summarizes our engagement approaches by stakeholder and common topics/issues of concern raised through engagement: SUMMARY OF OUR ENGAGEMENT APPROACHES BY STAKEHOLDER AND COMMON TOPICS/ISSUES OF CONCERN COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Civil society NGOs, political • Face-to-face Monthly to Senior • Human and Indigenous At Cerro Negro, and nonparties, unions, engagements quarterly management, rights regular engagement governmental religious corporate, with union leaders • Public • Employment organizations organizations regional and occurs to discuss meetings opportunities (NGOs) site-level schedules, wages, • Telerepresentatives, • Economic development and other employee conferences depending on concerns. • Education • Social media topic • Health and safety • Environmental protection • Physical impacts of operations (water usage, blasting and dust) • Impacts on personal property • Land usage • Mine closure planning Government Federal, • Face-to-face Weekly to Senior • Resource access Our corporate and provincial, meetings annually management, regional offices • Environmental municipal corporate, engage with • Industry protection or local regional and governments, conferences governments site-level • Taxes and royalties industry and other • Regulatory representatives, • Economic development stakeholders where engagement depending on appropriate to processes topic • Water and energy facilitate the projects mining sector’s • Public meetings, tele• Workforce contribution to conferences development national sustainable development • Newsletters • Hazardous materials strategies. handling • Job creation Communities Residents, • Site tours Daily to annually Site-level CSR • Employment Porcupine actively neighbours, teams opportunities engages local • Public general public stakeholders in engagements • Economic development Timmins through the (open house • Education Porcupine Watchful events) • Health and safety Eye Committee and • Face-to-face the Hollinger Project meetings • Environmental Advisory Committee. protection These are both • Community Response • Physical impacts of community mechanisms operations representative groups that work with the • Newspapers, • Impacts on personal mine to help us radio, property understand and newsletters • Land usage, access and recognize the • Above Ground compensation requirements, blog and expectations and • Mine closure planning social media concerns of all • Community needs stakeholders involved • Goldcorp assessments in Porcupine’s website activities. • Engagement surveys 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 83 Communities COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Indigenous First Nations • Face-to-face Daily to annually Corporate, • Land rights At Musselwhite, Peoples tribal councils, engagements regional and Red Lake, Éléonore • Education traditional site-level and Porcupine, joint • Agreement leadership, representatives • Employment and committees – implemenIndigenous from CSR and career development comprising members tation governments Corporate • Cultural heritage from Goldcorp and committees Affairs the signatory • Community • Indigenous community – are roundtables consultation responsible for • Implementation of overseeing the collaboration implementation of agreements the agreements. These committees • Responding to physical meet two to four impact concerns times a year and (dust, noise, etc.) informally as necessary. Media International, • Investor calls Daily to annually Senior • Financial performance We produce regular national or local management, updates on the • News releases • Access to capital media outlets corporate, Above Ground blog. including news, • Goldcorp regional and • Environmental This blog provides radio and website site-level performance a place to: find printed • Above Ground representatives • Health and safety updates on our publications blog and social from CSR and sustainability-related Corporate • Community programs activities; ask media Affairs • Business risk questions and participate in respectful, constructive dialogue. Academia Academic • Conferences Monthly to Senior • Technical studies We have engaged institutions and annually leadership, CSR, with Canadian • Telephone • Scholarships research Environment schools such as calls organizations and Corporate • Training and internship University of Ottawa • Training Affairs teams programs and the University of programs British Columbia to • Research develop potential programs future employees programs, scholarships and learning exchanges. Public/private Hospitals, fire • Community Monthly to Site-level • Infrastructure Several of our sites institutions departments, partnership annually representatives investments have formal libraries discussions in CSR agreements to work • Community in collaboration with • Community partnerships first responders in Response the area, such as the mechanisms local fire department near our Porcupine mine or the spill response team at Red Lake, Cerro Negro and Musselwhite. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 84 Communities COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Business Suppliers, • Interactions Monthly to Corporate, • Supplier requirements We are a member of partners contractors, with our annually regional and site several industry • Long-term business industry procurement procurement organizations, relationships organizations teams teams, senior including the and other management • Agreement terms International Council • Industry companies • Quality products on Mining & Metals roundtables (ICMM), the Mining • Tendering/ • Delivery commitments Association of Request For • Regulatory compliance Canada (MAC), and Proposal (RFP) the World Economic process • Product stewardship Forum. As members • Sustainability we actively look for programs opportunities to maximize benefits and minimize impacts and risks throughout the extractives sector. Investors Shareholders • Quarterly Quarterly to Investor • Financial performance Senior management and rating conference annually Relations, senior hold an annual • Operational agencies calls management Investors Day to performance provide updates from • Investor Days • Corporate governance our Mine General • Socially Managers to offer an • Access to capital Responsible overview of our Investor (SRI) • Environmental company activities calls performance during the year. • Conferences • Health and safety • Annual reports • Human rights and financial • Business risk circulars • Site tours • Non-deal road shows Employees Site and • Internal Daily to annually Senior • Health and safety Senior management corporate intranet management, and employees • Operational change workforce Human interact on Conveyor, • Newsletters Resources, • Workforce our global intranet, • Town Hall Corporate management by sharing stories, meetings Affairs and resources and • Career planning • Above Ground general announcements. employees • Training and career Every quarter our blog and social development Executive Leadership media • Strategic planning Team holds a Town • Lunch and Hall meeting to give Learns important company • Crew talks/ updates and answer Huddles questions from employees. • Email and print mail • Performance reviews • Conferences 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 85 Communities COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Land and Private land • Face-to-face Weekly to Site-level • Resource access A condition of the resource users owners, hunters, interactions annually representatives Opinagow • Land rights outdoor in Environment, Collaboration • Email recreation CSR and • Compensation Agreement signed groups and • Phone calls Projects with the Cree Nation • Environmental traditional • Public protection of Wemindji, the subsistence meetings Grand Council of the users Crees (Eeyou Istchee) • Newsletters and the Cree Nation • Letters Government requires our Éléonore mine to consult with local tallymen on activities that will impact their traditional traplines in the area. In practice, there are regular conversations with local trappers as well as formal committee meetings through the collaboration agreement. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ RIGHTS AND ENGAGEMENT We strive to create relationships with Indigenous Peoples that are based on respect and trust. As a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), we support the ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and mining. This position statement outlines the ICMM’s view of Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) and commits member companies to putting FPIC and other commitments into practice. A key element of the document is a commitment to draw on FPIC in order to obtain the consent of Indigenous groups for new projects and significant changes to existing projects. At Goldcorp, our first approach is to understand and respect Indigenous rights, interests and perspectives. We recognize that Indigenous rights are governed by national and international laws in the various countries where we operate. We are committed to meeting or exceeding mandatory consultation requirements and working in collaboration with all stakeholders who have an interest in our projects and operations. We aim to seek and encourage meaningful relationships with all local communities. Four of our operations (Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine and Éléonore) and two of our projects (Coffee and Borden) are in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories. We are committed to working to ensure local Indigenous Peoples are adequately consulted and meaningfully involved from project stage through operations and closure. INDIGENOUS ENGAGEMENT Meaningful and ongoing engagement with Indigenous groups is fundamental to our engagement practices. Building relationships based on respect and trust allows open and honest dialogue. These relationships and conversations ensure that our operations are sensitive to local cultural and social practices. They also facilitate the discovery of opportunities that can lead to potential benefits such as creating employment, entrepreneurship and business opportunities for local communities, and encouraging economic development. Many of our sites have established formal agreements with local Indigenous groups. These agreements often have different names (Collaboration Agreements, Cooperation Agreements, Resource Development Agreements, Impact Benefit Agreements etc.) and vary by size and scope, but all of them establish foundational elements for collaborative partnerships. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 86 Communities We created a Diversity and Inclusion Strategy in 2017, which was implemented in 2018. In alignment with this strategy, we ensure that inclusion is a key principle in our engagement practices. We have formal agreements in place with many of the First Nations that assert Aboriginal and treaty rights in the vicinity of our operating mines in Canada. We are working towards establishing agreements at sites that are at an earlier stage of development. In addition, four Latin American sites have signed agreements with local communities and governments in and around our mine sites. In Latin America, our agreements with local communities follow a different format than our First Nations agreements in Canada. They usually represent specific commitments or activities, and range from large, multi-year projects to smaller, one-time commitments. Consequently, we may have multiple agreements signed with one community or group, sometimes over various years. In addition, the types of groups with whom we sign these agreements differ according to the local context. While each agreement is a unique reflection of the partners involved, we strongly believe these agreements demonstrate our company vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value, and a company-wide commitment to working transparently and in good faith to build long-term relationships with partners in the communities in which we operate. INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND FORMAL AGREEMENTS OUR OPERATIONS IN OR FORMAL AGREEMENTS ADJACENT TO INDIGENOUS IN PLACE WITH PEOPLES’ TERRITORIES NAME OF INDIGENOUS GROUP INDIGENOUS GROUPS DATE SIGNED Borden Brunswick House First Nation Yes May 2011 Chapleau Cree First Nation Yes May 2011 Chapleau Ojibwe First Nation Yes May 2011 Michipicoten First Nation Yes November 2016 Coffee1 Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in First Nation Yes June 2014 Selkirk Yes August 2017 White River First Nation Yes May 2013 Éléonore Cree Nation Government Yes February 2011 Cree Nation of Wemindji Yes February 2011 The Grand Council of the Crees Yes February 2011 (Eeyou Istchee) Marlin2 Maya Mam No N/A Maya Sipakapense No N/A Musselwhite Mishkeegogamang Ojibway Yes January 2014 First Nation Cat Lake First Nation Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 Kingfisher Lake First Nation Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 North Caribou Lake First Nation Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 Shibogama First Nations Council Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 Windigo First Nations Council Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 Wunnumin Lake First Nation Yes 1996, amended and restated in 2001 Porcupine Gold Mines (PGM) Flying Post First Nation Yes November 2014 Matachewan First Nation Yes November 2014 Mattagami First Nation Yes November 2014 Wahgoshig First Nation Yes November 2014 Red Lake Gold Mines Lac Seul First Nation Yes August 2013 Wabauskang First Nation Yes December 2014 1 The agreements with Indigenous groups for the Coffee project were signed with Kaminak Gold Corporation, which we acquired in July 2016. 2 At Marlin, while there is no formal overarching agreement in place, any operational changes (e.g., new exploration areas) as well as all contributions to support sustainable community development initiatives undergo a formal engagement process and are documented to ensure transparency. These are typically captured in local acts (known as actas) that are signed and approved by leaders in the communities. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 87 Communities NON-INDIGENOUS AGREEMENTS IN LATIN AMERICA OUR OPERATION EXAMPLES OF LOCAL AGREEMENT PARTNERS YEARS WHEN AGREEMENTS HAVE BEEN SIGNED Cerro Negro Provincial and municipal government 2016 Marlin COCODES and villages 2014, 2015, 2016 Peñasquito Ejidos and communities 2006–2014 ARTISANAL MINING Millions of people around the globe conduct artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) activities. While these activities have the ability to positively contribute to livelihoods, they may also carry potentially negative environmental, safety and human rights risks. We follow closely best practices instituted by peer mining companies through participation in the ICMM. To date, no artisanal or small-scale mining was reported on any of our sites. However, the access road to our NuevaUnión project is adjacent to the property of a small-scale mining association. The site maintains a close relationship with that local association. HUMAN RIGHTS As a member of the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to respecting human rights as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and under international humanitarian law. From employees and contractors to senior management, our workforce is expected to comply with our Human Rights SEMS standard and Human Rights Policy. Our Human Rights Policy, first released in 2011 and subsequently updated in 2015, reflects the changing social context in which we operate. We acknowledge that strong sustainability performance is intrinsically linked with respect for human rights. Our revised policy defines our daily practices and commitments on human rights. New additions to this policy include clauses on: community consultation; grievance mechanisms; commitment to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard; commitment to respect the rights, interests, perspectives and traditions of Indigenous Peoples and resettlement planning and potential measures in the event of non-compliance. To read the policy, please visit www.goldcorp.com. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 88 Communities OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY COMMITMENTS INCLUDE SAFE AND DIVERSE WORKPLACE RESPECT OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS Goldcorp is committed to maintaining a safe, Goldcorp is committed to respecting workers’ diverse workplace, free of discrimination rights and their right to form a union RESPECT OF INDIGENOUS RIGHTS SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Goldcorp is committed to respecting the Goldcorp is committed to ensuring that our rights, interests, perspectives and traditions of security personnel do not use excessive Indigenous Peoples force when performing their duties GOLDCORP WILL NOT BENEFIT MAINTAIN COMMUNITY FROM ARMED CONFLICT RESPONSE SYSTEMS Goldcorp takes measures to ensure that we Goldcorp is committed to maintaining site-based do not support or benefit from unlawful community response systems to receive, assess armed conflict and resolve complaints related to our business 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 89 Communities HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE MECHANISMS At Goldcorp, we assess potential human rights issues, take measures to avoid infringing on them and seek constructive dialogue and partnerships with stakeholders who are impacted by our activities. Some examples of our due diligence processes and mechanisms include: HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE Human rights Stakeholder Internal and Investigation and training and capacityengagement and external audits remediation of building consultation incidents and human rights impacts Human rights impact External reporting, Site-based Policies and assessments communication and community response standards transparency systems and ethics hotline All our Board members, officers, contractors or any third party conducting work or acting on our behalf are expected to behave in a manner that respects human rights and avoids infringing upon them. We take appropriate measures to ensure that everyone working at Goldcorp, or on our behalf, respects our Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy and Occupational Health and Safety Policy and also abides by our safety protocols, rules and standards. For employees, non-compliance with these policies may be grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. For contractors and third parties, non-compliance may be grounds for contract termination. We respect the right to a safe and healthy work environment. Consequently, we strive to ensure our workforce complies with our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and associated procedures and guidelines so as to confirm that we are Safe Enough For Our Families. Our commitment to the right to clean water and sanitation is also part of our overall commitment to sustainable mining. Our Environmental and Sustainability Policy stipulates that all of Goldcorp and our subsidiaries are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. In addition, our SEMS includes standards pertaining to our water stewardship. Our SEMS is intended to be fully integrated into all core business functions throughout our company, and it emphasizes sustainability responsibility and accountability at all organizational levels. As stipulated by our Human Rights Policy, and by ICMM’s third sustainable development principle, we respect the rights and dignity of employees, contractors, partners, community members and other stakeholders impacted by our business. At the heart of our human rights commitments is the recognition that Goldcorp’s vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value can only be accomplished when all voices are heard. We are committed to creating a safe and diverse workplace and embedding a human rights culture where all stakeholders, including human rights defenders, are free of harassment and unfair discrimination in their activities. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 90 Communities In 2017, we implemented a Risk Integration Project, which takes into consideration the actual and potential social impacts and human rights impacts our operations may generate. We adopted a multi-disciplinary approach to human rights issues; consequently, our analysis now looks at impacts across departments and subject-matter areas. Occasionally, and where needed, we seek support and advice from external human rights experts. HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING AND AWARENESS Improvements to our overall human rights awareness is coordinated through the corporate CSR team. They received support from the other sustainability functions and the corporate Ethics and Compliance department to deliver consistent messaging throughout our operations. In 2017, our CSR and Ethics and Compliance teams collaborated on the creation of a new online course combining Human Rights and Code of Conduct training. This new course streamlined our internal training to facilitate learning and minimize training fatigue. The two departments worked together to create a course that was more interactive and scenarios based to increase effectiveness. The updated online training course was launched in Q4 2017 with approximately 30% of our workforce completing the training as of December 31, 2017. To ensure we reach our intended audience, the deadline to complete the course is set for Q1 2018. The online course has the objectives of maintaining awareness about our Human Rights and Code of Conduct Policies, recognizing human rights risks and violations and knowing the mechanisms in place to report them. The course was rolled out to our workforce with daily access to computers. To increase the reach of our training and awareness program, we adapted the online material to be delivered to employees and key contractors who do not have regular access to computers. The training materials will be delivered as part of onboarding and regular training, and we expect to be able to report on percentage of completion in our 2018 report. HUMAN RIGHTS AND CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS AND CONTRACTORS ENROLLED IN HUMAN COMPLETING HUMAN TOTAL HOURS RIGHTS AND CODE OF RIGHTS AND CODE OF DEDICATED TO HUMAN LOCATION CONDUCT TRAINING CONDUCT TRAINING % COURSE COMPLETION RIGHTS TRAINING Canada Region 1,313 543 41% 91 Corporate Offices 635 129 20% 22 Latin America Region 1,315 293 22% 49 Total 3,263 965 30% 161 In addition, in 2017 we delivered Respecting Rights: Championing Human Rights at Goldcorp, an in-depth participatory workshop for employees whose work offers distinct opportunities to understand our human rights commitments and apply our Human Rights Policy at two sites (Cerro Negro and Marlin). To improve understanding of human rights and increase knowledge of our Human Rights Policy among the management team and key employees overseeing departments that may have exposure to human rights risks, we will continue to promote its successful implementation across all our operations. After completing the workshop, participants were able to: • Explain what human rights mean in the context of our operations; • Identify existing human rights risks and potential human rights risks related to our operations; • Identify prevention, mitigation and remediation measures for high-risk human rights issues; and • Explain reporting mechanisms and course of actions to take when becoming aware of an existing or potential human rights risk or violation. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 91 Communities SECURITY PRACTICES We understand the important role transparent, relevant and well-researched security practices play in respecting human rights and ensuring safe operations for our workforce and for the local communities where we operate. We are committed to effectively managing and administering our security programs in accordance with industry best practices, local and national legal requirements and company policies. We pride ourselves on our commitment to security practices, our understanding of the importance of being a responsible corporate citizen and our responsibility to be an active participant in the area of security practices. As a result, we are actively involved with national and international organizations who share this commitment to human rights and transparent security practices, such as the United Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles), the World Gold Council and the Mining Association of Canada. Our security teams conduct regular in-depth risk analyses to determine threats to our workforce within their areas of operation and influence. Our sites are required to develop and regularly review and update security plans in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as in conformity with our Human Rights Policy and Security Policy. When local conditions require us to deploy armed staff, careful consideration is given to this deployment, and additional safety measures and training are implemented as necessary. In 2016, we became a signatory to the Voluntary Principles. Established in 2000, the Voluntary Principles are designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. As a signatory, we continue to implement the principles across all of our operations, and have aligned our corporate policies and procedures with internationally recognized human rights principles in the provision of security. We actively participate in the Corporate Pillar committee of the Voluntary Principles Initiative and are one of four members of the Corporate Pillar Steering Committee for 2018. We have designed training programs for security providers at sites based on international best practices. In 2017, 96% of security personnel, which included both Goldcorp Security personnel and contract security personnel, underwent training on the Voluntary Principles. Putting our commitment into practice, we conducted Voluntary Principles awareness training with approximately 279 public security personnel in our areas of operation. Realizing the importance of increasing the number of security personnel with Security and Human Rights training, we offered this training to security personnel both directly and not directly contracted by the company. The majority of the 279 public security personnel who participated in the training were not directly contracted by Goldcorp. In accordance with the Voluntary Principles, in our highand medium-risk operations, all security personnel are required to undergo extensive and recurring background checks and receive annual training on the Voluntary Principles, including the requirement to sign a declaration of compliance with our human rights requirements. The security contractors also incorporate general human rights training in their employee orientation. All security staff receive at least one pre-shift briefing per month on the use of force. Company security supervisors provide ongoing training and refresher classes. We do not tolerate non-compliance with our human rights requirements. There are a variety of compliance mechanisms for incident reporting, and we thoroughly investigate all allegations of suspected human rights abuses. In 2017, Peñasquito, Cerro Negro and Marlin were each assessed by an independent third party, who evaluated their compliance against the Voluntary Principles framework. The results were positive with respect to the levels of implementation of the Voluntary Principles and human rights in general, with each site showing a high level of maturity and demonstrated continuous improvement year over year. Starting in 2015, we designed a more aggressive and formal implementation plan to ensure continuous compliance with the Voluntary Principles, industry best practices and local and national legal requirements. We began utilizing a Security self-audit program to ensure effective implementation of the Voluntary Principles and sustainability-related management systems. This program includes peer reviews for validation. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 92 Communities PROMOTING AWARENESS OF THE VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES WITH OUR EXTERNAL PARTNERS Our sites provide training on human rights, use of force and the Voluntary Principles to their security personnel and contract security guards. This training is provided through workshops, presentations, videos and role-plays and is documented through attendance sheets or signed certifications. In 2017, several sites also engaged relevant public security partners located within their area of influence in order to build awareness of the Voluntary Principles and their importance. For example, our Security team at Cerro Negro engaged with the Grupo Especial de Operaciones Rurales (a division of the Perito Moreno Police), the Perito Moreno Police and the Gendarmerie in order to review the Voluntary Principles and build awareness of our Code of Conduct, Security and Human Rights policies, as well as our procedures on the use of force. Also, in Peñasquito, we are a key participant in the local Security Council, which is composed of peer companies and public security forces. One objective of this council is to enhance collaboration and share best practices about security management and the respect for human rights. We also share relevant information in order to update our risk assessments. Finally, we promote the Voluntary Principles through outreach and awareness with organizations such as the Canadian Mexican Mining Chamber (Camimex) and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce (CanCham). Our focus remains on prevention, training and awareness and we are committed to working with our external partners to achieve this. CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD The World Gold Council (WGC), the industry’s key marketing body, has recognized that in some places and circumstances, gold may represent a potential source of funding for armed groups involved in civil conflicts. In October 2012, the WGC published the Conflict-Free Gold Standard, which establishes a common approach by which gold producers can assess and provide assurance that their gold has been extracted in a manner that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful armed conflict or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international humanitarian law. As a member company, we supported the WGC’s efforts in developing the Standard, and implemented it effective January 1, 2013. We produce an annual, independently assured Conflict-Free Gold Report summarizing our conformance to the Standard, which we share on our website. The Standard requires companies with mines operating in areas considered to be “conflict-affected or high risk” (according to the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer) to evaluate processes and controls and implement additional measures to ensure conformance with the Standard. Although only our Mexican mine is located in an area deemed “conflictaffected or high-risk,” we voluntarily applied the same categorization to our Marlin mine in Guatemala, a decision we based on our internal security assessment. Our 2017 findings confirmed that all gold and gold-bearing material produced at mining operations where we operate have the appropriate systems and controls in place to conform to the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Conformance with the Standard was subject to independent assurance. For a copy of our 2017 Conflict-Free Gold Report and more information on the background and structure of the Standard, please visit our download centre at http://csr.goldcorp.com. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 93 Communities INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES In order to conduct business in an efficient and cost-effective manner, it is essential that we have a steady, stable flow of production inputs to our sites. However, numerous social and environmental risks have the potential to disrupt the flow of goods. In our industry, there is increasing awareness of these risks as well as of the opportunities to leverage dollars and relationships to influence supplier sustainability both upstream and downstream. At Goldcorp, we are driven to innovate and address situations that may hinder safe production. Increasingly, we are automating our processes to facilitate responsiveness to potential opportunities and mitigate supply shortages. Our Third Party Due Diligence Standards define the minimum due diligence that employees must fulfill when entering into a relationship with a third party on behalf of Goldcorp. Compliance with the Third Party Due Diligence Standards is required under our Global Supply Chain Policy, our SEMS, our Global Commercial Practices and our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Under the Global Supply Chain Policy, human rights, environment, safety and sustainability performance are requirements that must be assessed when selecting a third party. OUR THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE STANDARDS These standards define the minimum due diligence that Goldcorp employees must fulfill when entering into a commercial relationship with a third party on behalf of Goldcorp. HOW? WHY? We have designed and implemented a Third-Party Goldcorp could be held liable for the actions of Due Diligence tool to support compliance with a third party working on its behalf. Therefore, these standards. The tool was designed to guide we need to ensure we only do business with employees through the due diligence reputable third parties. Compliance with our requirements and serve as a centralized database Third-Party Due Diligence Standards is required of third-party due diligence information. under our Global Supply Chain Policy, our Sustainability Excellence Management System, our Global Commercial Practices and our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. WHEN? WHO? Third-party due diligence is required whenever Anyone engaging a third party on behalf of a new third party is going to be added to our Goldcorp must ensure it is a reputable third party vendor file, regardless of circumstance. It is also by conducting appropriate due diligence. Due necessary when an existing third party changes diligence is driven/facilitated by Supply Chain, in its name/legal entity. coordination with the respective internal business owners and with the oversight of the Ethics and Compliance department. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 94 Communities Of the 118 contracts that were entered into with new suppliers (as reported by our sites), 81% were screened for social impact, and 79% were screened using environmental criteria. No need for corrective actions was identified in the process. In addition to the assessment of newly contracted suppliers, we perform regular screenings of current contractors and suppliers. In 2017, 1,060 suppliers were subjected to an environmental screening and 330 suppliers to a social assessment. Consequently, seven suppliers were identified as having significant actual or potential negative social impact; five of them agreed to take corrective actions, and the other two engagements were terminated. There were no actual or potential environmental impacts identified. Our approach to risk management and impact assessment also includes reviews of significant investments against numerous criteria, including human rights risks. In this report, we define “significant investments” as those that either moved the organization into a position of ownership of another entity or initiated a capital investment project that was financially material. There were 50 such investments and contracts reported at our sites in 2017. Of those agreements, 50 had human rights clauses, and 11 were screened for human rights compliance. LAND RIGHTS AND RESETTLEMENT To conduct our mining activities, we are occasionally required to acquire land and/or resettle individuals or communities. Land acquisition and resettlement is a complex and life-changing issue for the communities affected. It is never our first resort when other options are available. The timing and location of resettlement is negotiated with the affected households and every reasonable effort is made to ensure that the integrity of the community is maintained. In 2017, no resettlement occurred at any of our operations. COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS We are committed to establishing Community Response Mechanisms, also known as grievance mechanisms, based on international best practices. Our Community Response mechanisms aim to collect all types of feedback ranging from grievances to positive comments or suggestions. We acknowledge our responsibility and commit to respecting all human rights. In line with the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, we have implemented grievance and incident reporting procedures. Grievances may come from both internal and external stakeholders, such as employees, contractors, local community members, civil society and government. At Goldcorp, we have two formal company-wide channels for receiving complaints and grievances, as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis.1 Our Community Response Mechanisms and Ethics reporting channels are accessible, inclusive, and available to internal and external stakeholders. Both channels respond to the local context and needs of our stakeholders and workforce. To learn more about the importance of Being Responsible to us at Goldcorp, watch our Ethics and Doing What is Right at Goldcorp video at https://youtu.be/XMIu6dipiQw. 1 Some overlap may exist between these channels. Due to the confidential nature of grievance management, as well as the ability of a stakeholder to escalate their grievance through multiple channels, verifying the precise number by category at the corporate level has proven difficult. Since both mechanisms are confidential in nature, we have not attempted to define or describe the specific issues raised. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 95 Communities COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS Principles of effective rights-based grievance mechanisms as adopted from the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights: • Proportionality: The mechanism must be scaled to the level and severity of the risk. • Legitimacy: The process must be perceived to be legitimate by local stakeholders. • Cultural Appropriateness: The mechanism must take into account the way local people express their concerns and how they normally resolve their disputes. • Accessibility: The process must be simple, convenient, easy to use and accessible to all. • Transparency and Accountability: Information must be provided ahead of time as to the exact process, requirements and timeline. Agreements must be fulfilled, and commitments must be respected. • Fairness and Participation: Complainants must be treated with respect, encouraged to fully participate in the process and offered fair compensation whenever appropriate. • Safety: The mechanism must explicitly guarantee there will be no retribution of any kind against the complainant. Respect for all of our stakeholders is foundational to how we do business. It is also part of our Human Rights Policy and applies to all employees, contractors and third parties doing work either for us or, on our behalf. We will not tolerate any form of retaliation against a party who, in good faith, reports a Code of Conduct violation or uses any of our complaints and grievances channels. We ensure there is no retaliation by creating awareness of, and providing training on, our Code of Conduct and Human Rights policies, and by taking the necessary actions when either of these policies is violated. FORMAL CHANNELS FOR COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES ETHICS FROM THE GROUND UP CHANNELS COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS Purpose Receive complaints, questions and concerns Provide an easily accessible site-level process related to the implementation of our Code for community stakeholders to provide of Conduct feedback to us Key policies Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and SEMS, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework Communication channels Toll-free telephone hotline, email and Varies by site. Examples include: a dedicated mailing address website, community drop boxes, site or community offices, telephone lines, email addresses and text message systems Primary users Employees and contractors Local communities and external stakeholders Complaints and grievances process Initial complaint is received (in confidence, Complaints are received and documented if through our ethics and compliance hotline) at each operation. Classification and from an external third party, and the cases investigations vary based on severity. are investigated and resolved by the corporate Operations engage with stakeholders to Ethics Committee with local site support resolve and close out grievances. Corporate as necessary support is provided when needed to investigate and/or respond to grievances Type of complaints reported Issues related to theft, fraud, discrimination, Issues related to environmental performance, harassment, employee relations, labour, health physical disturbances, land access, and safety and human rights compensation, job opportunities and contractor management In 2017, our Ethics from the Ground Up channels1 received 40 complaints and/or inquiries regarding alleged discrimination, harassment and other issues that could relate to human rights, compared to 46 complaints in the previous year. All reports were investigated, and 37 were resolved or closed during 2017. For the remaining three, the resolution process was ongoing at the end of the reporting period. 1 Cases reported include those brought through formal reporting channels or by site management. Some cases may exist that have been dealt with directly through site HR and will not be reflected in these numbers. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 96 Communities ETHICS COMPLAINTS AND/OR INQUIRIES RECEIVED RECEIVED IN PREVIOUS YEAR(S) RECEIVED IN 2017 AND WERE INVESTIGATED AND RESOLVED OR RESOLVED/CLOSED RECEIVED IN 2017 IN 2017 CLOSED IN 2017 DURING 2017 Discrimination 3 3 3 – Harassment/Disrespectful Work Environment 21 21 20 11 Health & Safety 11 11 9 – Sexual Advances/Harassment 5 5 5 – Total 40 40 37 11 Our Community Response mechanisms are intended to meet the needs of local communities and external stakeholders. Each Community Response mechanism at our operating sites is tailored to the local context, but they are all designed to comply with the Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework. In 2017, our sites received and responded to a total of 350 complaints, of which 272 were closed at the time of writing of this report, and the remaining 78 were in various stages of investigation and resolution. As part of our grievance reporting, we conduct a categorization process of grievances against related SEMS standards. In some cases, more than one standard is applied to a given complaint, as those cases may have impacts or aspects related to more than one category. In 2017, we revised and enhanced our process for assessing the severity of grievances based on impact. We introduced a process to assess severity of impact based on gravity, extent and vulnerability. This revision has helped remove subjectivity from the assessment process and has led to greater consistency in the evaluation, investigation and resolution process. While implementing a new severity process, we recognized the opportunity to also provide sites a tool to assess the effectiveness of their community response mechanism. We developed an internal tool that is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights, our internal SEMS standards and several of our external commitments including our commitment to the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) and the Mining Association of Canada (MAC). Intended to be used by our site-based Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) teams, this tool identifies gaps in how our site’s grievance mechanism is functioning related to aspects of design, promotion, analysis and reporting. Our Éléonore site piloted this new tool in 2017, and moving forward we aim to have several other sites evaluate their grievance mechanism effectiveness. See our case study, Community Response Systems in Practice: Assessing the Effectiveness of Our New Community Response System Assessment. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 97 Communities GRIEVANCES RECEIVED BY COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISM BY CATEGORY CATEGORY OF REAL/PERCEIVED IMPACT NUMBER1 EXAMPLES OF GRIEVANCES RECEIVED Grievances related to real/perceived 48 Local business development Economic Impacts Employment and labour issues Grievances related to real/perceived 200 Dust concerns Environmental Impacts Impact on water availability or quality Noise complaints Vibrations Waste and debris Grievances related to real/perceived Health, 4 Community safety respecting site installations Safety and Security Impacts Community blockades Grievances related to real/perceived Human 1 Lack of consultation Rights Impacts Grievances related to real/perceived Social 53 Impacts to infrastructure Impacts Lack of communication about activities Contractor attitudes and behaviours Delays on meeting commitments such as community investments Grievances related to real/perceived “Other” 22 Damage of property, crops and livestock impacts (i.e., property damage, equipment, media and legal) Total 328 In 2017, there were no significant2 disputes related to land use or customary rights of local or Indigenous Peoples. Reporting on these events related to Indigenous rights is a process that requires a great deal of context, and we are taking care to learn how to better navigate through these instances. For example, in Q1 2017, we submitted a project proposal for the Coffee Project to the Yukon Environmental and Socio-economic Assessment Board (YESAB). Following the submission, YESAB advised us that they were interrupting the assessment process because we had not adequately consulted with the Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in, Selkirk First Nation and the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun. After the discontinuation, the Coffee team implemented additional engagement and consultation activities with local communities and First Nations and resubmitted a project proposal to YESAB in Q4 2017. The results of the YESAB assessment were not publicly available at the time of the creation of this report. 1 Logging impacts associated with grievances was not made mandatory in our grievance management system until the end of Q1 2017, leading to a difference in number of grievances logged in 2017 and the number of impacts tracked. 2 Significant disputes are determined as those which cannot be resolved through the course of normal Community Response mechanisms in place and/or which require financially material resources to resolve and/or can have a material impact on the operation. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 98 Communities COMMUNITIES CASE STUDIES COMMUNITY RESPONSE SYSTEMS IN PRACTICE: ASSESSING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR NEW COMMUNITY RESPONSE SYSTEM ASSESSMENT Our Éléonore operation formally established a site-based grievance mechanism in 2016 using the common principles set out in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Through discussions with our Cree Nation of Wemindji partners, a joint decision was made to refer to it as a “dialogue mechanism,” with the intent of facilitating meaningful conversations with our stakeholders about real or perceived impacts. In 2017, Éléonore volunteered to pilot a new internal tool developed by the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team to assess the effectiveness of their grievance mechanism. This tool was developed to help continually improve our mechanisms as part of our internal SEMS requirements and best practice. Through a collaborative process, Éléonore utilized an independent student from a regional university to conduct 29 interviews (phone and in-person) with stakeholders from Éléonore’s social area of influence. Using the results of the interviews, we assessed important aspects of the site’s grievance mechanism such as its accessibility, predictability and transparency. Some of the high-level results of the assessment included: • 95% of stakeholders have previously communicated with Éléonore; • 40% of stakeholders knew that there is a documented procedure for submitting feedback; • 80% of stakeholders did not know the mechanism by its name; • 53% of stakeholders did not know that there are different channels to communicate with the site; • 80% of stakeholders thought that unique channels were needed for different stakeholders to communicate; • 80% of stakeholders were comfortable to communicate with Éléonore and were not afraid of retaliation; and • Preferred means of communication with Éléonore were: In person > By phone > By Email > Formal Letters > Texts. From this data we realized we have an opportunity to better engage and communicate with our stakeholders on the “dialogue mechanism”: first, by ensuring we are clearly communicating how the “dialogue mechanism” works and second, by ensuring we are clearly communicating why we have a formalized process for receiving, investigating and responding to feedback. Through this survey we were also able to learn the specific communications channels that certain stakeholders prefer and trust. Using this valuable data, the Éléonore CSR team was able to develop an improvement plan to focus on these areas of opportunities, improve the effectiveness of the “dialogue mechanism” and continue to build and strengthen relationships with our stakeholders. Due to this successful pilot project, in 2018 we will work with our other sites to implement this assessment process. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 99 Communities LOCAL EMPLOYMENT IN PEÑASQUITO Peñasquito’s hiring process (see image below) begins with the publication of job vacancies in the 19 communities of direct influence to the operation. This action is followed by an on-site recruitment and selection process. Additionally, tours are conducted in the surrounding communities to promote the vacancies still available. This strategy works collaboratively with National Employment Service (State Government). In 2017, two Job Fairs were organized in the municipalities of Mazapil and Concepción del Oro. A fundamental part of the successful approach to the program was the installation of a recruitment office at the access point of the mine, at which all interested community members could get more information. Following the initial influx of applicants, a second phase of the model was initiated, in which field visits were made to all the surrounding communities to communicate the positions that were still available and to connect the interested candidates with the Peñasquito mine. Publish the Job Posting Recruitment Office Communication Wait for the Contact of the Contractors Recruitment and Selection Process Hiring the Local-Local Staff 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 100 Communities As a result of this strategy, the local labour pool has increased, and Peñasquito is seeing higher rates of local employment as well as an improved reputation in the local area. The number of local candidates increased from 25% in January 2017 to 43% by December 2017. At the end of 2017, we successfully reached (and surpassed) our 20% local hiring goal (from the communities in our area of influence). In total, more than 500 people from the surrounding communities were hired and trained through this program. The results of the recruitment office exceeded the initial expectations of the program with the site receiving more than 1,200 calls and conducting 750 interviews during 2017. A database was also created for future human resourcing needs. Job Fair Concepción del Oro 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 101 Communities PEÑASQUITO SUPPORTS THE OPENING OF LA PLAZA COMMUNITY SQUARE Around 150 families gathered recently in El Vergel, near our Peñasquito mine, for the grand opening of the new “La Plaza” community square. Peñasquito funded the construction of La Plaza at a cost of 6 million pesos (approximately C$440,000). The opening ceremony was attended by the Mayor of Mazapil, Gregorio Macías, Cruz Barrios, the Commissioner of Common Lands in El Vergel and Peter Hughes, Sustainability Manager of Peñasquito. La Plaza was colourfully decorated by junior high students, and a gazebo served as the stage for an inaugural artistic performance by two elementary student groups. La Plaza provides a recreation space for the benefit and enjoyment of the community with garden areas and flowerbeds, a gazebo and benches. Access stairs, walls, walkway expansions, as well as a monument dedicated to the community were added during construction. Spectator stands were built for the existing basketball court, which was also refreshed with new paint, basketball boards and mesh. New playground equipment was installed, along with lighting, an electrical generator, a watering system and garbage cans. Mayor Macías, credited the programs and activities carried out by Peñasquito in the communities surrounding its operations. He also recognized the importance of social infrastructure to the healthy development of children, families and communities and to promoting sporting activities. “We have to acknowledge, that thanks to Peñasquito, opportunities have changed for Mazapil,” says Cruz Barrios, Commissioner of Common Lands, highlighting the positive developments in communities near the mine. “From today on, with La Plaza, children, adults and elders have a place of recreation and coexistence.” Peter Hughes, Sustainability Manager, emphasizes that La Plaza represents the legacy that Peñasquito leaves in El Vergel, and says, “Beyond the useful life of the mine, this place will remain as a symbol of our gratitude for the supportive relationship we have built with the residents of the community.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 102 Engaging and Investing in Our People Our People People are our core strength. More than any other factor, our success depends on their capabilities and commitment. We are focused on attracting and retaining experienced and skilled talent with a culture that puts safety at its core and supports people to reach their potential. CASE STUDIES DIVERSITY IN MINING INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE BUILDING MINING LEADERS SEE PAGE 124 SEE PAGE 125 OF TOMORROW SEE PAGE 127 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 103 Our People HIGHLIGHTS OUR WORKFORCE OUR EMPLOYEES IN 2017, OVER 100 WOMEN (INCLUDING CONTRACTORS) SELF-IDENTIFY WITH OVER FROM ACROSS THE TOTALLED 14,094 80 DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES COMPANY GRADUATED as of December 31, 2017; women and speak approximately from the Creating Choices programs. comprise 11% of our workforce. 20 different languages. As of December 31, 2017, over 1,800 women had graduated from these programs. Following the global talent and succession plan review of critical roles conducted in early 2017, we implemented a Future Leaders program and identified the first cohort of high potential talent candidates. Future Leaders is a one-year program that was developed to provide selected individuals with personalized development feedback, a focused development plan with deliberate on-the-job experiences, leadership training and executive exposure. The primary objective is to accelerate their growth and readiness to take on future leadership roles. In 2017, StepUP officially launched as a formal program; it introduced five behaviours that help define our Goldcorp culture. StepUP is at the centre of everything we do. It sets clear expectations for the behaviours employees are to demonstrate while they do their jobs, and it helps grow our talent by providing tools to support our employees’ development. StepUP enables us to set clear performance expectations, increases leadership capabilities and drives personal accountability. From April 26 to June 7, all Goldcorp employees had an opportunity to participate in the 2017 Employee Opinion Survey. The survey was voluntary with an overall participation rate of 77%. Following the release of the global survey results, management from each our sites and offices was asked to review and communicate the results related to their specific locations and identify key priorities from the survey that would increase engagement and improve the overall employee experience. Once the priorities were identified, site leadership teams worked with employees to develop specific action plans for advancing in areas requiring improvement. Action plans are currently being finalized and progressing to implementation across the organization. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 104 Our People We held our second Goldcorp women’s conference, titled “Our Journey to Success.” This was well attended by executive leadership, board members, senior management and over 80 Goldcorp employees. At the conference we launched the third installment of our women’s training, development and mentorship program, “Future Choices.” Future Choices builds on the lessons learned in Creating Choices and Growing Choices and provides women with insights on entrepreneurship, basic financial concepts, self-confidence and change management skills to ensure they continue to lead and succeed in their communities, long after mining operations have ceased. In 2017 we also announced that gender-inclusive sessions of Creating Choices programs will be held in addition to sessions for women. In 2017, we created a multi-year, overarching Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for Goldcorp, inspired by the Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks1. The Strategy takes a broad view of diversity and outlines actionable steps to improve our inclusive work environment. INSIGHTS FROM: ACHIEVEMENTS MATERIAL TOPICS JENINE ELLEFSON SEE PAGE 7 SEE PAGE 31 SEE PAGE 107 1 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 105 Our People MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS The industry-wide shortage of experienced and skilled talent is expected to continue. While the current market volatility and resulting project slowdowns have reduced pressure, we expect talent attraction and retention to be an ongoing challenge for several reasons, including local demographics in mining regions and the aging workforce in Canada and other countries. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders expect us to attract, develop and retain talented people who generate sustainable value. Stakeholders also expect us to operate responsibly in accordance with high ethical and legal standards. The strength of our people enables us to attain these standards and expectations. It is important that we create the right work environment, which includes providing opportunities for career development, recognizing performance that supports Have comments on why our core values, demonstrating support for diversity and inclusion and our approach to Our People promoting equal opportunities. is important to you? SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? At Goldcorp, people are our most important asset. We want to offer our employees unmatched opportunities to build rewarding careers in a dynamic company. It is important that we support our people in their personal and career development. We aim to provide resources, time and knowledge, because when they succeed, we all succeed. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to invest in the attraction, retention, development and safety of a diverse and talented workforce aligned with our values of being safe, productive and responsible. Our multifaceted people strategy aims to achieve world-class performance through accountability and empowerment of our people by delivering proactive, targeted talent solutions. We offer our people access to programs that will deliver an experience that drives them to reach their potential and create sustainable value for the organization. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our human resources function is headed by the Global Head of People, who reports to the Executive Vice President, General Counsel. We have local resources for this function in each country where we operate and at every mine site. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to human resources matters and executive compensation, and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers (visit our Executive Compensation section for more information). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 106 Our People INSIGHTS FROM: JENINE ELLEFSON Talking People of Goldcorp with Jenine Ellefson, Global Head of People 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS THAT COME TO MIND FOR THE PEOPLE FUNCTION? In 2017 we concentrated on talent management and people development. We were proud to implement our redesigned StepUP program and a new Future Leaders program, both of which focus on developing our people and supporting them to achieve their potential. StepUP is a training program we developed to provide our employees with the tools and behaviours designed to achieve results in a safe, productive and responsible way. StepUP aims to align our business and people practices around common core behaviours. Future Leaders is a one-year development program designed to prepare participants to take on progressively more challenging leadership roles. In addition to people development, we also focused on employee engagement. For this, we conducted an Employee Opinion Survey that reached every employee globally in either electronic or paper format. The purpose of the survey was to gather employee feedback on a variety of topic areas, including the working environment, leadership, management, career Have a question for Jenine? development, teamwork and safety, as well as several other areas which SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com impact day to day work-life at Goldcorp. We were pleased to have a response rate of 77% to this voluntary survey. Following analysis of the survey results, each site/office has been working on a communication and action plan to implement improvements to enhance the employee experience at their respective locations. Finally, the People function completed a major milestone in our Human Resource (HR) systems journey whereby all sites globally are now using our CORE Human Resources Information System (HRIS) to manage their employee data. This accomplishment will allow us to leverage future opportunities to deliver HR services and tools across the company in a more innovative and effective way. 2. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE CHALLENGES? WHAT DID THE COMPANY LEARN FROM THEM? In 2017, we continued to transition to a new decentralized operating model, which was introduced by our CEO in 2016. The change in operating model required an adjustment to roles and responsibilities and created a period of uncertainty as people transition into this new way of working. As a result, the corporate People team has been working on redefining its role to be more focused on setting standards and guidelines, while still supporting sites to effectively implement new programs and policies. We also saw several senior leadership changes in 2017, including the appointment of a new COO and new CFO. Under the direction of the new senior leadership team, Goldcorp’s culture is evolving and we have adopted a new set of values (Being Safe, Productive and Responsible). There is no doubt that cultural change takes time and the People team has been focusing on embedding the new values into all our people practices to create a strong foundation for our new developing culture. Competition for talent in our industry and the job market remains a challenge in all areas where we do business. We know we need to continuously adapt in order to remain competitive and attract and retain the best talent. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 107 Our People 3. WHAT ARE SOME ISSUES OR TRENDS YOU ANTICIPATE WILL AFFECT GOLDCORP IN THE COMING YEARS WHEN IT COMES TO GOLDCORP’S WORKFORCE RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT? Two trends I already see starting to affect us is the existence of a multi-generational workforce and the impact of technology and innovation on the mining industry. We are fortunate to have a multi-generational workforce where we can benefit from diversity of thought and experience. We need to ensure we continue to provide diverse programs that attract, motivate and retain all employees. In terms of technology, we are living in an exciting time as new technology and innovation continues to enter the market. We are proud to be leading some advancements in innovation across all areas of our business and will continue to invest in our future. I am mindful that as we introduce new technology and innovation into our workplace, we need to understand their impact on the work we do and how we do it. We need to be thoughtful about how we prepare our workforce and surrounding communities to adapt to changes in the workplace. 4. GOLDCORP CONDUCTED AN ENGAGEMENT SURVEY IN MID-2017 THAT WAS SENT OUT TO ALL EMPLOYEES IN THE COMPANY. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE KEY FINDINGS? WHAT ACTIONS IS GOLDCORP TAKING TO ADDRESS THE OPPORTUNITIES IDENTIFIED? Yes, we did conduct an Employee Opinion Survey! This was one of the highlights for the People team in 2017. We were pleased to see that employees feel that Goldcorp is a safe place to work and they have the tools and resources to do their job effectively. In addition, employees feel empowered to make decisions and have the authority to do their job well. Some of the key opportunities for improvement identified by the survey were: 1) the desire for better collaboration across different functions and departments; 2) a better understanding of career development opportunities at Goldcorp; 3) better alignment of priorities from senior management and 4) more frequent and transparent communication from leadership. Following receipt of these findings, each site has been tasked with creating and implementing tailored action plans for their location. We have been really pleased with the high level of engagement from sites and employees throughout this process. Some sites have even created focus groups and administered additional surveys to better understand the feedback from employees and to gather information regarding potential solutions. To ensure accountability for implementing action plans, the 2018 corporate scorecard will include an objective in the Leadership category to engage employees in creating a superior employee experience, focusing on culture, communication and collaboration. In addition, all 2018 site scorecards will include an objective related to their site employee opinion survey action plan. Overall, we are embracing the feedback we received from employees and are focused on ensuring this is a ground-up initiative where employees can truly have an impact on their day-to-day experience at Goldcorp. It has been inspiring to see so many employees actively engaged in the process. 5. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR THE PEOPLE FUNCTION (I.E., FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? We are currently working on a long-term strategic plan for our department, aligning our HR strategy with our business strategy. Our main objective is to position ourselves as a strategic business partner to enable the business to achieve its objectives. To do this, we will be looking to streamline tactical work and establish an effective and efficient delivery of Human Resources services and support. We will be working with the business to forecast future talent needs and create innovative and sustainable talent management and total rewards programs that are flexible enough to meet both the current and future needs of the business. Finally, we will be looking to develop flexible and inclusive workplace practices and people programs to engage and retain a diverse workforce and consider the needs of all individuals. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 108 Our People 6. LOOKING BACK OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON FROM A PEOPLE PERSPECTIVE? Over the past five years, the People department has supported the business through a lot of change. We have helped the business and our employees deal with uncertainty and ambiguity as the business has grown and matured. I am pleased to say that we have evolved from an organization that bought talent to one that is building talent. We are now in a position where we have installed and implemented human resources systems and processes to support future growth. Throughout this journey we have aimed to remain flexible to be able to support the business in each stage of this evolution. 7. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING FROM A PEOPLE PERSPECTIVE THAT WILL CHANGE THE WAY THAT HUMAN RESOURCES IS APPROACHED, CONDUCTED AND PERCEIVED IN THE FUTURE? We are changing our focus and how we do things. Our new vision is to focus on creating a superior employee experience. Our goal is to create a sense of purpose and meaningful connection for all our employees. We are being deliberate about the types of new programs and practices that are introduced and the impact these will have on employee engagement and experience. We want our people to feel that working at Goldcorp is more than just a job, but instead is a place to have a career and create sustainable value. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 109 Our People OUR WORKFORCE Our innovative spirit plays a major role in our success and attracts and retains an exceptional group of people. Our people drive our business; that is why we consistently recruit, develop and retain top talent who share the same spirit and values that motivate us to approach a centuries-old industry in new and innovative ways. As of December 31, 2017, our workforce (employees and contractors) totalled 14,094, compared to 15,262 in 2016 and 15,836 in 2015. The largest reduction in our workforce occurred between 2014 (18,217 employees) and 2015. This was due to our transitioning to a decentralized operating model and having to create efficiencies while operating in a lower commodity price environment. TOTAL WORKFORCE BY COUNTRY, EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER1 FULL-TIME SALARIED HOURLY (NON-UNION) FULL-TIME SALARIED (NON-UNION) HOURLY (UNION) LOCATION CONTRACTORS EMPLOYEES (UNION) EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL Canada 129 1,179 1,308 345 871 1,216 0 0 0 77 1,561 1,638 22 244 266 Argentina 0 0 0 82 342 424 33 882 915 0 0 0 0 0 0 Barbados 0 0 0 11 2 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chile 114 634 748 21 60 81 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Europe 0 0 0 2 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expatriates2 0 0 0 3 55 58 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Guatemala 8 429 437 33 89 122 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Honduras 0 1 1 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mexico 436 4,085 4,521 112 548 660 0 0 0 0 0 0 112 1,564 1,676 U.S. 0 0 0 0 4 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Goldcorp 687 6,328 7,015 610 1,974 2,584 33 882 915 77 1,561 1,638 134 1,808 1,942 Total Workforce 14,094 1 Employee counts were collected from sites and regional offices and represent the number of active employees or contractors as at December 31, 2017. 2 Expatriate employees consist of U.S. Expatriates and Expatriates from all other countries and work in the various regions noted in the table. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 110 Our People 2017 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Full-Time Full-Time Hourly Hourly Contractors Salaried Salaried (Non-Union) (Union) (Non-Union) (Union) Employees Employees Employees Employees Goldcorp – Female 610 33 77 134 687 Goldcorp – Male 1,974 882 1,561 1,808 6,328 2017 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY SITE (INCLUDES CONTRACTORS) 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake Goldcorp – Female 99 185 33 48 585 104 141 Goldcorp – Male 1,216 995 510 664 6,088 1,141 926 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 111 Our People OUTSOURCING We partner extensively with contractors during the construction of new projects and when significant capital investments are made to our existing operations. Contractors provide a source of short-term labour, as well as specific construction expertise that is not readily available within our own workforce. We also make use of contractors to supplement our internal expertise in key areas of our operations. We have a number of long-term partnerships with contractors who undertake critical components of our operation. Contractors are required to comply with our policies and procedures, including the Code of Conduct and safety procedures such as the Golden Guide and Golden Rules , which help all employees and contractors understand how to do their jobs safely. Our use of long-term contractors falls into three broad areas: • Mining and processing: These are our core functions and we tend to use contractors only to provide a key additional technical resource as needed. • Maintenance: Contractors are used at most of our sites due, at least in part, to the specialized nature of some maintenance functions. These activities are often cyclical and we do not always hire internally for these roles. • Drilling, blasting, security, employee transport and catering: While these functions are important to the operation of our sites, they are frequently contracted out to firms who specialize in these activities. TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT Our talent acquisition function is committed to establishing a consistent process to ensure that hiring is conducted in an effective, fair and consistent manner. It results in a positive experience for prospective candidates and hiring managers alike. TALENT ACQUISITION At Goldcorp, we work to ensure that all our recruitment processes are effective, fair and inclusive. We are committed to growing our employees by providing opportunities for personal and professional development. The talent acquisition function supports this commitment by enhancing awareness of available internal opportunities and ensuring we have effective avenues to submit applications. As a multinational company operating in various jurisdictions, we recognize the challenges of ensuring we have a consistent recruitment process that is effective, fair and inclusive across all of our sites and offices. For this reason, we developed a talent acquisition approach that increases collaboration and communication across our operations and provides information on our company-wide recruitment policies and procedures. GLOBAL RECRUITMENT STANDARDS We created the Global Recruitment Standards in 2014. These standards establish a consistent approach to ensuring we recruit diverse candidates with the right competencies, experience, qualifications and potential to meet the requirements of the positions and the needs of Goldcorp. The Standards also act as a guideline for making sure we recruit in a fair, non-discriminatory manner, aligned with best practices. Since the Standards’ implementation, we have developed a universal approach to attracting and retaining skilled talent, resulting in an improved experience for internal and external candidates. This has also led to improved information about, and analytics on, our recruitment process. During 2017, the talent acquisition team took further steps to ensure all offices and sites followed the same procedures and recruitment processes as outlined within these Standards. The team redeveloped monthly recruitment knowledge exchange calls to include global process and standards reviews and further aligned any areas that differed between sites to ensure the right standards are being tested. In addition, the team re-developed the “Careers” page on our website with a few intentions in mind: to improve overall candidate experience through better branding and storytelling; to provide easier access to job postings and to highlight our student and new graduate programs. In collaboration with the Talent Management team’s succession planning programs, we also aimed increased attention at internal recruitment. The team maintained a strong focus on recruiting young talent through highlighting our student and new graduate programs at career fairs and large conferences. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 112 Our People LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT To grow our people and empower them to succeed, we offer a selection of robust training programs. We support employees through every stage of their careers and help them as they consider new career options through to retirement. Our Global Onboarding Program provides facilitated learning sessions and access to policies, guidelines, reference guides, e-learning and videos to give new employees a common understanding of our company strategy, vision, values and history. It also educates employees on our policies. In 2017, we continued to focus on training and development across all operations, emphasizing safety, leadership and development. This will build an ongoing pipeline of talent that will ensure operational continuity and mitigate labour shortage risk. We encourage employees to participate in advanced education, training or other professional development activities, and offer financial assistance for education (requests for assistance are evaluated on a case-by-case basis). Our programs and initiatives include: Graduate Development Program: Implemented in 2013, our Graduate Development Program (GDP) is a threeyear program in which newly recruited graduates gain on-the-job skills through planned rotations within our Canadian operations, achieving development milestones and the technical indicators needed to obtain their specified professional designation. This program provides mentorship, technical and leadership development to all participants. Since the program’s inception, we have hired 117 individuals who are now working across our operations in areas such as electrical engineering, environment, industrial hygiene, mechanical engineering, mining engineering, civil engineering and geotechnical engineering. In addition to other benefits, the program helps build a talent pipeline of new recruits to help meet the long-term workforce demands of the company. This year, we plan to expand the program to include our sites in Mexico and Argentina. Creating Choices, Growing Choices and Future Choices: These programs have received recognition for providing female employees in all regions with the opportunity to develop confidence and a greater understanding of the opportunities available for personal and professional growth. In 2017, over 100 women from across the company graduated from Creating Choices, Growing Choices or Future Choices. To date, over 1,800 women have graduated from these programs. These programs are now gender inclusive. Safety Leadership Training: This training introduces key safety leadership practices and brings employees together to share best practices on how we can make Goldcorp “Safe Enough For Our Families”. Global Compliance Training Programs: During 2016, we designed and rolled out many corporate-led training programs that helped our workforce gain better awareness and understanding of our Human Rights and Code of Conduct policies, as well as our Sustainability Excellence Management System and the new Records and Information Management standards. StepUP: The StepUP program is the opportunity for all leaders to come together across all sites to create a single Goldcorp Culture with the five StepUP Behaviours (foster collaboration, communicate with impact, plan and align, commit to safety and develop people) as the foundation. It is where we learn important leadership skills, understand our own leadership impact, and align on how we impact performance outcomes that drive business results. To date we have successfully trained over 600 participants and will continue to grow these numbers with a planned expansion to LATAM (Peñasquito and Cerro Negro) in 2018. Future Leaders Program: Talent development is a key success factor in achieving our strategy and delivering results, as such we are committed to investing in and developing our pipeline of leadership talent to drive our business forward today and into the future. The Future Leaders Program is a one-year program that has been developed to provide selected individuals with personalized development feedback, a focused development plan with deliberate on-the-job experiences, leadership training and executive exposure to accelerate growth and readiness to take on future leadership roles. StepIN: This safety training program is centered on site leadership providing training to their direct reports which is cascaded down to all workers on site. The core of the training is defining and demonstrating the site standard for safe production and how to engage employees in safety. The focus in 2017 was on the quality of engagements through coaching and formal feedback mechanisms. Unconscious Bias Training: This training raises awareness and deepens understanding of unconscious and conscious bias in the workplace, and provides strategies for disrupting and overcoming bias. In 2018, we will be completing this training for all mid-management at all locations. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 113 Our People To ensure that our programs add value, all employees who attend training and development programs are requested to provide feedback. Furthermore, discussions are held with the employees’ supervisors to ascertain the extent to which the programs have resulted in improved on-the-job performance. We also conduct periodic employee surveys to determine employee engagement and identify areas for improvement. We know that employee development is integral to attracting and retaining our workforce; therefore, we are working to develop more robust monitoring and evaluation tools to assess the effectiveness of our employee training programs. For example, since 2015, we have used software-based e-learning technologies that provide training to salaried employees on key policies and programs, such as our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Policy, our Sustainability Excellence Management System and upcoming for 2018, our Unconscious Bias Training. These technologies also strengthen the ability to better monitor and assess participant completion rates, grades and performance. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING Our Performance Management strategy focuses on “Growing People” by empowering others through open communication and feedback. Through this process, our annual company strategy is established by way of a global scorecard that is cascaded to mine site-specific scorecards and then down into individual annual objectives for each employee. Managers guide and provide feedback to their team members throughout the year and have an individual mid-year checkpoint to assess and discuss progress relative to personal objectives and development plans. At the end of each year, individual annual performance is assessed with the participation of each employee through a self-assessment and, ultimately, with each manager, who conducts a performance review for each of their team members. Our Performance Management process is enabled by an online technology platform and is available for all salaried employees globally. The online tool was first introduced in Canada in 2008, and then in Mexico in 2010, with a rollout in 2017 to our Argentina employees. At our operating sites, 4,721 of regular staff received performance reviews during the 2017 reporting period, representing 85.4% of our total direct workforce. We continue to leverage our globally integrated Human Resources Information System (HRIS) and make improvements to its functionality. In 2017, we added a development planning tool to the performance management process to enable career and development discussions and encourage ongoing feedback. Looking forward to 2018, we will continue to coach employees to direct their own development. Additionally, we will continue to coach managers in being accountable for supporting employee development. Development planning will work in partnership with the existing performance objective setting process and will be a progressive step in the skill-building and career management of our people. The execution of employee development plans will assist employees in taking ownership of managing their career aspirations at Goldcorp, with support from their manager. TOTAL REWARDS The Total Rewards function is responsible for establishing the vision and guiding principles of our compensation, benefits and pension programs globally, and for ensuring that our Total Rewards programs enable the business to attract, reward and engage high performing employees. The Total Rewards team works in collaboration with the mine sites for managing, communicating and reviewing Total Rewards programs. Team members work together with business leaders and Human Resources peers as subject matter experts. As well, this team is responsible for ensuring compliance with and disclosure on some areas of Total Rewards, as prescribed by the various jurisdictions in which we operate. In 2017, 23% of our full time salaried non-union employees were eligible for long-term incentives (LTI), which enabled them to share in our success beyond fixed cash compensation and align employee experience with that of our shareholders. We review the LTI plan regularly to ensure it aligns with our compensation philosophy and supports the long-term sustainability of our organization. LTI awards are not guaranteed and are subject to change following each review. In 2017, 61% of all our full-time, salaried, non-unionized employees were eligible to participate in our annual short-term incentive program. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 114 Our People Benefits provided to full time salaried employees include: • Health, vision and dental insurance – Depending on the location/country this may include contributions towards government healthcare programs and/or employer-sponsored programs. • Family assistance programs – These provide counselling and other types of support to employees and their dependents for work, health, life and relationship issues. • Life and accident insurance – This provides a benefit payable to survivors of the deceased employee in the event of death or accident. • Retirement savings – • In Canada, non-unionized operational employees are covered under a mandatory 100% employer funded Defined Contribution (DC) Pension plan. A Defined Benefit (DB) pension plan which is 100% employer funded covers unionized employees representing 8% of our Canadian workforce. At December 31, 2016, the last actuarial valuation, the plan’s solvency ratio was 88.2% or 126.8% on a going concern basis. • U.S. employees and U.S. expatriates can participate in a voluntary 401(k) Defined Contribution safe harbor plan. • In Mexico, the pension plan is a DC/DB hybrid plan funded by employer (mandatory DB) and employee (voluntary DC) funding. At the last actuarial valuation, the DB component’s solvency ratio was 30.7% (Mexican pension law has no statutory funding requirements). • In Europe (Switzerland), Barbados, Argentina, Chile and Honduras, retirement savings is provided through required funding to the government social security programs and in Chile, in accordance with Chilean law, mandatory employee contributions are directed into employees’ individual pension accounts. • Parental leave – Programs differ by region and align with government provided programs or stipulations. For example, in the U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave, in Canada Employment Insurance (EI) and in Europe, Barbados, Mexico, Chile and Argentina, as required by social security programs in those countries. The Corporate office and sites provide additional monetary top-up to the government provided EI benefit. • Share-based programs – These programs may include benefits such as an employee stock purchase plan and Restricted Share Units (RSU). Eligibility for these options is dependent on job levels. An LTI program for Guatemala/Honduras employees phased out in 2017 due to either the pending closure of these sites, or employee ineligibility. TOTAL REWARDS HEALTH, VISION FAMILY LIFE AND AND DENTAL ASSISTANCE ACCIDENT RETIREMENT PARENTAL SHARE-BASED LOCATION INSURANCE PROGRAM INSURANCE SAVINGS LEAVE PROGRAMS Canada ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan United States ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan Europe ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Barbados ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Mexico ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Guatemala ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ n/a Honduras ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ n/a Chile ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Argentina ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Expatriates ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 115 Our People EMPLOYEE TURNOVER To retain employees in a competitive market, we maintain a positive, dynamic working environment, with competitive compensation and career options. Employee turnover1 across Goldcorp in 2017 for site-based employees and our corporate office is shown in the table below. Statistics for Guatemala and Chile are not represented as results would be skewed due the closure of these operations. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER AND LOCATION TURNOVER – TURNOVER – FEMALE EMPLOYEES MALE EMPLOYEES TOTAL TURNOVER Argentina 20% 10% 11% Canada 16% 8% 9% Corporate 12% 11% 11% Mexico 9% 5% 5% Total 14% 7% 8% Turnover rates are calculated only at operating sites and exclude projects and joint ventures that we do not operate. Generally, because of the short-term nature of many of the jobs on-site during the construction phase, turnover rates at projects will not be comparable with our overall performance. In 2017, we saw a higher turnover rate of female employees compared with male employees. Actions being taken as part of the current Diversity and Inclusion Strategy will establish more inclusive practices to retain and attract a diverse workforce. Examples include: developing a diverse pool of future talent through our Future Leaders program and enhancing our succession planning process to include Diversity and Inclusion principles. GLOBAL MOBILITY Our Global Mobility Program was developed during a period of significant growth for us. Specifically, there was a need to foster development and growth of our people, support movement of talent across our global operations, address current and future resourcing needs, and provide a framework for transfer of knowledge and skills. In 2017, we implemented the Global Mobility Program Administration Guideline and Toolkit to enable mine site teams to administer the Global Mobility Program at their respective sites. Efforts continued to support and educate our site teams on Global Mobility Administration Process. Regarding the Global Assignment Management System (previously named the Compensation Data Collection system), analytics regarding assignment costs were analyzed for components that would be meaningful to senior management in making hiring decisions. In 2018, assignment cost analytics will be reviewed with senior management and provided on a bi-annual basis to aid in decision making. In addition to our expatriate employee population, in 2017 we also focused on compliance for our short-term business travelers who travel frequently on business for Goldcorp. In 2017, we implemented a Business Travelers Program to ensure that we comply with immigration, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and visit while mitigating risk for both our Business Travelers and Goldcorp. An important aspect of the Global Mobility Program is the opportunity to transfer knowledge and skills from expatriates to local employees. In 2018, through our continued focus on employee development and succession planning, we will aim attention at further integrating talent management practices into our Global Mobility Program to ensure local successors are being identified and developed. Going forward, we will also continue past practices of benchmarking our Global Mobility Program to ensure it remains competitive, sustainable and appropriate based on the socio-economic situation in the countries in which we operate. 1 Employee turnover refers to employees, not contractors, who have left the company voluntarily or due to termination, retirement or death. It does not include employees who were transferred within Goldcorp to another site or office or employees on maternity or disability leave. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 116 Our People DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We strive to foster an open and inclusive workplace environment and strongly support the principle that all individuals should have an equal opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. In compliance with our Code of Conduct and our Diversity and Inclusion Policy (which was developed in 2017 and was rolled out at the beginning of 2018), everyone at Goldcorp must: 1. Always treat each other and all members of the outside community with respect and courtesy. 2. Always keep our workplace free from all forms of harassment, meaning unwelcome behaviour that a reasonable person would consider to be degrading, humiliating, discriminatory or intimidating. 3. Never permit factors such as race, religion, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnicity to determine decisions about hiring, employment promotions, pay rates, transfers, layoffs or terminations (or condone decisions by others determined by such factors). 4. Never permit physical disabilities to determine work-related decisions, unless the disability prevents a person from safely doing a job and the disability cannot be reasonably accommodated. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INITIATIVES In 2017, the Vice President of Diversity continued to work with our Diversity Committee to promote diversity and inclusion across our company and focus efforts to enhance our inclusive workplace. A key initiative of the Committee in 2017 was the development of a multi-year, overarching Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for Goldcorp. We worked with subject matter experts and third-party suppliers on the Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and were informed by the Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks1 and the results of our 2016 Diversity Survey. Our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy takes a broad view of diversity and outlines actionable steps to improve our inclusive work environment. The Diversity and Inclusion Strategy aligns with our global 20/20/20 goals, propelling us towards being a “Progressive” organization by 2021, as defined by the Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks2. Other key performance indicators in addition to the Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks3 will be used to measure our progress in this space. In 2017, we cascaded Unconscious Bias awareness training to mid-management at our head office in Vancouver and multiple mine and project site locations across Canada. The entire management team in both Canada and Latin America, including Mine General Managers, have participated in this training which raises awareness and deepens understanding of unconscious and conscious bias in the workplace, and provides strategies for disrupting and overcoming bias. In 2018, we will be completing this training for all mid-management at all locations. Another exciting event in 2017 was our second Goldcorp women’s conference in Mexico City, titled “Our Journey to Success”. The event built on the theme of the first Goldcorp women’s conference held in 2013, “Believe to Achieve”. The conference was well attended by executive leadership, board members, senior management and over 80 Goldcorp employees. It created an opportunity to learn, connect and celebrate our success, and brought together employees from across our mines, projects and office sites, from Argentina to Canada. Guest speakers shared insights on work-life balance; lessons learned from career accomplishments and how to adapt to change and rise to challenges. 1 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 2 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 3 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 117 Our People In line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls, we continued our work promoting the advancement of women and encouraging greater gender diversity in the global mining industry. Creating Choices is our training, development and mentorship program for women, and strengthens the ability of our female employees to: understand opportunities for personal and professional growth; develop their self-confidence and courage; build strong partnerships with fellow employees and communities where we operate; gain access to mentoring; and receive recognition for their contributions to Goldcorp. In 2017, we launched the third installment of the Creating Choices program – “Future Choices.” The four modules of Future Choices provide women with insights on entrepreneurship, basic financial concepts, self-confidence and change management skills to ensure they continue to lead and succeed in their communities, long after mining operations have ceased. In 2017, we trained 37 inspiring facilitators from across our operations to deliver the Future Choices program to their sites. To date, over 1,800 women have graduated from the Creating Choices suite of programs. We support the Women’s Empowerment Principles (a partnership initiative of UN Women and UN Global Compact) and are proud sponsors of Rugby Canada’s National Senior Women’s 15s and 7s Teams. We are also active members of the Canadian Board Diversity Council, the Canadian Centre for Diversity and Inclusion and the Minerva Foundation. Moreover, we were proud to host many events, roundtables and meetings on the topic of gender diversity throughout the year. One such event was our Minerva Foundation Executive Day, where senior leaders hosted three students to support women and girls in British Columbia reach their leadership potential. Concurrently, as part of our commitment with the Minerva Foundation, Goldcorp hosted BC based CEOs and their leadership teams to share best practices around advancing women in leadership and promoting more inclusive workplaces. In 2018, we will remain actively committed to pursuing and developing ongoing diversity and inclusion initiatives at Goldcorp. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 118 Our People DIVERSITY IN THE WORKFORCE Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy promotes the benefits of, and need for, extending opportunities for career advancement to all internal and external candidates, without distinction as to gender, ethnicity or on any other basis. We track certain diversity indicators among employees and contractors. One of those diversity indicators is gender, which is outlined below. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER (INCLUDES CONTRACTORS) % OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES % OF MALE EMPLOYEES LOCATION(S) TOTAL WORKFORCE AND CONTRACTORS AND CONTRACTORS Argentina 1,339 9% 91% Barbados 13 85% 15% Canada 4,428 13% 87% Chile 829 16% 84% Europe 4 50% 50% Expatriates 58 5% 95% Guatemala 559 7% 93% Honduras 3 33% 67% Mexico 6,857 10% 90% U.S. 4 0% 100% Total 14,094 11% 89% Canada Female: 576 Male: 3,852 U.S. Female: 0 Male: 4 Honduras Female: 1 Male: 2 Mexico Female: 686 Male: 6,171 Barbados Female: 11 Male: 2 Guatemala Female: 39 Male: 520 Chile Female: 133 Male: 696 Argentina Female: 121 Male: 1,218 *The map above shows where the majority of our employees and contractors are located. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 119 Our People EMPLOYEES BY GENDER (EXCLUDES CONTRACTORS) 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – Female 1,118 1,194 1,122 957 854 Goldcorp – Male 8,172 9,458 8,674 7,745 6,225 EMPLOYEE GENDER BREAKDOWN BY ROLE1 FEMALE MALE BREAKDOWN (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Board of Directors 20% 20% 27% 33% 30% 80% 80% 73% 67% 70% Management2 n/a 19% 15% 34% 34% n/a 81% 85% 66% 66% Officers 24% 23% 26% 20% 15% 76% 77% 74% 80% 85% Total Workforce3 12% 11% 9% 9% 11% 88% 89% 91% 91% 89% DIVERSITY WITHIN OUR GOVERNANCE We believe that diversity provides a depth of perspective and enhances overall operations. In 2017, 30% of our directors were women, 10% of our directors were Indigenous and 15% of our officers were women. In addition, our directors and officers represent ten different nationalities, speak six different languages between them and self-identify with more than 20 distinct cultures and ethnicities. DIVERSITY WITHIN OUR GOVERNANCE FEMALE MALE Audit Committee 2 2 Board of Directors 3 7 Compensation Committee 1 3 Governance and Nominating Committee 2 2 Senior Management (Officers) 4 23 Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee 1 4 1 Breakdown is based on employees and excludes contractors. 2 Managers represent positions with direct reports. For 2013, this was not split out from Total Workforce numbers. 3 Includes contractors. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 120 Our People We support increased representation of women on Canadian boards, as shown through our support of Catalyst,1 our membership in the 30% Club Canada and our support of the Canadian Board Diversity Council’s Diversity 50 initiative. In 2017, we achieved our commitment under the Catalyst Accord2 to increase the overall percentage of women on the Board to 25%. To continue our work with Catalyst, we were proud to sign a further pledge with the goal to accelerate the advancement of women on Boards and in the C-Suite to 30% or greater by 2022. This goal should guide our efforts to improve gender diversity at the Officer level and maintain strong performance across the Board and Management levels. In 2017, with 30% representation of women on our Board, we are proud to have met the targets set for our Board of Directors for both the 30% Club Canada and the Catalyst Accord. GENDER-BASED SALARY RATIOS We believe in equal pay for equal work and do not discriminate based on gender for how our employees are compensated. Instead, differences in pay are based on varying employee competency levels in their respective jobs. Our gender-based compensation data has been differentiated by level of employee and by geography, where the majority of our employee populations reside. Gender bias is common in employee categories. At the individual contributor level, for example, engineering staff (the majority of whom are male) may be paid a higher salary compared to business support staff (the majority of whom are female). This may result in a perceived gender bias in pay, which is actually a gender bias in the respective work categories. Therefore, as we compete for labour in many competitive markets, gender biases in some categories may arise. Our operations range from a ratio of 0.9 to a ratio of 1.2 (male to female pay ratio). GENDER-BASED SALARY RATIOS LEVEL ARGENTINA CANADA MEXICO Production 1.1 1.1 1 Individual Contributor 1.1 1.1 1 Line Management 1.1 1.1 1.1 Middle Management 1.2 1.1 0.9 Senior Management n/a 1 n/a We are committed to increasing diversity within the mining sector and support programs with post-secondary institutions to encourage leadership development for women in technical fields. We established the University of British Columbia’s Goldcorp Professorship for Women in Engineering and support Carleton University’s Advancing Women in Leadership Program for women currently working in mining and other technical fields. In 2017, 19 of our employees completed the Advancing Women in Leadership Program. We have also committed to support four Indigenous women each year for five years, through the Carleton University Advancing Indigenous Women in Leadership Program, making the program more accessible to Indigenous women leaders from the regions in which we operate. 1 Founded in 1962, the Catalyst is a leading non-profit organization dedicated to expanding opportunities for women in business. 2 The Catalyst Accord is a call to action for Canadian corporations to increase the overall proportion of FP500 board seats held by women to 25% by 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 121 Our People EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP The age group breakdown shifted slightly in 2017 when compared with prior years, with a shift towards the higher age groups primarily due to natural aging of our active workforce. Data are for our operating sites only and do not include projects, joint ventures, corporate or off-site office employees, as the disaggregated data was not available. Age group for our Board of Directors can be found in our Management Information Circular. EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP AGE GROUP 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Under 30 years 29% 27% 27% 25% 20% 30 to 50 years 52% 54% 57% 59% 61% Over 50 years 19% 19% 16% 16% 19% LABOUR AND MANAGEMENT RELATIONS At Goldcorp, we strive for positive employee-management relationships with both unionized and non-unionized employees. We support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. These include the right of individual employees to join a union or other work-related cooperative. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS To keep employees informed, we conduct quarterly Town Hall meetings, in which the President and CEO and other senior executives communicate directly with employees. These meetings provide an opportunity for any employee to submit questions to be addressed directly by the senior executives at the meeting. These Town Hall meetings are live, and all our offices and operations are linked via webcast and telephone during the meeting. The Town Hall meeting is provided in English with simultaneous translation into Spanish. French versions of the materials presented are also made available. Feedback from these meetings is further discussed in management and leadership meetings, and senior management ensures that direct responses are communicated, where appropriate. Employee questions that are not addressed in the meeting are responded to via the employee intranet. In 2017, there were four Town Hall meetings. Discussion topics included our corporate strategy, the launch of our new values, key operating milestones, financial and operating results, and new initiatives implemented since the previous meeting. A full audio replay, video clips and written transcripts are available to employees who missed a meeting. We maintain an employee intranet called Conveyor, which is available to employees at each of our sites and remotely. This is a vehicle for keeping employees up to date on global and site-specific news and events via written articles and/or videos. For employees who are unable to connect to the intranet, mine operations and offices maintain a mix of notice boards, digital displays and/or kiosks where employees can access our intranet. Sites also host daily huddles and regular information sessions to discuss key issues and events. In addition, our Vancouver office and each of our Canadian operations issues their own publications, which provide a variety of local news. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING In our Human Rights Policy, we commit to respecting workers’ rights, including freedom of association, the right to peaceful protest and assembly, and engagement in collective bargaining in alignment with the International Labour Organization Core Conventions. In 2017, there were no incidents of violations or risk to freedom of association and collective bargaining. There were some disruptions at our Peñasquito and Cerro Negro mines; however, they did not impact overall business targets. In line with our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value, we continue to work on the continuous improvement of relationships with our key stakeholders. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 122 Our People Of our direct employee base, 40% of our total employees were represented by a collective bargaining agreement in 2017. The existing collective bargaining agreements do not stipulate any timeframes regarding required notice periods concerning operational changes that could significantly affect union employees. The percentage of our contractor workforce covered by similar agreements is unknown. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED BY COLLECTIVE REPRESENTED BY COLLECTIVE LOCATION(S) (EXCLUDING CONTRACTORS) BARGAINING AGREEMENTS BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (%) Argentina 1,339 915 68% Canada, Europe, US, Barbados1 3,141 266 8% Chile 81 0 0% Expatriates 58 0 0% Guatemala & Honduras 124 0 0% Mexico 2,336 1,676 72% Total 7,079 2,857 40% 1 All employees represented by collective agreement in this grouping are located in Canada. All employees in Europe, US and Barbados are non-unionized salaried employees. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 123 Our People OUR PEOPLE CASE STUDIES DIVERSITY IN MINING We understand we have a role to play to ensure gender equity in the mining industry, and as such we have been working to improve progress in gender diversity through initiatives such as our Creating Choices program and conference. In November 2017, our second Goldcorp women’s conference was held in Mexico City, entitled “Our Journey to Success.” The conference was attended by our CEO David Garofalo, Goldcorp directors Bev Briscoe and Blanca Treviño, senior executives and over 80 Goldcorp employees. The conference further developed the theme of the first Goldcorp women’s conference held in 2013, entitled “Believe to Achieve.” The conference was an opportunity to learn, connect and celebrate, and it brought together employees from across our mines, projects and office sites, from Argentina to Canada. Guest speakers included Liliana Cantú, intercultural communications professional and President of Mexico’s Society for Intercultural Education, Training and Research, who shared insights on work-life balance. Clare Beckton, Founding Executive Director of the Carleton University Centre for Women in Politics and Public Leadership and author of Own It: Your Success, Your Life, Your Future, was another guest speaker who discussed her experiences and lessons learned from her career accomplishments to date. The third guest speakers was Irene Vera, Executive Coach and Consultant with The Humphrey Group, who shared her career journey to date. Viridiana Nunez, Staff Services Superintendent at our Peñasquito Mine, says, “I have been working for Goldcorp for ten years. During this time, one of the most rewarding parts has been taking part in the Creating Choices program. I was able to attend the Advancing Women In Leadership Program at Carleton University in Ottawa and participate in each of the women’s conferences at Goldcorp. These programs let me witness the evolution of the women who have lived through this experience, and my own evolution. Thanks to this program I have benefitted from the experience, the personality and the history of each of my colleagues – and it has inspired me to become a spokesperson for the program, a spokesperson for women not only at Goldcorp but in the society that I belong in, to share how an environment of equity allows women to freely contribute their ideas, their voice, their passion, their work. The results are extraordinary. Goldcorp is clearly an example of this; its success as a sustainable company is based on the contribution of men and women alike. I am pleased and feel very proud to be a part of this.” We are also proud to recognize the achievements of participants at our women’s conference. Yanina Colman was awarded the Woman Miner of the Year in Argentina and has been recognized as the first woman and currently only known female to work as an operator underground in Argentina. Elissa Williamson from our Red Lake Gold Mine was the inaugural recipient of the IAP-CIPEC Energy Manager Leadership Award. Yanina and Elissa continue to provide inspiration to women who are building their careers in the mining industry in Argentina, Canada and further afield. We look forward to supporting others in our company to be trailblazers like Yanina and Elissa! 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 124 Our People INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE At Goldcorp, we believe that developing our people enables them to achieve their potential and helps them exceed their goals. We are committed to investing in and developing all of our employees. As an example, StepUP is designed to equip everyone to achieve results in a safe, productive and responsible way, with a program that aligns our business and people practices around common core behaviours. It is also important for us to be looking to the future. We believe that cultivating a pipeline of keen, engaged leaders who can help perpetuate our culture and our values is a critical part of ensuring our success going forward. Last year, as part of our overall approach to talent management, we introduced a succession planning process for our executives, Mine General Managers and other mission-critical roles, where we asked our leadership to identify people they felt had the potential to step into their respective roles someday. We were incredibly pleased to find that the succession planning process exposed many people who have the potential to take on additional responsibilities, and we selected our first group of participants for the Future Leaders program from this process. The Future Leaders program is a new, one-year development program for selected individuals who have already demonstrated considerable success in their respective roles. The program accelerates growth and readiness to take on progressively more challenging leadership roles. There are four components to the Future Leaders program: 1. Assessment and development feedback: This component provides future leaders, and their managers and sponsors with insight and focus on development priorities, and helps identify factors to accelerate their readiness to take on more senior leadership roles. 2. Personalized development planning: Using feedback obtained during the assessment stage, the future leader’s manager will be accountable for supporting the execution of a tailored development plan by providing stretch assignments and on-the-job learning opportunities. In addition to ongoing feedback and coaching, development plans will be tracked in CORE, our performance management system, to ensure accountability. 3. Leadership training: A critical component of effective leadership is strong communication skills. All program participants take part in presentation skills training, and have practice assignments that require engagement with their colleagues and other teams at their respective mine sites and beyond. 4. Executive exposure and mentorship: Program participants meet with senior leaders at Goldcorp to broaden their understanding of the business and participate in a Future Leaders Summit held in July to coincide with scheduled Board meetings. They also are assigned a mentorship match, and may be invited to participate in select events and meetings such as Investor Day, and budget and operations leadership meetings. The program closes with a formal performance review process at the end of the year, with ongoing development objectives for the following year. Additionally, the program’s alumni are expected to foster ongoing collaboration with cross-site networking opportunities. Each year, sites undertake a selection process to nominate individuals for the Future Leaders program. Selection takes place in the first quarter of each year, and is based on criteria determined by our senior leadership team to align with our long-term company vision and strategy. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 125 Our People We are fortunate to have a deep pool of exceptional talent upon which to draw. In fact, it was difficult to create a shortlist from the individuals that were initially identified as candidates for Future Leaders. We decided to run the first year of the program for a small group. Accordingly, we selected 13 individuals to participate in the program in 2017. A snapshot of the roles and locations of those selected for the first cohort is below: FUTURE LEADERS FIRST COHORT JOB TITLE LOCATION CSR Superintendent Coffee Project Hollinger Pit Manager Porcupine Accounting Manager Musselwhite Plant Technical Services Superintendent Peñasquito Finance and Administration Manager Peñasquito Process Plant Manager Éléonore Mine Operations Manager Éléonore Director, Metallurgy Projects Corporate Office Operational Control Superintendent Cerro Negro Underground Operations Manager Red Lake Century Project Manager Porcupine Process Manager Peñasquito Engineering Services Manager Peñasquito Within the next five years, we expect to have a pool of over 60 employees who are taking on progressively expanded leadership roles as a result of their participation in this program, and our aim is to expand the program’s capacity going forward. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 126 Our People BUILDING MINING LEADERS OF TOMORROW As part of our commitment to workplace diversity, Red Lake Gold Mines implemented the Stope School Program in 2007. The Stope School Program is a Common Core training program that trains both local and First Nations people who are interested in working in an underground mining environment. The program runs for three months and consists of Underground Hard Rock modules, as well as other specialty modules that may be provided before the program is completed. The Stope School Program prepares the students to enter the workforce knowing the basics of mining with safety as a priority. Training consists of theory and practical activities consistent with the guidelines outlined by the Common Core Modules, a series of programs administered by the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities (MTCU). Day one of the program includes surface induction, where trainees learn how to wear, adjust and maintain personal protective equipment, as well as how to operate a fire extinguisher. Days two and three are spent underground, where trainees learn to perform general inspections, and how to scale loose rock and run motors. Following the induction, they continue the training program with the Common Core instructor. The students then attend the underground Stope School Training Center for the remainder of the program. Pierre Peloquin, one of the trainers at the Stope School says the following about the Program: “We understand that this is a new and overwhelming environment, and we help reassure the students by making them aware of the safety standards we have in place to make the workplace as safe as possible. The students are shown how to perform the task and this is repeated until the students are able to demonstrate competence in safely performing each task. This hands-on training provides trainees with the ability to learn and become comfortable doing the job. They are explained the safe and proper way of doing each task, and can then take these new underground mining skills as they move into the workforce.” In January 2017, the Red Lake Gold Mines Stope School Program received an overwhelming diversified pool of applicants both internally and externally. Two sessions were recently implemented and Bill Gascon, Mine General Manager met with each group to discuss their experience with the program. Below is a sample of what the successful candidates had to say: AS A GRADUATE OF CREATING/GROWING CHOICES, DID THE PROGRAM AID YOU IN APPLYING FOR THIS TRAINING? “Creating/Growing Choices is a valuable tool for women in the workplace not only to help us see our worth, but also help in teaching us to speak up and be assertive.” “Goldcorp provides many opportunities for growth. I have taken many courses such as StepIN, StepUP and Advanced First Aid training and now moving out of the Security Department to Underground I am looking forward to learning the other end of the mining industry.” “Creating/Growing Choices helped me to have the confidence to apply for Stope School and being a part of the underground workforce as a female. I enjoyed the program and would recommend it to any female in the industry. We are your future! I feel fortunate that diversity in mining is being increasingly recognized and I thank Goldcorp for that.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 127 Our People HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE YOUR EXPERIENCE IN STOPE SCHOOL? “Stope School has been a great opportunity and experience. The program allows us to have a small taste of the job opportunities underground and has taught us the importance of being safe, productive and doing the job well.” “Stope School has gotten me familiar with the Underground setting on a day to day basis. We have had the chance to experience the 17-ton truck, the remote scoop, the rockbreaker, tramming, etc. It has given me confidence and the training has been great.” “Stope School has been a great experience and opportunity so far. It has provided a platform that enables me to excel in the mining community.” “Love it! Great experience to be able to see and learn firsthand about the work my Dad did as I was growing up and to be able to work with him now! Knowing Goldcorp’s support and push for women in the underground workforce gives me confidence that I can and the future opportunities are endless.” WHAT WOULD YOUR ADVICE BE TO OTHER WOMEN OR MEN THAT WANT TO JOIN THE PROGRAM? “Go in open minded and ready to get dirty! Every job underground is important to the whole process and I believe that women going underground is huge in breaking the glass ceiling in mining.” “You are stronger than you know! Anything is possible with the right training and time. We are all in this together. Goldcorp means family. I am very proud to be a role model for my two boys that women can do anything!!” The Third Session of our Stope School Program started in July 2017! 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 128 Safe Enough For Our Families Safety and Health Safe Enough For Our Families. This phrase captures one of our core strengths and sets a standard that guides our efforts to ensure and support the safety and health of our people at work, at home and in their communities. CASE STUDIES CREATING A CULTURE OF USING TECHNOLOGY TO MAKE REDUCING EXPOSURE THROUGH A SAFE EXECUTION OUR MINES SAFER MONITORING NETWORK SEE PAGE 143 SEE PAGE 145 SEE PAGE 146 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 129 Safety and Health HIGHLIGHTS WE REDUCED OUR ALL OVER 210,000 SAFETY IN 2017, THERE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE ENGAGEMENTS WITH WERE 93 PFOs, (AIFR) BY 37%, EMPLOYEES AND compared to 1252 in 2016. We began noticing a substantial from 2201 reported injuries in 2016 to CONTRACTORS decrease in incident-type PFOs, 132 in 2017. We reduced our Lost Time were completed by our mine that is, PFOs that could have resulted Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by 17%, management teams across in a fatality under different timing or from 47 reported lost time injuries in our operations. slightly different circumstances. 2016 to 37 in 2017. We reached our main objective of Zero Fatalities. Lessons learned from fatalities in prior years have helped augment our ground control management programs at all sites. We improved the quality of our incident investigations with a new Root Cause Analysis (RCA) methodology designed to address root causes of incidents and create effective corrective actions aimed to eliminate the potential for incident recurrence. We have advanced our safety leadership and engagement program, StepIN, by focusing on the quality of employee-led interactions through coaching and formal feedback. As a result, our safety performance as measured by injury frequency rates experienced a step change in 2017. 2017 saw a 26% decrease in the number of incidents we classify as Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs). We started to see fewer incident-type PFOs (PFOs where an incident occurred that could have resulted in a fatality under different timing or slightly different circumstances). This indicates that incident investigations and corrective actions are preventing similar occurrences. Our annual Day of Remembrance/Reflection has become a site-focused initiative, with each site setting its own agenda and schedule. All our sites and offices in 2017 halted production on their respective Days of Remembrance/Reflection to participate and focus on our primary objective of Zero Fatalities and our vision of making Goldcorp Safe Enough For Our Families. INSIGHTS FROM: ACHIEVEMENTS MATERIAL TOPICS PETER CALNAN SEE PAGE 8 SEE PAGE 31 SEE PAGE 134 1 2016 Sustainability Report notes 221 injuries. One injury from 2016 was reclassified in the 2017 calendar year. The official number from 2016 is 220. 2 At the time the 2016 Sustainability Report was written, the number of PFOs was 124. One incident was reclassified to a PFO after the investigation was completed. The official number of PFOs from 2016 is 125. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 130 Safety and Health MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS According to the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), the number of mining related non-fatal injuries is decreasing across the mining industry, while the number of mining fatalities is increasing. As gold grades decline and new deposits are harder to find, we can expect mining conditions to become more challenging. As a result, the industry is investing in new technology to reduce these risks. One area we have invested in is remote and autonomous operation of surface and underground equipment. In 2017, our Musselwhite operation successfully implemented remote mucking operations where scoop-trams were successfully operated underground from our office in Thunder Bay, Ontario, approximately 500 km away. We are currently piloting the use of autonomous drills at our Peñasquito mine, without the need for operator intervention. The skill-set needed for mining is also changing. As we introduce new technology, recruitment and training programs will need to be modified to accommodate these differences. Additionally, the overall focus on health in the workplace is expanding; not only in regards to exposures to materials such as respirable dust and silica, and environmental conditions such as noise and heat, but the overall health of the worker and its impact on safety is of increased priority. Managing fatigue, obesity and musculoskeletal diseases takes a comprehensive approach that looks at the work and home environment, fitness, diet and health monitoring. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to ensure that our working environment is safe, and that we are committed to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions for all. They want us to cooperate with interested parties and with the industry on safety and health matters to improve the industry as a whole. They want us to eliminate fatalities and to re-examine our workplace practices so as to address issues identified as precursors to safety incidents. Have comments on why our approach to Safety and WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? Health is important to you? Safety is critical to us because our people are our strength, today and in the SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com future. Of all our company values, none is more important than safety: no ounce of gold is worth risking a life or injury. Our commitment, above anything else, is to have Zero Fatalities. We are pleased to report that we achieved that objective in 2017, but PFOs are still occurring, and it is clear that continuous improvement in this area is still needed. Safety begins with preparation: We must anticipate incidents before they happen and improve ongoing training to identify risks and respond appropriately when the unexpected happens. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 131 Safety and Health OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to create and maintain a culture of safety and health in the workplace, as embodied in our safety vision, Safe Enough For Our Families. We recognize that individuals are ultimately responsible for their own safety, and we strive to equip our employees with the tools, training and behaviours needed for continual safety awareness. Continual monitoring and evaluation of our safety performance is integral for us to achieve our vision. Our Safety and Health strategy is embedded in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Our strategy is as follows: OUR SAFETY AND HEALTH STRATEGY Leadership engagement Focus on the Strengthen safety and and accountability highest risks health systems SAFE ENOUGH FOR OUR FAMILIES ZERO FATALITIES 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 132 Safety and Health We believe that we can only achieve our vision of Safe Enough For Our Families when each and every Goldcorp employee is actively engaged in our safety culture. We realize that our systems and processes are only as good as the leadership and commitment we demonstrate on the job. Our vision is reflected in three basic principles: Care, Think and Act. LY Care: We provide an environment that demonstrates that safety is a core value, that we care about our people and that we are prepared to listen, learn and act. Think: All tasks contain an element of risk. We expect all employees to think about their actions – not only about the impact a decision might have on themselves, but also their co-workers. Act: We provide procedures, programs, systems and training to ensure that tasks can be completed safely. We encourage all employees to share best practices and improve the ways in which we carry out our work functions. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate safety and health function is headed by the Vice President of Safety and Health, who reports directly to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The Vice President of Safety and Health is responsible for the oversight, strategic development and management of our safety and health policies, programs and activities. This individual works with all functions of the organization, including Operations, Exploration, Projects and Administration, to enable safety excellence across the company. All our operations have Safety and Health managers who are responsible for supporting the implementation of our strategies on a day-to-day basis. Our Chief Executive Officer is ultimately accountable for our safety performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee has oversight of all safety and health functions. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 133 Safety and Health INSIGHTS FROM: PETER CALNAN Talking Safety and Health with Peter Calnan, Vice President, Safety and Health 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT GOLDCORP? Without a doubt, the major accomplishment for us in 2017 was the fact we had Zero Fatalities. Throughout 2016, we invested heavily in our StepIN program to improve the safety culture throughout the company. Under this program, sites were given freedom to implement their own site-specific initiatives, such as coaching sessions. Observing the way our sites embraced the program was a real highlight, and the program’s value is evident in the results. We had the best safety performance from the sites in the history of the organization, with improvements occurring each quarter. Having Zero Fatalities is our ultimate goal each and every year. Our team focused on aligning rather than introducing new programs, which has served us well in 2017 and is something we will continue in 2018. 2. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE CHALLENGES FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT GOLDCORP IN 2017, AND WHAT DID THE COMPANY LEARN FROM THEM? In 2017, we saw some significant staffing changes, which resulted in a new Have a question for Peter? structure and senior positions. Going through change requires strong communication. Our Safety and Health team became very open and SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com collaborative throughout the year. From a leadership perspective, our accomplishments included learning the need to communicate with impact and to “inspire” employees. I’m very pleased to see the progress that has been made. We significantly reduced events and potential fatal occurrences (PFOs) from 2016. I believe this achievement is a direct result of efforts to improve our communication and inspire our employees through StepIN and our Day of Remembrance sessions. This improvement has taken a lot of planning, travel and effort from many people. I am optimistic that things are improving, but I also believe it is imperative we do not grow complacent while celebrating our successes. We must always continue to focus on safety and our commitment to being Safe Enough For Our Families. 3. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO KEEP WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH TOP PRIORITY FOR THE COMPANY? Health and Safety for our workforce is our overriding priority and it is very clear that a Safe and Healthy workplace is a productive workplace. With the stronger focus on our workforce, we have been able to provide improved, more consistent supervision and increase the understanding of individual roles. Stronger supervision through StepIN has improved communication and interaction for our teams. This has helped to ensure that our worksites are Safe Enough For Our Families – and that this is not just a vision but a reality. Our commitment to Safe Enough For Our Families is a top priority for everyone at Goldcorp. Commitment to this vision can be observed throughout the organization, from our CEO and Executive Leadership team to our Mine General Managers. You can see the drive and passion from the workforce. It’s easier to speak to and speak out about Safety and Health when you know there is a commitment from the top. We have also been reinforcing the value and importance we put on relationships. It is important that supervisors have a relationship with their teams – that they are building a level of trust and respect and are making sure that everyone gets home safe. I am really encouraged by how we performed in 2017, and I am looking forward to continuing this success throughout 2018. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 134 Safety and Health 4. WHAT CHANGES HAVE YOU NOTICED OVER THE LAST YEAR WITH REGARDS TO SAFETY AND HEALTH IN THE MINING INDUSTRY, AND WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO ENSURE THESE ISSUES ARE BEING MANAGED PROACTIVELY? There has been a noticeable increase in Technology and Innovation in mining for all aspects of the business. This has given us the opportunity to be more proactive and incorporate much of this technology into our new and existing sites. A good example is our Borden project which is the first all underground electric mine in our industry. The technology associated with Borden has given us worldwide recognition and credit for taking such strides in the industry. The battery electric vehicles (BEVs) deliver better air quality in underground mines due to no emissions from diesel engines. We also have our tele-remote technology in Thunder Bay – that is, where you can be in Thunder Bay and run a scoop tram at Musselwhite. You’re not only removed from site, but you’re now also located in an urban area. We have the ability to both drill and move material from a different location than the actual mine site. Another change with regards to technology and innovation is a recent focus on allowable limits in safety and health. For example, in the case of diesel particulate matter, we now have access to increased information on the potential harm related to these emissions. The need to provide cleaner air as people are working is increasing, and the standards are becoming more stringent. We are committed to providing our employees and contractors with safe and healthy working environments. 5. UNDERSTANDING THAT WORKER HEALTH IS A MATERIAL ISSUE FOR MINE OPERATORS, WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING TO PROTECT THE HEALTH OF ITS WORKFORCE? The implementation of newer technology in equipment has given way to a new level of working conditions in underground mining not seen before. Our Industrial Hygiene groups are also developing more mature programs to ensure we consider all levels of worker health. We are testing our protocols and using biological monitoring to provide more information and data to manage issues such as fatigue, mental health and nutrition, ensuring we continually improve. Through learning from our successes rather than only investigating our failures, we have the ability to provide better protection to our workforce. With better planning, alignment, risk assessments and leading indicators, we are more capable of providing a safer and healthier workplace. We also focus on engineering out risks to prevent events from occurring. 6. HOW HAVE ADVANCEMENTS IN TECHNOLOGY IMPACTED WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY AT GOLDCORP? WHAT ADVANCEMENTS DO YOU SEE IN THE FUTURE THAT WILL CHANGE HOW WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH IS MANAGED? The advancement in BEVs, autonomous mining equipment (scoop, drills) and tele-remote systems that actually remove the worker from the underground environment, significantly reduces the risk of Safety and Health related issues. The BEVs provide more favourable working conditions, for example, because they improve air quality and are much quieter than traditional diesel engines. We have put a significant focus on technology and innovation. At Peñasquito there is an entire area that is run autonomously. As a result, the workers are sitting in a clean environment rather than in the drill on the drill pattern. In terms of air emissions, the new BEVs run perfectly clean underground. With the exception of the sound of the tires against the ground and a slight hum, they make no noise. This is a quantum shift from typical diesel machinery for both emissions and sound. This shift is also reflected in the results from a satisfaction survey completed by employees at Borden, who are thrilled with the new technology. It was very exciting feedback to receive. 7. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH AT GOLDCORP (I.E., FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? We now have a proven platform for BEVs that can be integrated into our current operating sites as a suitable replacement for, and upgrade from, existing equipment. As we replace our equipment, we will substitute it, where practical, for newer and cleaner technology, such as battery-operated equipment. Both surface and underground mining are experiencing transformative innovation that is encouraging and exciting. All of this means safer and healthier work environments for our workforce. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 135 Safety and Health 8. LOOKING BACK OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON FROM A WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH PERSPECTIVE? In the past five years, we have matured in Safety and Health. It has been a steep learning curve: We have grown rapidly, but our workforce’s commitment has nevertheless made it possible for our operations to be among the safest in the mining industry. Over the 2.5 years I have been with Goldcorp, I have seen tremendous improvements in the results, with fewer injuries and health issues. This improvement takes a lot of work, focus and commitment from all Goldcorp employees and contractors. We are well on our journey to reaching rates of zero. My personal goal is for us to be the safest and healthiest employer in the mining industry. We have matured significantly in the past five years, and it takes time for the systems to mature. There has been a tremendous increase in the understanding, passion, desire and urgency to see that these programs are adhered to properly. The increase in safety performance has been significant over the past five years. We are running with the best mining companies in the world, most of which have been honing their practices for decades. We’ve improved and continue to improve at a very quick rate, and we’re catching up to them very quickly. 9. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING FROM A WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH PERSPECTIVE THAT WILL CHANGE THE WAY THAT WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH IS APPROACHED, CONDUCTED OR PERCEIVED IN THE FUTURE? Innovations such as offsite control rooms to run equipment in autonomous zones of the mine and tele-remote equipment operation have opened up the opportunity to attract a unique, skilled workforce that will also grow in our industry with the technological advancements. With our current StepUP program being introduced, coupled with the accomplishments of our StepIN program, we have been able to develop a culture with a much more consistent demonstration and display of what “good” actually looks like and what is expected of every person who works for us. Our focus in 2017 was on the StepUP behaviours and on growing our people. We provided opportunities for people to be more engaged in our organization. We’re positioning ourselves well to adapt to change as new technology and innovation provide us opportunities to think differently. In terms of our #DisruptMining initiative, we included a segment on safety and health. We are ambitious, and we have a strong sense of urgency about our ideas for innovation in the industry – in safety, health and all aspects of our business. Safety and health is my personal passion, it is inspiring to observe the progress we have made at Goldcorp. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 136 Safety and Health SAFETY LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY In 2017, we continued our investment to improve the safety culture throughout the company. The main focus was to continue assisting sites in the implementation of SEMS and incident investigation methodology. In addition, a variety of initiatives led to an overall improvement in safety as measured by the AIFR and reduced tolerance of risk, including: safety training and coaching, risk assessments, meaningful employee engagements, emergency preparedness programs and audits to assess safety performance. SAFETY PROGRAMS AND TRAINING Safety training is the way to build a safety culture that develops our people to take leadership in safety, at work and at home. We provide training on all technical, behavioural and cultural aspects of safety. To keep our people current on the latest in safety advancements, both inside and outside the industry, we encourage employees to participate in external training, conferences and workshops. Each mine operation develops its own approach to safety programs within our overall vision and framework for coaching, training, workshops and program development. This ensures a successful, sustainable implementation with the necessary cultural and site-specific nuances. In 2017, we continued our many initiatives aimed at improving safety, including: • Safe Enough For Our Families: continued promotion and senior management support for our safety vision. This message continues to be driven to every Goldcorp employee. • Our annual Day of Remembrance has become a site-driven initiative, and each operation has adapted their own program for it. We also changed the name of the program slightly to Day of Remembrance/Reflection to highlight the opportunity that the day brings to reflect on what we need to do to keep our mines safe, and to remember those who have lost their lives or been seriously injured in industrial accidents at our sites. • The Mine Safety Roundtable and the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM): We participate in these groups for benchmarking and sharing industry best practices in safety and injury prevention. • Technical safety training is primarily provided at the operational level. Our technical safety training programs include mine rescue training, the Stope School (at Ontario mines), equipment operation, first aid, simulator training and occupational health awareness training. StepUP 2017 marked the launch of our behaviour‐based engagement program, StepUP. The program focuses on five core behaviours that are fundamental to the company’s culture. It provides insight into how workers should conduct themselves when at work, as well as into what they should expect from others. StepUP defines our culture, and is aligned with our core beliefs, values and vision. We are committed to a business strategy that empowers each employee to act responsibly, productively and safely. All five StepUP behaviours are critical components of a safe workplace. The Five Core StepUP Behaviours are: We Commit to Safety: Our people are committed to a safe and healthy workplace. We take responsibility for the health and safety of ourselves and others. We contribute to a culture that values safe execution of all planned activities. We Develop People: Our people proactively and willingly build the long-term capability of themselves and others. We promote diversity and inclusion. We want to learn and transfer expertise and are willing to coach/mentor team members in order to actively prepare potential leaders to assume greater roles at Goldcorp. We Foster Collaboration: Our people collaborate with others to achieve mutual success. We build collaborative relationships by valuing diversity and inclusion, others’ points of view and openly sharing pertinent information. We Communicate with Impact: Our people openly communicate with one another. We deliver specific messages that drive action and accountability, and engage others by listening and using influencing skills. We Plan and Align: Our people plan ahead, track progress and take accountability for achieving safe results and making sustainable improvements. We focus on the highest priorities by aligning activities with organizational values and strategic direction. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 137 Safety and Health In 2017, every mine site in Canada – including Goldcorp’s Executive and Corporate Teams – began implementing StepUP through a series of facilitator‐led modules. In total, 32 sessions were completed, reaching close to 500 employees. Goldcorp’s StepUP Behaviours were integrated into the company’s performance tool (CORE), aligning performance objectives (what we do) with expected behavior (how we do it). As a result, each employee was evaluated not only on their performance objectives, but also on the StepUP Behaviours. Goldcorp employees also plan for their personal development by aligning those goals with the StepUP Behaviours. In 2018, this behavioral based engagement program will continue to grow as the second and third modules of StepUP are introduced. We also plan to implement the program in Latin America. DAYS OF REMEMBRANCE/DAYS OF REFLECTION This day is our opportunity to reflect on the importance of safety and what actions we can take to make Goldcorp Safe Enough For Our Families. In 2017, each site worked to design and execute their own plan for their respective Day(s) of Remembrance/Reflection and held the event(s) at frequencies and times that were most effective for them. Some mines integrated the day into their StepIN programs while for others it was a stand-alone day. In all cases, production was halted for a period of time to ensure undivided focus on safety. StepIN The StepIN leadership investment program is focused on providing the tools and skills supervisors need to do their jobs. It is a standardized application of the basic elements of mine site supervision. Its objective is for mine managers to work with supervisors to ensure they have all the skills and tools needed to be successful – and that our standard of excellence is well understood. StepIN is currently in full implementation at all our sites. Each site is ensuring that supervisors have all the skills and tools needed to be successful in their own way. This is proving to be an extremely effective strategy for combatting incidents. Having sites run their own leadership and engagement programs tailors training to the specific needs and nuances of each site and allows focus to be placed on those areas that need it the most. Some Goldcorp sites use coaches to shadow supervisors as they interact with workers throughout their shift, observing, scoring and providing feedback on the quality of the engagements they perform. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTS In July 2015, we established employee engagements as a corporate leading indicator on safety performance. The purpose of these engagements is to involve our employees in the identification and discussion of safety and health practices and risks. In so doing, we aim to reduce injuries and achieve our objective of Zero Fatalities. Each site: 1) establishes a target of engagements for managers to complete each month (planned engagements) and 2) measures all completed engagements (actual engagements). In 2017, the sites had a target of 200,000 management engagements and achieved over 210,000 engagements. The focus in 2017 was on the quality of engagements rather than the quantity, and the StepIN program has evolved into a system at many of our operations that involves coaching and formal feedback mechanisms to improve this. The end results are high quality engagements, a complete understanding of the safety risks each worker is facing throughout their shift and a comprehension of the controls that should be in place so that the workers can perform their work as safely as possible. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 138 Safety and Health SAFETY AND HEALTH SYSTEMS In 2017, we rolled out a new incident investigation process that has simplified investigations and increased the effectiveness of corrective action plans. Under the new methodology, investigation teams use two new tools to identify key factors and root causes that contribute to incidents: the Five Whys and the Why Tree. The idea behind each of these methods is that investigation teams will ask “Why?” a number of times until a root cause can be identified and corrected. This will simplify the investigative process, identify systemic causes of incidents and allow teams to focus on the most important components of incident investigation: corrective actions. We consider the hierarchy of controls when looking at ways to improve our systems and processes, along with preventing reoccurrence. The new incident investigation process will aim to prevent the recurrence of significant incidents. Training in the new methodology was completed for sustainability teams at all sites in 2017. The focus going forward will be on improving our ability to successfully use the new methodology across all levels of the organization. POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCES Reporting and investigating PFOs is a critical part of preventing fatalities, as it allows for the sharing of information and enables us to learn from each other and implement changes based on the recommendations. We define PFOs as nearmiss incidents or violations of our life-saving rules that had the potential to result in a fatal occurrence. Preventing such incidents is critical to achieving our number one objective: Zero Fatalities. In 2017, there were 93 PFOs, compared to 125 in 2016. Approximately 87% of 2017 PFOs had no associated injury. High risks areas identified through the analysis of the 93 PFOs from 2017 include: • Working at heights • Energy isolation • Vehicle collisions The improvement in reporting and investigation of PFOs remains a focus across the company, as our safety leaders continue to emphasize the importance of prevention, mitigation and communication of the types of incidents that could potentially cause a fatality. Each PFO is reviewed by at least one member of our senior leadership team as part of the closeout of the incident investigation. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 139 Safety and Health INJURY AND ILLNESS PERFORMANCE METRICS Our vision of making Goldcorp Safe Enough For Our Families is well understood by our employees, and we continue to advance safety performance across all regions of our operations and projects. At the end of 2017, we demonstrated improvement in our safety performance as measured by the frequency of reportable incidents. The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) improved by 37% and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) improved by 17%. We have spent years investing in improving the safety culture across the company, strengthening the systems that drive safety performance and focusing on the highest risk activities at all of our operations. As a result, we have had an outstanding year with respect to Safety and Health. Leadership programs such as StepUP and StepIN that further evolved in 2017 have helped our workers feel empowered to speak up for safety and given them the required tools for challenging and engaging one another. In 2016, we put particular emphasis on improving our Ground Control Management Plans (GCMPs) across the company, not only from a geotechnical perspective, but also from an operational perspective. As a result, the number of ground stability related PFOs at Goldcorp decreased by 71% in 2017. By focusing on fatal risks, empowering and engaging our workforce and identifying and strengthening gaps in our safety systems, we had the best safety performance in the history of the company in 2017. WORK-RELATED FATALITIES1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total Work-Related Fatalities 3 (1) 1 (0) 1 (0) 4 (2) 2 (2) 2 0 1 1 0 ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) AND LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 AIFR (200,000 hours) 3.39 2.89 2.63 1.94 1.65 1.65 1.5 1.26 1.12 0.71 LTIFR (200,000 hours) 0.61 0.34 0.36 0.31 0.33 0.33 0.31 0.25 0.24 0.2 TOTAL FATALITIES AND ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) AND LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) (200,000 hours normalization) 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – AIFR 1.65 1.50 1.26 1.12 0.71 Goldcorp – LTIFR 0.33 0.31 0.25 0.24 0.20 Goldcorp – Fatalities 2 0 1 1 0 1 Note: Contractor fatalities are in parentheses (e.g., in 2011, two of the four fatalities involved contractors). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 140 Safety and Health ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) AND LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) BY SITE 1.50 1.25 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake Aggregated Goldcorp Value1 AIFR 0.28 0.65 0.17 1.16 0.60 1.27 0.90 0.71 LTIFR 0.14 0.15 0.09 0.00 0.17 0.40 0.06 0.20 Minor injuries, such as first aids, are not included in AIFR or LTIFR. We follow the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) guidelines for reporting and recording injuries and incidents. As per the Mining Association of Canada’s (MAC) Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) initiative, which looks at sustainability performance at the facility level, we are including individual safety performance for each of our operating sites. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS We recognize that there is more to ensuring worker and community health and well-being than simply working to prevent injuries. We strive to create and maintain a safe, healthy working environment through the prevention, control and mitigation of exposures that can lead to disease. This is accomplished through environmental, biological and medical monitoring, and through the quantification of occupational exposure risks. Assessing these risks allows for the prioritization of control efforts, as well as for exposure reduction or elimination. Common occupational diseases in the mining industry include respirable diseases associated with mineral dust and gas exposure, noise-induced hearing loss and vibrational disorders. TOP 3 RISKS Respirable Diseases Noise-Induced Vibrational Disorders Associated with Mineral Hearing Loss Dust and Gas Exposure 1 The aggregated Goldcorp value includes hours and injuries from our projects and closed sites. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 141 Safety and Health During 2017, sites continued to characterize site exposures to chemical, physical, ergonomic, and biological agents, establishing quantitative baselines. These baselines are serving as the basis for site-specific exposure reduction plans to specific high-risk agents, and monitoring activities in cases where additional work may be necessary. IMPLEMENTATION OF INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SOFTWARE Work continued through 2017 to customize, enhance and roll-out the Industrial Hygiene/Occupational Hygiene (IH/OH) modules, which is part of the Enablon suite of software. Completed IH/OH qualitative risk assessments and Similar Exposure Group (SEG) development were incorporated into the software tool to manage and report out on IH data, develop and communicate on leading indicators, and manage and drive medical monitoring activities in the Occupational Health program. The software tool, and access to the detailed information captured within the tool, will improve our ability to anticipate, recognize, evaluate and prevent occupational diseases. SHIFTING OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE ACTIVITIES TOWARDS EXPOSURE REDUCTION In late 2017, sites summarized their exposure data for three priority carcinogens – arsenic, crystalline silica and diesel particulates. The purpose of this was multifold: to determine our current exposure paradigm in relation to these agents; to understand the potential impact to the organization if impending occupational exposure limits change and to target these three exposure agents in the initiation of Site Exposure Reduction Plans. This will allow sites to set annual exposure reduction targets per population basis and make meaningful reductions in the exposed worker population. MEDICAL MONITORING GUIDANCE Building on the development of medical monitoring best practice guidance in 2016, medical monitoring triggers have been developed that tie into the best practice documents and complement the decision statistics used for industrial hygiene. This has provided consistency in the delivery of medical monitoring services. COMMUNITY SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAMS For the benefit of our local communities, we coordinate health programs that provide basic medical services through local community and government organizations. Several mines also offer wellness programs for employees , family members and local communities. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 142 Safety and Health SAFETY CASE STUDIES CREATING A CULTURE OF SAFE EXECUTION In September 2016, construction began on two capital works projects at our Peñasquito mine: the Carbon Pre Flotation Plant (CPP) and Pyrite Leach Plant (PLP). The projects are joint efforts between Goldcorp Peñasquito, Fluor and ICA Fluor (ICAF), and will be part of daily operation at Peñasquito for the remainder of the mine’s life. By the end of 2017, the combined projects had surpassed 5 million hours worked, with three Total Recordable Injuries and zero Lost-Time Injuries, representing an AIFR of 0.11 and an LTIFR of 0.00. The project was also awarded Fluor’s Five-Star Status Award for Outstanding Health, Safety and Environment Performance. This safety record is an incredible achievement, especially considering the large number of hours worked in the short 15-month time span. Such a safety record doesn’t happen by accident. For these projects, it started with Safety in Design, starting at the study stage. At each project stage – prefeasibility, feasibility and execution – the project team held design reviews with key subject matter experts, safety professionals and operations stakeholders. The team benefitted from the unique experiences and perspectives of each of the participants. Our objective was to incorporate safety as a forethought through up-front collaboration together with Fluor Safety-In-Design practices as part of the project design. Additionally, multiple Hazard and Operability reviews were performed with project execution, operational readiness and operations stakeholder participation. This culture didn’t stop with the project’s design. The overall PLP & CPP Safety Program was formulated as part of the Project Execution Plan produced as part of the Feasibility Study; further evolution of the Safety Program occurred as the project mobilized and evolved. Key elements of the program included: • A Gap Analysis was performed comparing the Goldcorp/Peñasquito programs against the Fluor and ICA Fluor programs. The more stringent of each element was adopted for the project. • Full front-end engagement of the PLP & CPP Teams to develop a project safety culture understanding that the safety on our jobsite is fully within our control. • A crucial message: Complacency is the enemy; thus, we need to operate at a heightened sense of awareness at all times. • Monthly Safety Recognition meeting with subcontractor general managers – Subcontractor participation through presentations of best practices being applied in their areas, together with awards to craft (from their company GMs) for outstanding Acts of Safety. • Weekly Safety Committee meeting with all site contractors; sharing of best practices and lessons learned. • Project integration in the Peñasquito Safety Committee meetings; sharing of best practices and lessons learned. • Monthly Recognition program with craft – presenting awards for significant safety contributions while in full recognition of their peers. • Significant Safety Milestone celebrations; million site hour milestones. • Working @ Heights “Patrol” to combat the initial PFOs experienced on the project. The program is set up to provide full-time, site-based mentoring with safety professionals to facilitate safe “working at heights” practices. • Ongoing major training programs with a focus on skills targeted at safe execution. Over 120,000 hours of training was completed for the project: This comprises approximately 2.15% of total project hours and is double the industry standard. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 143 Safety and Health Approximately 20% of the workforce came from the local communities. These individuals had little or no experience with either the industrial settings or construction-associated tasks, risks and procedures. Orientation, training, education and guidance were fundamental to overcoming the obstacle this knowledge gap presented. To combat this issue, the project designed and implemented a local labour pool training program. This program focused on engaging local community members through a technical school located near the mine, in Mazapil. As part of this program local community members were selected and trained in safety and basic construction skills before they were hired. At the point of hire, they were then entered into ICAF’s site induction and further training program. This additional training raised the safety awareness and skills even before the candidates entered the jobsite. Eventually these skills will filter back into the community and go with these local community members, no matter what they do in the future. In addition to the local labour pool training program and ICAF site inductions, ICAF executed a project training program whereby numerous training modules were rolled out, covering planning, organization, and craft topics each of these with safety weaved throughout the content. In 2017, a total of 121,153 person-hours (equivalent to ~58 full time personnel all year) were executed, which raised not only the field staff’s skills but also their safety skills and awareness. This was a significant effort and program and will continue to roll forward through to the end of the job as the required skills and work environment changes. Each workday started with: well-organized, pre-shift safety and construction meetings; field level risk assessments; job hazard analysis discussions; permit to work systems and proper implementation of Goldcorp’s 5-point safety system. Our primary objective in this practice was to ensure that each team member was well-prepared for the day; understood the work required; and fully comprehended that they had a duty of responsibility for themselves, their families and each team member. Project management empowered workers to speak up if they felt anything was sub-standard. They managed this by giving each worker, regardless of their job title, the authority to stop unsafe work anywhere on the project. Throughout the project’s life, management demanded not only that we achieve our standards, but also that we continuously seek new ways to improve – that we push the envelope so as to exceed defined and common practices. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 144 Safety and Health USING TECHNOLOGY TO MAKE OUR MINES SAFER Our investment in the use of remotely operated equipment is advancing at Musselwhite after a successful extended test of the mine’s enhanced remote operation system. Remote operation of mining equipment has been in use in Éléonore, Red Lake and Musselwhite since 2016, with equipment operators using tele-remote consoles to operate underground scoops from surface. The program has been successful at all three operations from both a safety and productivity standpoint. However, until now, operators were still required to be on site to operate the equipment. The Musselwhite team’s vision, focusing on increasing productivity, reducing costs and most importantly improving safety, took this capability one step further and proved that it is possible to operate a scoop remotely from any location. In 2017, Peñasquito pursued the use of automation by fitting two drill rigs with the technology. Trials are ongoing, but results to date have been promising. The technology helps operators monitor drilling from a safe location, outside of the pit, for most of the shift. This action reduces our workforce’s exposure to potential hazards associated with drilling in the open pit. Using a remote terminal located at the Thunder Bay office, more than 500 km away from the mine, a scoop operator was able to remotely control a scoop at the mine that was 1 km underground. This is a major step in making our mines safer and will allow miners to perform some of the higher risk parts of the mining cycle from a safe location, far away from any potential hazards. The success of this project was due to the high degree of teamwork and collaboration between the mining, electrical and IT teams at site. To these were added IT network engineers and IT security teams in Vancouver. As we continue to focus on innovation, the collaboration between cross-functional teams will be at the centre of ongoing success and will continue to make our mines safer. Watch a video of Epiroc autonomous drills at our Peñasquito mine: https://youtu.be/9LCiXDWML3s. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 145 Safety and Health REDUCING EXPOSURE THROUGH A MONITORING NETWORK In 2017, the Peñasquito Health and Hygiene group implemented an occupational dust monitoring network at the site to improve the overall understanding of the current dust conditions and the effectiveness of controls, as well as to allow for a timelier response to dust exceedances. The network is composed of a number of real-time dust monitoring instruments, which function on the principle of laser photometry. Some of the equipment is fixed at specific locations, while others are portable. The fixed instrumentation is linked digitally to a cloud service and site network where alarms can be pushed to targeted recipients and communicated, as required. This real-time dust monitoring equipment can monitor the respirable dust fraction of any exposure environment. The output is non-specific, meaning that the equipment can only provide an overall mass concentration of dust detected, but cannot differentiate between crystalline silica and other mineral dusts in the sample. However, the site has established a correlation between crystalline silica concentrations and overall respirable dust concentrations. This understanding allows them to draw inferences about the silica concentration based on the measured respirable dust concentration. This technology is proving to be very useful in responding to exceedances in real-time and in the understanding and control of dust issues. This technology was applied to monitoring in the Peñasquito Primary Crusher Control Room (PCCR). Crystalline silica air concentration measurements inside the PCCR in 2016 and early 2017 showed the presence of exposure levels that exceeded the corresponding occupational exposure limits. The Industrial Hygiene team installed a real-time dust monitor inside the PCCR. The equipment made tangible what had previously been intangible: minute-by-minute dust concentrations were measured and displayed. This allowed PCCR staff to understand the source of high exposure concentrations and implement best practices to reduce and maintain exposure levels. The installed dust monitor is part of the recently installed “Occupational Dust Monitoring Network”. The Primary Crusher Operations Team implemented a series of control measures to target the high exposure concentrations. These included: • Short-term measures • Fixing access door air lock; • Conducting deep cleaning of the PCCR; • Restricting access to the PCCR; • More frequent cleaning of horizontal surfaces using wet methods (floor, desks, window sills, etc.); • Purchasing an industrial vacuum with HEPA filter; • Installing an air curtain outside the PCCR access door; • Sealing existing window/door/wall cracks; • Installing two portable air purifying units with HEPA filter (to maintain dust at low levels). • Medium-term measures • Redesigning the PCCR to eliminate window/door/wall cracks and to provide the new PCCR with a proper ventilation system. Following intervention, the Industrial Hygiene measurements have demonstrated lower crystalline silica air concentrations. As of January 2018, the exposure limit has not been exceeded in more than two months. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 146 Leaving a Smaller Footprint Environmental Stewardship Goldcorp is committed to the protection of the environment during all phases of mining, from exploration to post-closure activities. Everyone conducting work or acting on our behalf is responsible for the actions necessary to fulfill this commitment. We value and protect the earth’s natural resources by striving for pollution prevention. We seek and utilize practices, technologies and partnerships to reduce our water and carbon footprints. Finally, we take the necessary steps to operate our mine waste facilities in such a way as to protect the environment. CASE STUDIES A “DEER-EST” CONSERVATION EFFORT ALL THE BUZZ AT RED LAKE AND FIGURING OUT THE TRUE AT PEÑASQUITO MINE PORCUPINE MINES COST OF WATER SEE PAGE 176 SEE PAGE 177 SEE PAGE 178 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 147 Environmental Stewardship HIGHLIGHTS THE QUANTITY OF REUSED/ ENERGY INTENSITY FROM VARIOUS PROJECTS AND RECYCLED WATER 2016 TO 2017 DECREASED BY INITIATIVES IN 2017 as a percentage of raw water APPROXIMATELY 2.2% resulted in greenhouse gas emissions withdrawn from the environment (GHG) savings of approximately due to different energy efficiency was approximately 130%. What this 100,000 tonnes of CO2e. initiatives developed at the sites. means is that we reused and recycled Energy saving efforts for 2017 are more water than we extracted from estimated at 35,000 MWhs. the environment. We developed and rolled out the Goldcorp Water Accounting Framework, which defines the targets, milestones and success criteria of our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision. We developed a water valuation model for all operating sites resulting in the Water Valuation Toolbox and a company-wide set of unit costs for the full spectrum of water activities at our operations. We advanced our research on EcoTails: The project is completing the pre-feasibility research phase, with test work underway at Peñasquito, Marlin and Éléonore. The project team is working on a proto-type for application. INSIGHTS FROM: ACHIEVEMENTS MATERIAL TOPICS LISA WADE SEE PAGE 8 SEE PAGE 31 SEE PAGE 150 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 148 Environmental Stewardship MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Some of the macro environmental trends facing the mining industry are water stewardship, climate change risks and opportunities, and the management of mining waste. There is increased competition for resources as the world’s population continues to increase; therefore, the public and governments are expected to increase scrutiny, expectations and regulations of their resources management. Since water is currently a critical input for production, our stewardship of this resource must continue to evolve. Regulations for greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) are becoming more stringent. Dynamic weather patterns and changing ecosystems are influencing society in new ways. Mine waste management is also under heightened public scrutiny as a result of mine sites with legacy environmental impacts and recent years’ major tailings dam failures. As awareness of all these issues grows, and tolerance for negative environmental impacts decreases, the extractives industry will face increasing regulatory and societal pressure to improve its sustainability performance, transparency and innovation. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Stakeholders want assurance that we are avoiding, or managing as well as, mitigating the environmental impacts of our operations. They recognize the importance of the earth and its resources to their own livelihoods and wellbeing. For many of our stakeholders, water stewardship and mine waste management are top priorities. Have comments on why WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? our approach to We are committed to the efficient use of natural resources, and we understand the Environmental Stewardship importance of these natural resources to our business and to our stakeholders. We is important to you? also recognize that without proper care of the environment, we cannot operate. SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com A successful mining company must be more than just economically profitable in the short term. Success is based on many factors beyond economic profit, and it must be sustained from exploration through mine closure. Our stewardship of the environment, and our ability to innovate in mining technology are integral to our company’s sustainability. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to identify and proactively mitigate and manage our environmental impacts. We have embedded our environmental stewardship strategy in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS), which provides a standardized, systematized approach to environmental management in key areas, including specific requirements for water and tailings stewardship. With respect to water stewardship, in addition to our SEMS standard on water stewardship, our H2Zero goal acts as a guiding vision for our water stewardship practices. The H2Zero Water Accounting Framework document developed in 2017 established numeric targets and organizational milestones for the ten-year program. These elements comprise the foundation of our strategic approach to water management. The data reported in this section of the report restate the values from 2015 and 2016 to exclude the Los Filos asset, which was divested in 2017 to allow for a more consistent year-on-year comparison. Additionally, development projects, mines in closure and non-Goldcorp operated joint ventures are excluded unless otherwise noted. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee oversees our key environmental aspects and activities. Environmental programs are headed by the Vice President, Environment who reports to the Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 149 Environmental Stewardship INSIGHTS FROM: LISA WADE Talking Environmental Stewardship with Lisa Wade, Vice President, Environment1 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAIN ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND HIGHLIGHTS THAT COME TO MIND FOR THE ENVIRONMENT TEAM? Defining what success for our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) initiative might look like for us over the next ten years was definitely a highlight for the Environment team in 2017. Knowing that zero water is an extremely ambitious goal, we’ve solidified what we think we can do with our operations over the next ten years while our technology team continues to work on water saving innovation. We also really settled into our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). We concluded baseline SEMS audits for all our operations in 2017, and while our operations continue to implement any necessary action plans, we are looking forward to a continuous improvement phase for SEMS. The coming years will allow us to really tighten up our management system and focus on key risk areas while we increase our performance and competency levels in the management of our sustainability practices. Last year I mentioned the installation of a pumpback system at our Have a question for Lisa? Peñasquito mine. I’m happy to announce that the installation of a seepage SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com capture and pumpback system at the tailings storage facility (TSF) was well advanced during 2017. The system is composed of a collection trench along the southern edge of the TSF as well as a series of pumpback wells along the western edge of the TSF. A large portion of the trench and some of the pumpback wells were commissioned in 2017 and began pumping the captured water back into the TSF. The pumpback wells along the western edge, and the full length of the southern trench will be completed and fully operational in 2018. 2. WHAT WERE SOME OF THE CHALLENGES IN 2017? WHAT DID THE COMPANY LEARN FROM THEM? During 2017, a major water treatment plant was commissioned at our Éléonore mine. This water treatment plant will help meet toxicity standards for trout and daphnia in our discharge. Completing the construction and commissioning of the water treatment plant at Éléonore was an important challenge for us in 2017. This was a significant project and its execution required tremendous planning, collaboration and accountability. We are proud of this success and have already seen improvements in our water quality. Throughout this process we learned to be a better team and successfully faced this important challenge. 3. WHAT ARE THE MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR GOLDCORP IN 2018? One of our key risks is centred on how we manage water from its intake to our processes, how we contain it and ultimately how we return it to the environment. Water is essential to our operations, central to the environment and a fundamental human right. For all these reasons, we must ensure we are properly managing our water footprint. We have been focusing on this critical topic for many years. In 2013, we initiated our Water Stewardship Strategy, which wrapped up in 2017 and brought us to our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision. H2Zero contains shortand long-term goals that will get us as close to net zero fresh water added into our systems as possible. 1 As of March 2018, Lisa Wade is Vice President, Environment, Reclamation and Closure. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 150 Environmental Stewardship 4. HOW DOES THE THEME OF ENVIRONMENT FIT INTO GOLDCORP’S 20/20/20 PLAN? Our 20/20/20 plan focuses on increasing production by 20%, growing reserves by 20% and reducing all-in sustaining costs (AISC) per ounce by 20%. Environmental and operational efficiencies often go hand in hand. Responsible and efficient use of energy is key to our long-term success and is key in addressing climate change issues. A good example would be energy efficiency: It not only contributes to cost savings in support of our 20/20/20 plan, but also helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions, allowing us to help support global climate change objectives. We have energy optimization initiatives at many of our sites and saw savings of approximately 35,000 MWhs for 2017. These savings resulted in both greenhouse gas emissions and cost savings for the planet and the company. 5. HOW DOES WATER REDUCTION FEATURE IN THE COMPANY’S CURRENT PRIORITIES? We recently implemented our Sustainability Performance Index (SPI) at all our operating sites. The SPI allows us to measure and report our performance on a monthly basis. Each operating site has established a target regarding water recycling and water withdrawal intensity for 2018. The SPI performance is ultimately on Goldcorp’s corporate scorecard which ties the SPI to compensation in a quantifiable way. 6. WITH THE RETIREMENT OF THE GOLDCORP WATER STEWARDSHIP STRATEGY, WHAT’S NEXT FOR GOLDCORP WITH REGARDS TO WATER? We developed a water stewardship strategy in 2013 which wrapped up in 2017. Accomplishment of our water stewardship strategy milestones has set us up to evolve to our next step of water management, Towards Zero Water (H2Zero). H2Zero is our aspirational goal – the ultimate achievement in water stewardship that we are aiming for with two, five and ten year targets. Water stewardship continues to be a key set of internal standards incorporated into our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). 7. HOW IS WATER STEWARDSHIP AND TOWARDS ZERO WATER (H2ZERO) A “HARD” ASPECT OF GOLDCORP’S BUSINESS? Water is a visible and quantifiable resource that is currently 100% necessary for us to conduct our mining processes, just like any other supply item – such as diesel or tires. Without diesel, our equipment cannot move and therefore neither does our rock. Similarly, without water, our rocks cannot effectively be ground into smaller particles to allow for precious metals recovery. We handle more water by mass than we do ore. If we focus on less handling and re-handling of water, we can reduce costs and continue supporting our 20/20/20 plan. The less water we touch the better, from both an environmental and cost impact point of view. 8. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT TEAM (I.E., FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) is certainly one of the Environment team’s main long-term goals over the next ten years. Additionally, over the next several years we are focused on: supporting the global climate change agenda, improving and streamlining our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) and more fully integrating environmental aspects into daily operational decisions – including a better realization of the risks and costs faced at the mine closure period. We also recognize that the world’s population growth results in increased competition for resources, and to that end, we want to continuously improve our stewardship of all the natural resources that support our operations. We are focused on promoting conservation of resources while at the same time keeping our eye on new technology that can help with adaptation. 9. LOOKING BACK OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON FROM AN ENVIRONMENT PERSPECTIVE? Clearly change is the only constant. Very little has stayed the same over the last five years. We did not have an enterprise management framework for sustainability five years ago, and now not only do we have our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) but it has gone through a couple of evolutions since its inception – and it will continue to evolve. Approaches to energy and water conservation have evolved. Regulations have changed, society’s expectations of our industry have increased, as have reporting, auditing and oversight requirements. New mines and projects have been started, while other mines have closed. While all these changes can certainly be challenging, this does provide a very dynamic and exciting environment where we are constantly invited to think of smarter ways to do things. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 151 Environmental Stewardship MATERIALS Materials are reported in two categories: raw materials, which is the ore from which we extract product, and associated process materials, which are used in processing but are not part of the final product. RAW MATERIALS We extract ore, a non-renewable resource, from open pit and underground mines. This ore is either processed through a mill or placed on a heap leach pad to extract the product. In 2017, we processed 47.2 million tonnes (Mt) of ore, compared with 44.0 Mt in 2016. RAW MATERIALS PROCESSED 2015 2016 2017 Amount of ore milled [t (metric)] 49,012,400 42,921,528 45,463,066 Amount of ore placed on leach pads [t (metric)] 3,038,400 1,106,445 1,779,387 Total amount of ore processed [t (metric)] 52,050,800 44,027,973 47,242,453 ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS To process ore and extract metals, our operations use certain materials and reagents such as lime and cyanide, as shown in the table below. ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS AND RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS1 2015 2016 2017 Amount of ore placed on leach pads [t (metric)] 3,038,400 1,106,445 1,779,387 Cyanide consumption [t (metric)] 13,632 11,001 5,640 Lime consumption (in all forms) [t (metric)] 49,937 24,085 20,315 Sodium metabisulfite consumption [t (metric)] 6,225 5,200 1,861 Consumption of that reagent(s) [t (metric)] 63,437 89,839 50,067 Total reagent consumption [t (metric)] 133,231 130,125 77,883 Grinding ball consumption [t (metric)] 43,474 36,836 38,369 1 Quantities are typically from purchasing records. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 152 Environmental Stewardship RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Recycled input materials used at our mines include mainly waste oil, used grinding balls and fly ash. These recycled materials are all sourced internally. Recycled input materials as a percentage of our total tracked input materials (excluding raw materials and fuel) was 7% in 2017. The quantity of used oil and used grinding balls input into our processes has increased significantly due to the Peñasquito mine’s program to reuse oil in the blasting procedure, as well as both Peñasquito and Cerro Negro’s practice of reusing grinding balls. RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS 2015 2016 2017 Recycled glass consumption [t (metric)] 0 0 0 Fly ash consumption [t (metric)] 7,705 8,717 6,419 Recycled or reused oil consumption – converted to mass [t (metric)] 0 4 216 Used liner consumption [t (metric)] 0 0 0 Biosolids consumption [t (metric)] 164 94 0 Used grinding balls consumption [t (metric)] 0 0 2,424 Total recycled input materials consumed [t (metric)] 9,106 9,419 9,058 Total input materials [t (metric)] 185,811 176,380 125,310 Recycled input materials as percentage of total input materials [%] 4.9 5.3 7.2 CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES As a member of an energy-intensive industry, we understand that we have an important role in contributing to limiting global emissions. On account of this, we have realized that without concerted action, the implementation of further market mechanisms and policies that limit emissions or favour low carbon economies could potentially expose us to risks and additional costs. We have supported international agreements on climate change. We also support Canada’s and Mexico’s ratification of the Paris Agreement, which brings all countries together to undertake efforts to combat climate change and adapt to its effects. We believe we can make a positive contribution to the achievement of the Paris Agreement’s goals, and we are proactively participating in industry and government outreach activities related to energy and climate change policy. As a member of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC), we are prioritizing innovative policies and activities to address climate change and are promoting efficient and responsible energy use in our projects and operations. We are committed to an effective response to climate change, and will: • continue to meet or exceed regulatory requirements, and where appropriate, contribute to the development of new regulations; • monitor and report GHG emissions consistent with international standards; • share and promote good practices of energy efficiency and GHG emissions reduction across the mine sites; • promote the development and use of renewable energy where economically viable; • monitor the development of new technologies and products, which, if substituted for existing processes, would result in an overall reduction in GHG emissions; and • consider options to reduce GHG emissions in the design of new projects and operational upgrades. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 153 Environmental Stewardship We will continue to work with industry bodies, suppliers, governments and civil society in order to participate in a framework that will ensure effective and efficient responses to the global challenge of climate change. We are also working towards setting a new long-term goal to extending our commitment to climate change, based on what we accomplished and learned from our Energy Strategy in 2016. Related to climate change, there are both regulatory and physical risks and opportunities. REGULATORY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Governments have introduced climate change-related legislation in every jurisdiction in which we operate, including Quebec, Ontario, Mexico and Argentina. We anticipate the potential that our energy related costs could increase, with new requirements to pay for carbon emissions, whether in the form of a tax, a cap-and-trade system, a fine, or the purchase of renewable energy credits. Typically, there is a phase-in period for these costs, and we expect that some of the costs can be offset by increasing our energy efficiency and technological innovation. However, as the regulations phase in, we expect costs could increase at some operations. This kind of change often results in technological advances and cultural changes, and we are ready for opportunities to advance innovation, improve management practices and form new partnerships between vendors, stakeholders, and research and development entities. PHYSICAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Climate change has the potential to physically impact our operations. Several potential risks and opportunities are outlined in the table below: CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES Sea level rise Rise in global waterbodies as a result of changes in As familiarization with climate change risks occur, climate. Our mining operations are not directly facilities can benefit from regular reviews of any risk threatened by sea level rise. All our operations are areas that are noted by implementing mitigation located well inland, at elevations of between 100 measures. and 3,000 metres above sea level. We do ship product from a port facility in Mexico, and that facility has the potential for disruptions related to sea level rise. Extreme weather events Extreme events (increased frequency or intensity of Improvement and advancement of our water hurricanes, increased snow pack, prolonged balance and modeling tools. Improved predictive drought, flooding events, forest fires, etc.) have the modeling and analysis of potential operational potential to disrupt mining operations. impacts. Improved water stewardship. Resource shortages Mining and processing depend on the regular Active engagement with our suppliers to supply of consumables such as diesel, tires and understand forecasted resource shortages that reagents to operate efficiently. In the event that the could impact the supply of products required for our effects of climate change cause prolonged mining activities. Improved planning and increased disruption to the delivery of essential commodities, efficiency of material usage. then our production could be impacted. Water availability Various climate change models show potential Reduction in water consumption. Innovation studies increases or decreases in precipitation or on improved tailings management systems to evaporation at the macro level. potentially result in lower water consumption intensities and smaller facility footprint. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 154 Environmental Stewardship FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF CLIMATE CHANGE Financial implications of climate change could result from new requirements to pay for carbon emissions, whether in the form of a tax, a cap-and-trade system, a fine, or the purchase of renewable energy credits. The financial implications can also be positive given that some governments are providing incentives to implement energy efficiency initiatives and renewable or cleaner sources of power. We will continue assessing any positive or negative financial implications due to new requirements and changing power supply options, where applicable. We expect that any financial implications will develop in the next five years. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Mining is an energy-intensive business, with energy as a key input and cost for our business. We therefore strive to ensure the most rational use of this resource. For this reason, we are committed to the most efficient management of energy consumption and subsequently greenhouse gas emissions. We promote energy efficiency at all our operations. Improving energy efficiency is a straightforward and effective way to reduce costs, reduce emissions and enhance energy security. We are committed to continue increasing our energy efficiency in order to succeed in an increasingly competitive and demanding marketplace. Energy used at our operations is primarily in the form of fuels such as diesel, propane, natural gas and electricity. Fuels are consumed primarily for transport of ore and waste rock (tonnes moved), as well as for on-site power generation, in certain cases. Electricity is purchased for both mining and milling operations. The distribution of the energy types used in 2017 is shown in the figure below. Further details, by energy type for the last three years, is shown in the table below. Our total energy consumption was essentially unchanged from 2016 to 2017 (a 0.2% decrease) and in the last two years it has decreased by 4%. ENERGY TYPES 0.01% 1.4% 49.3% Goldcorp – Total fuels (MWhe) Goldcorp – Total power from public grid (MWhe) 49.3% Goldcorp – Total renewables (MWhe) Goldcorp – Explosives (MWhe) 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 155 Environmental Stewardship DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWhe)1 2015 2016 2017 Diesel [MWhe] 1,900,495 1,903,726 1,818,177 Biodiesel [MWhe] 848 0 42 Gasoline [MWhe] 24,553 18,205 18,578 Propane [MWhe] 113,687 94,164 105,232 Natural gas [MWhe] 129,236 120,365 189,079 Renewables [MWhe] 412 413 413 Explosives [MWhe] 82,185 68,332 61,170 Power from public grid [MWhe] 2,250,615 2,123,684 2,128,211 Total energy [MWhe] 4,502,031 4,328,889 4,320,902 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – Total direct 8,105 7,939 7,894 energy consumption (TJ) Goldcorp – Total electricity 8,102 7,645 7,662 consumption (TJ) Goldcorp – Total direct and 16,207 15,584 15,555 indirect energy consumption (TJ) 1 Energy consumption data are obtained from purchasing records, metred data or direct measurement. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 156 Environmental Stewardship ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) BY SITE ENERGY ENERGY CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION TOTAL DIRECT AND WITHIN THE OUTSIDE OF THE INDIRECT ENERGY ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION CONSUMPTION SITE [TJ] [TJ] [TJ] Cerro Negro 324 373 697 Éléonore 426 901 1,327 Marlin 86 197 283 Musselwhite 473 516 989 Peñasquito 5,194 4,107 9,301 Porcupine 944 776 1,720 Red Lake 448 791 1,239 Total 7,894 7,662 15,555 ENERGY INTENSITY The energy intensity of each of our mines depends on the type and maturity of the mine, depth, haul distance, rate of production, mine development and waste rock stripping ratios, ore characteristics, and type of processing. Energy intensity typically increases as we mine deeper and expand existing operations. Energy intensity from 2016 to 2017 decreased by approximately 2.2%, primarily due to different initiatives developed at the sites. ENERGY INTENSITY 2015 2016 2017 Total material moved (ore + waste rock) [t (metric)] 215,258,822 188,449,705 192,329,298 Total direct and indirect energy consumption [kWh] 4,505,630,320 4,332,347,566 4,324,356,639 Energy Intensity (direct & indirect energy/tonne moved) [kWh/t (metric)] 20.9 23.0 22.5 ENERGY INTENSITY 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – Energy 20.9 23.0 22.5 intensity (direct & indirect energy/tonne moved) [kWh/t (metric)] 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 157 Environmental Stewardship ENERGY INTENSITY BY SITE [kWh/t (metric)] 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake 2016 171.6 129.0 114.3 140.6 15.2 38.8 298.7 2017 154.4 130.0 164.4 138.5 14.9 45.8 245.1 ENERGY SAVINGS AND INITIATIVES Energy is essential for operating our mines. Mining, loading and transporting ore, ventilating our mines and the mineral extraction process all consume significant energy. The efficient use of energy, along with access to secure and reliable energy sources, is key to our long-term success. We also recognize responsible energy management as a key focus in addressing climate change issues. Energy savings resulted in a reduction of approximately 35,000 MWhs for the year. Some of these efforts are described below. The energy savings are calculated as compared to baseline energy consumption, where baseline energy consumption is the consumption that would have occurred if the energy savings project had not been implemented. ÉLÉONORE KEY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVES • Ventilation-on-Demand technology: In 2017, Éléonore continued with the use of the advanced ventilation-on-demand technology for the underground mine. This technology optimizes the mine air flow distribution in real-time, according to personnel and equipment demand. It reduces air flow when there is no demand and maintains air quality in all active locations. Ventilation-on-demand technology reduces electrical consumption while respecting air flow requirements. It also reduces propane consumption from heating large volumes of air in winter conditions. The implementation of this technology has contributed to savings in energy consumption during the last three years by 190,550 MWh. • Surface haulage improvement: Modifications to the road for hauling tailings decreased the distance traveled and allowed trucks to increase the daily tonnes moved, ultimately resulting in a 30% fuel savings. These modifications have contributed to savings in energy consumption during the last three years by 630,000 litres of fuel which is equivalent to 7,300 MWh. PEÑASQUITO KEY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVES • Acoustic sensors optimize semi-autogenous grinding (SAG) mill operation: The new process-control uses acoustic sensors and process control software to predict and adjust the SAG mill operation, according to impacts on the mill and other main process variables. The acoustic sensors ensure regular and accurate adjustments to mill loading. The solution employs state-of-the-art process-control technologies, stabilizing and optimizing the SAG mill operation. The implementation of this technology has contributed to savings in energy consumption by 9,613 MWh. • Control system in feeders: The control logic of the caterpillar and belt feeders were modified in the sulphide plant to prevent the motors from operating unnecessarily when the feeder is not being used, which resulted in energy savings of 111 MWh. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 158 Environmental Stewardship RED LAKE KEY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVES • Red Lake Gold Mines (RLGM) Energy Management Program: Evolution of the energy conservation culture at RLGM was the primary focus in 2017. Efforts concentrated on communication, initiation, identification and implementation. A number of opportunities were identified and initiated. Some examples include: LED lighting upgrades, reduced auxiliary fan power consumption, primary ventilation optimization and peak power shedding. These initiatives have already yielded RLGM approximately 3,700 MWh in energy savings and are estimated to yield approximately 7,000 MWh in annualized savings moving forward. The site’s energy conservation program is also estimated to have contributed approximately CAD$10.1M in associated cost savings which resulted in both internal and external awards for leadership in energy management. PORCUPINE KEY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVES • Ventilation upgrades: Porcupine Gold Mine (PGM) has recently completed a number of ventilation development projects to ensure safe and profitable production while reducing energy consumption and cost. The projects have increased air flow and decreased electricity consumption at the Hoyle Pond underground mine. The use of more efficient ventilation fans and the installation of variable frequency drives on various fans reduced electricity consumption by approximately 2,100 MWh/yr. MUSSELWHITE KEY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVES • LED lighting initiative: Musselwhite commenced an LED light project in late 2016, and the implementation of this project was carried out in 2017. LED lightbulbs use 90% less electricity than the incandescent bulbs with a lifespan of approximately 10 times longer than fluorescent bulbs. As of December 31, 2017 Musselwhite had saved approximately 700 MWh of electricity in 2017. It will continue to install LEDs in other areas of the mine. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS We monitor and annually report our direct and indirect GHG emissions both on an absolute (tonnes of GHGs) and on an intensity (GHGs per tonne of material moved) basis. Our emissions calculations are based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and are divided into three categories, depending on the source: • Scope 1 (direct) – GHGs are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. Our principal source of Scope 1 emissions is fuel consumption for: our fleets (used to move material), heating and on site power generation needs. • Scope 2 (indirect) – GHGs are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. Our reported Scope 2 emissions include purchased electricity. • Scope 3 (other indirect) – GHGs include emissions from air transport of mine employees to remote work locations. At our operations, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs on an absolute basis have been decreasing since 2013; however, during 2017 GHGs were essentially unchanged from 2016 (a 1.1% increase). This increase was driven by the fact that more tonnes of material were moved in 2017 than in 2016. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 159 Environmental Stewardship Scope 3 GHGs on an absolute basis in 2017 decreased by 10% from 2016. Scope 3 emissions were 5,760 tonnes as compared to 6,380 tons in 2016. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1,200,000 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – GHGs, 579,465 454,216 473,542 total CO2e indirect, scope 2 [t GHG (metric)] Goldcorp – GHGs, 594,793 584,594 577,266 total direct, scope 1 [t GHG (metric)] Goldcorp – GHGs, 1,174,258 1,038,810 1,050,808 total direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2) [t GHG (metric)] GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SITE (Scope 1 and Scope 2) [t GHG (metric)] 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake 2015 71,849 36,294 48,105 42,809 870,209 57,902 47,091 2016 59,217 27,346 26,317 36,420 796,441 61,480 31,590 2017 65,141 32,223 6,912 40,552 796,372 73,029 36,578 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 160 Environmental Stewardship SCOPE 3 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SITE TOTAL SCOPE 3 GHG SITE [t GHG (METRIC)] Red Lake 331 Cerro Negro 668 Éléonore 2,383 Marlin 223 Musselwhite 746 Peñasquito 1,409 Total 5,760 As of December 31, 2017, we are not currently involved in any carbon credit or trading system and do not anticipate being involved in any within the next two years. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INTENSITY GHG intensity represents the GHGs produced for each tonne of material moved. We track GHG intensity across the company to measure our progress as we experience growth or divestment. In 2017 our GHG intensity was similar to the last two years, as shown in the table below. As our mines mature, production zones tend to move deeper and further from material handling and processing infrastructure. This typically leads to increased emissions intensity, but our energy management effectiveness has helped to mitigate this increase. GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY 2015 2016 2017 GHGs, total direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2) [t GHG (metric)] 1,174,258 1,038,810 1,050,808 Total material moved (ore + waste rock) [kt] 215,259 188,450 192,329 GHG intensity (scope 1 and 2/tonne moved) [t GHG (metric)/kt] 5.46 5.51 5.46 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 161 Environmental Stewardship GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY BY SITE [t GHG (metric)/kt] 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake 2015 45.33 13.26 16.55 22.61 4.49 5.31 33.55 2016 57.02 10.50 12.54 20.07 4.71 5.71 27.83 2017 51.94 11.35 12.03 20.46 4.58 6.99 26.03 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS SAVINGS The GHG savings are calculated as compared to baseline GHG emissions where baseline is the GHG emissions that would have occurred if the initiatives had not been implemented. The following projects and initiatives in 2017 resulted in savings during that year of approximately 100,000 tonnes of CO2e: • Peñasquito – 100% of power was sourced from an efficient, combined-cycle natural gas power plant, saving approximately 100,000 tonnes of CO2e during 2017 when compared to the emissions that would have been generated if purchasing the same quantity of power from the grid instead. This resulted in Scope 2 GHG savings. • Red Lake – As a direct result of the energy saving projects, the GHG reductions achieved in 2017 were approximately 150 tonnes of CO2e and were estimated to have provided future savings of approximately 280 tonnes CO2e per year going forward. This resulted in both Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG savings. • Éléonore – Ventilation-on-demand in the underground mine saved approximately 3,500 tonnes of CO2e. Also, improvements to the alignment of the haul road used for tailings resulted in a shorter haulage distance and thus the consumption of less fuel. This equated to GHG savings of approximately 800 tonnes of CO2e. This resulted in both Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG savings. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 162 Environmental Stewardship NITROGEN OXIDES (NOX), SULPHUR COMPOUNDS (SOX) AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Mining activities have the potential to release different types of airborne emissions into the environment. These emissions – primarily nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur compounds (SOx) and particulate matter (mainly dust) – are often regulated by national and local legislation. Additionally, Goldcorp sites often have site specific permit conditions for control of these emissions. The table below shows the emissions of significant air pollutants. 2017 was the first year that the Peñasquito mine in Mexico began reporting on air emissions from mobile equipment activities such as loading and hauling. All our operating mines are now included in our reporting of our annual air emissions. Measurements were derived from multiple methodologies including direct measurement, calculations based on site-specific data and calculations based on published emissions factors and estimations. SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS 2015 2016 2017 Carbon monoxide [t] 1,860 1,790 4,900 Oxides of nitrogen [t] 1,830 2,430 6,280 Sulphur dioxide [t] 20 40 60 Particulate matter <10 µm [t] 1,160 740 10,000 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is essential to our operations, our stakeholders and the environment. Given our geographical scope, we operate in areas of both water surplus and water scarcity. In order to help us better understand and manage our water footprint and risks related to water, we initiated the Goldcorp Water Stewardship Strategy (GWSS) in 2013. This initiative called for all operating sites to achieve a collection of milestones representing the implementation of sound water management fundamentals; these achievements would ensure we were able to effectively measure, model and manage water. During 2017, the sites wrapped up their achievement of the GWSS milestones, and the company officially shifted its water stewardship focus to pursuing the Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision. H2Zero is our next, more aggressive phase of water stewardship: an ambitious, voluntary, industry-leading water stewardship vision. It reflects our commitment to sustainable mining and is a result of our understanding that the mining industry’s stewardship of water requires significant change in the coming years. H2Zero includes shortand long-term targets to eventually get as close as possible to net zero new fresh water put into our systems. To enable us to pursue this goal, we intend to become continually more water efficient, to recycle more water and to invest resources into important innovations related to tailings management and mineral processing. In 2017, we completed a variety of important tasks aimed at defining, documenting and kick-starting the progress of H2Zero: • Developed and rolled out the Goldcorp Water Accounting Framework which defines the targets, milestones and key performance indicators (KPIs) of the program (see table below). • Executed the Cost of Water project, resulting in the Water Valuation Toolbox model and a company-wide set of costs for the full spectrum of water activities at our operations. • Supported sites in the preparation of site-specific H2Zero studies, projects and budgets. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 163 Environmental Stewardship The table below provides a summary of the preliminary targets and milestones adopted for the H2Zero vision. These targets may be adapted over the ten-year period as technology and our asset portfolio change. H2ZERO TARGETS AND MILESTONES YEAR TARGETS & MILESTONES Year 1 (2017) • H2Zero internally branded and acceptance well underway [all completed] • H2Zero framework and success criteria defined • Disclosure in the 2017 annual Sustainability Report of the H2Zero initiative • Goldcorp’s Investment Framework and SEMS revised to align with H2Zero • Established the true cost of water for all operating sites Year 2 (2018) • Operating sites achieve a consolidated water recycling efficiency of at least 50% for site-wide use of water in tasks • Disclosure in the 2018 annual Sustainability Report of H2Zero targets • True cost of water at operations is understood, communicated, and utilized in analysis of business case scenarios • Peñasquito EcoTails prefeasibility study completed Year 3 (2019) • Reuse/recycle efficiency at all operating sites where baseline is <75%, improves by at least 10% • Disclosure in the 2019 annual Sustainability Report of progress on H2Zero targets Year 5 (2021) • Reuse/recycle efficiency at those operating sites with baseline at less than 50% have increased their reuse/recycle efficiency by 20% • New water input for use outside of mineral processing at operations is significantly reduced from baseline Year 10 (2026) • Operations achieve the lowest possible mineral processing raw water intensity measured by m3 per tonne processed • New tailings facilities store only dewatered tailings WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE The quantities of water withdrawn are typically measured using flow metres. However, there are points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modeled. For instance, precipitation volumes (i.e., rainwater withdrawal) are estimated by combining measured precipitation from site or local meteorological stations with the measured size of applicable capture areas and estimated runoff coefficients. Total water withdrawal increased by 3.4% from 2016 to 2017. WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 2015 2016 2017 Surface water [m3] 2,660,701 2,095,639 2,372,767 Ground water [m3] 30,970,983 37,421,272 40,266,011 Rainwater (direct precipitation and runoff) [m3] 9,693,346 11,806,9321 10,565,483 Water from a municipal or other public or private supplier [m3] 171,608 140,479 123,979 Waste water from another organization [m3] 0 0 0 Total withdrawal [m3] 43,496,638 51,464,323 53,328,240 1 Precipitation volume in 2016 for Peñasquito was found to be under-reported and has been restated here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 164 Environmental Stewardship WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SITE 30,000,000 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake Water from a third 752 254 0 0 3,212 55,418 64,343 party supplier (m3) Water from 73,090 300,914 1,069,687 395,531 2,213,899 4,569,500 1,942,862 precipitation capture (m3) Total ground water 846,424 3,646,520 1,025,024 1,465,974 27,550,635 4,843,219 888,215 withdrawal (m3) Water withdrawal 38,835 1,125 0 703,632 0 27,230 1,604,945 from surface water: fresh water (m3) Total water 956,101 3,948,813 2,094,711 2,565,137 29,767,747 9,495,367 4,500,365 withdrawal (m3) WATER SOURCES AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER The Peñasquito mine reports two ground water sources that are significantly affected by withdrawal of water as determined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) criteria. Peñasquito is in an arid environment; to compensate for water losses due to evaporation and water held and accumulated in the tailings facility, Peñasquito adds ground water sourced from water supply wells to the process. Additionally, to maintain the open pit as a dry working environment there are a series of dewatering wells which are withdrawing more than 5% of the annual average volume of the aquifer. The aquifer volume is estimated at 6,000,000 m3. Peñasquito is striving to increase its focus on water reuse and recycling, and to reduce the intensity with which fresh water is added to the processing circuit. Regular monitoring is underway to ensure detection and appropriate management of any potential environmental impacts. The water sources are not designated as a protected area, and no important biodiversity value has been assigned to the water sources. Peñasquito conducts ongoing engagement with local communities regarding water source issues. 1 Precipitation volume in 2016 for Peñasquito was found to be under-reported and has been restated here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 165 Environmental Stewardship WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING The rate of water reuse and recycling is a measure of efficiency, one that helps us track improvements that result from the implementation of the Water Stewardship Strategy and the Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) vision. The International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) released “A Practical Guide to Consistent Water Reporting” in March 2017 and as a result we began reclassifying water withdrawal by dewatering from reused or recycled water to a raw water input, unless that water had previously been used in a task. We had previously been treating the act of dewatering itself as a task and therefore use of any dewatering water in a task was classified as reused or recycled water. When the 2017 guidance from ICMM on water reporting was released, we began the process of reclassifying that water. Therefore, the decrease in water reuse and recycling that is observed is a result of this reclassification. WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING1 2015 2016 2017 Total reused or recycled [m3] 90,474,789 78,836,121 68,330,610 Total water withdrawal [m3] 43,496,638 51,464,323 53,328,240 Reused and recycled as percentage of total water withdrawal 208% 153% 128% REUSED AND RECYCLED WATER AND WATER WITHDRAWAL 68,330,610 53,328,240 Goldcorp – Total water withdrawal (m3) Goldcorp – Total reused/recycled water to tasks (m3) 1 The quantities of water reused and recycled are typically measured by flow metres; however, there are points of use that may not be equipped with a flow metre and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modeled. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 166 Environmental Stewardship WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING 150,000,000 120,000,000 90,000,000 60,000,000 30,000,000 0 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – Total water 43,496,638 51,464,323 53,328,240 withdrawal (m3) – value Goldcorp – Total reused/recycled 90,474,789 78,836,121 68,330,610 water to tasks (m3) – value Goldcorp – Reused/recycled water as a percentage of total water 32 153 128 withdrawal (%) – value WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING BY SITE 60,000,000 50,000,000 40,000,000 30,000,000 20,000,000 100,000,000 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake Goldcorp – Total water 956,101 3,948,813 2,094,711 2,565,137 29,767,747 9,495,369 4,500,365 withdrawal (m3) – value Goldcorp – Total 835,576 3,832,489 502,151 1,297,169 54,759,033 6,660,202 443,990 reused/recycled water to tasks (m3) – value Goldcorp – 87 97 24 51 184 70 10 Reused/recycled water as a percentage of total water withdrawal (%) – value 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 167 Environmental Stewardship WATER DISCHARGE Each site is responsible to comply with the requirements to manage and treat discharged water. The objectives are to avoid significant environmental impacts and to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and permits. The methods and requirements for treatment vary widely, and depend on the applicable standards, the pre-treated water quality and the receiving environment. All water discharge is managed to meet site specific water quality requirements. A brief summary of treatment processes utilized at operating sites (for discharges) is provided in the table below. We monitor and report at frequencies determined by applicable regulations, permits and our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standards as to the discharge compliance status. DISCHARGE WATER TREATMENT SITE DISCHARGE WATER TREATMENT Red Lake Red Lake water treatment plant, Campbell effluent treatment circuit, Cochenour water treatment plant, Settling, Polishing and Wetlands Éléonore Industrial water treatment plant from sediment pond to final effluent Musselwhite Polishing Pond and Wetlands Porcupine Effluent treatment plant, Polishing Pond Cerro Negro NA – no discharge Peñasquito NA – no discharge Marlin Marlin water treatment plant At Éléonore, where there has been an ongoing challenge meeting the toxicity standards for trout and daphnia in local waterways, 624,793 cubic metres of effluent was discharged outside of these applicable water quality standards. Éléonore has been working, and continues to work, proactively and transparently with the regulatory authority to achieve compliance. During 2017, a major water treatment plant upgrade was commissioned. The upgraded treatment process is expected to fully remedy the toxicity issue, and results received during the fourth quarter of 2017 reflect this. The Éléonore effluent toxicity tests during Q4 2017 showed full compliance with the federal toxicity standard for trout, and very close to full compliance with the provincial toxicity standard for daphnia. There was one exceedance of the provincial daphnia toxicity standard on October 1, 2017 and the remainder of the quarter was in full compliance. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 168 Environmental Stewardship WATER REUSE BY ANOTHER ORGANIZATION The volumes reported in the table below for discharges to a third party come from the Porcupine Mine, where the operation discharges water to Glencore’s adjacent Kidd Metallurgical Site. The discharged water is dewatering water (i.e., a mixture of raw and reused water), and it is our understanding that the flows are subsequently used by Glencore in their facilities. Peñasquito began reporting the discharge to ground water metric in 2017. WATER DISCHARGE BY DESTINATION 2015 2016 2017 Discharge to surface water [m3] 15,793,652 15,331,532 11,577,499 Discharge to ground water [m3] 339,433 339,888 2,543,410 Discharge to a third party [m3] 535,182 436,797 437,612 Total [m3] 16,668,267 16,108,217 14,558,521 TOTAL DISCHARGES 20,000,000 15,000,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 0 2015 2016 2017 Goldcorp – Discharge 535,182 436,797 437,612 to a third party (m3) Goldcorp – Discharge 339,433 339,888 2,543,410 to ground water (m3) Goldcorp – Discharge 15,793,652 15,331,532 11,577,499 to surface water (m3) 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 169 Environmental Stewardship TOTAL DISCHARGES BY SITE 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Cerro Negro Éléonore Marlin Musselwhite Peñasquito Porcupine Red Lake Discharge to a 0 0 0 0 0 437,612 0 third party (m3) Discharge to 0 0 0 0 2,206,443 0 336,697 ground water (m3) Discharge to 0 2,710,995 1,084,508 2,021,195 0 3,487,264 2,273,537 surface water (m3) WATERBODIES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY DISCHARGES Waterbodies and related habitats significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff that meet one or more of the GRI criteria include Balmer Lake. The Red Lake mine discharges a quantity larger than 5% of the receiving waterbody, Balmer Lake. This lake is a small, headwater lake which drains south into the Chukuni River and eventually into Keg Lake. There are no known negative impacts related to effluent quality from the current mine discharges. Environmental monitoring in Balmer Lake has indicated significant improvements in its water quality and overall biological health in recent years. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 170 Environmental Stewardship WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT Mining and processing gold produces waste by-products in the form of tailings and waste rock, as well as some hazardous and non-hazardous materials. Tailings are the by-product of minerals processing. They are finely crushed and ground rock particles from which the valuable mineral portion has been extracted. We use retention dams and raised embankments to store and manage tailings. We strictly enforce the design and operational requirements of our tailings facilities, regarding their location, water management, maintenance, operation and monitoring. In some cases, tailings are used as backfill in underground and open pit projects. The Marlin mine, for example, used filtered tailings to backfill one of the two open pits. We do not dispose of any tailings in riverine systems or marine environments. Waste rock management is a key environmental aspect of our operations. Depending on the characteristics of the waste rock, appropriate waste rock and tailings management procedures are developed as required by our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Most of the waste rock produced in our underground mines is returned underground to fill mining voids. In open pit mines, the waste rock is moved to waste rock dumps on the surface. In some limited cases, we are able to sequence mining in different pits or pit sections to allow for some use of waste rock as pit backfill. At the end of the mine’s life, the waste rock dumps are re-contoured and re-vegetated to provide long-term stabilization of the material. Our SEMS recognizes the important environmental aspects of mine materials management and includes specific standards to address them. We recognize tailings management as a significant concern shared by us and our stakeholders. We are committed to managing tailings in a manner that effectively mitigates environmental, public health and safety, and community impacts while maximizing the long-term security of the tailings facilities and sustainable land use options. In 2014, we developed a tailings stewardship program to ensure good practices in construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and, ultimately, closure of our tailings storage facilities. The strategy addresses stakeholder concerns and assures stakeholders that tailings facilities are well-managed, providing secure storage, reduced costs and impacts, improved operational excellence and consistent monitoring. Implementation began in 2015. Tailings stewardship ensures planning, design, construction, operation and closure of our tailings storage, and water retention facilities will be carried out in a manner such that: • Structures are regularly examined/tested via third party; • Structures are physically stable under all anticipated conditions; • Solids and water are managed within designated areas; • Facilities meet or exceed regulatory or standard engineering guidelines; • Facilities are chemically stable so that the quality of any seepage or surface runoff does not endanger human health or the environment; and • Facilities can be closed in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding land use and that will have a manageable impact on the environment. WASTE ROCK AND TAILINGS The quantities of waste rock and tailings generated are shown in the table below. WASTE ROCK & TAILINGS 2015 2016 2017 Waste rock handled [t (metric)] 163,208,022 144,421,732 145,086,845 Tailings generated [t (metric)] 48,467,660 42,689,418 44,386,630 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 171 Environmental Stewardship WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Responsible storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste are central components of sound environmental management. At our operations, our practices are based on minimizing the generation of wastes and residues, reusing and recycling wastes or by-products, and, when materials cannot be recycled, disposing of them in an acceptable manner. Our most significant non-hazardous waste streams include scrap metal, used tires, used oil, used antifreeze, inert industrial garbage and organic waste. All our scrap metal and some tires are recycled. Many of our operations have implemented recycling programs for materials such as paper, pallets, glass and aluminum, and some of our sites have implemented composting programs for organic wastes. Waste hydrocarbons (when not reused), on-site, and glycol/antifreeze are removed by licensed waste disposal or recycling operators for reuse, recycling or incineration. Where permitted, we reuse waste hydrocarbons on-site as a substitute for fuel oil in the ammonium nitrate and fuel oil (ANFO) blasting program. WASTE MANAGEMENT MATERIAL [TONNES] 2015 2016 2017 Scrap steel 30,400 18,400 20,339 Tires 5,300 3,800 3,323 Waste hydrocarbons 2,790 2,740 2,981 Waste glycol/antifreeze 110 130 65 Inert industrial garbage 7,250 13,730 3,737 Organic waste 4,600 3,800 1,145 Batteries 120 110 85.5 Laboratory waste 780 660 600 Mercury occurs naturally in some ore deposits and is typically recovered as elemental mercury, along with the targeted metals. Peñasquito was the only mine generating mercury during ore processing in 2017. The amount generated was 83.3 kilograms and as of the end of the year there were 135.7 kilograms stored on site. Elemental mercury at Peñasquito is collected in United Nations approved shipping containers, which are stored within the locked, secured area of the processing facility. This process is in accordance with local requirements and with our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standard for mercury management. SPILLS All spills reported are tracked, investigated and analyzed to identify root causes. We then implement actions to mitigate any consequences and to prevent recurrences. Spill incidents are classified in ascending order of severity, from Category I to Category V based on their actual and potential impacts. Incidents of Category III and above are reported to the corporate level. There were 15 spills in 2017 that were Category III or above. REPORTABLE SPILLS ESTIMATED VOLUME SPILL CATEGORY NUMBER % OF TOTAL SPILLED [M3] Hydrocarbon spill 8 53 15 m3 Cyanide-related spill1 2 13 161 m3 Other material spill2 5 34 11 m3 Total 15 100 187 m3 1 No environmental impacts could be observed outside our operational boundary from any of these spills. All operations have been certified compliant with the International Cyanide Management Code. 2 Other material spills included antifreeze, non-cyanide reclaim water and non-cyanide process material. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 172 Environmental Stewardship All spills were responded to immediately and did not result in any significant environmental impacts or financial reporting liabilities. Additionally, all our sites are certified under the International Cyanide Management Code which provides direction for the appropriate management of cyanide-related spills. BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Protecting the world’s ecosystems is important to us and our stakeholders. As resources become scarcer, ecosystems are altered, with potential impacts on biodiversity in wildlife, plants, soil, water and air. These changes present both a risk and an opportunity. We are committed to biodiversity conservation and sound land use practices. As part of our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS), all sites are required to assess potential risks and impacts related to sensitive areas, habitats and wetlands. Good conservation practices and sound land use activities can avoid or mitigate impacts to both neighbouring communities and biodiversity. A high level of knowledge about the past and present land uses and biological resources in the areas where we operate is needed, including species and populations that are rare, threatened or endangered, or that hold special value to Indigenous Peoples. A good understanding of the past and current land uses, Traditional and local knowledge and the area’s biological diversity will also help support: • The selection of valued components on which to focus for environmental and social assessments; • Risk assessments and the selection of mitigation measures to avoid or reduce potential adverse environmental effects; • Concurrent reclamation of the site to re-establish natural resources and allow for their use by future generations; and • Partnership opportunities with other organizations for biodiversity conservation and land use planning. Biodiversity considerations are included in the environmental impact assessment s that are required at all of our operations prior to their construction. The biodiversity risk is determined during the environmental impact assessment phase and is typically driven by regulations and discussions with relevant stakeholders, including the applicable regulatory authority. OUR CONTEXT We manage or own over 400,000 hectares of land at and around our operating mines. Our operations span a range of ecosystems, from the Boreal forests of northern Canada to the Patagonia area of Argentina. In all cases, we seek to design, construct, operate and ultimately close our operations in ways that minimize the risks to biodiversity. All our operating sites are required to have a biodiversity management plan in place; all sites have completed their plans with the exception of Cerro Negro, where a draft plan is being finalized. After land is disturbed by exploration or mining, we reclaim the disturbed areas as quickly as possible. By the nature of hard rock mining, large areas of disturbance (such as the pit, active waste rock dump faces and tailings dams) typically remain active throughout the life of the mine and may not be reclaimable until mine closure. Land areas, disturbance and reclamation activities are indicated below and include concurrent, temporary and final reclamation. DISTURBANCE AND REHABILITATION 2015 2016 2017 Previous year disturbed and not yet rehabilitated [ha] 8,085 8,265 8,810 Newly disturbed land [ha] 215 555 500 Newly rehabilitated land [ha] 35 15 20 Current year disturbed and not yet rehabilitated land [ha] 8,265 8,810 9,290 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 173 Environmental Stewardship PROTECTED OR HIGH BIODIVERSITY AREAS In Mexico, a Land Use Change Authorization is required before land can be designated as “mining land.” The authorization identifies the areas in which operational activities and infrastructure can be located. Under Mexican legislation, the permitted area must include a buffer zone around the area of impact, which must be maintained as a conservation area. The Peñasquito mine has established conservation buffer zones around their permitted areas of operation. These areas will remain in force throughout the life of the mine. No specific conservation requirements or management activities are required within the conservation area. However, the operation has implemented management plans to minimize impacts in these areas. There have been no significant impacts to biodiversity from our activities in these areas. HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED All rehabilitated land can be considered potential habitat; therefore, across our operations, there were 20 hectares of habitat restored during the reporting year. This rehabilitation was overseen by us and our contractors. INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE (IUCN) AND NATIONAL RED LIST SPECIES The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species is the world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of plant and animal species. Each site has assessed the risk of impacting habitat for any Red List species as well as species registered on local conservation lists. In 2015 we completed an analysis of IUCN and locally listed special status flora and fauna around our three Ontario mines. The IUCN Red List (IUCN 2015) was searched for species occurring in Ontario. The list was refined by including only those species occurring in the ecoregions surrounding the three mines: Lake Abitibi (Porcupine), Big Trout Lake (Musselwhite) and Wabigoon (Red Lake). Additional species noted also included those listed as special concern by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC). Across the three Ontario mines, there were 52 listed species with habitats in areas affected by the mine operations. Our other operating sites outside of Ontario (Éléonore, Peñasquito and Cerro Negro) include possible habitat for 152 special status flora and fauna species in the areas affected by operations. All of our sites pay particular attention to areas of the operation that could potentially harm wildlife. Precautions include: • Minimizing disturbances to vegetation and waterbodies; • Implementing programs to control pests and weeds; • Maintaining cyanide levels in all open waters (including tailings dams) below levels that pose a threat to wildlife (consistent with the International Cyanide Management Code); • Promoting employee and community awareness programs regarding wildlife; and • Reclaiming disturbed areas as quickly as possible and promoting habitat diversity within these reclaimed areas. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 174 Environmental Stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We are committed to complying with all environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our sites are subject to strict internal and external scrutiny to verify full adherence to applicable regulations and permits as well as to our own internal standards. Our properties are routinely inspected by the applicable regulatory authorities to verify compliance. Our properties are also periodically audited for compliance with our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standards. The Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Environment and Sustainability Policy. The following paragraphs describe the incidences of environmental non-compliance we experienced this year, as well as the corrective actions. Cerro Negro received two Notices of Violation (NOV) from the provincial regulatory authority. The first was due to a tailings spill caused by a breakage in a discharge pipe. Following the spill, all of the soil affected by the spill was recovered, and the pipe was repaired with proper anchors installed. While the spill was completely remediated, a fine equivalent to approximately CAD$80,000 was issued. The second NOV was due to a diesel spill that has occurred in 2012 caused by a fault in the automatic loading control. The spill resulted in a fine during 2017 of approximately CAD$12,000. Following the spill, the site established a register of controls which included appointing more personnel to the control room and developing a larger containment area. At the Equity Silver closed site, an NOV was issued by the provincial regulatory authority after a severe rain-on-snow event resulted in flow to a sump that exceeded the sump’s pump capacity and resulted in an overflow. As a result of the event, the site has secured a portable pump that can be used in emergency situations and is evaluating a new pump system for 2018. Éléonore received seven NOVs from provincial authorities which were all related to one issue: the discharge from the water treatment plant exceeding the toxicity limits for trout and daphnia. No fines resulted from these NOVs. While this compliance issue persisted in 2017 from 2016, we achieved significant compliance improvements by completing and commissioning an additional water treatment plant in 2017. There was one additional NOV from provincial authorities related to late reporting and clean-up of a petroleum spill. The spill resulted in no environmental impact; it was in a confined area that the site considered contained, which is why the spill was not reported immediately. To avoid a repeat issue, spill reporting practices were subsequently redefined to include any upsets in this particular containment zone. At Porcupine, two NOVs were received from the provincial regulatory authority relating to vibration exceedances from blasting at the Hollinger Open Pit that occurred in September 2016. The site conducted a revision and improvement to its blasting procedures immediately after the events. Porcupine also received a Provincial Officer’s Order (POO) from the provincial authority after a significant rainfall caused the migration of silt from a haul road offsite. Following the event, the site constructed a freshwater diversion ditch and installed additional sediment controls. Finally, the site received an Environmental Penalty (EP) from the provincial authority for an effluent pH exceedance from its effluent treatment facility that occurred in 2016. This exceedance resulted, in a CAD$12,500 fine in 2017. The site has since developed protocols to measure pH levels prior to discharging to the receiving environment. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 175 Environmental Stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CASE STUDIES A “DEER-EST” CONSERVATION EFFORT AT PEÑASQUITO MINE At our Peñasquito mine, over 86 hectares have been assigned to the preservation and management of the Miquihuan White-tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus), a species which gives its name to the local municipality of Mazapil, meaning “Small Deer Place.” The site’s deer habitat is managed by Peñasquito’s personnel and was started in 2009 when local community residents donated two female deer. The company legally registered the does with the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) and The Federal Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA). A male deer was later rescued and raised to adulthood, and the species reproduction began. Peñasquito’s deer population has increased to 60, and during the summer months of 2017, a further 17 White-tailed Deer were born. The birth of the 17 deer is a significant event. The fawns will spend their first year at the Peñasquito management area and then, to prevent interbreeding and to help maintain the species, exchanges and donations will be conducted with other deer management areas in the region. The site team also plans to release some of the deer in the near future to help repopulate the local Zacatecan semi-desert area. One important objective is to create awareness in the local community, and by working in partnership, help to increase the deer population in the region. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 176 Environmental Stewardship ALL THE BUZZ AT RED LAKE AND PORCUPINE MINES Bees make more than honey: They are vital to biodiversity and food production because they pollinate crops. As a third of all our food depends on their pollination, a world without bees and other pollinators such as butterflies, wasps and flies would be devastating. Bees also play an important role in our reclamation process as they are able to pollinate and improve our replanting efforts. With bee populations declining around the world, bee projects have broad benefits. At Red Lake Gold Mines (RLGM), the Sustainability department, along with the Golden Learning Centre (GLC) and our helpful volunteers, has taken the initiative to develop a bee apiary to help support progressive reclamation of mine property. The bee hives will help promote cross pollination of foliage and reduce revegetation costs for the mine site. RLGM had the chance to collaborate with GLC’s grade 5/6 class to help decorate the hives. Throughout the project, Tyler Provencal, a Graduate Development Program participant, gave presentations on the importance of honey bees and the role they play in the environment. About the opportunity Tyler states, “This project has provided a great learning experience and collaboration with the GLC students. We cannot wait for the next season!” At Porcupine Mines (PGM), honey bees were introduced on Porcupine’s Coniaurum reclamation site in 2008 to promote pollination and plant development. The landscape flourished, and healthy bee colonies and honey production increased. However, the long winter months in Northern Ontario have a significant impact on the local bee populations. To help address this issue, four local schools participated in a competition that we funded. We challenged participants to create a beehive that could withstand long winters and thus increase bee survival rates. The project also supported the curriculum, which aims to provide students with the opportunity to design and create a product that will provide services to various technological areas or industries. The curriculum simultaneously aims to help students develop an awareness of environmental and social issues. Student teams from Roland Michener Secondary School, École Secondaire Catholique Thériault, Timmins High & Vocational School and O’Gorman High School set about designing and building insulated hives. The teams were guided by a member of the Timmins Ecological Beekeeping Association (TEBA). The schools presented their finished products on March 31, 2017. O’Gorman High School received $250 for being the most well-prepared, while École Thériault walked away with $250 for the best use of materials. More prizes will follow as TEBA continues to monitor the hives. TEBA was impressed with the students’ research and designs, noting that one of them could be the future hive for Northern Ontario: “If 60% of bees survived the winter in Timmins, TEBA wouldn’t need to buy more from the South, and risk bringing disease to the North.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 177 Environmental Stewardship FIGURING OUT THE TRUE COST OF WATER There’s no question water plays a critical role in day-to-day operations at Goldcorp. It’s a valuable resource required for metals production. It’s also one of the most important resources in the world. Accordingly, there is growing scrutiny of its use in all industrial applications, including mining. But how can Goldcorp assess and prioritize different water-saving projects, ideally finding opportunities that are win-win from a business perspective? Enter the Water Valuation Toolbox. Early in 2016, Goldcorp’s CEO challenged the company to make significant strides in water reduction over the next ten years with an aspirational vision referred to as Towards Zero Water (H2Zero). A central question which arises when beginning to plan and prioritize water reduction efforts in pursuit of this goal is “What is the cost of water?” However, the mining industry does not have any standard methods for addressing this topic, and the costs of water management activities do not often fall neatly into their own accounting cost centres. To address this challenge, we initiated and ultimately developed a model to standardize the compilation and presentation of operational costs and planned sustaining capital related to water supply, storage, management and discharge: the Water Valuation Toolbox. Following model development in the first half of 2017, the Water Valuation Toolbox was used to assemble a company-wide set of water unit costs. The project team worked through an iterative process involving both site-based and corporate stakeholders to gain insight into the data available and the desired application of the results. The team developed definitions and methodologies to capture and document a mine site’s actual operational and planned future sustaining capital expenditures on water. This material comprised the basis of the Water Valuation Toolbox spreadsheet, which addressed the following aspects: definition of the scope and detail of cost (what specifically do we mean by “cost”?), methodology for defining and organizing a site’s water activities (what “water” are we talking about?), methodology for combining future sustaining capital costs with current operating costs, tools for compiling and presenting these costs, and metrics for basic data analysis. The completed model has provided Goldcorp with a useful tool to standardize, compile and compare water costs across its operating portfolio. The application and population of the model for each operating site has built up a valuable database of detailed costs. This has become a resource that helps us to ensure that we consider water management benefits and costs in financial models when we analyze business scenarios. Ultimately, the Water Valuation Toolbox will contribute to intelligent discussions and better business decisions. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 178 Post-Closure Land Stewardship Mine Closure Our vision is to make mine closure a smooth transition, with careful management of the environmental and socio-economic challenges as the operation moves through reclamation, monitoring, passive care and eventual custodial to the government or surrounding communities. Our goal is to practise comprehensive land reclamation to ensure that the local ecosystem is healthy, thriving and supportive of meaningful use for nearby communities. CASE STUDIES COMMUNITY WATER PROJECTS – FOREST RECOVERY: MARLIN’S INNOVATION AND LEADERSHIP IN WATER SERVICES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL LEGACY RECLAMATION AND GENERATIONS TO COME SEE PAGE 190 TAILINGS MANAGEMENT SEE PAGE 189 SEE PAGE 192 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 179 Mine Closure HIGHLIGHTS 33 CLOSED SITES 100% OF OUR PROPERTIES US$24 MILLION are in various states of passive or have updated closure cost estimates. was invested in progressive or closure active care and maintenance in reclamation activities in 2017. Canada, the US, Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras. Marlin mine finished operations on May 31, 2017 and completed decommissioning activities associated with the Marlin cyanide facilities on September 22, 2017. On Dec 21, 2017, the International Cyanide Management Institute (ICMI) issued a press release announcing Goldcorp’s Marlin mine was fully decommissioned under International Cyanide Management Code and no longer subject to the Code. Backfill of the Marlin pit was 100% completed and the cover placement on the Marlin Tailings Storage Facility commenced. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA) conducted the site sign-off inspection at El Sauzal in Mexico in late 2017. El Sauzal will continue with a post-closure monitoring period. Construction of the Broulan Reef tailings facility stabilization buttress was completed at our Porcupine Mine. We continued to monitor all tailings facilities at our closed sites. INSIGHTS FROM: MATERIAL TOPICS CHRIS CORMIER SEE PAGE 30 SEE PAGE 183 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 180 Mine Closure MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Historically, mine decommissioning and closure has focused on the environmental aspects of land reclamation and rehabilitation. In recent years, the emphasis has expanded to include the social, cultural and economic impacts of the closure. Mine closure at Goldcorp involves an integrated, multidisciplinary approach with an awareness of the need to plan for the social and environmental changes that will occur as a result. We understand that closure planning should begin at the earliest phases of mine development and include active participation from all stakeholders. Prior to construction, from conceptual through to feasibility studies, each Goldcorp site is required to identify the regulatory framework, communities’ commitments and the technical aspects of project closure as well their associated costs. Implementing plans for a successful mine closure can be challenging, particularly as these plans are typically very technical in nature and can evolve over many years or decades. However, mine closure can bring new opportunities to a community. Maximizing the potential for a sustainable, long-term, positive impact requires community involvement, good planning and strong leadership. A significant trend that has a special function for closed mines is the application of remote sensors and data-collection technologies. These can be used to mitigate risks by improving the frequency and accuracy of monitoring closed mines in remote locations. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Stakeholders are concerned about potential environmental and health effects related to closed mine sites. These issues generally arise from sites that have been poorly managed. The closure of any mine can cause significant change to the social norms established in a community. These changes are best communicated, understood and mitigated when the communities are involved in the closure-planning process from the outset. A mutual understanding and Have comments on why multi-stakeholder involvement in closure planning can lead to post-closure our approach to Mine opportunities that are meaningful and relevant for a community. Closure is important to you? WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com We believe mine closure is critical for the sustainability of both our legacy and the communities surrounding the mines. For this reason, our Reclamation and Closure team focuses solely on a global approach to closure. For Goldcorp, improving our mine rehabilitation and closure practices is important to: • Enhancing our social licence – By inviting public and regulatory scrutiny of our closure planning and practices, we have the opportunity to earn and increase stakeholder support throughout the mine lifecycle. • Prioritizing and reducing risk – Early planning prepares us for the future. Proactive designs and active reclamation result in stable landforms and successful long-term restoration of the land and water. • Improving the closure process – A closed mine is a long-term responsibility. Improving our engineering, planning and reclamation activities while the mine is in operation will result in better management of environmental rehabilitation. Moreover, improving these activities, will help us establish a sustainable landform which can be utilized to its fullest extent by local communities. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 181 Mine Closure OUR STRATEGY We are committed to developing, operating and closing our mining properties in a sustainable manner. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) requires all sites to document their closure plans and specific requirements for environmental and social activities. Closure planning begins at the earliest phases of a project. It involves bringing together various internal and external stakeholders to share their views, concerns, aspirations and knowledge. In the early stages of project development and operations, we meet with stakeholders to collect their closure and post-closure goals and views. We conduct risk assessments to maximize the benefits of closure and apply multidisciplinary expertise to develop an effective mine closure plan. While it is not possible to restore a site to its original pre-mining state, it is possible to reclaim a site and establish a healthy, thriving ecosystem that can support productive land use. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, we established the Reclamation and Closure Group, which ultimately reports to the EVP, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. The team is responsible for managing our closed sites, assisting new projects in the pipeline – such as Coffee, Century and Borden – and supporting all operating mines in their closure planning. Since its inception, the unit has led a number of reclamation projects and focused on improving planning and reporting, Asset Retirement Obligation (ARO) accounting and Life of Mine (LOM) processes. The group’s objectives are incorporated in the SEMS and apply to all projects, mines and closed sites. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 182 Mine Closure INSIGHTS FROM: CHRIS CORMIER Talking Mine Closure with Chris Cormier, Vice President, Reclamation and Closure1 1. LOOKING BACK ON 2017, WHAT WERE SOME OF THE KEY HIGHLIGHTS AND CHALLENGES FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF MINE CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION? WHAT DID YOU LEARN FROM THESE CHALLENGES? WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO IN 2018? The key highlight from 2017 for the Reclamation and Closure Team was safely transitioning our Marlin mine from operations to closure. Marlin has not only been a significant contributor to Goldcorp over its life, it has also played an important role for the community: It provided social and economic benefits and contributed to the regional socio-economic health of Guatemala. For this reason, it was extremely important to us to close the mine in a socially and environmentally responsible way. Through this process we have learned that proactive and transparent communications and plans, as well as the implementation of a successful closure, are critical to ensuring community understanding and acceptance. They allow for the successful execution of our closure plan. Looking ahead, 2018 will allow the Reclamation and Closure department to mature within Goldcorp. We will be focusing on identifying opportunities to Have a question for Chris? add value through innovative approaches to closure and social closure such SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com as re-purposing or co-purposing the mining lands, while we continue to successfully integrate closure planning from exploration to operations. 2. ONE OF THE PROJECTS FOR 2017 (REPORTED IN 2016) WAS TO EXPLORE THE DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE GREEN ENERGY SOLUTIONS FOR SOME OF GOLDCORP’S CLOSED SITES. WAS IT POSSIBLE TO DO SO? I am glad to say we did have the opportunity to further our understanding of the green energy potential related to closure. It remains a viable solution for sites that require passive care long-term or at sites where we want to ensure that the sustainable benefits realized during operations can endure in a different form during the post-closure lifecycle. We are currently reviewing the lifecycle value of solar energy at a closed site to provide ongoing energy for monitoring services and potentially generate additional employment and social investment. 3. IS THE RECLAMATION AND CLOSURE TEAM INVOLVED IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW GOLDCORP PROJECTS SUCH AS COFFEE, BORDEN OR CENTURY? Yes, we believe it is important to ensure that closure planning – including social closure – is included from the beginning of projects. As a result, the Reclamation and Closure team has been working with the Coffee, Borden and Century projects to ensure these aspects are included to fit each of their local context. Not only did we have the opportunity to review and provide input on the closure plans for each of the three projects, we were also able to provide additional information to stakeholders, to support the ongoing dialogue. We provided additional training for project teams to help each group understand the social and technical aspects of closure along with the opportunities to integrate and improve the process though our expertise along with that of industry in general. A focused approach through a dedicated Reclamation and Closure team brings expertise and dedication to the process. This is critical to developing a plan which is supported by communities, technically sound and successful in the long-term. We also draw from learnings across the organization and industry which can help us realize new opportunities that will in turn improve the final result. 1 As of March 2018, Chris Cormier is Mine General Manager, Coffee Project. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 183 Mine Closure 4. WHAT ARE THE KEY CHALLENGES THAT GOLDCORP FACES WITH REGARDS TO COMPLETELY CLOSING AND SIGNING-OFF ON CLOSED PROPERTIES? Mine closure is a complex topic as it involves uncertain time frames, changing economic, environmental and social aspects, multiple stakeholders and diverse relationships. We take our commitment to our vision, Together, Creating Sustainable Value, seriously, and as such we do not take mine closure lightly. While we work to include closure plans as early as the design phase of our projects, or when we take operational control of a mine, there are still various factors that may present us with challenges. Regulators are in a unique position. They are tasked with protecting the public interest, while at the same time supporting responsible resource development. Given this relationship, regulators understand the complexity of closed mine sites and their own obligation to the public, which requires them to perform ongoing due diligence, improve compliance limits and hold release requirements to the highest of standards. This is in some ways parallel to our commitment to our stakeholders because it outlines our obligations to ensure that the risk at a closed site is reduced to acceptable levels and that any post-closure lands are cared for until they meet or exceed expected long-term performance objectives. This complex set of relationships can result in longer monitoring timelines and ongoing dialogue to ensure that everyone understands the criteria required to attain a full release from a closed mine site – one that meets the needs of all involved. Transparency, communication and long-term commitments in relation to closed sites are critical to relinquishing any closed site and successfully leaving a positive legacy. One of the main goals of the Reclamation and Closure team is to reach passive care at all of our sites post-mine reclamation. The other goal, is when and where possible, to work with local government and regulators to relinquish the land to the appropriate stakeholders. 5. HOW DOES CLIMATE CHANGE AFFECT GOLDCORP’S CLOSURE DESIGN? Climate change is a relatively new and complex conversation when it comes to closure. More importantly, it is highly variable and must be considered when designing any long-term closure. For example, we may have sites that are currently arid experience significant precipitation and, conversely, we may have wet sites that become more arid. Understanding the limitations of any closure design is crucial in planning for a long-term stable landform that can thrive in any new normal as a result of long-term climate change. We continue to work with First Nations, our consultants and industry experts to inform our plans as we continue to understand this complex design parameter. As this is a relatively new topic for closure planning, we are also working with other mining companies to better comprehend the potential effects of climate change on how we design for closure. 6. HOW IMPORTANT IS COLLABORATION TO GOLDCORP WITH REGARDS TO RECLAMATION AND CLOSURE? Closing a mine affects the local environment, people, and economy. For these reasons it is imperative that we constantly look for ways to design and operate mines that will make the transition to closure and reclamation smoother. We must also continuously look for innovative post-closure land uses that can match with any local community development goals. Collaboration with local communities is key as we pursue this. Sharing our ideas, experiences and challenges with external organizations or internal functional groups is critically important to expanding our understanding of what successful closure looks like and sharing that knowledge with teams who can impact the end result. This type of collaboration supports the integration of closure planning into our business functions, resulting in better execution of both the technical and social closure in the field. It is important to collaborate with our peers in the industry regarding challenges, best practices and innovation. Learning and sharing our collective experiences will allow us to improve our industry performance and social acceptance. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 184 Mine Closure 7. RECENTLY THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF ATTENTION ON THE SOCIAL ASPECT OF MINE CLOSURES. DOES GOLDCORP INCLUDE SOCIAL ASPECTS WHEN CLOSING MINE SITES? Yes, absolutely. The social aspects of closing a mine site are key considerations for us. To ensure a successful transition from operations to closure, a company must ensure closure planning with the creation of a robust closure plan is part of the early stages of any project planning. Companies also need to have a deep understanding of the local context and to have built strong relationships with the local communities in order to understand how to best manage not only the transition but also all the activities leading up to it. One recent example we’re quite proud of is the closure of our Marlin mine. Our goal at Marlin was to create a sustainable legacy for communities and families that would last long after we are gone. Knowing that 97% of our workforce were Guatemalan residents, we wanted to support our employees in developing a set of transferable skills that would be relevant after the mine’s closure. To that end, we developed a Social Closure Plan in order to cover the social aspects that are affected by mine closure. We also developed a training program for employees. This program included courses in: Job Search, Job Interviews and How to Be an Entrepreneur. The goal of these courses was to prepare employees for the upcoming transition. Marlin mine also coordinated with the government the official “skills” certification which would help the employees find jobs to transition to after closure. All of these measures have proved successful as many employees are now working in other companies in the country and even internationally. The Social Closure Plan also addressed the external effects on the communities around the mine. Funds were secured to develop projects to mitigate the negative economic impact. These projects developed local businesses that now sell their products in and out of the region. Finally, the Social Closure Plan focused on achieving productive use of the Goldcorp land, it was decided that a Foundation will run the projects (which include a pig farm and agricultural projects) to generate funds that would facilitate the continuation of some of the social programs to which the mine contributed over its lifespan. These projects would also provide economic development in the regions including local jobs. 8. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONG-TERM GOALS FOR MINE CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION AT GOLDCORP (I.E., FIVE/TEN YEARS FROM NOW)? One of our goals is to continue to integrate technical and social closure into everything we do, from project phase to closure phase. With this goal in mind, our Reclamation and Closure Team is dedicated to providing a focused approach to closure planning. This team is a relatively new addition to Goldcorp, having been created in 2015. Another one of our goals will be to ensure that reclamation and closure planning are integrated not only into all of our existing operations, but into all of our new projects from the early stages of planning and development. We will continue to use technology to monitor our closed sites, especially those that are remote and difficult to access. Being able to know what is going on at a closed site, even when nobody is there, will allow us to be proactive in predicting issues before they happen and preventing any major issues from occurring. Having closed mine site properties that can generate enough income through post-mining sustainable land uses to cover any long-term monitoring or treatment costs would be ideal. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 185 Mine Closure 9. LOOKING BACK OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS, SINCE THE GROUP’S INCEPTION, HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE JOURNEY GOLDCORP HAS BEEN ON FROM A MINE CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION PERSPECTIVE? Reflecting on the past three years, Goldcorp has a seen an increased focus on closure throughout the organization. This includes two active closures (El Sauzal and Marlin) and 33 sites that are under various levels of care and maintenance. Reclamation, closure planning and concurrent reclamation while mines are in operation has become a much more prominent focus. Each site has a much better handle on reclamation and closure cost estimates based on a standardized model utilizing this to inform better reclamation and closure decisions going forward. There are many opportunities for us to improve our process: By better engagement with stakeholders throughout the Life of Mine; we can learn from experience gained at several of our recent reclamation sites, and we can look at new technology that has the ability to do our work more efficiently and innovatively. 10. WHAT IS GOLDCORP DOING FROM A MINE CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION PERSPECTIVE THAT WILL CHANGE THE WAY MINE CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION IS CONDUCTED, PERCEIVED OR APPROACHED IN THE FUTURE? As a relatively new department in Goldcorp, we are at an earlier stage in our journey than some other departments may be. Nevertheless, in the short period of time our team has been operating, we have started using new technology wherever possible for the monitoring and ongoing maintenance of remote sites. We have also adopted technology to manage active sites more efficiently. We will continue to focus on integrating our department into each aspect of the business to ensure we leave a positive legacy in the communities in which we operate. We will also provide reductions in operating costs and energy requirements as a result of smart and proactive closure and reclamation planning. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 186 Mine Closure MINE CLOSURE OBJECTIVES AND INITIATIVES Since its inception, the Reclamation and Closure group has been focused on improving our institutional knowledge of our 33 closed sites. With a better knowledge of their unique geologies, histories, environmental condition and regulatory requirements, we will be better positioned to identify and manage the potential risks at each mine site. On an annual basis, all operating and closed sites review – and revise as required – their closure assumptions regarding the physical work and costs that would be required to complete closure. This ensures that our closure objectives are current and that our closure planning accounts for any new or revised conditions at the operation, and any regulatory changes that may affect closure plans or require changes to the closure design. Closure planning begins at the earliest phases of a project’s lifecycle and evolves as the project matures. Effective closure planning: • Includes active stakeholder participation • Understands and addresses the regulatory requirements • Improves project transparency • Identifies risks earlier so they can be mitigated • Reduces long-term liabilities, and moves the project towards passive care and custodial transfer • Recognizes and plans for potential post-closure land uses and opportunities 2018 OBJECTIVES POST-CLOSURE MONITORING STAGE AT EL SAUZAL In 2016, we completed the closure of our El Sauzal mine in Mexico. During 2017, the focus was on monitoring the site and completing maintenance work in channels and tailings corona to control water runoff and erosion damages. Environmental federal inspectors visited the site at the end of the year to ensure that we were complying with the terms and conditions for the closure stage as they are outlined in the Environmental Impact Assessment permit (in Mexico called the Manifesto de Impact Assessment or MIA). This occurred after the site submitted the Final Closure report. As of December 31, 2017, the site has entered into post-closure monitoring as we continue to work on finalizing the site inspection and sign off process in the following years. CONTINUING CLOSURE OF THE MARLIN MINE Mining at the Marlin mine in Guatemala ended May 31, 2017. Progressive reclamation has been performed at the site since the start of operations in 2005. The Marlin pit backfill started in 2012, with a mixture of dry tailings, cement and rock used as fill material. This is a best-in-class technique that results in a stable, environmentally benign landscape. In December 2015, backfilling of the main pit was completed. In 2016, we began to cover the pit wall, which we completed in 2017. The tailings dam was completely filled by September 2017. We started the cover construction in December 2017 with a layer of geotextile. In 2018, a 1.5 m layer of coarse oxide will be set on top of geotextile and finally a 1.0 m layer of fine oxide will be set above to allow vegetation growth. In 2017, the closure plan was also updated and submitted to the Ministry of Mining (MEM) and Ministry of Environment (MARN). Major community activities included land donation and continuity of water services projects. To support the transition of our employees and workers, we offered education, training and retraining opportunities to 1,500 employees and workers to help diversify their skill-sets and assist with career transitions as appropriate. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 187 Mine Closure MARLIN MINE OPEN PIT CLOSURE At our Marlin mine, both underground and open pit methods were used. We stopped open pit mining at Marlin in 2011 and continued underground mining until May 2017. When we closed Marlin’s open pit, our objective was to ensure productive post-closure use by producing a stable condition, both physically and geochemically. In 2012 we started the progressive reclamation of the Marlin mine open pit. In the backfill process, material was placed and compacted in a four-step process. The first step involved adding the base layer using filtered tailings with 2% of compacted cement to seal the floor of the pit. In the next stage, we added a layer of filtered tailings. We then added layers of waste rock material in the centre of the pit surrounded by a filtered tailings ring. Finally, the upper levels of the backfilling continued until it reached the highest part of the north wall. As of December 31, 2017, 20,000 m³ of oxides were left to be placed. Water runoffs will continue their flow towards the natural drainage of the Tzalá River basin through a concrete-steel notch or spillway built for flood and runoff speed control before reaching the natural creek. The design considered a storm event of 250 years and 24 hrs. Finally, 3,187 kilograms of Brachiaria grass seeds were hydroseeded – some of them above 1140 m2 of Ecomatrix (a green polypropylene mesh). December 2011 January 2016 March 2017 September 2017 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 188 Mine Closure MINE CLOSURE CASE STUDIES COMMUNITY WATER PROJECTS – WATER SERVICES FOR GENERATIONS TO COME Since 2014, in compliance with the measures issued by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (CIDH) to the State of Guatemala, important progress was made regarding the installation of water services by Marlin mine in the municipalities of San Miguel Ixtahuacán and Sipacapa in San Marcos. This has been a long process, since certain legal requirements had to be met before we could proceed to the construction of the projects. Now, approximately 7,000 people in Agel, San José Ixcaniche, Caserio Nueva Esperanza, Caserio Siete Platos, Caserio San Antonio de los Altos and Cancil have water services in their homes. Apart from these projects, we have also built projects in the communities of Salem, Chuena and Salitre, for a total investment in 2017 of US$12.4M (as of December 2017). The projects were planned to be big enough to sustain the population growth for the next 20 years. For 2018, we expect that our mine investments will result in well-water services (by pumping or gravity) for another 1,682 families in Pie de la Cuesta and Escupija villages as well as Sicapaca Centro, San Isidro Setivá and Canoj. STATUS OF THE COMPLETED COMMUNITY WATER PROJECTS NUMBER OF NUMBER OF BENEFICIARY BENEFITED SPRINGS FOR LATRINES INVESTMENT COMMUNITY FAMILIES INHABITANTS WATER SERVICES INSTALLED (US$ MILLIONS) Cancil 196 980 2 196 0.5 Agel 484 1,745 7 484 2.6 San Jose Ixcaniche 263 1,250 4 263 1.7 Nueva Esperanza 150 654 2 150 1.2 Siete Platos 304 984 7 304 1.9 San Antonio de Los Altos 327 1,348 7 327 1.9 Salem (in progress) 115 690 2 0 0.3 Chuena (in progress) 403 1,468 3 0 0.8 Salitre (in progress) 450 2,685 12 0 1.5 Total 12.4 All of these projects have changed the life of the communities, with a positive impact on the health of thousands of Mayan people. The community water projects will be the biggest legacy that we will leave in Guatemala. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 189 Mine Closure FOREST RECOVERY: MARLIN’S ENVIRONMENTAL LEGACY One of the main environmental commitments listed in the Marlin Mine Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was to recover 190 hectares (ha) of forest during its operation. This was in compensation for the 60 ha that were planned to be affected by the construction and operation of the mine. To comply with this commitment, the environment team looked for a location inside the mine property that could make a big impact once recovered. The location selected was also a hydric recharge zone; therefore, by recovering this area, water would be protected, thus enabling the reproduction of flora and fauna. By 2016, from the 190 ha committed, more than 611 ha of pine forest had been recovered. This is three times more than what the EIA required and 10 times more than the remaining forest found before the mine started construction. The Forest Recovery program was based on the following actions: 1. Reforestation: Seven native tree species were selected to be seeded. One million trees have been planted and donated to the local communities. 2. Rescue and reinsertion of flora and fauna: The EIA determined the existence of protected species in the forests around the Marlin mine. One of them was the epiphytes; specimens of this plant were rescued and reproduced in Marlin before reinserting them into the forest. The same was done with animals such as reptiles and mammals. 3. Biodiversity inventory: This inventory began in 2010 with the objective of identifying the population and type of fauna present in the forest. The inventory included insects, reptiles, mammals, birds and fish. 4. Enablon reporting: A module for fauna sightings was implemented in Enablon (internal reporting software) so that we could register each time an employee caught an animal. The module can generate statistics and accept photographic evidence. 5. Community reforestation: In 2004, a program was started with the Instituto Nacional de Bosques (INAB) in Guatemala to encourage communities to seed trees. In this program, families were given trees to seed in their land. Goldcorp made a monthly payment to those families that INAB certified were taking care of the plants. 133 families signed on to the program, and more than $114K was paid to them. 6. Community training: Training was provided to the communities to help residents understand the importance of preserving the forest, as well as the animals and plants the forest harbours. Community members learned to register sightings, how to rescue hurt animals and the correct procedure for dealing with endangered species. With these new protected areas, animals have returned to live and reproduce in great numbers. This phenomenon was documented in a small book titled “Guía de Flora y Fauna Silvestre de Mina Marlin y sus alrededores” (Flora and Fauna Guide for Marlin Mine and its Surroundings). It contains photos and brief descriptions of many of the species found in the recovered forest. The book was presented in 2016 to universities and institutions as a scientific tool that shows the importance of preserving the forest and as a demonstration of our commitment to the environment and education. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 190 Mine Closure All these efforts were recognized by the Council of Protected Areas (Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas) authorities. In 2016, the Council of Protected Areas (CONAP) extended a Biological Research Licence to the Marlin mine. This was the first time this type of licence has been given to a private industry organization. Through this licence CONAP recognized the Marlin mine for its efforts to preserve biodiversity in the area and fight the effects of climate change. International partnerships have also been created. In 2016, the Ornithology Laboratory at the Cornell University included the Marlin forest as a “hotspot” for bird sightings. The data are loaded in the virtual platform ebird.org. This platform keeps statistics and compares migration and reproduction trends of the birds. Erosion reduction, species preservation, water protection and clean air are some of the benefits of this program. Through our commitment to responsible mine closure, environmental stewardship, research and education, the forest recovery around the Marlin mine is one of the major legacies that we will leave in Guatemala. “We want to be sure we close Marlin in a responsible way, the right way, for future generations to enjoy – for them to know it’s an area that is safe and stable, but an area that can also provide sustainable livelihood,” says Christian Roldan, General Manager for Marlin mine. “We want to be a regional and global example of how to manage a large-scale closure for the benefit of the communities and the environment.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 191 Mine Closure INNOVATION AND LEADERSHIP IN RECLAMATION AND TAILINGS MANAGEMENT A priority at all our sites – whether they’re operating, reclaimed or closed – is to store and manage tailings with innovation and best practices in mind. In 2017, we invested US$24 million in progressive or closure reclamation activities. We have a dedicated team of experts responsible for managing all of our closed sites, supporting our operating mines with their closure planning and providing oversight to all reclamation and closure activities. El Sauzal was an open-pit gold mine, which commenced remediation and closure in 2014. Since the completion of reclamation of El Sauzal in Q3 2016 the site has been monitored to detect ground deformation. Our objective in this work is to monitor surface deformation during mining remediation and closure activities using the InSAR (Interferometric synthetic aperture radar) technology. A consultant is using the advanced InSAR processing techniques coupled with Sentinel imagery, in the ascending geometry, to measure ground movement and highlight areas of surface change. The Sentinel constellation is owned and operated by the European Space Agency. The satellite is non-programmable (i.e., it is not possible to task the satellite to acquire imagery over a certain area), but the acquired data is publicly available at no charge. This technology allows for the remote monitoring of the overall site stability and vegetation growth every month, or as required. This technology not only saves the cost of frequent visits to the site, but it allows for the monitoring of ground movements over vast areas that might not be surveyed if done manually. The Broulan Reef Tailings Dam is located about 15 km northeast of Timmins, Ontario. In 2006, we acquired the Porcupine camp in Timmins, Ontario – the site of several historic and legendary mining operations that were abandoned in the 1990s. The stabilization of the Broulan Reef Tailings facility by way of buttressing the perimeter dam was completed, as scheduled, by the end of 2017. At completion, approximately 280,500 million tonnes of waste rock had been safely placed. We submitted an as-built report to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry as required under the construction permit. On this subject, Chris Cormier, Vice President, Reclamation and Closure remarked, “The management of our tailings facilities remains one of our highest priorities at our closed sites. We will continue to look at innovative new ideas and technology to lower any potential risks.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 192 Addressing Our Challenges At Goldcorp, sustainability is a company-wide commitment rooted in our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Each and every day, we work to provide meaningful and lasting social and economic benefits to the communities in which we operate. Through safe, sustainable and responsible mining, we endeavour to have a positive impact on society. This includes leaving the areas in which we operate in as productive a condition as that in which we found them. While we are proud of our track record, we acknowledge that we can always do better and continually challenge ourselves to improve our sustainability performance. In 2017, we were faced with a number of challenges. In response, we will continue to refine our policies and practices for environmental stewardship, strengthen our community relationships and work to ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors, partners and neighbouring communities. OUR PEOPLE: ENGAGING AND MOTIVATING OUR EMPLOYEES One of the highlights for our People team in 2017 was the completion of an Employee Opinion Survey (EOS). We were pleased to see that employees feel that Goldcorp is a safe place to work and that they have the tools and resources to do their job effectively. In addition, we learned through the EOS that employees feel empowered to make decisions and have the authority to do their job well. The survey also highlighted key opportunities for improvement: 1) the desire for better collaboration across different functions and departments; 2) a better understanding of career development opportunities at Goldcorp; 3) better alignment of priorities from senior management and 4) more frequent and transparent communication from leadership. In response to this survey, each site and office has been tasked with creating and implementing action plans tailored to their location. Some sites have conducted focus groups and administered additional surveys to better understand the needs of employees and identify further steps that could be taken to engage employees. To ensure accountability for implementing action plans, the 2018 corporate scorecard will include an objective in the Leadership category to engage employees in creating a superior employee experience, focusing on culture, communication and collaboration. In addition, all 2018 site scorecards will include an objective related to their specific employee opinion survey action plan. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 193 Addressing Our Challenges ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP: PROTECTING OUR WATER RESOURCES A major water treatment plant was commissioned at our Éléonore mine site in Quebec in 2017. The plant is designed to remove or reduce certain elements from process water for discharge into the environment. To protect ecosystems, discharged process water must meet stringent toxicity standards acceptable for surrounding trout and daphnia populations. Building a plant of this size to exacting standards was a significant challenge. It required considerable planning, collaboration and accountability to execute. We are proud of this project, which has resulted in measurable improvements in water quality. The planning, construction and commissioning of the water treatment plant helped drive home the importance and value of teamwork and community collaboration as part of our combined effort to protect our precious water resources. DIVERSITY: BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE Currently, only one-tenth of our staff is female, which hasn’t changed in the last ten years. But it’s not just gender diversity that we need to focus on. We need to look at inclusion more broadly. We need to take concrete steps to ensure our workforce and our operations more accurately reflect our communities. This requires enhanced recruitment practices to attract a more diverse workforce, including more women and Indigenous Peoples into all site-based roles. It also involves providing training and education to help people reach their potential and create a workplace culture where everyone’s contribution is valued. Towards this end, we have developed a multi-year, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for Goldcorp. Inspired by the Global Diversity and Inclusion Benchmarks1, our strategy looks at diversity through a broad lens to advance our goal of building a more diverse and inclusive workplace. Our focus for 2018 will be to develop a much broader spectrum of understanding at Goldcorp, where different perspectives, experiences and skillsets are respected and valued. COMMUNITIES: IMPROVING RELATIONSHIPS WITH FIRST NATIONS In early 2017, our Coffee Project team submitted the project proposal2 to the Yukon Environmental and Socio-Economic Assessment Board (YESAB) for review, an essential step for the project to move to a full environmental assessment. Following the submission, YESAB notified us that it was interrupting the assessment process, stating that we had not met our obligations to adequately consult with the Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in, Selkirk First Nation and the First Nation of Na-Cho Nyäk Dun. In response, the Coffee team worked diligently to reach out to affected First Nations communities, provide additional information on the project proposal and address their concerns. We submitted an updated project proposal to YESAB in Q4 2017. This experience taught us a valuable lesson about the risks and implications of getting ahead of ourselves, and we have committed to improving our engagement and consultation practices with host communities and First Nations to build lasting and mutually-beneficial relationships in our operating areas. 1 O’Mara, Julie, and Richter, Alan, Global Diversity & Inclusion Benchmarks (www.diversitycollegium.org, 2016), PDF. 2 According to YESAB (http://www.yesab.ca/submit-a-project/): “A project proposal for a Designated Office evaluation contains information about the proposed project, where it will be located, how it will be accomplished, when it will occur and other information that will be considered by the assessor when conducting an evaluation.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 194 Addressing Our Challenges WHAT LIES AHEAD Risk is an unavoidable consequence of mining operations. We are confident in our ability to effectively manage sustainability risks and opportunities in a disciplined and strategic manner that optimizes our value proposition to shareholders, communities, partners, employees and contractors. Our steadfast commitment to operating safely, sustainably and responsibly will help us maintain our competitive edge and deliver on our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Our intent is to make sustainability the foundation of our business. We will continue to proactively engage with our host communities and partners to minimize our impacts on the lands under our care. We will work to strengthen the transparency of our disclosure and maintain the high level of trust that we have established within the industry and around the world. We strongly believe that innovation is the key to sustainable development and will continue to integrate new technologies into our operations to reduce energy use, minimize water consumption, improve workplace safety, strengthen partnerships and increase efficiencies. By living up to our values and commitments every day, we will continue to be seen as a responsible, respected and progressive company – one that will be welcomed into new communities. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 195 GRI Index Table GRI Index Table indicates assured information. ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs Organizational Profile 102-01 Name of the organization 12 102-02 Primary brands, products and/or 11, 12 services 102-03 Location of organization’s 12 headquarters 102-04 Number of countries where the 11 organization operates 102-05 Nature of ownership and legal form We are a public company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. 102-06 Markets served 11, 12 102-07 Scale of the reporting organization 11, 12 102-08 Total workforce 110 8, 10 102-09 Description of the organization’s 18 supply chain 102-10 Significant changes during the 13 reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership including the location of or changes to operations 102-11 Description of how the precautionary 54 2 7 approach or principle is addressed by the organization 102-12 Externally developed charters, 19 2 principles or initiatives endorsed 102-13 Memberships in associations 19 2 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior 4 2, 10 decision-maker 102-15 Description of key impacts, risks and 6 4 opportunities Ethics and Integrity 102-16 The organization’s values, principles, 14 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 6, 10 16 standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 196 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs Governance 102-18 Governance structure 47 1, 2, 4 102-20 Appointments of executive-level More information on our position or positions with organizational structure can be responsibility for economic, found in our Management environmental and social topics Information Circular. 65 102-21 Processes for consultation between 48 16 stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest 47 5, 16 governance body and its committees, and how the company defines “independent” and “non-executive” members of the Board 102-23 Indicate whether the Chair of the 47 1 16 highest governance body is also an executive officer 102-24 Qualifications and expertise of the 47 1, 2 5, 16 highest governance body 102-25 Processes in place for the highest 51 1 10 16 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 102-28 Evaluation on performance of the 47 highest governance body 102-29 Procedures of the highest governance 49 1, 4, 10 1, 2, 7, 8, 16 body for overseeing the 9, 10 organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks 102-30 The Board’s role in reviewing 49, 54 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, sustainability impacts, risks and 9, 10 opportunities 102-31 Frequency of the Board’s review of 49 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, economic, environmental and social 9, 10 impacts, risks and opportunities 102-32 Highest committee that formally The Sustainability Report is 1, 10 reviews and approves the reviewed and approved by our organization’s sustainability report Disclosure Committee and Board of Directors. 102-33 Process for communicating 48 1, 2, 4, 10 1, 10 critical concerns to the highest governance body 102-35 Remuneration policies for the highest 50 1, 2 10 governance body and senior executives 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 50 1 10 102-37 How stakeholders’ views are sought 50 10 16 and taken into account regarding remuneration 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 197 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged 81 by the company 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by 122 3 8 collective agreements 102-42 Basis for identification and selection 81 of stakeholders with whom to engage 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 81 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have 82 been raised through stakeholder engagement Reporting Practice 102-45 Operational structure of the 11, 12 organization 102-46 Process for defining report content 20, 27, 28 102-47 Material aspects identified in the 30 process for defining report content 102-48 Explanation of the effect of any 149, 164 restatements 102-49 Changes in reporting Our 2017 material topics have been updated from 2016. For consistency purposes, we have reported on 2016 and 2017 material topics. During 2017, our portfolio changed through the divestment of our Los Filos mine and the closure of our Marlin mine. 20, 30 102-50 Reporting period for information 20 provided 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 20 102-52 Reporting cycle 20 102-53 Contact point for questions 210 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 20 with GRI standards 102-55 Location of the standard disclosures 20 in the report and the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen 102-56 External assurance 23 Management Approach 103-1 Management approach 20 103-2 The management approach and its 42, 64, 106, 131, 149 10 1, 2 16 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 16 approach 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 198 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs Economic Indicators 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 71 9 10 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 153 4, 7 7 13 and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Coverage of defined benefit plan 114 obligations 201-4 Significant financial assistance 76 received from government 202-1 Range of ratios of standard entry73 6 1, 5, 8 level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Local hiring – proportion of senior 72 2, 9 6 8 management and total workforce hired from local communities at operations 203-1 Development and impact of Report does not attempt to 9 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 infrastructure investments explain the development and impact of infrastructure on the local communities. As operations continue to implement their CSR strategy their focus in 2018 will be on improving the reporting of their community contribution impacts. 77 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts We have not attempted to 2, 9 1, 2, 3, 8, estimate the indirect economic 10, 17 benefits that flow to local and regional communities from our operations and development activities. The impact on regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is significant. 71 204-1 Proportion of spending on locally 74 2, 9 1, 5, 8 based suppliers 205-1 Total number and percentage of We undertake a periodic, formal 1, 2, 4 10 16 operations assessed for risks related and stand-alone anti-corruption to corruption and the significant risks risk assessment. This is identified complemented by our Enterprise Risk Management Process. Together, they provide for a well-structured method for escalating significant risks to senior management and, as applicable, to the Board. 52 205-2 Communication and training on 53 1, 2, 4 10 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 199 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption All reports of alleged fraud 16 and actions taken received during 2017 were proprietary information and were either resolved or are currently under active investigation. We have zero tolerance for fraud and corruption, and in those cases where fraud allegations are confirmed, the individual(s) and/or entities involved face disciplinary measures that could include termination of employment or contract and criminal and/or civil liability as applicable. 52 206-1 Total number of legal actions for 51 16 anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practice Environmental Indicators 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 152 6 7, 8, 9 8, 12 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are 153 6, 8 8 8, 12 recycled input materials 302-1 Energy consumption within the 155 6 8 7, 8, 12, 13 organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 155 6 8 7, 8, 12, 13 organization 302-3 Energy intensity 157 6 8 7, 8, 12, 13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 158 6, 8 8, 9 7, 8, 12, 13 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 164 6 8 6 303-2 Water sources significantly affected 165 8 6 by withdrawal of water 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water 166 6, 8 8, 9 6, 8, 12 recycled and reused 304-1 Location and size of land adjacent to 174 6, 7 8 6, 14, 15 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 304-2 Significant impacts on protected 174 6, 8 9 6, 14, 15 areas and areas of high biodiversity value 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 174 6, 9 10 6, 14, 15 304-4 Number of The International Union 174 6, 10 11 6, 14, 15 for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats affected by our operations 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 159 6 8, 9 3, 12, 13, emissions 14, 15 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 159 6 8, 9 3, 12, 13, emissions 14, 15 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 200 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 159 6 8, 9 3, 12, 13, emissions (Scope 3) 14, 15 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 161 6 8, 9 13, 14, 15 intensity 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 162 6, 8 7, 8, 9 13, 14, 15 emissions 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air 163 6 8 3, 12, 14, 15 emissions by type and weight 306-1 Total water discharge by quality 168 6 8 3, 6, 12, 14 and destination 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and 172 6, 8 8 3, 6, 12 disposal method 306-3 Total number and volume of 172 4, 6 8 3, 6, 12, significant spills 14, 15 306-5 Identity, size, protected status and 170 6, 8 7, 8, 9 6, 14, 15 biodiversity value of waterbodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines, 175 1, 6 8 16 and non-monetary sanctions 308-1 New suppliers that were screened 94 using environmental data 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 94 the supply chain and actions taken Social Indicators 401-1 Total number and rates of new 116 3 6 5, 8, 10 employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 114 6 3, 5, 8 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 122 3 1, 3 8 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 403-1 Percentage of total workforce Management–employee Joint 3 1, 3 8 represented in formal joint Safety and Health Committees management–worker health and (JSHCs) are valuable tools for safety committees including employees in the safety decision-making process. Every Goldcorp operating site and project, along with our corporate and regional offices, has a JSHC, meaning that 100% of our workforce is now represented. In most cases, decisions and policies made by the JSHCs apply to all on-site personnel. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 201 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs 403-2 Type and rates of injury, occupational 140 5 1 3, 8 diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 403-3 Workers with high incidence or 141 5 6 3, 8 high risk of diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in Health and safety topics are 5 3, 6 8 formal agreements with trade unions covered in formal agreements in those of our operations that have a trade union on-site. We take a holistic approach to safety and make no distinction in our policy, procedures or expectations as they are applied to union employees, non-union employees and contractors. 404-1 Average hours of training per year Given the size of our workforce 4, 5, 8, 10 per employee and the wide range of sitebased and external training that they receive, we do not currently have a way to account for hours-per-employee. 404-2 Programs for skills management and 113 9 8 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 114 9 5, 8, 10 regular performance and career development reviews 405-1 Composition of governance 110, 117 1, 3, 4 1, 6 5, 8 bodies and breakdown of employees by category 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 121 5, 8, 10 remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 406-1 Total number of incidents of 95 1, 3 1, 2, 6 5, 8, 16 discrimination and corrective actions taken 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in 122 8 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as No incidents of child labour 3 8, 16 having significant risk for incidents of were reported in 2017, nor were child labour, and measures taken to any operations or significant contribute to the effective abolition of suppliers considered to have child labour significant risk for incidents of child labour. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 202 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as We support the principle that 3 8 having significant risk for incidents of individuals must be accorded forced or compulsory labour an equal opportunity to participate in the free enterprise system and to develop their ability to achieve their full potential within that system. We do not engage in, or condone, forced or compulsory labour. No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2017, nor were any operations or significant suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. 410-1 Percentage of security personnel 92 16 trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations 411-1 Total number of incidents of 95 2, 3 1, 2 2 violations involving rights of Indigenous Peoples and actions taken 412-1 Number and percentage of As part of the implementation 1, 3, 4, 9 1, 2 operations that have been subject to of the UN Voluntary Principles, human rights reviews or impact Cerro Negro, Marlin and assessments Peñasquito all conducted applicable risk reviews. 412-2 Total hours of employee training on 90 policies and procedures concerning human rights 412-3 Significant investment agreements 94 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 413-1 Percentage of operations with 81, 82, 95 2, 9, 10 implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual 82 2, 4, 9 2, 8 1, 2 and potential negative impacts on local communities 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers 94 5, 8, 16 that were screened using human rights criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 94 5, 8, 16 chain and actions taken 415-1 Total value of political contributions 53 1 10 16 by country and recipient/beneficiary 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines 51 1 16 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 203 GRI Index Table ICMM UNGC GRI INDEX DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE SDGs Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Indicators MM1 Amount of land disturbed or 173 6, 7 3, 6, 12, rehabilitated 14, 15 MM2 Sites identified as requiring 173 6, 7 8 6, 14, 15 biodiversity management plans, and sites with plans in place MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, 171 6 8 3, 6, 12 tailings and sludge presenting potential hazards MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts Strikes and lockouts are 3 3 8 indicative of a serious breakdown in labour/ management relations and a suspension of consultative processes. In 2017, there were no strikes or lockouts that lasted more than one week. MM5 Operations in or adjacent to 86 2, 3, 9 1, 2 1, 2 Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and formal agreements in place with Indigenous Peoples MM6 Significant disputes relating to land 95 2, 3, 4, 9, 10 1, 2 1, 2 use and the customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples MM7 Grievance mechanisms used to 81, 86 10 1, 2 1, 2 resolve disputes related to land use and the customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples MM8 Artisanal and small-scale mining 88 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 12 MM9 Resettlement 95 1, 2 MM10 Mine closure 187 2, 6, 9 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 204 Glossary 20/20/20 PLAN In 2017, we launched a five-year growth plan to increase our production by 20%, reduce our all-in sustaining costs by 20% and grow our reserves by 20%. ALL-IN SUSTAINING COSTS (AISC) A non-GAAP performance measure that defines the total costs associated with producing gold. All-in Sustaining Costs include by-product cash costs, sustaining capital expenditures, corporate administrative expense, exploration and evaluation costs and reclamation cost accretion. As the measure seeks to reflect the full cost of gold production from current operations, new project capital is not included in the calculation. ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) A standard safety indicator in the extractive industries, the All Injury Frequency Rate is calculated based on the total number of reportable incidents per 200,000 hours worked. For our purposes, we have considered the following incidents as reportable: medical aid, restricted work duty, lost time and fatalities. ASSURANCE A service often provided by an independent third party which reviews documentation and information to confirm its validity. CLOSURE PLANS A plan that establishes the objectives and actions for the closure phase of the mine life cycle, particularly on post-mining land use. COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION An investment of employee time, resources and a monetary contribution, the target beneficiaries of which are external to the company. We are involved in some capacity in the design, implementation or administration of the resources (e.g., a community relations person sits on the project steering committee). These contributions consist of money or in-kind benefits provided directly to community organizations or community representatives for specified purposes. CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD A voluntary standard developed by the World Gold Council to provide assurance that gold has been extracted in a way that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful conflict, or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international law. CONTRACTORS “Contractors” refers to external labour, hired to do a specific task. In some jurisdictions, a contractor is defined as a “supervised worker” – i.e., an individual who performs regular work on-site for, or on behalf of, the reporting organization but is not recognized as an employee under national law or practice. COUNTRY RISK ASSESSMENTS An assessment to identify operational risks related to the social and economic context of a particular country. DONATION A cash or physical gift made to the larger community where the target beneficiaries are external to the company and we are not involved in the administration or delivery of that gift. An example is donating money to a school to purchase books or supplies. DORÉ BARS Unrefined gold and silver bullion bars. EJIDO An area of communal land used for agriculture, owned and operated by members of the community. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 205 Glossary EMPLOYEE Full-time, direct Goldcorp personnel. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) The process of examining the anticipated environmental effects of a proposed project. EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM The Executive Leadership Team (ELT) includes the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs and Sustainability and Executive Vice President Legal Counsel. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) A sustainability reporting framework consisting of principles, guidelines and indicators to measure and report on an organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. GOLDCORP GRIEVANCE MECHANISM FRAMEWORK The Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework provides guidance to our sites on how to work with stakeholders to effectively prevent and address grievances. It sets out how our sites can develop robust, credible and trusted procedures that provide local stakeholders with a means of raising concerns relating to the company’s activities. It also delineates how these can be dealt with in ways that are considered to be fair by both the community and the company. GOLDEN RULES A set of ten rules which pinpoint the most high-risk situations for our workforce, as identified by analyzing past Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) both at Goldcorp and in the industry. They are intended to help workers understand the potential hazards and risks they face and to begin a task only when they have thoroughly understood all the rules and how they apply to the work at hand. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Any of the atmospheric gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation produced by solar warming of Earth’s surface. They include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and water vapour. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INTENSITY GHG intensity is a metric that normalizes GHGs per a defined unit of production. This can be defined as the total amount of GHGs per tonne moved. It is a metric that we track to determine how we are managing our GHGs across the company as we experience growth or divestment. GRIEVANCE A grievance is a formal complaint, concern, problem or claim (perceived or actual) that an individual or community group wants us to address. These must be communicated to appropriate Goldcorp personnel in writing or verbally. GRIEVANCE MECHANISM A process that allows us to receive and respond to feedback and concerns from stakeholders on matters of interest to them related to our activities. Feedback may include questions, concerns, claims or complaints from internal (i.e., employees and contractors) or external stakeholders (i.e., Indigenous groups or special interest groups, such as nonprofit organizations). At Goldcorp, we have two formal channels for receiving complaints and grievances (Ethics from the Ground Up and Community Response mechanisms), as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis. HEAP LEACH An extractive process whereby ore is stacked on a pad (forming a “heap”) and leaching solutions are introduced at the top of the heap. The leaching solutions dissolve valuable metals (typically gold and silver) as they percolate through the ore and are collected from a sloping, impermeable liner below the pad. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 206 Glossary HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights are defined as those set forth in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and international humanitarian law. Human rights are those rights and freedoms that are inherent to all human beings, regardless of nationality, place of residence, gender, ethnic origin, colour, race, religion, political views, sexual orientation, language, age, education, disability or any other status. Human rights can be classified in many ways. Common categorization includes civil and political rights, labour rights, Indigenous rights and other economic, social and cultural rights. HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT A process used to measure the impact of a range of activities on human rights. The activities commonly subject to impact measurement include international trade agreements, development cooperation programs and business operations. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES As defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, “Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,” 1991: “(a) Tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic condition distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or regulations; (b) peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions. Self-Identification as indigenous or tribal shall be regarded as a fundamental criterion for determining the groups to which the provisions of this Convention apply.” INTERNATIONAL CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CODE A voluntary industry program for gold mining companies which focuses exclusively on the safe management of cyanide and cyanidation mill tailings and leach solutions. The objectives of the Cyanide Code are: to improve the management of cyanide used in gold mining, to assist in the protection of human health and to reduce environmental impacts. LOST TIME INCIDENT (LTI) An injury resulting in absence from work beyond the day of the incident. Lost Time Injuries may be “minor” (one to several days away from work) or “major” (more extensive lost time). LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) A measure of the number of occurrences of Lost Time Incidents per 200,000 hours worked. MATERIAL TOPIC As defined by the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: “Topic that reflects a reporting organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influences the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE An occupational disease is a disease or disorder that is caused by the work or working conditions. Some examples of occupational diseases in mining include: dust and noise exposure, fatigue, and trauma from vibration and strains. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE (ODR) The frequency of occupational diseases per 200,000 hours worked. ORE Rock generally containing metallic and non-metallic minerals that can be mined and processed at a profit. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 207 Glossary POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCE (PFO) Safety events where the potential consequence could be a fatality. a. Actual incident with injury/illness or property damage that has: • Sufficient energy or toxicity (chronic or acute) to be fatal; and • High probability of affecting critical body part (such as head injury). OR b. Violation of a Life Saving Rule or other critical control, either a near miss or an observation, where there was sufficient energy or toxicity to have been fatal. REAGENT Chemicals used in mineral recovery processes. RECLAMATION The process by which lands disturbed by mining activity are reclaimed for a beneficial land use. Reclamation activity includes the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, as well as the closure of tailing impoundments, leach pads and other mine features. It also includes contouring, covering and revegetation of waste rock piles and other disturbed areas. RECYCLED WATER Worked water that is reused after being treated. RESETTLEMENT As defined by the International Finance Corporation (IFC): “Refers both to physical displacement (relocation or loss of shelter) and to economic displacement (loss of assets or access to assets that leads to the loss of income sources or means of livelihood) as a result of project related land acquisition and/or restrictions on land use.” We are committed to ensuring that any people we resettle are moved to a location of equal or better value than the one they leave. REUSED WATER Worked water that is reused without being treated. “SAY ON PAY” An advisory vote on “Say on Pay” is provided to shareholders of the company to allow them to show their approval or disapproval of the company’s executive compensation policies. An advisory vote is non-binding on the company, and it remains the duty of the Board to develop and implement sufficient executive compensation policies for the company. If the advisory vote is not approved by at least a majority of the votes cast at the meeting, the Board undertakes to discuss with the shareholders of the company why they do not approve of the company’s executive compensation policies and to consider modifications to such policies. SCOPE 1 (DIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. SCOPE 2 (INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. SCOPE 3 (OTHER INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Indirect emissions not covered in Scopes 1 or 2, such as emissions from business materials, travel and commuting to work. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 208 Glossary SLUDGE Sludge is a semi-solid slurry and can be produced as sewage sludge from wastewater treatment processes or as a settled suspension obtained from conventional drinking water and numerous other industrial processes. It is also sometimes used as a generic term for solids separated from suspension in a liquid; this “soupy” material usually contains significant quantities of “interstitial” water (i.e., between the solid particles). Industrial wastewater solids are also referred to as sludge, whether generated from biological or physical-chemical processes. Surface water plants also generate sludge that comprises solids removed from the raw water. SOCIAL BASELINE STUDY A study to understand the current socio-economic context or human environment around a proposed project, mine or associated infrastructure. STAKEHOLDER As defined by the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: “Entity or individual that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the reporting organization’s activities, products and services, or whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objectives.” STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder engagement is a dynamic, two-way dialogue based on mutual respect and benefit, with the goals of building lasting relationships, managing risk and impacts, and providing a forum to address and resolve potential issues. SURFACE WATER Water derived from rainfall captured on our sites or from site-surface water sources. TAILINGS Material rejected from a mill after most of the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By accepting these principles, businesses can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. UNITED NATIONS VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS A multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, companies and non-governmental organizations that promotes the implementation of a set of principles that guide oil, gas and mining companies in providing security for their operations in a manner that respects human rights. The Voluntary Principles guide companies in conducting a comprehensive human rights risk assessment in their engagement with public and private security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises. WASTE ROCK Rock that is removed from the mining process to provide access to the ore and is not further processed during the reporting year. WORKFORCE Refers to full-time Goldcorp employees and outside labour, such as contractors, who do work on Goldcorp’s behalf. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 209 Contact Us We are committed to transparency and open communication. We welcome feedback about our programs and specific comments for improvements in our sustainability reporting. Your inquiries may be directed to: Email: SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Mail: Suite 3400, 666 Burrard Street*, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2X8 Telephone: (604) 696-3000 www.goldcorp.com Goldcorp Inc. @Goldcorp_Inc GoldcorpInc Goldcorp Inc. *We acknowledge that our Vancouver Head Office is located on the traditional and unceded territories of the Musqueam, Squamish and Tsleil-Waututh Nations. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 210
