2018 Sustainability Report VALUE management ETHICS management OPEN management INNOVATION management About This Report We have prepared this 2018 Sustainability Report (“Report”) to share insights into our business plan and the progress we have made towards achieving the highest level of sustainability with our stakeholders. Reporting Status This is our 14th sustainability report since 2005. Reporting Guidelines & Period This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards, ISO 26000 and UN Global Compact. The financial information presented in this Report conforms with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). This Report covers our sustainability performance for the past three years from 2015 to 2017. Both financial and nonfinancial information is presented based on our fiscal years in accordance with the internal disclosure system and any information not subject to the above standards is noted otherwise. However, qualitative activities concerning material topics up to August 2018 are included in this Report to ensure their prompt disclosure. Report Boundary This Report covers the sustainability practice of KEPCO (Korea Electric Power Corporation) and includes the data of six power generation companies (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western Power, Korea Southern Power, and Korea East-West Power), fully owned by KEPCO when it comes to environmental investment, and air and water pollutants. Independent Assurance This Report has been externally assured by DNV GL to confirm the credibility and completeness of its contents, preparation process, and disclosed data. Detailed assurance report is on page 84, 85 of this Report. Contact Information Corporate Strategy Team, Corporate Planning Department, Korea Electric Power Corporation 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do Home page www.kepco.co.kr E-mail jaehyun.cho@kepco.co.kr Phone +82-61-345-3537 Contents Overview 04 CEO Message 06 KEPCO Highlights 08 KEPCO Profile 10 KEPCO Value Chain Sustainability Management 14 Sound Corporate Governance 18 Implementation of Ethical Management 20 Strengthening Risk Management 22 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 24 Materiality Test Sustainability Topics 28 Topic 1 Creating New Energy Ecosystem 34 Topic 2 Strengthening Energy Market Leadership 42 Topic 3 Responding to Climate Change 48 Topic 4 Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture 58 Topic 5 Leading the Realization of Social Value Appendix 78 Sustainability Data 84 Independent Assurance Statement 86 GRI Content Index 90 Major Subsidiaries 91 Memberships and Awards 2018 Sustainability Report CEO Message Dear stakeholders, I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude on behalf of KEPCO to all stakeholders who believed in us, strengthened us and supported us in 2017. It is my great privilege to publish our 14th Sustainability Report and to communicate to you the progress, the challenges and the results within our sustainability work. 04 Overview CEO Message For more than 120 years, we have been at the forefront of the industrial development of our country by supplying high-quality power economically and reliably. Now, in the era of unprecedented change in the power industry triggered by the new climate regime and the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are focusing our resources on creating a clean and efficient energy ecosystem under our new vision, “Clean Energy, Smart KEPCO”. As a leading energy public corporation, we will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities and strengthen our competitive advantages in the global market. “Gaining competitive advantages through digital innovation” As the convergence of technology and industries accelerates, there is a growing demand for change and innovation in the power industry. At KEPCO, we focus on improving the efficiency in our power supply and providing new services that put customers first and responding to their needs through digital transformation across the technology, business and management systems. While strengthening the foundation for both domestic and overseas projects we are currently undertaking through systemic risk management, we will develop new markets with a focus on renewable energy sectors to gain a competitive advantage. “Paving the way for eco-friendly energy future through energy transition” The adoption of the Paris Agreement opened the way to a new climate regime, and the reduction of carbon emissions through renewable energy has become the main focus of environmental strategies around the world. In response to this trend, we developed a compliance system among power group companies for GHG emissions and fine dust particulate matter reduction, focusing our efforts on building eco-friendly facilities and technological innovation. We will continue to drive the transition to renewable energy and put environmental protection and safety of people first. “Creating synergy to drive mutual growth through communication and cooperation” By relocating our head office in Naju, we are going to create an energy valley with the aim of attracting 500 energy companies to create more than 30,000 jobs by 2020. To this end, we focus on accelerating and incubating startups, helping SMEs with exports and joint R&D projects as part of our efforts to boost local economies and create an ecosystem for mutual growth. We will continue to build and drive mutual growth through close communications with our local community and suppliers, and fair and transparent supply chain management. “Building trust and creating social values” At KEPCO, our priorities are to increase the discount on electric bills for the vulnerable population including lowincome families, multicultural families, small business owners, development of new ICT-based mobile services, and customer service infrastructures. We are committed to creating full-time jobs, hiring interns and local talents, and supporting startups to build an ecosystem for sustainable job creation. As a global utility, we will maintain close communications with our stakeholders including customers and shareholders, and lead the new energy ecosystem through transparent and ethical practice. Your continued interest and support will be greatly appreciated. Thank you. September 2018 JongKap KIM President & CEO KEPCO 05 2018 Sustainability Report KEPCO Highlights Result of Historical Research on the Power Industry Harry Bostwick 1) the U.S. partner of Hansung Electric Power 2) , the first power company in Korea, donated some historical documents. The documents were discovered during a data search conducted in the US by Professor Oh JinSuk and his team from Baejae University. The discovery is considered to be a major accomplishment as part of the history research program. Rare documents including a letter from Emperor Gojong were expected to contribute to the study of electrical history in Korea. 05 07 10 2017 Ranked 2nd in the ‘Forbes Global 2000’ Corporate Ranking in Power Utility Category KEPCO was ranked 2nd in the power utility sector and 138 th in the Forbes Global 2000 rankings thanks to its consistent risk management and superior facility operation that leads to cost reduction and financial stability despite the volatile exchange rate, oil prices, and environmental regulations. Selected the Top CDP3) Company in the Energy & Utilities Sector for Two Consecutive Years KEPCO has submitted Climate Change Report to CDP to share our carbon emission and data with 803 investors worldwide. In 2017, we received ‘Leadership A-’ rating in the energy and utilities sector for the second consecutive year in recognition of our commitment to transparency 1) Bostwick: the partner of Collbran & Bostwick Co. managed Hansung Electric Power as a General Manager. in GHG information disclosure and efforts to 2) ‌Hansung Electric Power: Incorporated on January 26, 1898, with the petition submitted by Kim Du-Seung and Lee Geun-Bae, reduce emissions. which was approved by permission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Industry. 3) ‌CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project): a global council that assesses the carbon emission reduction initiatives of 500 of the world’s largest companies, ranked by market capitalization according to the FT500 Global Index. 06 Overview KEPCO Highlights ‘BIXPO 2017’ Global Electric Power Festival BIXPO 20175), the largest ever global electric power festival was held at the Kimdaejung Convention Center. More than 3,000 professionals and 268 companies from about 40 countries attended the 3rd BIXPO. More than 70,000 people visited BIXPO this year compared to 50,000 visitors in 2016, and more than 190 business meetings were held between companies around the world to discuss exports worth KEPCO Built the Largest FR ESS USD 1.47 billion. KEPCO built the world’s largest FR ESS4). FR ESS is designed to replace the existing frequency regulation system and improve the quality of electric power and cost efficiency. The commercial operation of the 376MW FR ESS is expected to improve the quality and system operation and save about KRW 62 billion from the cost of purchasing electric power each year. Top 100 Great Work Place ‘Trust Management Award’ KEPCO won the Trust Management Award in the public category at the 2017 Great Work Place Award thanks to our efforts to foster respect and trust in our workplace through Happy Work Place, 14 Commandments against Authority, and Lunch Meeting Day. This is the second award we won since 2015. 11 02 05 2018 Won the 31st ‘CIO 100 Awards’ for the Third Consecutive Year KEPCO won the ‘CIO 100 Awards’, one of the world’s most prestigious awards in the field of technology innovation, for the third consecutive year. Thanks to our policy on building energy platforms that support big data and AI (Artificial Rated 1st Class for Public Organization Intelligence) integration which are core technologies in the Anti-corruption Measures Evaluation Fourth Industrial Revolution, guidelines for interoperability technology for prevention of redundant systems and a work KEPCO has achieved the highest rating in the ‘2017 Anti-Corruption Measures process based on this. Evaluation’ since 2012. The Anti-corruption Measures Evaluation’ was introduced by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission in 2002 to evaluate the anti-corruption measures of each organization and improve the level of integrity. KEPCO was recognized for its integrity governance operation as it established ‘Bitgaram Integrity Cluster’ with the resident companies of Bitgaram Innovation City and local governments. In addition, we received the top score in terms of participation in integrity policy and training. 4) FR ESS: Frequency Regulation Energy Storage System 5) BIXPO: Bitgaram International Exposition of Electric Power Technology 07 2018 Sustainability Report KEPCO Profile KEPCO A Smart Energy Creator KEPCO is a market-based public corporation established for the purpose of promoting the development of electric power sources, stabilizing the supply and demand for electricity, and contributing to the development of the national economy. We focus on providing high-quality electric power and customer service, and gain competitive advantages in the global market while leading the future energy industry through innovation. As of 2017, we have supplied power to 23 million households nationwide with annual cumulative sales of 513,223GWh. It is divided into 55.7% for industrial use, 21.7% for general use, 13.3% for residential use and 9.3% for other sectors based on contract type. (As of December 2017, consolidated) KRW 72 trillion Owner’s Capital KEPCO A Smart Energy Creator KRW 182 trillion Total Asset KRW 56 trillion Sales Revenue 513,223GWh Electricity sales volume Corporate Profile Company Name Korea Electric Power Corporation Date of January 26, 1898 establishment Address 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, Korea CEO JongKap KIM Areas of Power resource development, R&D, electric power generation, business transmission, substations, distribution and sale, overseas business, etc. Number of 21,775 (As of August 2018) employees 08 Overview KEPCO Profile Vision & Strategy In response to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and energy transition, we have defined our role as an innovative ‘KEPCO A Smart Energy Creator’ in the global energy industry and are committed to working towards this vision in order to stabilize power supply and contribute to the economic growth of our country. Founding Contributing to the stable supply of electric power and the development of the national economy principle Vision KEPCO A Smart Energy Creator Core values Future Innovation Respect Social Resp. Together Management Creating growth engine Goals Leading energy transition for the future •‌Expand renewable energy and power facilities on •‌Focus on digital-based new energy projects time •‌Drive technological innovation to secure growth •‌Improve reliability of system operation and engines stabilize supply •‌Build an eco-system for innovation and promote •‌Rationalize bill systems and strengthen customerenergy valley oriented service Building foundation for Increasing overseas revenue sustainable growth •‌Create new business opportunities through •‌Secure financial stability and drive business additional nuclear power projects innovation •‌Expand overseas business areas to secure •‌Strengthen EHS management and raise revenue stream awareness of ethical practice •‌Establish an energy cooperation system in •‌Create quality jobs and fulfill social responsibility Northeast Asia 09 2018 Sustainability Report KEPCO Value Chain As we move into the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution where the emphasis is on the importance of intelligence and connectivity, the value chain in the electric power sector is shifting from power generation, transmission, distribution and sales to an integrated business structure that supports convergence between the electric power industry and other industries. In other words, the ‘platform-based’ system. In response to this change, we are implementing a “Business transformation” based on the new value chain and are building a solid foundation to respond to the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. INPUT (As of 2017) Community energy suppliers Independent power producers Financial Capital Companies with Available assets and capital for production Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) Total capital (Consolidated) KRW 72,964,641 million Total assets (Consolidated) KRW 181,788,915 million Human Capital Capability, experience and focus of human resources Number of new employees 1,574 employees (full-time positions) Training cost per employee KRW 1.21 million Intellectual Capital Intangible assets such as brands, patents, know-how, etc. R&D cost KRW 433,994 million Thermal power generation subsidiaries Joint R&D project with small Korea Hydro & nuclear Power Co., Ltd. KRW 4,281 million and medium-sized companies Korea South-East Power Co., Ltd. Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Korea Western Power Co., Ltd. Manufactured Capital Korea Southern Power Co., Ltd . Tangible assets needed for production Korea East·West Power Co., Ltd. (e.g. buildings, equipments) Purchase of electric power 530,932 GWh Establishment and expansion KRW 6,874,290 million of electric power facilities Social Capital Relationship with stakeholders (e.g. customers, local community, suppliers) Korea Power Donation KRW 28,395 million Exchange Purchase from SMEs KRW 6,391,600 million Natural Capital Resource environment, resource, eco-system, etc. Investment in environmental KRW 596,100 million facilities Consumption of raw materials 262,842 ton 10 Overview KEPCO Value Chain Large-scale customers Distribution Customers General customers Substations OUTPUT (As of 2017) Financial Capital Sales (Consolidated) KRW 59,814,862 million Transmission Operating profit (Consolidated) KRW 4,953,152 million Human Capital Training hours per employee 86.4 hours Human resource capable for 2,122 employees driving growth Intellectual Capital Core strategic technologies Group companies and 69 cases (cumulative) invested companies Major patents 35 patents KEPCO E&C KEPCO KPS KEPCO Nuclear Fuel Company Manufactured Capital KEPCO KDN Sales of electric power 513,223 GWh Annual power outage time per household 9.08 minutes Social Capital Volunteer activities hours of 169,207 hours employees Local jobs created in the Energy Valley 7,630 persons Natural Capital Capacity of renewable energy 198 MW Reduction of GHG emission 50,000 ton CO2eq Overseas business 11 Sustainability Management Sound Implementation Corporate of Ethical Governance Management p.14 p.18 Strengthening Stakeholder Risk Engagement Management and Communication p.20 p.22 Materiality Test p.24 KEPCO will make a better future with all its stakeholders. Based on trust, we will communicate closer and create a convenient energy world and open up a brighter future. 2018 Sustainability Report Sound Corporate BoD Operation Composition of the BoD Governance KEPCO’s Board of Directors (BoD) is composed of seven executive directors (standing), including the CEO, and eight non-executive directors (non-standing). Non-executive directors are nominated based on their business experience and expertise to make sure that they can respond to the changing business environment in a flexible and professional manner. The Chairman of the Board is selected from the nonexecutive directors to ensure fair and transparent operation. Status of the BoD (As of August 2018) Classification Name Tenure Expertise & Experience President & CEO JongKap KIM 3 years (2018-2021) Energy and Electricity Controller & Auditor General JungHee LEE 2 years (2018-2020) Law Executive Vice President of HoeChen KIM 2 years (2018-2020) Energy and Electricity Management Support Standing Directors Executive Vice President of Business DongSub KIM 2 years (2018-2020) Energy and Electricity (Executive Directors) Executive Vice President & HyungDuck PARK 2 years (2018-2020) Energy and Electricity Chief Strategy Officer General Manager of Nuclear Power HyunSeung LIM 2 years (2018-2020) Energy and Electricity Business General Manager of Power Grid BongSoo MOON 2 years (2017-2019) Energy and Electricity Economy and Management JiHong KIM 2 years (2016-2018) (Former Professor, KDI School of International Policy and Columbia Business School in the U.S.) Energy and Electricity (Current Chair of Living Sports Committee, Korean Sport & Olympic Committee, ChangJun KIM 2 years (2018-2020) Former Chairman of Korea Electrical Contractors Association and Electrical Committee Member of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Energy and Academic Research BongRyeol YANG 2 years (2018-2020) (Former Vice Foreign Minister of Kwangju Institute of Science and Technology, Ambassador of Malaysia, and Consul General of Houston) Energy and Environment JwaGwan KIM 2 years (2018-2020) (Current Professor, Department of Environmental Engineering, Busan Catholic University and Non-standing Directors Director of Busan Gyeongnam Eco-city Research Institute) (Non-executive Directors) Energy and New Materials YeonGil JEONG 2 years (2018-2020) (Current Professor of Department of New Material Engineering, Changwon University and Energy Policy Advisor of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Finance and Accounting GeumSeon NOH 2 years (2018-2020) (Current CEO, EOS Partners Former Standing Auditor, National Pension Service) Energy and Renewable SeungGuk CHOI 2 years (2018-2020) (Current Director, Solar and Wind Energy Cooperative Former Secretary General, Green Korea and Co-president, Korea NGO’s Energy Network) Win-win Cooperation CheolSu PARK 2 years (2018-2020) (Current Director, Naju Social Economic Network Former Director, Gwangju Jeonnam Happiness Center) * The chairman of the board remains vacant since ChoongYong AHN (Dec 2014 ~ April 2018), and will be appointed in the future. Process for Appointment of Directors Our directors are appointed in accordance with the ‘Act on the Operation of Public Organizations’ and ‘KEPCO Articles of Association’. When appointing the CEO, we nominate candidates through an open nomination process followed by a recommendation by the Executive Nomination Committee, Public Institution Operation Committee, and an annual general meeting (AGM), a request made by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy, and appointment by the President for a three-year term. Executive directors are appointed by the CEO after a resolution at an AGM for a two-year term. The Standing Commissioner is recommended by the Executive Nomination Committee, approved by the Public Institution Operation Committee, requested by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and appointed by the President. Nonexecutive directors are nominated by the Executive Nomination Committee, approved by the Public Institution Operation Committee, and appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, and serve a two-year term. 14 Sustainability Management Sound Corporate Governance Independence of the BoD At KEPCO, we guarantee the independence of the BoD so that the Board can faithfully perform its role of control and balance. When it comes to the candidates for non-executive directors, we conduct a strict review to ensure that the candidates have no special relationship with the company and have no reasons for disqualification as stipulated in the Commercial Act*. Furthermore, we have established regulations to make sure that non-executive directors constitute a majority of the BoD, thus strengthening their decision-making authority. Expertise of the BoD We consider the expertise of our directors in the process of application review in order to ensure that they are fully qualified to serve their roles and fulfill their responsibilities. Even after their appointment, directors take part in training on a regular basis and visit electric power facilities in Korea and other countries to gain insight into our business operation. Additionally, directors are regularly provided with materials on industrial trends and major management issues. Diversity of the BoD To maintain diversity and balance in the BoD structure, we diversify the scope of institutions that nominate candidates. We appoint directors based on their experience and knowledge in various fields including law, economy, media, academia, and labor. In particular, the Executive Nomination Committee manages a pool of female executives as part of our efforts to recruit and recommend more female candidates. Prevention of Conflict of Interest Directors are not allowed to use business opportunities that can benefit the company for their personal or third-party gains without the approval of the board. Under Articles 397 and 398 of the Commercial Act, we manage and oversee conflicts of interest in our business practice. Major reasons for disqualification as a non-executive director pursuant to the Commercial Act (Article 382 of the Commercial Act) •Directors, executive directors, and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company; or directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the past two years •The principal, his/her spouse, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants, in cases where the largest shareholder is a natural person •Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation •The spouses, lineal ascendants, and lineal descendants of directors, auditors, and executive directors •The directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company •Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business relations with the company •Directors, auditors, executive directors, and employees of another company for which directors, executive directors, and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors 15 2018 Sustainability Report Sound Corporate BoD Activities The BoD deliberates on important matters such as management goals and the budget in accordance with Governance the Articles of Incorporation and the BoD regulations. A director who has a special interest with a BoD agenda item is not permitted to vote on that particular item. The minutes written after the conclusion of BoD meetings are disclosed to stakeholders by posting them on our website except for special matters, such as confidential business information. There are various institutional mechanisms in place to ensure that BoD activities are carried out smoothly and dynamically, such as an operational performance assessment system, the publication of a ‘Monthly Brief’ to distribute management information, workshops to reinforce the professionalism of newly appointed non-standing directors, and on-site management support. 2017 BoD Major Resolutions •Establishment of KEPCO Medical Foundation 1st Meeting on Jan. 19, 2017 •Plan for the establishment of ICT Backup Center •Amendment to the Employment Rules, etc. •Limit on the compensation of directors in 2017 2nd Meeting on Feb. 17, 2017 •The 56th General Meeting of Shareholders •2016 Annual Audit Report, etc. •Statement of appropriations of retained earnings for FY2016 3rd Meeting on Mar. 3, 2017 •Guarantee for the change of the photovoltaic project in Colorado, USA 4th Meeting on Mar. 17, 2017 •Composition of the Executive Nomination Committee and review guidelines for the nomination of non-standing directors •Amendment to the Salary and Welfare Management Regulations 5th Meeting on Apr. 21, 2017 •Amendments to the Implementation Rules of the General Supply Terms •Establishment of new business sites 6th Meeting on Jun. 16, 2017 •Internal and External Audit Report Q1 2017 7th Meeting on Jun. 30, 2017 •2017-2021 Financial Management Plan, etc. •Amendment to the Salary and Welfare Management Regulations 8th Meeting on Jul. 21, 2017 •Establishment and investment in a local subsidiary for the Renewable Energy Project Phase II in Guam, USA, etc. •Sponsoring 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics 9th Meeting on Aug. 18, 2017 •2018-2022 Midto Long-term Business Goal •H1 FY2017 Consolidated Financial Results Report 27 •2017 Internal Employee Welfare Financing 10th Meeting on Sep. 15, 2017 •Establishment and investment in SPC for Jeju Hanrim Offshore Wind Power Project Agendas of BoD cases •Audit Report, etc. Decided agenda •Amendment to the Salary and Welfare Management Regulations 11th Meeting on Oct. 20, 2017 10 •Investing in the Hapcheon Lake Floating Photovoltaic Project, etc. •Financing 2017 Rural Community Win-Win Cooperation cases 12th Meeting on Nov. 17, 2017 •Amendment to the New Power Industry Fund Investment Agreement Reported agenda •Payment guarantee for the foreign currency loan for Bylong Australia •Closure of shareholder list for special meeting of shareholders 91.2 th •2018 Budget and R&D Project Plan, etc. 13 Meeting on Dec. 15, 2017 •Management Performance Agreement Participation rate in 14th Meeting on Dec. 28, 2017 •Composition of the Executive Nomination Committee and review guidelines for BoD meetings % the nomination of CEO, etc. 16 Sustainability Management Sound Corporate Governance Operation of BoD Committees There are Audit Committee, Executive Nomination Committee, and Professional Committee within the BoD to promote participation in the management of non-standing directors and strengthen their role of deliberation. Depending on the roles of each committee, the Audit Committee conducts audits on business and accounting, and reports the results to the BoD. The Executive Nomination Committee reviews and nominates directors while the Professional Committee conducts pre-deliberation on important management issues. Status of the subcommittees Name Roles Composition 2017 Performance Conduct audit on work and accounting and report to the BoD Audit 2 Non-standing directors, Held 11 times, ‌Approve the appointment of independent auditor and Committee 1 Standing director 25 cases decided, 14 cases reported conduct audit as stipulated by the laws and the Articles of Incorporation ‌Decision on the nomination process for president, executive audit committee Executive Officer members, and non-executive directors External committee members appointed by Nomination Not held ‌Review and recommendation of candidates for president, executive audit non-standing directors and the BoD Committee committee members, and non-executive directors Held 5 times, 100% participation rate, Management (3 non-standing directors) 20 cases pre-deliberated Professional Pre-deliberation of management issues in specific areas Committee Held 3 times, 100% participation rate, Overseas (2 non-standing directors) 4 cases pre-deliberated 2017 Audit Committee Meeting Decisions and Reports •2017 Annual Audit Plan •Audit Report for the General Meeting of Shareholders •Amendment of Inspection Regulations Enforcement Guidelines •Amendment to the Disciplinary Request Guidelines •Amendment to the Employee Code of Conduct and Guidelines Evaluation and Compensation of the BoD Our CEO establishes a business performance plan (3-year performance goal and indicator implementation plan) based on the management policies and mid-to-long-term business goals and signs an agreement with the government (Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy) on the management goals to be achieved during his or her tenure. Its implementation progress is reviewed by the Performance Appraisal Board for Public Corporations. Executive directors sign a management contract with the CEO on management goals that should be accomplished, and receive incentives based on their performance. They are remunerated under the remuneration limit approved at the AGM. The reappointment of non-executive directors is determined based on performance assessment results. They are also provided with a service allowance based on internal regulations. Compensation of the BoD (Unit: KRW 1,000) Classification Number of Persons Total Compensation Avg. Compensation per Person Registered Director 6 1,044,611 174,102 (excl. Non-executive Directors and Audit Committee Members) Non-executive Director 6 180,000 30,000 (excl. Audit Committee Members) 230,126 76,709 Audit Committee Member 3 243 CEO Compensation rate % Auditor CEO-to-Average Executive Compensation 17 2018 Sustainability Report Implementation Management Approach In order for KEPCO to be sustainable, it is required to implement an ethical management. In particular, as of Ethical a representative public corporation, it is important to establish ethical management vision and standards and execute related activities in order to gain public trust. KEPCO operates a compliance officer and Management implements a variety of sympathy practices. At the same time, KEPCO expands the scope of ethical management to employees, suppliers, and local community. Vision Develop into a trusted and respected KEPCO with integrity 2017 Goal Create and promote integrity business ecosystem and workplace culture Strategy and Establish ethics standards to create social Establish feedback system through action plan values participation-based integrity policy •Prohibit abuse of power and present code of conduct •Motivate participation and promote integrity mindset •Systemize ethics standards and raise awareness through training •Introduce personalized integrity policy and feedback cycle Improve systems for anti-corruption practice Take initiatives for creating integrity ecosystem •Collect ideas for anti-corruption practice from all •Organize Integrity Culture Festival to raise awareness employees in local community •Prevent corruption and change the regulations to •Implement comprehensive integrity policy that applies raise public awareness to suppliers Establishment of Ethical Standards At KEPCO, we have set ethics standards to internalize ethical management. In 2017, we established a new policy to prevent abuse of power between employees and a code of conduct to create values for society, and improve our ethical management system as part of our efforts to strengthen the ethics standards. Complaint-handling and Multi-channel Reporting System We established various reporting channels including voluntary reporting, corruption and on-site reporting center. In order to protect the identity of the reporters, we have outsourced the service to create a 24hour anonymous reporting system. In addition, the complaints received through various channels such as telephone and internet are unified into our internal reporting system and KEPCO Ombudsman was established to review the results of complaints in a fair and transparent manner. Channels for reporting irregularities No. of Complaints Classification Anonymity Report method Note 2015 2016 2017 Internal/Voluntary Identified/ 5 Online Intranet Report anonymous Irregularity Report Center 72 37 56 Anonymous Online Website Reporting Sealed postcards On-site Report Center 1 Anonymous postcard provided Anonymous Report External 95 82 52 Anonymous Online System consignment Total 172 119 109 18 Sustainability Management Implementation of Ethical Management Implementation of Ethical Practice We are striving to grow into a global ethical company by building an ethical management system on the company level. In addition, we engage in various activities to raise awareness and create an integrity workplace culture. Feedback System for Integrity We have established a feedback system to ensure integrity based on voluntary integrity policy and analysis. Promoting Implementation Motivation for integrity mindset of customized participation through training integrity policy Analyze and collect feedback on integrity •Select ‘ethics leaders’ through voting •Regional training program: •Establish ‘integrity evaluation system’ •Identify causes of corruption through 19,342 participants for executive officers Organize integrity employee feedbacks •Training programs for suppliers: •Introduce ‘Integrity office policy feedback •Collect ideas for integrity practice for 2,507 participants certification’ reward system system review by all employees •Online integrity training: •Organize ‘Integrity Policy Committee’ •Implement integrity practice mileage 18,796 participants •Measure and evaluate work process program compliance for customers Improved Integrity & Anti-corruption System At KEPCO, we are committed to improving our anti-corruption and prevention performance. In 2017, we collected ideas from employees for the improvement of our anti-corruption practice and implemented 1 21 ideas out of 59. In addition, we established and strengthened our disciplinary measures against sexual harassment, drunk driving, and security breaches in addition to changing our policies on special counseling system and position and job operation standards for circulation. Furthermore, we mandated a report to Grade protect the identity of reporters and prevent retaliatory actions and unfair treatment against reporters. Spreading Integrity Mindset Result of 2017 Anti-Corruption Policy Evaluation In order to raise awareness of our employees in integrity as well as anti-corruption, we introduced the by Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission “KEPCO Certification System for Integrity” in 2017 at our regional headquarters where no corruption has occurred for a certain period of time. The Chungbuk Regional Headquarters was selected as the first “KEPCO with Integrity”, and it has further strengthened its awareness of integrity mindset. BUSINESS CASE Building Eco-system for Integrity At KEPCO, we raise awareness of integrity culture in and outside the company by building an ecosystem for integrity with our employees, our integrity partners (suppliers) and citizens. Spreading Integrity Culture Activities Key Performance Held Bitgaram Integrity Culture Festival by organizing Integrity Cluster in Gwangju Jeonnam Participated in by 15,000 people, 18 organizations from Gwangju, Jeonnam-do and (June 2017). offices of education. Established ‘Voluntary Property Registration System’ for senior executive officers. Senior executive officers declared their commitment for anti-corruption and integrity. Raised awareness for integrity culture celebrating one-year anniversary of Carried out simulated violation report training and awareness and behavior analysis, ‘Improper Solicitation and Graft Act’. and disclosed violations. Introduced ‘Day of Integrity’ and ‘Anti-Graft Law Self Evaluation System’ on a monthly basis. Introduced cartoons, essays and books on integrity. Introduced ‘Partner Certification for Integrity Compliance’ for suppliers. Selected and rewarded top 5 suppliers and provided incentives for integrity. 19 2018 Sustainability Report Strengthening Preemptive Risk Management Risk Management At KEPCO, we have established a proactive risk management system to manage risks in the course of our business operation. In particular, we are building a foundation for sustainable growth by identifying areas of improvement, focusing corporate-wide resources and establishing a financial and non-financial risk management system. Financial Risk Management To take a proactive approach to risk management, we are monitoring corporate-wide financial risks and establishing a response system. Meanwhile, we have expanded the scope of management and increased 1) Consisting ‌ of two parts and nine areas Financial Risk the expertise of the Financial Improvement Committee1) to ensure financial stability. In 2017, we included Management Part (Market, Charge, Finance, Profit & Loss, Investment Risks) and Debt Reduction Part (Business outside experts (professors of business management and finance) in the committee to improve the Restructuring, Asset Sale, Cost Saving, Profit Generation) expertise and reviewed financial issues such as billing system and overseas project strengthening its role – ‌‌working on financial risk response and reviewing debt reduction performance. as a control tower. Financial Improvement Committee Securing Financial Stability KEPCO organized a ‘Financial Risk Emergency Response Committee’ to overcome financial crisis caused by increases in •‌Operate at all times (quarterly) purchase cost and slow sales growth and manage risks proactively. •‌Risk performance management, response to financial affairs Financial Crisis Response Committee Establish implementation plans for each area (management efficiency, system improvement, business recalibration) and monitor progress on a regular basis Financial Crisis Response Committee •Organize T/F to focus corporate-wide resources. •‌Operate in response to financial crisis Strengthen implementation by defining 3 areas and 8 sub-areas and assign roles. •‌Implement emergency response measures •Establish contingency plans for each crisis situation to expedite the response process. against financial crisis Set to 1-5 stage and implement the system by sales profit level. Periodical Monitoring of Risk Factors At KEPCO, we identify and monitor KRI (Key Risk Indicators) including exchange rates, oil prices, bituminous coal prices, SMP, sales decline, revenue cost ratio, debt ratio, and ROA (Return On Asset). Meanwhile, the results of KRI monitoring are shared through the FRM (Financial Risk Management) portal. Risk Factor Monitoring Process Risk Factor Monitoring Risk Factor Impact Analysis Determine Level of Risk Response Implement Response Scenario Corporate Planning Department and each Monitor financial risk factors through Financial Improvement Committee makes team conducts analysis of impact Each team responds immediately. FRM portal. decisions on financial risk factors. on a quarterly or as-needed basis. 20 Sustainability Management Strengthening Risk Management Response to Risks by Area Classification Risk Analysis Response Improvement Activities by Key Risk Factor Purchase cost increased due to changing market •Improve market system in relation to environmental cost: RPS1), stabilize emission cost Market Risk conditions (e.g. rising fuel price and policy cost) •Improve generation cost settlement standards: settlement adjustment factor, VC2), etc •Stabilize industrial rates: take into account supply cost and demand management Rate system needs to be adjusted in response to the Rate Risk •Build a foundation for introducing purchase cost coordination: analyze overseas government’s energy policy operations, consulting, etc •Strengthen financial management: customize new financial resources, procurement at Volatility of financial market increased due to rising a fixed rate Financial Risk interest rate in the U.S. and strong KRW •Foreign exchange risk management: establish proactive response system, adjust foreign currency finance limit, etc Profit & Profit and loss fluctuates due to oil price and •Deal with financial risks by establishing guidelines for managing department account Loss Risk exchange rate Domestic/ Domestic/overseas investment environment continues Overseas •Change investment strategies: improve the ROI, review facility plan, etc Investment Risk to change Strategy Risk Internal and external management environment changes •Present sustainability strategy and policy for innovation and growth 1) RPS: Renewable Portfolio Standard 2) VC: Vesting Contract Non-financial Risk Management Our BCM3) system is designed to respond effectively to disasters such as fires and earthquakes while strengthening our response process at the global level. Since the establishment of the BCM System in October 2016, we have conducted verification of our headquarters and Gwangju Jeonnam Office while planning to expand the system at a corporate-wide level by 2019 through ISO22301 in March 2017. Meanwhile, we are monitoring risks and sharing the results in real time through our risk management portal and managing risks in advance by dividing risk factors into four areas including Environment, Disaster·interruption, Promotion and Conflict. Furthermore, we have designated teams by risk type and established risk management manuals while responding to identified risks through 5-step process. Areas of Risk Management △ BCM Certificate Areas Risk Type •Intensifying climate change Environment •Increasing demand to reduce particulate matter •Interruption of power supply due to power grid failure •Interruption of power supply due to cyber attack Disaster and interruption •‌Interruption of power supply and outbreak of infectious disease due to disaster and earthquakes •PR activities in response to power crisis Promotion •Damage to corporate reputation due to corruption related to employees •Civil complaints on transmission and distribution facilities Conflict with stakeholders 3) •Interruption of power supply due to labor-management conflict BCM: Business Continuity Management 21 2018 Sustainability Report Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Engagement and At KEPCO, we established ‘Stakeholder Engagement Policy’ with the aim to protect the rights and interests of our stakeholders and create sustainable values in 2016. We divided our stakeholders into ten Communication groups, including Citizens/Customers, Local Communities, Shareholders, Government/National Assembly, Media, Academia/Experts, Domestic Partners, Overseas Partners, Employees, and Labor Union and maintain effective communication channels based on the areas of interest of each group. Communication with Stakeholder Communication Stakeholders Major interest Channel •‌Communication through SNS •‌Benefits •Service Portal Operation Citizens/Customers •‌Public opinions •‌Contest for service ideas, sales innovation ideas, etc. Pursue two-way communication •‌Mutual growth •Location Selection Committee Local Communities •‌CSR •Public Hearing •IR Presentation •‌Corporate value Shareholders •‌Sustainable growth •General Meeting of Shareholders •Disclosure External Government/ •‌Political directions Enhance the National Assembly •‌Public interest •‌Presentation on the state understanding of of business major issues •‌Development of energy •Forum/seminar Academia/Experts industry •Open VOC activities •‌Win-win growth •‌Presentations and seminars for Domestic Partners •‌Technological support representatives •Surveys, etc. Share vision and information •‌Joint project undertaking •Regular meeting Overseas Partners •‌Cooperation for export •Benchmarking •‌Management meeting, •Sustainable growth vision portal Employees •Pride •‌President meeting, labor council meeting Internal Align the vision with strategies based on •Labor council meeting mutual trust •‌Improving union Labor Union members’ rights •Collective bargaining •Workshop 22 Sustainability Management Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Stakeholder Communication Results of the stakeholder communication are shared with the management through a weekly meeting that is held to share information on pending issues with the management. Also, they are reported to the BoD every quarter to continually monitor the issue resolution status and reflect feedback. For issues that have top-level importance and urgency in relation to the electric power business, such as the construction of a power transmission facility and electricity supply & demand crisis in summer and winter, the CEO makes field visits to share opinions with stakeholders on pending issues. By doing so, we are setting ways to resolve issues through cooperation. Directions to share core values Communication and Response •Collected and developed ideas for service innovation Identify and reflect needs on time to Ideas on service (343 ideas) and sales innovation (619 ideas) build a foundation for business •‌Identified the underprivileged in energy welfare through metermen and call center Establish a system to handle •‌Developed a new model for communication and conflict resolution (e.g. residents’ participation in complaints and conflict, and to selection of location) promote participation for local private •‌Established a life cycle conflict management system from prevention to follow-up and related organizations •‌Conducted survey on the acceptance to power facilities for policy making from the customers’ perspective Share information proactively and •Organized on-site IR for key shareholders manage market sentiment Build a foundation for support, •Responded to government’s management assessment and audit on public affairs policy and legislation environment Form consensus on ‘changes •Organized Electricity Journal Demand Forum (reporters specializing in energy sector) in industry’ and create positive •Organized the Review Committee for Transition of Terms and Council of Labor-Management Experts relationships •Held a seminar with outside experts on the introduction of the power purchase cost coordination system •Collected feedback from SMEs and selected improvement measures Create shared economy ecosystem by •Developed relocation support system in cooperation with Energy Valley and sharing information and cooperating local governments •Organized Global Mutual Growth Expo Strengthen competitive advantages •‌Held BIXPO 2017 (Bitgaram International Expo of Electric Power Technology) Provided consultation for export and human resource network (USD 1.47 billion) and signed export contract (USD 11.26 million) •Conducted surveys on awareness of vision and employee satisfaction Align vision and management strategy •Established online forum on the intranet based on mutual trust between labor •Organized an on-site seminar (e.g. business sites damaged by earthquake) and management •Held the female leadership workshop ‘Take a CHANCE’ Promote communication based on •Labor Council Meeting: Headquarters and 21 first-tier business sites mutual trust •Labor Meeting: 230 second-tier business sites 23 2018 Sustainability Report Materiality Test Materiality Test and Topic Selection At KEPCO, we identify material topics through internal and external stakeholder surveys, international standards analysis, benchmarking of the electrical power industry, and media research to ensure sustainable practice. We report the activities, performance, and plan for the future with a focus on material topics identified through in-depth analysis. Based on the economic, environmental, and social impacts on our overall business operation and stakeholders’ decision-making, we create a pool of 34 topics through Creating a Pool international standards analysis, global benchmarking, internal data, stakeholder of Topics Step 1 interviews, and media research. In order to prioritize a potential pool of topics, we carry out surveys among our customers, employees, and suppliers. Based on the results as well as business Prioritizing impact and stakeholders’ interest, we identify the level of sustainability in our Topics practice and conduct a materiality test. Step 2 Stakeholder Survey Overview •Date: Wednesday, May 23 Tuesday, May 29, 2018 •Respondents: c ustomers, employees, suppliers, local community, sustainability experts, etc. •Results: 1,560 people responded to the survey Business Impacts Review of internal materials including strategy, newsletters, documents, etc. Materiality ‌Use the result of benchmarking in the power and energy industries: Identify Test common issues in the industry including response to climate change, strengthening Step 3 safety and health, development of renewable energy, R&D innovation, minimizing environmental impact ‌Review of UN Global Compact, GRI Standards, DJSI, and ISO26000 supported by the company Stakeholders’ Interests ‌Use the surveys among key stakeholders including customers, suppliers, local community, NGO, shareholders, and government ‌Use the result of 4,667 Media article analysis: Mostly articles such as ‘Promotion of Social Contribution by Electric Power Industry’, ‘Acceleration of Expansion into the World Market and Expansion of Revenue’, and ‘Building a Win-win Growth Ecosystem’ 24 Sustainability Management Materiality Test Based on the economic, environmental and social indicators defined by the GRI Standards, we identified 10 material topics which were rated ‘High’. The Selection of Topics material topics were selected in accordance with their significance, scope, and Report aspects, boundaries, reporting period and limit. In addition, the topic boundary Step 4 was set in consideration of the scope of organizational impact, survey results, due diligence on human rights, and value chain. Materiality Map 1 Material Topics Stakeholders’ interests Making social contribution Management Topics 3 based on power business Boosting local economy 4 2 Ethical management and Securing growth engine through R&D and anti-corruption system technological innovation 5 6 Stable power supply and 8 Generating revenue based improved acceptance of facilities Respect for diversity and on new energy business and human rights leading the related industries 7 Proactive disaster response 14 9 system Accelerating global market and Diversifying business portfolio with 10 expanding profits the focus on renewable energy Strengthening leadership in response to climate change  Construction and operation of electric power facilities considering environment 15  Pursuing work and life balance 11 Strengthen sales service by providing specialized and customized services for each customer Strengthening employee capacity and nurturing talent ● Common ● Economy ● Environment ● Society Business Impacts No Material Topics GRI Topic Areas of Impact Page 1 Making social contribution based on power business GRI 413: Local Community Finance Operation Reputation p.67 2 Securing growth engine through R&D and technological EU 8: Research and Development Finance Operation Reputation p.32, 33 innovation Boosting local economy (e.g. successful completion of GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 3 Finance Operation Reputation p.69 Energy Valley) GRI 204: Purchasing practices 4 Ethical management and anti-corruption system GRI 205: Anti-corruption Finance Operation Reputation p.18, 19 EU 23: Access 5 Stable power supply and improved acceptance of facilities Finance Operation Reputation p.35, 36, 59 EU 24: Provision of Information Generating revenue based on new energy business and 6 Finance Operation Reputation p.29~32 leading the related industries GRI 403: O ccupational Health and Safety 7 Proactive disaster response system Finance Operation Reputation p.54, 55, 83 EU 16, 18: Employment 8 Respect for diversity and human rights GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Finance Operation Reputation p.56, 57 Diversifying business portfolio with the focus on renewable 9 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Finance Operation Reputation p.47 energy GRI 305: Emission 10 Strengthening leadership in response to climate change Finance Operation Reputation p.43, 81 EU 5: Organizational profile 25 Sustainability Topics Topic 1. Topic 2. Creating Strengthening New Energy Energy Market Ecosystem Leadership p.28 p.34 Topic 3. Topic 4. Responding to Creating Climate Employee-friendly Change Workplace Culture p.42 p.48 Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value p.58 KEPCO has selected material topics for sustainability management and is actively implementing related activities. 2018 Sustainability Report Topic 1 Creating New Energy Ecosystem Management Approach As energy transition and the Fourth Industrial Revolution emerge as part of the global agenda, our role as an electrical power corporation has become more important than ever. At KEPCO, we are building a foundation for Digital Utility based on innovative technology and new convergence energy industries. We are leading the new paradigm of the Fourth Industrial Revolution by accelerating the development of digital business model and technology. Risk Opportunity •Change of power generation, •Extensive experience in the new transmission/distribution and sales energy industries (e.g. renewable structure to platform-based system energy, ESS, smart grid) (diversified competitions) •Increased government support in the •Acceleration of digitization and new industries (e.g. innovation area) technological innovation of Fourth •Dramatic growth of new technology Industrial Revolution in AI and IoT of -based market (e.g. AI, IoT) the energy sectors Key Performance Annual R&D Built the world’s largest AMIs project cost frequency regulation ESS KRW 433,994million 376MW At 5.2million households (accu.) 28 Sustainability Topics Topic 1. Creating New Energy Ecosystem Building Digital Utility System Digital KEPCO for the Future Organizational Operation for KEPCO 4.0 In pursuit of digital transformation in our business area, infrastructure, To lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the electric power sectors, service and overall process based on energy solution and platform, we established ‘Digital Transformation Office’ and are implementing we are transforming ourselves as ‘Digital KEPCO’ in response to the Digital KEPCO Strategies. Based this organization, we are carrying out emergence of disruptive technological innovation and the Fourth the establishment and coordination of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Industrial Revolution in order to drive our nation’s economic growth. Policies in the power energy sector while improving the legal system, To this end, we have established the concept of ‘KEPCO 4.0’ as the responding to foreign policies, developing ICT convergence business digital utility that leads to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and defined model, and operating the 7 core technology pilot projects and Big the vision for digital revolution. Through this, we will take a proactive Alliance. We are also working on our response to industrial transportation approach to the changing market environment and gain competitive through corporate-wide coordination and ‘Future Innovation T/F’ based advantages in the global market through technological innovation and on bottom-up communication. enhancement of business competency. Digital Transformation Strategy Vision Global Energy Solution Provider Goal Secure New Business Leadership Improved Efficiency and Flexibility Establish Agile and Flexible Organization 30% Growth in New Business Sales in Power System Reliable Management based on by 2030 30% in Renewable Energy Ratio by 2030 Independent Unit Four Digital Business Model Digital Service Digital Infrastructure Digital Competency/Process Strategy Tasks •Renewable energy business •Customer-oriented marketing •Power network connection •Securing key personnel (supply) system & intelligence •Strong and agile organization •Platform business (network) •Development of customized •Building energy platform •Innovation technology eco•Solution business (sales, BTM) rate system •Smart City system •Export business (overseas) •Intelligent customer-experience •Process and culture innovation management Expansion of convergence-type Build a new electric Establish a management Increase customer loyalty business model power grid system system based on future insight BUSINESS CASE KEPCO 4.0 Roadmap We established digital-based energy platform roadmap and are implementing strategies. 2020~ ~2019 Transformation through 2017~ Growth through Core Creation of New BM Platform/Infrastructure-based Technology Development Foundation Digital Transformation & Convergence New Business Model Public Benefits & Eco-System •‌Innovation of Power System •‌KEPCO ‘Energy Platform’ •‌Smart & Safe Home·City •‌Advanced Next-generation Energy •‌Data Marketer & Solution Provider •‌Power Big Data Shared as Resource Management System •‌Development of Convergence •‌Co-evolution & Big Alliance •‌Securing 7 Core Technologies (e.g. IoT, AI) Business Model 29 2018 Sustainability Report Development of Digital Business Model Clean and Smart Infrastructure In particular, frequency regulation ESS is able to stabilize generator output and greatly reduce annual cost by replacing the frequency Building Battery-Charging Infrastructure for Electric Vehicles reserve power of the existing coal generator with the ESS. We Since 2009, we have contributed to the distribution of electric vehicles succeeded in commercial operation of 376MW frequency regulation ESS, by building charging stations. Since 2016, we have built various types the largest capacity in the world, contributing to the total ESS exports of of charging stations in connection with shopping malls and residential KRW1.2 trillion by Korean companies in 2014-2017. We plan to build the areas. In 2017, we installed 500 public quick chargers in supermarkets ecosystem for the ESS industry by expanding the scope of its application and train stations while actively engaging in electric vehicle charging to stabilize renewable energy output and peak reduction while driving programs in apartments nationwide. We built a foundation for export of frequency regulation ESS based on our experience in the commercialization through payment service and open charging domestic market. infrastructure and will add 3,000 quick chargers by 2022. Smart Grid Project 1) Building the AMI Distribution Project The Smart Grid is a next-generation power grid that provides highBy building AMI, we can improve the accuracy of our demand quality power services by optimizing and upgrading the power grid forecast and efficiency in load management through real-time power through convergence of power and ICT technologies while maximizing consumption and time-based charge information to customers. As of energy efficiency. From 2009 to 2013, we joined the project in five the end of December 2017, we had installed AMI for approximately key areas including transmission/distribution, consumer, transportation, 5.2 million households and expect to install AMI for all 22.5 million renewable energy and electrical power service within the Jeju Smart Grid households. In addition, we will continue to expand intelligent services Demonstration Complex, developed business models and successfully based on AMI, such as peak load reduction through demand response completed the standardization process. Based on the technology and through transformer load management and voltage monitoring, and experience we gained from the project, we formed a consortium to improvement of electricity quality for suppliers. promote the participation in government-funded ‘Smart Grid Diffusion Project’ with business models such as AMI-based power service and ESS2) Project energy consulting service. The business model will be developed based ESS, which stores electric power and supplies it when needed, can on the needs of each region with local governments by 2018. be utilized in various fields such as demand management, expansion 1) AMI: Advanced Metering Infrastructure of renewable energy, improvement of electric quality, and frequency 2) ESS: Energy Storage System regulation. BUSINESS CASE We are acquiring talents to lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution using the GTA (Global Target Acquisition) Tool. Acquisition of Global Talents •Introduce recruitment process specializing in selection of talents Development of recruitment tool Acquisition of •Target recruiting talents with strong job performance Talents •Organize a job presentation in the U.S. for the first time for public corporations Global Target Recruiting •Research overseas HR market and build a network for recruitment Building a pool of talents •Build a pool of talents specializing in rare languages and data science, etc. 30 Sustainability Topics Topic 1. Creating New Energy Ecosystem Energy Efficiency Big Data and IoT Improving Energy Efficiency through ESCO3) Big Data At KEPCO, we are committed to distributing high-efficiency facilities In September 2016, we established ‘Power Big Data Center’ to promote and improving energy efficiency. In June 2016, we established an public information about electrical power in the private sector and new independent corporation and invested KRW 150 billion in the ESCO energy industries. The center provides 10 Power Statistics including project. In 2017, we signed an MOU with Samsung Electronics for the ‘power usage by contract type’ and 6 Power Information Analysis development of a peak management pilot project and energy IoT Reports including ‘national power usage trend over 10 years’. In addition, (Internet of Things) joint project. 129 items of data such as ‘daily demand forecast’ are provided. Distribution of K-EMS4) In 2017, we established a procedure to provide power data outside the As of 2017, we installed K-EMS (KEPCO-Energy Management System) company and provide customized data upon request by the private in 120 offices, which was recognized for its technological excellence sector. We plan to create an ecosystem for mutual growth in the energy by the ISGAN and GSGF in 2015. In addition, we carried out K-EMSindustries throughthe participation of various businesses and consumers based energy efficiency projects in 21 locations including buildings, based on digital energy platforms, such as data standardization, quality production facilities and universities in the private sector such as the improvement, and enhancement of data capacity. Presbyterian University and Theological Seminary. By 2026, we will install an additional 2,000 K-EMS to lead the expansion of energy IoT efficiency market. At KEPCO, we are developing a comprehensive management system using IoT (Internet of Things) to build a smart access control system, Smart City power facility surveillance and social safety net service. We are leading At KEPCO, we are establishing and promoting a smart city development the ‘Energy Internet’ project by installing IoT terminals and sensors in model with a focus on energy. In 2018, we are building a foundation Jeonju (9 million units), and nationwide IoT infrastructure development for new growth engines in line with the government’s smart city for collecting power data. development strategy and nationwide development based on the energy model demonstration of Naju Bitgaram Innovation City. 3) ESCO: Energy Service Company 4) K-EMS: KEPCO Energy Management System Acquisition and Development of Talents for New Energy Business We are developing human resources to expedite the commercialization of 10 Strategic Growth Engine Technologies to take initiatives in new energy business. As a result, we trained 888 people through 103 programs and will continue our talent development programs in line with midto long-term strategies. Building and Operating Mid-to-Long-term HR Development System Step 1. New ‌ Business Basic/Entry Level (27 Programs): SG, big data, Basic Superconductivity, Development of Understanding Power Market, etc. Talents Training System Step 2. New ‌ Business Practice (41 Programs): Smart City, HVDC, Superconductivity Technology, Renewable Energy, etc. Step 3. New Business Advanced (35 Programs): ESS, big data Expert, R&D Expert, etc. •‌New Business Expert (429 employees): HR Development for Energy Efficiency (e.g. New Business Model, HVDC) •Policy Expert (192 employees): New Market Design Expertise (e.g. Energy Policy, Renewable PPA) HR Development •Strategic Technology R&D Expert (267 employees): Convergence Technology Expertise (e.g. Offshore Wind Power, New Transmission Technology) 31 2018 Sustainability Report Forming New Energy Industry Fund At KEPCO, we raised KRW 500 billion for New Power Industry Fund R&D expenses and R&D/sales for the year ratio for power venture startups, new industrial development, and overseas R&D expenses (Unit: KRW million) projects in 2016 to promote the development of new energy industries R&D expenditure/sales for the year ration (Unit: %) and create an ecosystem for sustainable growth. In addition, we operated a sub-fund of KRW 156.5 billion to support venture startups and small and medium-sized companies as part of our digital 0.74 0.72 infrastructure and new project development strategy. 0.34 Development of Core Technologies In response to the 10 Core Strategic Technologies and the Fourth 446,609 433,994 200,674 Industrial Revolution, we developed the KEPCO 4.0 Core Technology 2015 2016 2017 as a new growth engine for the future. We will continue to acquire core technologies and strengthen our competitive advantages in the global market through R&D investment. 10 Core Strategic Technologies Common platform and Development of ESS operation Energy Platform Grid-ESS interoperability technology and secondary battery Fourth Renewable Next-generation GW-grade offshore wind power Industrial Smart Energy City Smart city operation platform complex Energy Wind Power Revolution Facility analysis and failure High Efficiency Photovoltaic resource analysis Digital Power Plant forecast Solar Energy and complex design International grid-connected Carbon Capture and Post-combustion CO2 capture and Super Grid Response technology Resourcification resourcification Transformation to Climate of Power Grid Active Distribution Next-generation intelligent Clean Convergence Change IGSS/IGFC1) power generation Grid distribution power grid Power Generation * ‌Rolling out the core strategic technology roadmap in line with business environment and technology trends 1) IGSS : Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle IGFC: Integrated Gasification Fuel Cell Cycle Major technologies of KEPCO 4.0 Development of core Sensor IoT Cloud Big data AI Robot technologies •Develop 33 sensors •Acquire the international •Transform the entire •Establish a KEPCO big •Develop basic AI •Develop unmanned for power generation, standard for the inwork process into a data platform technologies including robots and drones to transmission, substations, Strategies house developed cloud system •Build infrastructure to status diagnostics monitor and inspect and distribution to secure •Develop the energy protocol •Identify new business store and analyze big •Develop AI machine electric power facilities technologies harvesting technology •Build infrastructure for models base on the data learning technologies •Become the first public IoT cloud corporation to develop to secure sources for the sensors AI-based chatbots 32 Sustainability Topics Topic 1. Creating New Energy Ecosystem BUSINESS STORY Promoting Open Innovation for Digital Transformation Open and Cooperative R&D At KEPCO, we are focusing on strengthening our R&D portfolio through open innovation and R&D promotion using collective intelligence to secure core technologies and respond to technological innovation such as industrial convergence in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. We are creating synergistic effect through technological partnership in the renewable energy and convergence sectors and securing growth engines for the future. Internal Research Projects •‌Development of 10 Core Strategic Technologies based on external expertise: ‌ Energy platform, Active distribution, Grid-ESS, etc. Open R&D ‌ •‌Strengthened the implementation system (e.g. Task Planning Committee operation and → A‌ cquisition of Open/ establishment of procedures). Convergence-based •Organized teams for open R&D performance for ongoing research management. Leading Technology Task 1 Task 2 Task 3 •Development of sea water ‌ •Manufacturing polyurethane •Spatial cognitive power zone unit cell based on CO2 inspection drone •Recycling photovoltaic •Substation monitoring and •Remote wireless power modules inspection robot, etc. transmission, etc. International Joint Research ‌ •Signed R&D MOU with leading overseas organizations and secured a global R&D base (EPRI, etc). → ‌Global Leading Technology •Standardized the process for R&D projects, scope, contract signing and distribution of profit. Catch-Up Fraunhoper (Germany) EPRI (US) ARM (UK) •Leading technologies in •Technological innovation •Smart Meter Gateway-based renewable energy sectors for power generation and open AMI service platform •Ceramic high-temperature transmission/distribution sensor, etc. •Operational efficiency technology Energy Based Universities ‌ •Built a cluster of energy base universities Kyung Hee Univ. → A‌ cquisition of Core to promote basic research (e.g. Fourth Myongji Univ. Sungkyunkwan Univ. Hongik Univ. Resource Technologies Industrial Technologies) Inha Univ. Korea Polytechnic Univ. IoT ‌Improved the quality of technology based ICT on intensive research on specific basic technology group KAIST Chungnam National Univ. Selected 24 universities in 5 regions AI New & Korea Univ. Yonsei Univ. Renewable Power Generation New Changwon National Univ. Chonnam Univ. System Univ. of Ulsan Chonbuk National Univ. Jeju National Univ. 33 2018 Sustainability Report Topic 2 Strengthening Energy Market Leadership Management Approach At KEPCO, we are committed to gaining competitive advantages for our fundamental business model which is supplying electric power and securing growth engines for the future by expanding our presence in the global market. We will continue to strengthen our leadership in the global energy market by creating sustainable values. Risk Opportunity •Increase in uncertainty of our business •Stabilize power supply based operation due to volatile oil prices and on innovative systems and changes in the international situation technologies in the era of the • ‌Emergence of new competition Fourth Industrial Revolution due to the breakdown of industry •Expand global market and increase boundaries business opportunities based on •Increase in possibility of supply crisis strong new project reference due to natural disasters and •Enhance cyber security and safety cyber-terrorism management by taking advantage of new technologies Key Performance Annual power outage Transmission/ Overseas power capacity time per household distribution loss rate (Based on shareholding ratio) 9.08 minutes 3.57% 8,388MW 34 Sustainability Topics Topic 2. Strengthening Energy Market Leadership Stable Power Supply Stable and Efficient Power Supply & Establishment of Global Energy Leadership Customer-oriented Power Overseas Business Objectives Stable Power Supply High-Quality Power Service Facilities Competency •‌Build a proactive disaster •‌Lead intelligent technology •‌Build society-and-eco-friendly •‌Establish global business Action Plans response system development and transition to substations strategies •‌Develop a demand and supply digital power grid •‌Underground transmission and •‌Create revenues through management system based on •‌Provide in-house power facility distribution projects diversification of business the Fourth Industrial Revolution management service System of achieving supply target At KEPCO, we establish annual business goals and detailed plans to stabilize power supply and improve service for 22.94 million households. In addition to supplying high-quality electricity through efficiency power management using cutting-edge analysis systems, we managed to simplify the electricity request process and reduce supply time as part of service experience innovation. At KEPCO, we will establish a dedicated team of specialists for service specialization in each regional office and improve our billing system in order to provide customer-oriented sales and charge systems and supply power in a more stable and efficient manner. Proactive Disaster Response System Development of Fourth Industrial Revolution Technologybased SMART Demand Management System At KEPCO, we take a proactive approach in our disaster response system to increase safety in our power facilities. In order to minimize damage At KEPCO, we applied smart technology and intelligence in our demand to our facilities and expedite the response process, we introduced ICTmanagement system based on new energy technology for more stable based technology (e.g. big data, artificial intelligence) in our disaster demand management. In 2017, we developed the IoT-based ‘ESS Night damage forecast system in 2017. As part of our efforts to improve the Peak Power Reduction Air Conditioning Systems’ and are planning response to disaster caused by climate change, we established climate to distribute 12,000 ESS-based air-conditioning facilities by 2022 to change policies with an aim to implement them by 2020. In addition, create 236MW power peek shaving effect. We are also developing we expanded the regional Disaster Control Center and established new overseas markets through demand management and operation comprehensive measures to prevent damage caused by earthquakes techniques based on the know-how we have gained over the years. and supply power in a stable manner. Furthermore, we expanded our (Unit: time) global standard BCM (Business Continuity Management) to strengthen our corporate-wide response to disasters. General Heating & ESS Night Peak Power Reduction Air-conditioning Systems Heating & Air-conditioning Systems Summer ICT-based Disaster Damage Forecast System Transfer load to night time Reduce the peak (95%) Using Using electricity electricity supplied by KEPCO supplied by KEPCO Using electricity supplied by KEPCO Big Data in Disaster AI-based Forecast and Response (ESS charged) 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 Management Technology to Disaster 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 Winter Load distribution and peak Transfer load to night time •Real-time disaster information •Data correlation analysis •Scale of failure by facility shaving by charging to ESS at night Reduce the peak (95%) (e.g. typhoon, heavy rain) and machine learning and number of households (23:00-09:00) and discharging at •Record of damage to power (using ANN)1) with power failure Using the peak load times electricity facilities •Areas of improvement for supplied by power facilities (cooling 14:00-17:00 / heating KEPCO Using electricity 10:00-12:00, 17:00-18:00 supplied by KEPCO (ESS charged) 1) ANN: Artificial Neural Network 1 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 35 2018 Sustainability Report High-quality Power Service Leading Intelligent Technology and Digitization of Power Grid Power Facilities Management Service in the Customers’ Premises To meet the expectations of the citizens, we are expanding our supply of high-quality power based on power service. In October 2017, we In 2017, in order to prevent accidents caused by electric power facilities built a test-bed with real-time analysis based on big data to analyze within the customer’s premises such as parking lots, we relocated 139 the transmission/distribution lines and manage results. By doing so, we units of power facilities, provided emergency recovery manuals, and changed the system to support online analysis of 7 types of sensors reserved more space for passage. In addition, we provided 24-hour including tower inclination to expedite the process of taking prevention remote load monitoring and internal transformer thermal imaging measures. Furthermore, in December, we developed a new process for analysis of customers’ power reception facilities for 2,638 apartment a digitization and intelligence-based HVDC contact failure prevention buildings free of charge to prevent power failure and ensure the safety system for ground lines to reduce the project costs and improve the of people and property. quality of our service. 1) HVD: High Voltage Direct Current Improvement Performance 1 st •Developed an operating system for ‘existing-digital Ranked for 3 consecutive years New digitization facilities’ (information sharing) process ‌Expect to save KRW 8.3 billion per year by World Bank Corporate Environmental Evaluation reusing existing facilities Power Supply Category (2014-2017) •Analyzed 7 types of sensor online before failure Real-time (tower inclination) transmission line •Integrate and manage analysis results → analysis big data-based intelligence Intelligence-based •Sound data → AI analysis → Equipment contact HVDC1) contact risk analysis failure prevention •Real-time monitoring → prevention of contact system for ground failure lines BUSINESS CASE ISO 55001 Asset Management System Certification As a result of our high-quality service operation and asset management system for power facilities, we were certified for ‘ISO 55001 Asset Management System2) ’ in January 2018. We were recognized for our efficiency in managing transmission facilities, investment plans, and standards in operation, maintenance and disposal process. In the future, we will establish systematic preventive maintenance activities for major facilities based on the asset management system, and extend the life of the facilities and reduce costs through superior management process. 2) A global management standard operated by the ISO (International Organization for Standardization) with the aim to reduce cost and improve productivity through optimized management during the entire lifecycle of assets 36 Sustainability Topics Topic 2. Strengthening Energy Market Leadership Customer-centered Power Facilities Society and Eco-friendly Substations Undergrounding of Transmission and Distribution Lines At KEPCO, we are building ‘Open to Residents’, ‘Urban-friendly’ and We are expanding the eco-friendly electric power infrastructure ‘Eco-park’ substations for mutual growth with the local community. We through underground line projects as we improve the living are making the facilities more resident and environmentally friendly by environment and landscape for people. When building our transmission building parks, trails, and sports facilities and providing access for the and distribution lines, we construct the transmission line considering local community. the residents and the environment, we prioritize the areas for building underground facilities based on their proximity to living environment The ‘Open to Residents’ type substations will include a social welfare such as residential areas and school. In addition, we reduce the center and electric vehicle charging station on the ground while power financial burden on local governments through the 10-year zerofacilities are located underground at the 154kV Dongpyeongtaek interest amortization payment program and the distribution of project Substation. The ‘Urban-friendly’ type substation will be designed with cost payment. Meanwhile, we are continuing our underground line outer walls and outdoor environment in harmony with the surrounding projects with a focus on areas with poor facilities to improve safety areas and located at the 154kV Seochang and Shinpyeong Substations and prevent disasters. while ‘Eco-park’ type substation will be incorporated into the 154kV Danginri Substation. We are committed to transforming substations Undergrounding Rate of Transmission and Distribution Lines into resident-friendly facilities for the local community and sustainable (Unit: %) future. ■ Transmission Lines 17.7 17.1 ■ Distribution Lines 16.6 Overview of Community-Friendly Open Energy Park 11.8 11.3 11.3 Ground: park + sports facilities + EV charging station / Type Underground: power facilities Public hearing, meeting with local government (5 times), Feedback exhibition of model (BIXPO) Demo 154kV Dongpeyongtaek Energy Park in the Godeok International Facilities District 2015 2016 2017 △ New Concept Substation 37 2018 Sustainability Report Strengthening Global Portfolio Global Business Strategy At KEPCO, we are strengthening our overseas business performance through diversification of our business portfolio to maximize profit and minimize risks by focusing on our strengths. In order to optimize our business portfolio, we are focusing on new business opportunities and market development based on our environmental change and internal capacity analysis. Provide Total Energy Solution as a Global Top Player Cash cow thermal power generation The world’s most competitive nuclear using clean technology power plant operation •Target the market with eco-friendly technology (Ultra-Super Critical Pressure, etc.) •Timely completion of UAE Nuclear Power Plant #1 •Support the overseas market entry for domestic EPC companies and •‌Selected as a preliminary operator for Saudi Arabia bidding project commercial banks together (July 2018) •Support the New Diplomatic Nambang/Bukbang Policies •Joint Feasibility Study regarding participation in UK Moorside Project through overseas market expansion New market development for renewable energy Power transmission/distribution projects based on and new energy businesses the world’s best power quality •Take advantage of industrial convergence (e.g. ESS) •Diversify business portfolio (e.g. EPC, consulting) •Develop a new business model for the Fourth Industrial Revolution •Establish a foundation for new project development in emerging markets •Enter developed markets (e.g. US (Guam), Japan (Chitose)) •Localize materials and equipment for mutual growth with domestic suppliers Generating Revenue through Diversification of Global Business Nuclear Power Sector In 2016, we signed the world’s largest investment contract for nuclear Power Generation Sector power plant operation in the UAE and secured KRW 54 trillion in sales At KEPCO, we have made remarkable growth in the global market by over the next 60 years. Demonstrating our unparalleled expertise strengthening our market position in Asia while expanding our presence throughout the entire business operation as well as nuclear power plant in the Middle East, South and Central America and Africa as a large-scale construction. With the aim of completing the first UAE nuclear power Independent Power Producer (IPP). Our major projects include Malaya plant, we are focusing on responding to the changing environment in 650MW heavy oil plant rehabilitation and operation project, which is our the global nuclear power market. first overseas project, Mexico Norte II gas-fired combined-cycle power generation (433MW), Saudi Arabia Rabigh heavy oil power generation Power Transmission/Distribution Sector (1,204MW), and Jordan Al Qatrana gas combined power plant (373MW). Based on our superior technological expertise and network in the EPC By successfully completing these projects, we showcased our superior and consulting areas, we are successfully carrying out transmission/ technological expertise and project management performance in the distribution consulting projects in Dominica, Nigeria and Cambodia. In global market. Dominica, we are recognized for our excellent technological expertise and business management as we received another smart distribution network In September 2017, we won a contract to build and operate Pulau Indah project worth USD 38 million from CDEEE (Corporación Dominicana de gas-fired combined cycle power generation plant in Malaysia, building Empresas Eléctricas Estatales, Dominican Corporation of State Electrical a bridge into the Malaysian power generation market. In July 2018, Companies) after the completion of the power distribution EPC project in we signed the contract for the Vietnam Nghi Son II coal-fired power 2011 and 2016. Furthermore, we were able to build a strong foundation to business (1,200MW) and strengthened the foundation for our entry into undertake global distribution network projects in the future. the market. 38 Sustainability Topics Topic 2. Strengthening Energy Market Leadership △ Kazakhstan Power Transmission and Substation EPC Project △ Distribution network projects in the Dominican Republic Overseas Sales, Yield and Facility Capacity (Unit: KRW billion, %) Facility Capacity (based on share) Overseas Sales (Yield) 8,388MW 7,968MW 6,738MW 5,087.6 (9.2) 4,859.4 (9.0) 4,859.4 (9.0) △ Mexico Norte II Gas-Fired Combined Cycle Power Generation 2015 2016 2017 BUSINESS CASE Strengthening Energy Cooperation through Super-Grid in Northeast Asia We are undertaking the ‘Northeast Asia Super-Grid Project’ to lead the cooperation in the energy sector in Northeast Asia. In order to implement the project, we completed ‘Korea-Russia Joint Preliminary Feasibility Study’ in 2015. In March 2016, the Preliminary Feasibility Study for System Coordination MOU was signed among Korea, China, Japan and Russia. In December 2017, we signed an MOU with the GEIDCO* and the Northeast Asia Super-Grid Concept Plan SGCC (State Grid Corporation of China) to develop the ‘Korea-China Russia Power-Grid Development Project’. To promote system coordination and undertake joint resource development projects, we are going to organize an operation committee and joint working group and carry out additional research. Mongolia Internal preliminary study / joint research MOU signing Development Phase 2013~2016 Selection of pilot project / joint feasibility study Republic of Korea Japan China Establishment of business model / designing business foundation Implementation Phase 2017~2020 Project undertaking * GEIDCO: Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization 39 2018 Sustainability Report BUSINESS STORY Building Global KEPCO Energy Belt Status of Overseas Business At KEPCO, we are carrying out 46 thermal power, nuclear power, renewable energy, and transmission and distribution projects in 29 countries (as of the end of June 2018). Based on our superior expertise in overseas projects and operational competency with the focus on mid-to-long-term profitability, we are building Global KEPCO Energy Belt as a global eco-friendly energy provider through expansion of low-carbon, high-efficiency core businesses in the clean and renewable energy sectors. Japan ● Chitose PV (28MW) China ● Shanxi (Coal 9,135MW) ● Wind power/PV (1,321MW) – Inner Mongolia (990MW) Europe Office – Gansu (99MW) – Liaoning (225MW) Gaegjwa (7MW) Jordan ● Al-Qatrana (Gas 373MW) ● Amman (Diesel 573MW) ● Fujeij wind power (89MW) China Office Middle East Office Japan Office Southeast Asia Office Nigeria UAE ● Egbin (O&M) ● ‌Barakah nuclear power (Nuclear power 5,600MW) ● Shuweihat S3 (Gas 1,600MW) Saudi Arabia ● Rabigh (Heavy oil 1,204MW) Africa Office Malaysia ● Pulau Indah (Gas 1,200MW) Vietnam ● Nghi Son (Coal 1,200MW) South Africa Philippines ● Thabametsi (Coal 630MW) ● ilijan (Gas 1,200MW) ● Cebu (Coal 200MW) Australia ● Naga (Gas 350MW) ● ‌Bylong (Coal development) 40 Sustainability Topics Topic 2. Strengthening Energy Market Leadership Thermal Nuclear Transmission & Resource Renewable Power Power Distribution Development 6 projects in 4 countries 13 projects in 10 countries 1 project in the UAE 25 projects in 21 countries 1 project in Australia Project North America Office 29 46 countries projects U.S. ● Colorado PV (30MW) ● Guam PV (600MW) ● ZION PV (235MW) Sales Mexico 4.2 ● Norte II (Gas 433MW) KRW trillion Capacity in proportion to KEPCO's share 8,388 MW 41 2018 Sustainability Report Topic 3 Responding to Climate Change Management Approach Since the official announcement of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2016, Republic of Korea declared its plan to reduce its BAU GHG emissions by 37%. The agreement is a message to announce the transition to a low-carbon society. The new climate regime is our new opportunity and challenge for the future. We are engaging in joint activities with our group companies to reduce GHG emissions and improve energy efficiency based on the strategy. We are also taking initiatives to promote sustainable energy by applying eco-friendly practices throughout the value chain in the electric power industry. Risk Opportunity •Increase in demand for GHG emissions •Creating jobs in the renewable and reduction in response to the new new business sectors climate regime •Increased demand and market for •Strict restriction and monitoring of eco-friendly-technologies (CCUS) environmental pollutants (e.g. particulate matter) Key Performance CDP ‘Carbon Management Sector Honors’ GHG Emissions R&D for Top company in response to Reduction GHG Emissions Reduction climate change Top company for 2 50,000 24 Cases consecutive years ton CO2eq 42 Sustainability Topics Topic 3. Responding to Climate Change Climate Change Response Strategy Building Joint Response System with Power Group Companies Republic of Korea announced its GHG reduction target as 37% of BAU by 2030 in response to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. According to the 2017 National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report, our national GHG emissions amounted to 690 million tons of CO2eq in 2015, while the KEPCO group companies produced 201 million tons of CO2eq. To achieve the reduction target of 58 million tons for the national GHG reduction goal, we and our group companies are strongly committed to reducing GHG emissions.. * 34 million tons out of 58 million tons in conversion part target is an additional reduction potential and will be confirmed prior to NDC in 2020. Building KEPCO Group Company Implementation System to Achieve the GHG Emissions Reduction Target Leading the climate change response and undertaking actual cooperation projects Finding cooperation projects of power Planning GHG reduction strategy Executing GHG reduction roadmap group cooperation Selecting options for reduction Reforecasting the emissions based on Undertake joint offshore wind power (e.g. increase in renewable energy) the government policies development projects in Jeju and Southwest Sea Joint Development of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Technology & Expansion of Domestic Reduction Projects Undertaking joint R&D projects among SF6 gas reduction project Energy Self-sufficiency Smart Farm power generation companies •‌Demonstrating CO2 collection and storage •‌Reducing 50,000 tCO2 by recycling •‌B  uilding self-sufficiency demonstration coordination (5 power generation companies) distribution switch SF6 gas complex using renewable energy •‌Developing pure oxygen gas turbine (completed in July 2018) (4 companies including Korea Midland Power) Energy & GHG Management Major Activities for Energy Saving & GHG Reduction Classification Major Activities Energy Saving Response to Emission Trading System Construction of 5 Zero energy office new buildings with 2,725MWh/year building Grade 1++ energy efficiency Being subject to the emission trading system, we are engaged in emission trading during the Plan Phase 2 (2018-2020). In order to Installation of photovoltaic reduce GHG emissions, As part of our internal GHG emission reduction K-BEMS development systems (160kW) 6,659MWh/year in 4 office buildings plan, we are developing zero-energy buildings for our new office space in order to save energy while introducing renewable energy sources Natural gas mixed Baekryeong-do 640tCO2 R&D demonstration such as photovoltaic systems, ESS and smart home appliances by firing (1,375MWh/year) (-end of 2018) increasing the distribution of K-BEMS1) to maximize the energy efficiency of our existing office buildings. Meanwhile, we are going to invest KRW Heuksan-do R&D Waste-heat ORC 66tCO2 demonstration 50 billion in R&D projects for the reduction of GHG emissions until 2019. power generation (141MWh/year) (-end of 2018) 1) Increase in distribution of K-BEMS: KEPCO-Building Energy Management System 23kV eco-friendly switch 798 BAY 385tCO2 device for substations 43 2018 Sustainability Report Eco-friendliness of Value Chain Production Phase Expansion of Investment in Environmental Facilities At KEPCO and our subsidiaries, we are increasing our investment Construction and Operation of Eco-friendly Power Plant in environmental facilities to reduce pollutants. KRW 500 billion The subsidiaries of KEPCO carry out environmental impact assessment was invested in environmental facilities and the emission of air in consideration of natural environment of surrounding areas and traffic pollutants was reduced by 13,000 tons in 2017. conditions when building and expanding power plants, and report the results to the government. By doing so, we minimize the impact on local Use and Protection of Water Resources community and natural environment. At domestic business sites, KEPCO and our subsidiaries recognize the potential risk factors associated with water resources and reduce our Pollutant Emission Control consumption of water at a corporate-wide level even though our business The subsidiaries of KEPCO monitor the emission of air pollutants is not exposed to such risks as shortage of water and contamination. We using the TMS (Telemonitoring System). In order to reduce sulfur have reduced water consumption by applying sanitation systems designed oxides, nitrogen oxides and dust, we are increasing the use of to save water and we use only rainwater for landscaping. In addition, we clean energy while installing desulfurization, denitrification and organized an integrated management council for the dams and irrigation dust collection facilities. In addition, wastewater generated in the pool of Han River and are building a water supply system with dams process of power generation is collected at a single location and nationwide such as Hwacheon Dam, Chuncheon Dam, and Uiam Dam treated through physical and chemical process while recycling all the through the Han River Water Control Center. desulfurized gypsum generated from coal-fired power plants as raw materials for cement. When operating overseas power plants, we also In order to conserve water resources at our overseas business sites, we improve our power generation facilities and apply environmentally use seawater instead of ground water in the Philippines (Cebu, Ilijan) and friendly technologies to reduce pollutants and ensure compliance UAE (Shuweihat) while heavy water recycled from wastewater is used in with the environmental standards of each country. China (Shaanxi Gemeng International) and air-cooling is used in Jordan (Al Qatrana). Reduction of Particulate Matters Recently, health problems and environmental impacts caused by Transmission Phase particulate matters have become a major social issue. With the aim of cutting emissions of fine dust by 50% by 2020, KEPCO will increase Increase in Construction of Eco-friendly Power Facilities investment in the early enhancement of dust collection, DeSOx, and At KEPCO, we are undertaking the construction of eco-friendly electric DeNOx facilities while shutting down outdated coal thermal power power facilities through the development of equipment and construction plants and discontinuing operations during spring by 2022. in harmony with our surrounding environment. We are expanding the use of tubular steel poles and apply eco-friendly coatings to steel towers In addition, we are supplementing the infrastructure for measuring to protect the surrounding area. Meanwhile, we are improving the particulate matters by expanding the particulate matter measuring urban landscape by legislating underground communication lines when system and developing automatic measuring system for plants. We building underground distribution lines. are also carrying out ‘Study of the Thermal Power Plant’s Impact on Particulate Matters and Secondary Generation’. Sales & Consumption Phase Expansion of High Efficiency Device Market At KEPCO, we are leading the high efficiency device market to improve the energy efficiency of our customers’ facilities. In 2017, we invested KRW 32 billion to support the replacement of 41,000 units and managed to save 145GWh of energy, reduce 67,000tCO2, and create 138 jobs. In addition, companies that participated in the program made KRW 116.3 billion in sales and we saved KRW 12.6 billion in power purchase and KRW 680 million in facility construction. 44 Sustainability Topics Topic 3. Responding to Climate Change Implementation of EERS EERS1) sets energy saving targets for suppliers and provides incentives with the goal of saving 36,438 GWh of energy by investing KRW 7.7 or applies penalties based on the results. As Korea’s leading energy trillion by 2031 and are conducting research and analysis as well as system supplier, we proactively implemented the government’s energy-efficiency development. In the future, we will create a new ecosystem for the power improvement policies by operating EERS project in May 2018 for the first industry by taking a proactive approach in EERS and ensuring efficiency in time in Korea. To this end, we established a dedicated team within the our investment while promoting sustainable growth in the low carbon era. power demand and supply department and set up a long-term roadmap 1) EERS: Energy Efficiency Resource Standards High-efficiency System Support (2017) (Unit: Item) Heat Pump Boiler Motor Regenerative Braking LED Security Lights Thermohygrostar Total System 11,629 39 2,467 27,204 5 41,344 BUSINESS CASE Protection of Biodiversity KEPCO does its best to exclude the following biodiversity protected ares when selecting a site for transmission and substation construction: Wetland conservation area, wildlife sanctuary, forest genetic resource reserve, experimental forest, protected Baekdudaegan mountain range, etc. Prior to the implementation of a project, a specialist company conducts an electric power facilities construction impact assessment in accordance with the aforementioned criteria to select a project site that avoids biodiversity protection areas. A confirmation of the fact is made during the environmental impact assessment phase, and environmental risk is analyzed according to flora and fauna via literary, investigative, and field research to implement a mitigation plan as a protective measure. Electric power facilities construction and environmental impact assessments include matters related to flora, fauna, and ecology protection. For major changes or expansions, KEPCO conducts an environmental impact investigation to examine the effects with respect to the scope of change/expansion in accordance with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Risks are assessed and measures for minimizing environmental impact are prepared in consultation with relevant accreditation bodies and local stakeholders such as environmental agencies. To implement recommendations obtained via consultation, implementation compliance officers are appointed, and environmental impact caused by construction is monitored through follow-up environmental survey services of specialized companies. The results of such surveys are submitted to the respective approval authority and disclosed online via the Environmental Impact Assessment Support System (http://www.eiass.go.kr). Biodiversity Protection Process Construction and Environmental impact Completion Phase Pre-construction assessment Phase Phase •Conduct environmental impact assessment •Investigate the habitats of endangered species, •Appoint managers and conduct post-environmental •Disclose the environmental impact assessment unique local species, rare species and group impact analysis results through information system habitation species •Restore damaged habitats in cooperation with local •Forecast impact and establish plans to mitigate governments 45 2018 Sustainability Report Development of Eco-friendly Technologies Securing Core Technology for Eco-friendly Power Grid Thermal Power Plant. Full operation is scheduled to start in 2020. The demonstration plant built at the Boryeong Thermal Power Plant In response to increasing demand for eco-friendly and renewable has reached 90% of CO2 removal rate3) and 2.8 GJ/tonCO2 of energy energy, we secured core technologies to maximize the efficiency of our required to separate CO2 with a purity level of 99.9%. The facilities were power grid, including ultra-high voltage DC transmission technology. certified for durability and reliability with continuous operation of more In order to stabilize the power system, we are developing the world’s than 5,000 hours up to 2016. first KG-ESS1) which can be applied to frequency adjustment, generator stabilization and voltage control. We expect to save KRW 11.8 billion in Securing SF6 reduction technologies power generation costs and reduce CO2 emissions by 170,000 tons per year. At KEPCO, we developed technology to retrieve SF 64) gas which takes up 80% of the total GHG emissions in 2011 and improved the In addition, we are part of a joint research project for a 170kV ecoretrieval rate from 80% to 97%. In order to reduce the emission of friendly switch in which KEPCO and the manufacturer financed KRW 3.3 SF6 gas used for insulating in transmission and distribution sector, we billion and KRW 24.9 billion respectively. increased the distribution of 23kV SF6-free facilities and reduced GHG emissions in 2017. By retrieving, refining and recycling SF6 gas for the Commercialization of CCUS non-distribution switches, we managed to reduce 50,000 tons of CO2 in 2017. With growing regulatory pressure on GHG emissions, the CCUS2) market is expected to increase from KRW 8.2 trillion in 2015 to KRW 20.7 trillion in 2030. Since the technology can be applied not only to plants but also to such industries as petrochemicals, fertilizers, cement, and 1) KEPCO Grid Energy Storage System 2) Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage steelworks, its commercialization will lead to exponential growth of the 3) ‌The removal rate can be raised to 100%, but this requires more energy consumption. As such, estimated market. Therefore, since 2013, we have tested the 10MW wet the removal rate is maintained at 90% as an optimal level from the economic perspective. 4) ‌Sulfur hexafluoride is one of GHGs, and its global warming potential (GWP) is 23,900 times higher than CO2 capture facility with a daily capacity of 200 tons at the Boryeong that of CO2. Managing the entire phase of SF6 Collect Develop SF6-free Present5) GIS Future6) Zero SF6 SF6 Develop alternative Purify technologies of SF6 Reuse 5) Present: while using power systems that produce SF6, collect, refine and recycle SF6 to minimize its emission thereby contributing to the reduction of GHG emission. 6) Future: eliminate SF6 and prevent GHG emission by distributing power systems that do not use SF6 (use dry air/alternative gas instead). 46 Sustainability Topics Topic 3. Responding to Climate Change BUSINESS STORY Leading Energy Transition through Distribution of Renewable Energy Expansion of Eco-friendly Energy 3020 KEPCO Renewable Energy Power Generation Strategy Government Domestic Overseas As the world is moving to end use of nuclear power Target Renewable Renewable Renewable and the demand for eco-friendly energy development Energy Goal Energy Sales Energy Sales increases, there is a growing interest in renewable energy 20% KRW 4.2 trillion KRW 4.6 trillion among our stakeholders. The government announced its plan to increase the percentage of renewable energy to 20% by 2030 and gradually raise the mandatory Strategy Task renewable energy supply ratio to 28% under the RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standard) by 2030. Based on the ‘3020 KEPCO Renewable Energy Strategy’, we are paving Establish a renewable Develop large-scale Develop new the way for a clean-energy future. energy roadmap projects business models (as a control tower) (to lead the renewable (to strengthen renewable energy industry) energy development capacity) Spreading Renewable Energy At KEPCO, we continue to seek ways to reach the renewable energy goal set by the government and expand our renewable energy projects to build a foundation for switching to eco-friendly energy. In 2017, we developed 2.6GW of renewable energy worth KRW 13 trillion. Hapcheon Lake Floating Jeju Hallim Offshore Southwest Offshore Photovoltaic Power Wind Power Wind Power 40MW 72MW 2.5GW •Built photovoltaic power facilities on the •Selected the location and shared profits •Undertook 3-phase development project Domestic shared water surface with residents near Buan, Jeonbuk •KEPCO, K-Water and Mirae Asset •Established Jeju Hallim Offshore Wind •Commenced the 60MW demonstration established an SPC Power Co., ltd. project development Increased the efficiency of land usage Stepped up as a leader Built a foundation for 2030 CFI Jeju and reduced environmental impact in the offshore wind power industry In 2017, we secured a growth engine for the future in response to global market conditions and new climate regime by undertaking and completing four overseas renewable energy projects. Classification Overview Performance Completed Japan Chitose PV farm (28MW)+ESS (13.7MWh) Entered the global •First overseas project to converge photovoltaic energy and ESS technologies photovoltaic energy •Jointly entered the market with partner companies of domestic financial and equipment market for the first time Overseas Renewable + New Energy Won the U.S. Guam PV farm (60MW)+ESS (32MWh) projects Businesses •Undertaking the second largest renewable energy convergence business model Entered the U.S. IPP after Chitose market for the first time •First IPP project won through international bidding in the U.S., the largest power market in the world Signed the agreement to acquire photovoltaic plants in California, U.S. Acquired the largest Renewable •Strengthened the business capacity by winning the three largest photovoltaic photovoltaic plants projects (235MW) Completed photovoltaic project (7MW) in Gaegjwa, China. Increased the existing Convergence •Used existing wind power infrastructure and manpower to reduce costs asset utilization projects 47 2018 Sustainability Report Topic 4 Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Management Approach At KEPCO, we are committed to creating a workplace culture that promotes flexibility and open communication to keep our employees satisfied with the job and improve their productivity by maintaining a healthy work-life balance. We also implement a variety of programs to ensure the safety and health of our employees. In recognition of the importance of human rights, KEPCO has put in place various policies to respect the human rights of its employees as well as other stakeholders. Risk Opportunity •Increase in demand for equal •Generate creative ideas based on opportunity recruitment flexible and open corporate culture •Change in working environment (e.g. •Secure growth engines for the increase in minimum wage, reduced future by securing female talents working hours) and leaders •Growing interest in human rights management (e.g. no discrimination) Key Performance Pool of global talents for the future Training expenses Percentage of female (strategic technology, overseas projects, Job Meister) per person manager 2,122 employees KRW 1.21million 18 % increase, YOY 48 Sustainability Topics Topic 4. Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Securing Future-oriented Talents Fair Recruitment Process based on Job Performance Creating Social Values through Equal Opportunity Recruitment At KEPCO, we employ talented individuals based on their qualifications At KEPCO, we are implementing various local employment policies to for the job and the NCS1). We also strengthened our blind recruitment secure talents and boost local economy. We balanced development of process by excluding their school and personal information from local communities by implementing Local professionals system and limiting consideration and provide uniforms for the interviews in order to the applicants’ location by their schools and promoting open competition prevent any discrimination based on the applicant’s university, gender, by region. In addition, we increased the local talent recruitment rate to or age. In 2017, we established internal guidelines to prevent unfair 17% under the Local Talent Recruitment Target System while providing recruitment practice and make sure that all employees sign the pledge training and mentoring for job applicants in the region. As a result, the against unfair recruitment practice online as part of our efforts to ensure local talent recruitment rate has reached 59% of new employees (927 fair and transparent recruitment practice. employees) as the number of local talents hired increases at a steady pace in 2017. Furthermore, we hire high school graduates, and patriots Creating Quality Jobs to Solve Youth Unemployment and veterans as part of our equal opportunity recruitment program for underprivileged, and people with disabilities for the internship program. As a leading public corporation, we lead the creation of jobs in the public sectors by increasing the number of our full-time employees. Through 1) NCS: National Competency Standards the youth internships, In 2017, we hired 1,352 employees and increased the opportunities to experience jobs and improve their qualifications for the jobs. In addition, we established the Employment SteppingLocal Talent2) Recruitment Ratio stone Program in the public sectors and created 302 additional jobs to (Unit: %) strengthen the job ecosystem and tackle youth unemployment. 59 Jobs Created in 2017 50 (Unit: Person) 48 1,574 1,352 302 2015 2016 2017 Full-time Jobs Youth Internship Stepping-stone Program 2) Employees who graduated from schools not located in Seoul, Gyeonggi, Inchoen and foreign countries BUSINESS CASE Improving Quality of Employment through Full-time Job Conversion At KEPCO, we established a full-time job conversion roadmap in response to government policies to raise social awareness. We organized consultative bodies composed of our stakeholders including the ‘Full-time Conversion Review Committee’ and ‘Labor-Management and Expert Council’ to ensure fair and transparent process of conversion. Under the government guidelines, we selected candidates for full-time employment and all 285 of them became full-time employees as a result. Full-time job conversion Roadmap Full-time job Maturity Conversion Establishment (after 2020) Performance (2017) Introduction (2019) (2017~2018) Preparing conversion of Converting part-time jobs to Minimizing part-time jobs and 285 jobs part-time jobs to full-time jobs full-time jobs and following-up improving treatment Number of jobs changed to full-time 49 2018 Sustainability Report Employee Talent Development In response to the paradigm shift in the power industry, we are working Operation of Systematic Training Programs on mid-to-long-term human resource development strategies with a Training Programs focus on creativity and vision to create a new energy eco-system. Areas •‌Job Meister: on-site problem solving and cyber-job counseling (599 employees) On-site •‌CoP (learning organization): learning for problem solving (304 programs, 2,071 HRD Implementation Strategy & Areas of Focus employees) •‌Overseas business training to secure source technologies and business expertise Maximize organizational Advance core Strengthen specialized •‌Specialized academic degree programs: specialized programs for overseas HRD competency in transition competency for main competency for growth Advanced Strategy period projects business business, technology management convergence program, advanced energy program, KINGS nuclear sector master’s degree program Focus on internal Advance core competency Strengthen specialized •‌Programs designed to boost creativity and innovation e.g. Humanities Academy, Areas of competency in response to competency for growth Humanities for main projects Management Leader Forum, Book Learning Focus climate change business •‌Strengthening global competency through strategic, cyber and telephone •‌Improve the digital talent Language •‌Sharing management policy •‌Focus on the large number foreign language lessons development and core value of new employees •‌Develop core human •‌Lead the trend in energy •‌Increase the organizational resources with advanced industry acceptance of high school academic degrees •‌Improve the expertise in graduatesStrengthen on•‌Strengthen the humanitiestalent development site training in work sites based convergence thinking Female Talent Development Increase training Develop human resources Innovate HRD for opportunities for specializing in overseas As the importance of female talent grows in the global business management efficiency employees market environment, we have steadily increased the number of new female •‌Measure performance, •‌Select human resources for •‌Improve the opportunities employees. We are also diversifying our training programs for female strengthen career overseas business for resuming training management •‌Provide know-how on project •‌Maintain balance between •‌Reduce the blind spot in acquisition and operation employees by organizing such programs as female managers’ workshop, training HRD and financial stability •‌Develop human resources next-generation female leadership development program, and career •‌Provide support in advance •‌Strengthen ability to solve specializing in local language for retiring employees management issues and culture development program. As the result of these efforts, the percentage of female managers increased by 18% from the previous year In 2017. Talent Development 242 Number of employees who At KEPCO, we develop our human resource based 10 core strategic completed female talent technologies and areas (e.g. development of new business model, development programs employees response to policies, institutional design, strategic technology R&D). In 18 order to gain competitive advantages in the new energy market, we Increase in female managers organize systematic training courses such as specialized training for (264→311) % overseas business and technology management convergence. We also improve correlation between training and actual performance through strategic human resource management. Human Resource Development for New Energy Projects Talented Human Resource Customized Training Building Talent Pool Beginner Level 1 (Basic) Pool of global talents for the future (human resource for new projects) Expert Level 2 (In-depth) Master Coordination with the New to Job / Entry Level Level 3 (Advanced) relevant teams 50 Sustainability Topics Topic 4. Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Maintaining Healthy Work & Life Balance Creating Employee-friendly Workplace At KEPCO, we make sure that our employees can focus on their jobs, 2018 Amendment of Collective Agreement (August 2018) maximize their productivity and maintain a healthy work-life balance. We have divided working hours into 59 types in terms of flexibility, options and intensity. In 2017, the number of employees using flexible Improve the stability of jobs and work schedule increased by 103% from the previous year, and their job working conditions satisfaction level also increased as a result. •‌Improve the stability of jobs for union members (layoff conditions) Employees on flexible work schedule •‌Added articles to protect workers on shift (Unit: Person) •‌Increased the independence of union activities (improved the usage of facilities) •‌Added articles against unfair dismissal 103% •‌Applied consistent standards to leaving work on time and honorary retirement, removed dead-letter articles, etc. 84% 7,121 1,908 3,516 Improved the leave system 2015 2016 2017 •‌Established new types of leave for self-development and increased the existing leave term Level of satisfaction with flexible work schedule •‌Added articles for staffing, e.g. employees on leave (Unit: Point) •‌Improved the annual leave system for new employees •‌Guaranteed long-term leave (10 days or longer) and annual leave credit system 0.12 % 0.13 % •‌Established special paid leave •‌Extended leave for special family occasions 3.79 3.91 4.04 Improved maternity protection 2015 2016 2017 •‌Improved parental leave system requirements and terms •‌Added articles to prevent unfair treatment against Open Communication Culture parental leave •‌Improved support for pregnancy and childbirth (extended We established horizontal organization to promote open leave and work hour reduction) communication to improve business performance and resolve labor •‌Increased support for childcare and established new issues while keeping our employees satisfied in their jobs. In order to childcare leave improve organizational culture and communication, we conducted employee interviews and surveys on organizational culture. Based on the tasks we selected with our employees, we carry out monthly Increased the engagement of employees in campaigns throughout the year. We also promote open communication management and improved human rights and through dialogue with CEO, female leadership workshop, Lunch privacy protection Meeting Day and Happy Family Day. 51 2018 Sustainability Report SPECIAL STORY Building Ecosystem for Sustainable Job Creation In line with the mid-to-long-term strategy for creating job and the government’s roadmap, we established the ‘KEPCO Job Creation Strategy’. In order to focus our corporate-wide resources to achieve job creation goals and improve implementation, we organize ‘KEPCO Job Creation Committee’ and ‘Job Creation Policy Team’ while ensuring the policies are established in a fair manner through ‘Labor-Management and Expert Counseling’. Goal Create sustainable jobs by establishing a ‘job-focused management system’ Direction Lead creating jobs in public sectors Pursue mutual growth with stakeholders in the low-growth economy within the job ecosystem Strategy and •Change part-time jobs to full-time jobs •Create a startup-friendly ecosystem Action Plans •Rationalize the pay system •Create jobs tailored to private sectors •Prevent unfair treatment •Strengthen competitive advantages of suppliers lity Creat qua e jo b he s sec b e rivat Impr o ov e np of t j s i ors t Strategy and Action Plans ial val ar ues Sh ej c ob so s reate C •Reduce the difference between fixed number of people and the current capacity •Promote social companies •Implement flexible work system •Increase support for cooperatives •Increase new and overseas businesses •Boost local economy KEPCO Job Creation Working KEPCO Job Creation Job Creation Policy Team Implementation Committee Committee System Identifying issues and coordinating opinions Top decision-making body for job creation Control tower for job creation Establish work plans for creating new and quality Corporate-wide competency management Identify 10 Areas of Focus and 4 Action Tasks jobs and building infrastructure committee with CEO as a chair for Job Creation. Labor-Management and Expert Council Establish a council comprising labor, Guarantee participation of all representatives from management and experts each department of the council 52 Sustainability Topics Topic 4. Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Sustainable Job Creation Performance Data Creating Jobs to Build Sustainable Ecosystem As a major public corporation, we are committed to setting an example when it comes to creating jobs. In 2017, we created quality jobs by changing part-time jobs to full-time jobs and hiring underprivileged such as youth interns and people with disabilities. 285 people 1,352 people 59 % 211 people Employment status Number of youth Percentage of local Newly hired employees changed from part-time interns hired employment of underprivileged to full-time More information about the performance can be viewed on p49 Leading Job Creation in Private Sector At KEPCO, we established 4 Strategies and 16 Key Action Tasks to create jobs in private sectors. As we are moving into the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we increased our investments in such areas as building Energy Valley and supporting economic organization in order to create jobs with a focus on social values. 51,350 people KRW 23.5 trillion 8,327 people KRW 9.2 billion Jobs created in Investment in Jobs created through Infrastructure for private sectors private sectors Energy Valley socioeconomic growth (e.g. renewable energy business, startup) More information about the performance can be viewed on p65, p69 53 2018 Sustainability Report Safety & Health Management Building Innovative Safety and Health Management System At KEPCO, we are building an advanced management system to make our workplace safer and healthier. First of all, we established ‘Next Generation Occupational Safety and Health Master Plan’ and KPI, and strengthened our Occupational Safety and Health Manual to improve our safety and health management practices. To meet global standards, we make sure that all our workplaces and suppliers are certified for occupational health and safety management system (K-OHSMS 18001). Meanwhile, we organized Safety Management Committee comprising 5 outside experts from the government, academic society and safety management organizations, and 5 internal experts to discuss important safety issues including emergency response measures. Building Safety Management Support System for Mutual Growth with Suppliers Establishment of EHS Management Policies In order to create a safe workplace environment for our employees In May 2018, we set EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) as top and suppliers, we are strengthening our safety management. In 2017, priority in our business management and established and shared EHS 64,550 on-site safety inspections and 242,565 remote monitoring management policies at a corporate-wide level. sessions on construction sites were conducted to reduce the number of disaster victims at our work sites. For 28 suppliers that had incidents in Summary of EHS Management Policies 2016, we carried out safety training for 885 representatives and 34,257 employees while providing special safety analysis and consultation as part of our safety management support program. Management Set EHS as a top priority and encourage Values participation of all employees Number of Victims of Industrial Disasters (Unit: Person) Introduce and implement the EHS 95 EHS Standard Standard Management System in Management domestic and overseas workplaces 22% 74 Ensure compliance with the laws and Legal Compliance regulations in relation to EHS 2016 2017 Create safe and healthy workplace Risk Management environment, eliminate risk factors and ensure eco-friendly management Activities of internal member safety enhancement Communicate with the stakeholders •‌Pilot operation of 365 Safe Town Tour Program Communication & on our commitment to EHS and (578 participants from Gangwon Division and others) Cooperation strengthen EHS partnership → Expand in 2018 (include suppliers) •‌Take initiatives for spreading a safety culture Continue to improve EHS management Innovation & [e.g. workshop, zero accident campaign, industrial safety by sharing ideas and new technologies, Improvement period (103 commendations / incentive KRW 120 million)] and organizing training 54 Sustainability Topics Topic 4. Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Securing Source Technologies for Disaster Prevention Health Management Programs for Employees To prevent human error, we developed and introduced ‘Wearable Safety In order to promote the health of our employees, we took a proactive Device Disaster Prevention Technology’. We also developed a safety approach in preventing occupational diseases as we conduct regular and health system using cutting-edge technology based on the result checkups (annual) and special checkups (bi-annual) and keep track of the research conducted on the Fool-proof1) system. As a result of of their health conditions. We also organize job stress analysis and these efforts, the number of disaster casualties caused by human error psychological counseling programs as well as meditation and chi exercise was reduced from 95 in 2016 to 74 in 2017, a drop of 22%. In addition as part of the Healing Camp to help our employees maintain their to technological development, we improved our process to ensure physical and mental health. safety. In 2017, we removed such high-risk processes as direct wiring, wire transferring and line distribution and developed non-contact Smart Stick-based indirect wiring process to improve the safety of workers. 1) Fool-proof: a device or method designed to prevent human errors caused by negligence or identify such errors BUSINESS CASE Open Safety and Disaster Demonstration Test Site In November 2017, we established the ‘Open Safety and Disaster Demonstration Test Site’ to test safety equipment and personal protective gear for the first time in Korea. The site is designed to develop source technology for safety and disaster prevention and improve the level of safety while preventing industrial disasters. The main facilities include arc generation device, arc energy gauge and a system designed to test safety gear and protection against electric arc, human body impact analysis systems, and video recording systems for demonstration tests. These facilities are available for use by any academic, industrial and research organization. Up to now, we relied on overseas test institutes for product development due to a lack of safety demonstration infrastructure in Korea. Thanks to these facilities, we expect to save development cost and time in the future. Roadmap for establishing ‘Open Safety and Disaster Demonstration Test Site’ Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 (Completed in March 2017) (Completed in November 2017) (2018 ~ ) (2020 ~ ) TF for academic, industry and Demonstration for electricity Demonstration for Demonstration for research collaboration ARC energy body modelling electric shock electric shock simulation 55 2018 Sustainability Report BUSINESS STORY Leading Human Rights Management Human rights management system KEPCO practices human rights management in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Human Rights Guideline of the National Human Rights Commission of the Republic of Korea. In recognition of the importance of human rights, KEPCO has put in place various policies to respect the human rights of its employees as well as other stakeholders. We took the initiative to build and establish the human rights management execution system, and thus became the first Korean company to join the UN Global Compact in 2005. We also enacted and promulgated the human rights management declaration in 2015 for the first time among public companies in Korea. Human Rights Management System Integrated Management Monitoring and Aid Execution • Establishment of an integrated action • Roles as a reporting channel for internal •Self-assessment on human rights plan for human rights management and external human rights violations (relevant departments and offices) check list • Performance review and internal/ • Corrective measures in case of human •Identification of issues to be improved and external report and disclosure rights violations establishment of execution measures Human Rights Risk Assessment and Issues Human Rights Risk Assessment and Due Diligence To identify and evaluate the risks of human rights violations, we classified risks into 38 sub-categories in 10 major areas in accordance with the UNGPs, and prepared the checklist based on which we conduct self-analysis and reviews. We strictly prohibit any discrimination based on gender, race, age, or social status while ensuring full compliance with the Labor Standards Act in Korea as well as the International Labour Organization (ILO) regulations, such as the ‘Convention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Actions Toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor’ and ‘Convention Concerning the Abolition of Forced Labor’. In 2017, no relevant violation was committed at our business sites. Identification of Human Rights Issues and Mitigation Actions At KEPCO, we identify human rights issues in relation to gender equality in the workplace (response to malicious complaints, etc.), safety and health, and employees working at the point of contact with customers, and take necessary measures to protect human rights. In addition, we investigate any violations of human rights in our supply chain and local community, and take actions to prevent and mitigate those violations. Human Rights Issues and Mitigation Actions Employees Suppliers Local Community •Organizational culture (e.g. gender equality) •Safety management in workplace •Noise and environmental pollution on the Human Rights •Complaints and grievances (e.g. sexual construction sites Issues harassment) •Creating corporate culture to ensure •Identifying and improving vulnerabilities in •Building facilities for local community Mitigation gender equality safety practice and conducting safety training and carrying out environmental impact Actions •Establishing a hotline for online counseling assessment 56 Sustainability Topics Topic 4. Creating Employee-friendly Workplace Culture Human Rights Protection Sexual Harassment & Sexual Violence Grievance Sexual Harassment Grievance Handling Manual Handling Process At KEPCO, we have implemented a grievance handling process for •‌Identify the situation and needs of the complainant Counseling •‌Arrange separate places for counseling and provide sexual harassment as part of our human rights management. The full information of investigation procedures process of handling sexual harassment & sexual violence cases •‌Keep the identity of the complainant and counseling confidential proceeds with the following steps: counseling, investigation, review by the Grievance Review Committee*, closure of the case. •‌Keep a record of statement and evidence Investigation •‌Complete the investigation within 20 days * Composition and Role of Grievance Review Committee (extendable within 10 days) •The committee consists of 6 committee members including •‌Inform of investigation progress and situation Chairman (HQ: Head of Human Resource Division, Business Site: Head of the Business Site). •An external expert may be hired to prevent sexual harassment & •‌Document and keep proper record of (if required) sexual violence if needed. Review by the any meetings Grievance Review •‌Protect personal information and keep •The investigation of sexual harassment cases is supported while Committee confidentiality necessary actions are taken to protect the victims and prevent recurrence. •‌Monitor the performance of agreement Case Closing Human Rights Protection Program for ‘Emotional •‌Follow up (separation between the complainant and the offender, training Labor Workers’ for the offender to prevent recurrences, At KEPCO, we organize various emotional support programs to psychological counseling for the complainant) •‌Inform the complainant and the offender of support our employees’ mental health including job stress diagnosis for the results employees, Healing Camp for employees working at the point of contact with customers, and psychological counseling services for all employees. Human Rights Protection Program Healing Camp for Job Stress Diagnosis Psychological Counseling Service Service Representatives •Target: All Employees •‌Target: 60 service representatives •‌Service areas: job stress, depression/anxiety/anger •‌Programs: Measure the level of stress and provide Twice a year (spring/autumn) management solutions •‌Programs: meditation, forest experience, life energy Trial ‌ service at HQ in 2016→corporate-wide service • Method: System evaluation and survey questionnaire gymnastics (3 days) •‌Method: phone call, email, interview (select one) Promoting Gender Equality in Workplace In order to promote gender equality in our workplace, we display promotional posters and training videos at a corporate-wide level. We also organize sexual harassment prevention training programs* to prohibit sexual harassment and strengthen our disciplinary actions while designating at least one counselor at each business site to provide counseling on sexual harassment & sexual violence. In 2017, we established an online sexual harassment counseling hotline to provide prompt counseling on grievances. Furthermore, we prepared and distributed ‘Sexual Harassment & Sexual Violence Grievance Handling Manual’ to promote gender equality in our workplace. *S  exual harassment prevention training at headquarters (1,964 completed, 4 times) / Corporate sexual harassment prevention cyber training (19,698 completed) Creating Safe Workplace Environment for Suppliers We established a safety management support system and safety and health cooperation programs for our suppliers. By organizing a periodical cooperation meeting, risk assessment and safety training, and providing technical support, we help create a safer work environment for the employees of our suppliers. In addition, we are committed to protecting the human rights and improving mental health for them as we provide job stress diagnosis and psychological treatment for customer service representatives who suffer from emotional stress. 57 2018 Sustainability Report Topic 5 Leading the Realization of Social Value Management Approach At KEPCO, we fulfill our responsibilities towards public benefit by creating economic and social values. Our commitment to creating social values, in particular, is aligned with the nature of our business and strategy as well as maximizing values for our stakeholders. In addition, we engage in various activities to drive sustainable growth with our suppliers and local communities while creating values for our customers. Risk Opportunity •Diversified demand and growing •Build positive corporate reputation expectations from customers and customer trust •Strengthened legal requirements for •Establish sustainable ecosystem fair practice and win-win growth through cooperation with suppliers •Increased chance of complaints and •Increase social values through local conflict with local community due to community support lack of communication Key Performance NCSI (National Customer Purchase from small and Employee volunteer Satisfaction Index) medium-sized companies activities In the Public Sector Participation time Ranked 1 3 st for consecutive years 72.1% 169,207hours 58 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value Customer Service Innovation Organizational Operation for Customized Service Improving Customer-oriented Service To provide services tailored to the needs of our customers, we At KEPCO, we improve our policies and systems based on customer established a Marketing Division in 2017 while strengthening our facility feedback. In 2017, we strengthened our policies on preventing management and customer response based on new regional offices to customer complaints. Based on the impact of conflicts and reviews, improve convenience and accessibility. we select business locations and establish a conflict resolution process to make final decisions. After the completion of the project, we use Customized Rate Discount Service local consultation to resolve conflicts. Furthermore, the Site Selection Committee comprising representatives of local governments and We offer discounts on specific areas to reduce financial burden on the residents selects the sites to make sure that residents can make general public and raise the welfare benefit. In 2017, we raised customer decisions by themselves. satisfaction by improving the system so that benefits can be provided automatically when birth notification is filed in order to increase benefits for households with a newborn. Agriculture, Forestry Beneficiaries School Traditional Market and Fisheries Goal Financial support Financial support Energy welfare Educational support for farmers for small businesses 30% or KRW 8,00020% discount for schools 20% discount for rice 5.9% discount for traditional Discount 20,000 discount for welfare and kindergartens processing facilities and market business owners recipients and households slaughter houses with multiple children. Financial KRW 483.1 billion KRW 89.5 billion KRW 20.3 billion KRW 2.6 billion Support (2.85 million households) (17,000 households) (1,000 households) (23,000 households) 2017 BUSINESS CASE ICT and AI-based Customer Response Service At KEPCO, we meet the demands of customers by updating our customer service process using next-generation information and communication technology, AI, big data and IoT. In 2017, we introduced ‘PowerBot’, a voiceinteractive AI-powered robot, for customer service for the first time in the public sector. The ‘PowerBot’ is divided into ‘Secretary Robot’ that is in charge of internal regulations and coaching and ‘Teller Robot’ for customer service. The latter, in particular, features voice recognition and provides service in sign language as well as foreign languages for foreigners and people with a hearing impairment. In addition, our service system also supports ‘Visual ARS Service’ displaying text messages on the mobile phone screen and ‘Voice ARS Service’ with voice recognition while extending service operation hours △ AI robot service launched △ ARS service screen to 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for easy accessibility. We expect to improve our service for people with hearing impairment and senior citizens, and make our customer contact points more accessible. 59 2018 Sustainability Report Information Security Management for Customers Meeting Various Customer Service Demands At KEPCO, we provide various services based on mobile phones to Strengthening Information Security System provide real-time response and customer service access. At KEPCO, we take a proactive approach in our information security management system to protect our national power grid and customers’ personal data from cyber threats such as ransomware and Mobile Information Process throughout malicious codes. To this end, we are upgrading the security system the Power Usage Lifecycle for our power control, information and internet service while building •‌SMS service on request for electric power service (June 2017) security infrastructure for the new energy industry to enhance •‌Downloadable request form and payment receipt security for major infrastructure and information system. In addition, (September 2017) we are improving our cyber security by taking timely measures on •‌Kakao Talk messaging service (October 2017) identified vulnerabilities through security analysis. Smart Customer Service System Enhancing Personal Information Protection (April 2017) We respond to various security attacks using information security •‌Previous system: call service technologies in a proactive manner. In 2017, we strengthened the •‌Current system: interactive service using email, chat and text messaging (prevent failure during peak hours), immediate call security system for our infrastructure and new energy businesses response for people aged 65 or older while enhancing the personal information protection in the ERP and power sales information system to ensure full compliance with the Personal Information Protection Act. We encrypted more than App-based Smart KEPCO Service 2 million pieces of personal information in the ERP system, and (January 2017) conducted a personal information impact assessment on personally identifiable information and sensitive sales information. As a result •App service based on the existing web service Automatic address entry based on GPS of these efforts, we have received the top rating on personal Mobile service request system information management assessment by the Ministry of the Interior Mobile payment for moving charge and Safety for the third consecutive year and major information and communication infrastructure vulnerabilities analysis by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy for five consecutive years. Personal Information Protection Security Training Corporate-wide Training •‌Contents: practice and management leadership training •‌Contents: online response to social engineering attacks (1 program) (48 programs) •‌Performance: 98.3% completed online training •Performance: 274 employees/year completed the training Cyber Crisis Response Drill Information Security Mileage Program •‌Contents: 6 hacking email trainings a year for all employees •‌Contents: employees earn miles based on their security performance (by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) •‌Performance: three offices were rewarded for excellent performance •Performance: 99.4% response rate By 2017 60 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value BUSINESS STORY ‘Integrated Power Service Portal’ with One-Stop System Support Opened Overview of Integrated Power Service Portal At KEPCO, we opened ‘Integrated Power Service Portal’ to provide access to information about the service including electricity bills and EV charging stations. In the past, various power system services were provided separately, so customers had to check multiple sites to access specific information. The Integrated Service Portal is designed to resolve this issue and has a single access point throughout the services to ensure easy access for customers. We also unified the channels and integrated similar systems to make it easier and more convenient for customers to access information. We will continue to improve convenience for customers by providing services tailored to their needs. Integrated Power Service Portal https://cyber.kepco.co.kr/ KEPCO Mobile Service Integrated Login Large Capacity National Electric Power EVC Smart KEPCO Power Planner Customer Portal Resource Map (Electric Vehicle Charging) •Electric bill view and •Real-time usage and •Energy consumption •Statistics on nation-wide •Provide information on payment rate information for AMI analysis power demand and supply nearby EV charging station •Request for power service customers •Power usage consulting by city and province and and navigation service •Power-saving information service (e.g. rate simulation) regional consumption for houses status 61 2018 Sustainability Report Win-win Growth System To take a proactive approach to social demand and government policies on win-win growth, and explore new business opportunities in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are strengthening our win-win growth support projects. In 2017, we implemented Win-win Growth Strategy in Three Areas including ‘Driving Technological Innovation’, ‘Strengthening Overseas Sales Channel Support’, and ‘Creating Win-win Growth Ecosystem’ to build a system to promote sustainable growth with our suppliers. Three Execution Strategies for Win-win Growth Driving Strengthening Creating Strategy Technological Overseas Sales Win-win Growth Innovation Channel Support Ecosystem •Expand R&D support •Develop strategic sales routes •Short-term: provide management •Promote application of the R&D •Support the opening of KEPCO’s support to improve the selfMajor outcome global network sufficiency of suppliers Activities •Diversify support projects to •Long-term: creating an eco-system strengthen competency for new energy industry •24 R&D support projects for SMEs, KRW •KTP companies reached export of USD 302 •Operation of Bitgaram Innovation Center Major 8.7 billion million and New Energy Industry Startup Center Performance •R&D product purchased from SMEs: KRW •Signed contracts to export KRW 1.47 billion •Startup support project with financial in 2017 84.7 billion through BIXPO support of KRW 20 billion Technological Innovation Support for SMEs At KEPCO, we provide R&D technology trends, financial support for R&D System Improvements R&D and sales channels to help SMEs improve their productivity and undertake cooperation R&D support projects through which they can purchase R&D products at a lower price. In 2017, we improved the Improvements Benefits system to ensure that more companies can benefit from the project and Possibility of provide support for the entire business cycle from R&D to export. Selection commercialization / Increased task Criteria Technological selection rate weighting upward Thanks to the new requirements, increased support, and introduction Removal of restriction Lowered the barriers of export-focused R&D, we help them develop new markets and Qualification on manufacturing to entry into R&D strengthen the base for their R&D projects. As a result, their sales grew performance projects by KRW 256.2 billion and we managed to reduce our purchase cost by New project materials Developed highTarget and equipment, and value-added materials KRW 167.8 billion. new software and equipment R&D cost increased Developed large-scale Financial by 50% from the projects in the new Support previous year energy sectors Developed new Introduction of Scope markets in coordination export-focused R&D with overseas business 256.2 Participation in Increase in Joint Expanded the associations/groups in Research R&D base sales of SMEs KRW billion power sectors 62 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value Strengthening Export Base for SMEs Operation of KEPCO Trusted Partner (KTP) were organized between companies worldwide. In order to help SMEs with insufficient marketing resources to make their entry into the global KTP (KEPCO Trusted Partner) is a system that we designed to improve market, we provided support for participation in the BIXPO, operated the overseas marketing performance of SMEs by granting the right to booths for exhibitions, and arranged one-on-one business meetings for use the brand to promote export. We provide those selected as partners them. As a result, they signed the contract to export products worth with prior access to various export support programs and opportunities USD 11.26 million. to exhibit their products at the KEPCO Overseas Promotion Center, as well as office space, work facilities and local information. In 2017, we supported 99 power generation and new business companies, and second-tier suppliers and helped them to export worth USD 302 million. KTP Certification emblem Global Win-win Growth Expo ‘BIXPO 2017’ KEPCO hosted BIXPO, the global energy expo in the power generation sector, for the third time. In 2017, we shared technology trends and 268 directions for the future with more than 3,000 professionals from 47 BIXPO countries under the slogan of ‘Connect Ideas, Meet the 4th Revolution’. attendees companies In particular, various programs such as new technology exhibition, international conference, international invention competition, CTO 1.47 forum and win-win growth expo were organized and more than 70,000 BIXPO visitors with 268 companies and research organizations attended. In Export consultations worth USD billion addition, 190 cases of consultations worth USD 1.47 billion in exports BUSINESS CASE Expansion of Overseas Sales Channels for SMEs through Export Pilot Project At KEPCO, we help SMEs to export products through export pilot projects. Through the project, their Export Pilot Project Overview products are tested by importing countries and ordered for follow-up projects after performance verification. Target SMEs under the Framework Act on SMEs companies In 2017, we increased the beneficiaries of our support and selected 3 countries in Southeast Asia and  romising products in the power p 6 new projects which are expected to benefit by economic stimulus due to rising oil prices in the Target transmission/distribution, information, products Middle East through both internal and external reviews. communication and new energy industries Areas of  p to KRW 300 million including cash and u Selection list of export pilot project support products Independent MG System Indonesia Power Company Distribution Panel Partial Iran Power Corporation TADS (Thermography Auto Kazakhstan GIS-based Project Export Project PLN AMI Pilot Project Discharge Detection System BEMS Development Using Analysis Diagnosis System) Distribution Management Development ESS Pilot Project System Development Target Cambodia Indonesia Malaysia Iran Iran, Dominican Republic Kazakhstan countries Companies I-CELL E&C Co., Ltd. Tide Co., Ltd. PS Technologies Co., Ltd. I-CELL E&C Co., Ltd. Tide Co., Ltd. PS Technologies Co., Ltd. 63 2018 Sustainability Report Establishment of Fair Trade Compliance with Suppliers’ Code of Conduct process, and technology/quality review standards to make the registration process easier for them. As a result, we secured new In 2012, we established the ‘Suppliers’ Code of Conduct’, which suppliers for 9 items from 45 companies in 2017. Furthermore, reflects the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact, and Labor and we lowered the barriers to entry for new/SMEs by reducing the Environmental Guidelines of OECD and ILO for the first time in the requirements for product retention. public sector. By stating ethical, environmental and social standards in the Code of Conduct, we guide our suppliers to ensure compliance with the code in all contracts entered into with bidders. Support for Sustainable Win-win Growth Detailed Guidelines of Code of Conduct for Suppliers Suppliers CSR Evaluation •Prohibition of bribery •Prohibition of collusion and illegal subcontracting We operate a computerized system to evaluate the level of sustainability •Prohibition of solicitation in the areas of economy, society and environment of suppliers and •Mandatory requirement of ethics training for Ethical conduct on-site review of those with a high level of risk. For those who Standards employees have violated the regulations, we apply restrictions on participating in tenders for a certain period of time based on the decision of the •Compliance with tax and labor laws •Compliance with employment laws Disciplinary Committee. •Prohibition of child labor •Prohibition of discrimination based on race, Social gender, etc. Building Foundation for Win-win Growth Standards At KEPCO, we engage in various communication activities to improve our •Compliance with environment and safety laws and system and build a foundation for win-win growth with our suppliers. In regulations •Distribution of eco-friendly technologies order to ensure fair practice, we reviewed 44 cases of contract terms, Environmental •Providing safe work environment construction regulations, guidelines, standards and special conditions Standards •Practicing environment-centered management and improved 18 of them to prevent unfair competition and excessive imposition of liabilities. Fair and Transparent Selection of Suppliers In addition, we identify areas of improvement through various communication channels and make necessary improvement. Through At KEPCO, we established the ‘Real-time Tender Information ALIO on-site open VOC activities and seminars with SMEs, we received 157 Management Disclosure System’ which uploads tender announcements items for improvement and improved 77 of them. to ALIO for the first time in the public sector. Thanks to the system, we can disclose tender information in real time and prevent any omission in the information to ensure its transparency. We also re-established our SRM (Supplier Relationship Management) to share information through SMS and email in real time and manage the tender qualification of Selected as Excellent Corporation suppliers in a more transparent and fair manner. by Ministry of SMEs and Startups 2017 Win-win Growth Evaluation in Public Sector Developing New Suppliers and Lowering Barriers to Entry At KEPCO, we organize ‘Presentation for Registration’ and ‘On-site Mentoring Program’ on a regular basis to secure new suppliers. We provide SMEs with information about purchase forecast, registration 64 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value BUSINESS STORY Fostering Youth Win-win Growth Supporters K-Energy Startup As part of our support for youth startups and creating quality jobs in private sectors, we are increasing our investment in future-oriented business and developing prospective startups in order to build an ecosystem and growth engine in the new energy industry. Building Startup Cluster through Bitgaram Innovation Center In order to support startups and venture companies in the energy sector, we established Bitgaram Innovation Center (‘Bitgaram Center’) in February 2017. The Bitgaram Center was established to support and promote startups in the energy industry and create jobs through education programs, technological innovation of local companies, the development of projects specialized for local areas, and business school and expo. It also serves as a base in the energy sector as it coordinates with Energy Valley and other energy infrastructure in Gwangju and Jeonnam to support the ecosystem in the new energy industry. Major Projects of Bitgaram Innovation Center •Establish K-Energy Startup Growth Program •Develop companies based on on/offline power data •Provide financial and technological support for venture businesses and SMEs Support Startups and Venture Businesses Base for Startup and Demonstration Support HR Development and Job Creation Support Local Innovation •Establish new departments in energy sector in local colleges •Build a demonstration cluster in coordination with Energy Valley •Organize a job fair and increase employment programs •Support technological innovation consulting and energy saving for local companies K-Energy Startup Development Performance K-Energy Startup Development Program (Unit: Company) For the first time in the public sector, we established a startup support system and plan to support 300 companies over 5 years by 2020. Startups and SMEs with less than 7 years’ operation 65 111 selected for the program will be provided with financial support 2017 May 2018 of up to KRW 200 million, office space at the Bitgaram Center, mentoring from experts, and access to the KEPCO Demonstration Plan to Support Energy Startups Test Center and patented technologies. As of May 2018, we selected 111 startups in total. We will further increase our support Startup Infrastructure and Investment Consulting Service for startups in the new energy sector by matching the fund •Provide office space •Attract external investors through through the Win-win Growth Supporters Agreement. •Organize business school for startups TIPS (Tech Incubator Program for (2 times) Startup) •Advance the startup support •Operate Accelerator Matching Day system based on our research and •Organize Demo Day Startup demonstration facilities, and in Investment Presentation coordination with related departments •Organize a group of mentors in finance, patent and laws 65 2018 Sustainability Report Social Contribution System Social Contribution Strategy At KEPCO, we are fulfilling our social responsibilities by establishing the 4 Core Strategies and detailed strategic objectives and operating specialized social contribution programs. In addition, we established a strategy to expand our social contribution in line with our group’s vision of ‘protecting people’s basic right to use energy and improving energy welfare’ and organize Social Contribution Committee and quarterly meetings as part of our CSR programs. Vision Improve the system to ensure stable supply of electric power and create values for customers Core Strategy Consideration for Fulfilling corporate Energy welfare Government policy followship socially vulnerable responsibilities in groups global society Alignment with SDGs* Provide sustainable energy Support sustainable economic Respond to climate change and Build safe, resilient and Enhance health and welfare for at a reasonable price growth and create quality jobs take emergency measures sustainable living environment people of all ages Implementation Social Contribution Management Social Contribution Fund KEPCO Volunteer Group System System •‘Love Fund’ raised by employees •Largest volunteer group among public •Volunteer activities database (KRW 1.5 billion) corporations •Volunteer group news displays on •Donation by the company •309 groups nationwide with more than screensaver (KRW 19.3 billion) 20,000 employee volunteers •Volunteer Mileage management * ‌Adopted by the UN member states in September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are goals that all countries around the globe are jointly working on to achieve. It consists of 17 goals and detailed tasks that are aimed at alleviating threats to sustainable development, such as economic and social polarization and climate change. Social Contribution Implementation Process 2017 Social Contribution Performance Our social contribution fund is raised by monthly donations from employees known as ‘Love Fund’ and matched by the company. In KRW 20.8 billion 2017, we spent a social contribution fund of KRW 20.8 billion, double the amount of last year. In addition, we organized the largest volunteer Social Contribution Fund (Love Fund, etc.) group among public corporations (309 groups nationwide with more than 20,000 employee volunteers). We monitor our social contribution performance through social contribution management system and share 20,000 (all employees) information and feedback in real time with employees. Number of employee volunteers 169,207hours Volunteer participation hours 66 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value Energy Welfare Campaign SDG 7 Provide sustainable energy at a reasonable price △ Social Enterprise Solar Power Plant Support △ Energy of Love, Briquette Sharing Sharing Happiness by Supporting Photovoltaic Power Energy Welfare for the Vulnerable Population Facilities At KEPCO, we believe that all people should be able to use energy ‘Photovoltaic Power Facility Support Project’ is one of our key social regardless of their income, so we are committed to providing energy contribution programs designed for social and economic organizations, welfare support for the vulnerable population. With employee donations, social welfare facilities and the underprivileged. We support free we organized low-income family support projects to reduce their burden construction of photovoltaic power facilities for social and economic on electricity and delayed cutting electricity for households that failed organizations in rural areas and use the revenue generated from the to pay their electric bills as part of our basic energy rights protection facilities to create jobs. In addition, solar panels are installed free of program. charge in social welfare facilities and houses of the underprivileged to help them reduce their electricity cost. In 2017, we installed the facilities for 30 social companies and 150 households designated as social welfare facilities and the underprivileged. Total Energy Welfare Support Programs •Financial support for electric bill for the underprivileged such as low-income facilities and people with disabilities Discount on Electric Bill •Selected the beneficiaries in coordination with the National Voucher* •KRW 483.1 billion for 2.85 million households •Financed 50% of high-efficiency air conditioning facilities Support High Energy •Reduced energy cost and improved energy efficiency and eco-friendly consumption Efficiency facilities •KRW 100 billion for 80,000 social welfare facilities nationwide •Financial support for electric bills to the underprivileged through employee donation and matching grant Sharing energy with love •KRW 300 million for 2,000 households •Donate and deliver briquettes to the underprivileged Energy of Love, •Low CO2 eco-friendly briquettes in response to climate change Briquette Sharing •KRW 1.2 billion, 2 million briquettes for 10,000 households * National Voucher: subsidies to support welfare services such as medical care, childcare, education and culture for specific groups, beneficiaries can use the fund through Kukmin Haengbok Card after verification of their eligibility. 67 2018 Sustainability Report Social Value Creation through Win-win Growth SDG 8 Support sustainable economic growth and create quality jobs △ Support for Socioeconomic growth △ Sinbaram Energy School Support for Socioeconomic Growth Building Local Talent Development Infrastructure At KEPCO, we contribute to the socioeconomic growth of our country At KEPCO, we are working on the establishment of KEPCO Tech based through customized support throughout the business lifecycle of on the Energy Valley Academic-Industrial-Research Cluster to stimulate establishment, growth and maturity. In 2017, we made an impact job market and boost local economy through investment in building investment on the socioeconomic organizations in their maturity stage infrastructure. In order to foster local talents in the energy sector and for the first time in the public sectors. We invest 100% in social projects in response to the Energy Conversion, we established Sinbaram Energy and provide consultation for management. The profit will be distributed School to provide more than 2,300 students in 14 middle schools in at a certain ratio and our investment and distributed profit will be the Honam Region with opportunities to explore their career options. reinvested. By doing so, we expect to create social values and profit The program is designed to provide various programs including KEPCO while fostering social companies with strong competitive advantages. headquarters and promotion center tour, career exploration in the energy sector, team projects and Energy Golden Bell and has been met with great enthusiasm by the participants. Customized Support for Socioeconomic Organization by Business Cycle Crowdfunding Establishment •Secure initial financing to ensure sustainability •Financed KRW 150 million for 20 companies Expanding overseas sales channels •Support the development of overseas sales channels for Growth global competitiveness •Financed KRW 150 million for 20 companies Making impact investment Maturity •Foster competitive social companies •Financed KRW 200 million for 2 companies 68 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value Building Trust with Local Community At KEPCO, we are engaging in various local community support activities communities by playing films at “Bitgaram Movie Theater” while raising in addition to creating values through economic growth. We are helping a total of KRW 48.15 million for “Local Community Charity Fund” as we the farmers through the “1 Department for 1 Village” campaign and donated KRW 3,000 for every movie viewer through “Counter of Love” provide career experience and education support programs for local in 2017. children’s centers. We also provide a cultural experience for our local BUSINESS CASE Building a Foundation for Industrial Ecosystem for the Future through Energy Valley Bitgaram Energy Valley is a global smart energy hub established to develop Gwangju Jeonnam into a region specialized for the new energy industry and promote balanced growth of our country. It was selected by the government to lead local economic growth for the new government project. We focus on supporting and developing businesses and startups in the new energy sector through loan interest support, fund investment, sales channel benefits and stable human resource supply with the aim to attract investment for 500 companies, foster 3,000 professionals and create more than 30,000 jobs by 2020. In 2017, we made large-scale investments in establishing HVDC convergence clusters through global partnerships with GE, and supporting and fostering ICT companies. Energy Valley Roadmap Maturity Building Foundation 2019~2020 Establishment 2015~2016 2017~2018 Global energy hub Smart energy city Joined by 500 companies / Created 30,000 jobs Test-bed for new industries Joined by 400 companies Joined by 300 companies Support for Investment Companies (2017 performance) Growth Support Human Resource Support R&D Support •Loan interest support (KRW 147.4 billion) and fund •Customized human resource development •Smart Energy City & Campus, underground investment for Energy Valley (KRW 51.5 billion) programs (e.g. academic-industrial cooperation, distribution station •Priority purchase for goods produced in special development of skilled workers) •Establishment of SW Open Lab, New Energy support areas (KRW 87.9 billion) •Dream System for long-term employment Technology R&D Center, and Electric Research •Support B2B trade for goods produced through Energy (incentive) system Sub-Centers Valley Plaza Energy Valley Performance (As of May 2018, cumulative) Joined by Employed Invested 310 companies 8,142 people KRW 1,267.8 billion 69 2018 Sustainability Report Environmental Protection SDG 13 Respond to climate change and take emergency measures △ Han River Park Type Substation △ Supported the PyeongChang Winter Olympics with electric vehicles Green Management Carbon Management To improve the quality of life for local residents and build our reputation For the first time in the public sector, we planted 30,000 trees in as an eco-friendly corporation, we established a park substation on approximately 10ha of Gangwon-do and created ‘KEPCO Forest with the side of the Han River. In addition, we supported the PyeongChang Participation of People’ as part of our forest carbon offset project. In Winter Olympics by building eco-friendly power facilities such as addition, we helped build 30 facilities for the reduction of particulate underground distribution lines and indoor substation and providing matters and prevent idling of buses while planting about 5,000 trees in electric vehicles and charging stations. 33 elementary schools nationwide through the Forestation Campaign for Children. Building Social Safety Net SDG 11 Build safe, resilient and sustainable living environment KEPCO119 Rescue Team Since 2010, we have operated the KEPCO 119 Rescue Group, the only disaster rescue organization in the public sector. The group consists of 3 teams including Life Saving, Medical Support and On-site Support Teams in 6 regions nationwide and we strengthen our emergency response through advanced training. In 2017, we provided emergency medical services for the PyeongChang Winter Olympics, and disaster recovery support for heavy rain in Chungbuk and earthquake in Pohang. △ KEPCO 119 Rescue Group 70 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value Social Contribution by Lifecycle educational support for middle-school students through scholarship programs, and operate an overseas volunteer group. We also offer At KEPCO, we engage in social contribution activities for various location services for people with dementia using wearable devices groups including children/adolescents, college students/youth, and healthcare service for senior citizens living alone. We provide senior citizens/underprivileged. For children and adolescents, we eyesight recovery surgeries to low-income patients, who are in organized campaigns for missing children and a ‘Bitgaram Electricity danger of blindness, and operate total energy welfare programs to Class’ for electrician training at juvenile detention centers. Also protect people’s right to use energy. for college students and youths, we run a ‘Power Class’ to provide Global Social Contribution SDG 3 Enhance health and welfare for people of all age △ Overseas volunteer program △ Eye Love Project Overseas Employee Volunteer Program experience to students who will lead the future of Korea, which is a win-win situation on the global stage, to feel the importance of living To promote value of sharing and fulfill our social responsibility as a together. global corporate citizen, we dispatched 90 employee volunteers to Sri Lanka and Mongolia in 2017. We built playgrounds and sports Global Sharing of Light Campaign facilities, painted the walls, repaired schools and libraries, supported classes for children through Korean culture classes, and organized We organized ‘Eye Love Project (Presenting the Light of the World)’ sporting events for children. where we provided eye surgery for people from low-income families who are losing their vision. In 2017, we provided medical treatment for Overseas College Student Volunteer Program 1,828 people and arranged surgery for 495 patients in three countries including Nigeria as part of the ‘Light of the Dream and Hope’ campaign. In 2017, we selected 90 college students and sent 30 students to each of three developing countries Indonesia, Cambodia, and Mongolia. As part of our global social responsibility program, we repaired school and public facilities, and provided support for building local photovoltaic systems in underdeveloped countries. In particular, we provided valuable 71 2018 Sustainability Report BUSINESS STORY KEPCO’s Social Contribution at a Glance At KEPCO, our social contribution activities are divided into Social Contribution by Lifecycle, Global Social Contribution and Win-win Growth with Local Community. We will continue to fulfill our social responsibility and share happiness with people by building a social safety net and supporting sustainable growth of local community. Win-win Growth with Local Community Energy Valley Social and Economic Organization Energy Park •Create jobs and promote balanced national growth by •Support for KEPCO Sharing Happiness Photovoltaic •Create residentand eco-friendly space by building a global energy hub. Power Plant remodeling substations •Operate social and economic organization •Provide convenience facilities supporters for customized support by business cycle (e.g. rooftop park, theme trails and sports facilities) 180 facilities Sharing Happiness photovoltaic Substations to be remodeled. 8,327jobs power facilities support Created Socioeconomic organization supporters KRW 2.7billion More than 830 substations Global Social Contribution Mongolia Overseas volunteer group (2017) 45 overseas employee volunteers• 90 30 overseas college student volunteers• Overseas Bhutan employee volunteers Surgery 87 patients• 90 Medical treatment 844 patients• Cambodia •30 overseas college student volunteers Overseas Sri Lanka college student volunteers 45 overseas employee volunteers• Vietnam •Surgery 93 patients •Medical treatment 651 patients Eye Love Project (2017) Indonesia 1,828 •30 overseas college student volunteers Diagnosis patients Nigeria •Surgery 315 patients •Medical treatment 333 patients Surgery 495 patients 72 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value KEPCO Social Contribution in Consideration of Lifecycle Children and Youths Missing Children Prevention Campaign Distributed children’s name tags and bands at the event venues Financial support KRW 200 million Missing Children Search Campaign Posted ads on electric bills 3 children per month Bitgaram Electricity Class Helped youths in juvenile detention centers adapt to society through electrician certification support Financial support: KRW 100 million College Students and Young Adults Power Class 50 scholarship recipients 200 million Provided scholarships for college students and educational support for middle-school students from low-income families scholarship fund KRW Overseas College Student Volunteer Group Dispatched college student volunteers in three Southeast Asian countries to support building photovoltaic power facilities, electricity 90 volunteers science class, and talent donation Senior Citizen and Underprivileged Location service for senior citizens with dementia 50 senior citizens Provided healthcare and location service for demented senior citizens and their guardians using wearable devices financial support KRW 200 million Electric bill discount for 2.85 million households / KRW 483.1 billion Electric Bill Support for Low-income Families Total energy welfare support program to Love Energy Sharing support protect people’s right to use energy 2,000 households / KRW 300 million Eye Love Project ‘Sharing Lights of the World’ Domestic 100 patients overseas 2,323 patients Provided eye surgery and medical treatment for patients from low-income families (Lights of the World) Homecoming support for multicultural families 100 beneficiaries 200 million Helped multicultural families visit foreign spouse’s home country to provide information about the countries financial support KRW 73 2018 Sustainability Report SPECIAL STORY Supporting the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics (Feb. 9-25) and Paralympic Winter Games (March 9-18) were successfully held thanks to support from KEPCO and the citizens. Zero-fault electric power supply Olympics Power Facilities and Infrastructure Since 2015, we have invested a total of KRW 150.9 billion to build and upgrade 154-kV (kilovolt) substations, transformers, transmission and distribution lines. From November 2016 to March 2017, we conducted 22 tests to improve our power supply capabilities for the Olympics. ICT System Operation At our headquarters and regional office in Gangwon, we operated a control center with 238 personnel for 24 hours a day. In particular, we built a state-of-the-art power ICT system to monitor electric power facilities for the Olympics in real time. KEPCO PR Center Promoting the Future Smart Energy City We operated ‘KEPCO PR Center’ to provide visitors from all over the world with opportunities to experience the Future Smart Energy City using VR technology and multimedia shows. The center consists of the main show area, VR experience area, and power group promotion area to provide video shows and experiences. The visitors enjoyed the VR experience in particular as they experienced off-shore wind, solar power, and electric vehicle infrastructures as athletes competing for biathlon and alpine skiing at the Winter Olympics. 157,000 people in total Visitors of the PR Center 74 Sustainability Topics Topic 5. Leading the Realization of Social Value For the first time in public sector, we supported the PyeongChang Winter Olympics as an official sponsor (Tier 1 Sponsor) and contributed to the successful hosting of the event without any power failure as we showcased our superior technological expertise. Eco-friendly/Safe Olympics Eco-friendly Olympics We provided 150 electric vehicles for free hire service and 26 quick charging stations during the Olympics to reduce GHG emissions. 96.8 tons 150 cars CO2 reduction electric vehicles for free hire service Emergency medical support by KEPCO 119 Rescue Group KEPCO119 Rescue Group consisting of our employees provided emergency medical services at major events including alpine ski, cross country, and bobsleigh. Encouraging Promotion and Participation for Olympics Creating Atmosphere for Successful Hosting of Olympics We posted our Olympics support messages on more than 3,000 KEPCO vehicles nationwide and electric bills to promote the Olympics. We also invited more than 100 personages from more than 10 countries in the energy and power sectors for the opening ceremony, competitions and power infrastructure tour program. Support for the Socially Vulnerable Groups We invited more than 1,000 people from the vulnerable groups to the PyeongChang Olympic and Paralympic Games. 75 Appendix Sustainability Data 78 Independent Assurance Statement 84 GRI Content Index 86 Major Subsidiaries 90 Memberships and Awards 91 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Data Economy Consolidated statements of financial position (Unit: KRW million) th th Description 55 (’15.1.1~’15.12.31) 56 (’16.1.1~’16.12.31) 57th (’17.1.1~’17.12.31) Current assets 22,025,325 19,708,526 19,141,707 Non-current assets 153,232,034 158,128,516 162,647,208 Total assets 175,257,359 177,837,042 181,788,915 Current liabilities 22,710,842 24,739,226 23,424,281 Non-current liabilities 84,604,042 80,047,271 85,399,993 Total liabilities 107,314,884 104,786,497 108,824,274 Paid-in capital 4,053,578 4,053,578 4,053,578 Retained earnings 48,187,241 53,173,871 53,370,558 Other components of equity 14,393,648 14,496,244 14,257,309 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,308,008 1,326,852 1,283,196 Non-controlling interest 67,942,475 73,050,545 72,964,641 Consolidated income statement (Unit: KRW million) Description 55th (’15.1.1~’15.12.31) 56th (’16.1.1~’16.12.31) 57th (’17.1.1~’17.12.31) Sales 58,957,722 60,190,384 59,814,862 Cost of sales 45,457,729 45,549,553 52,098,855 Gross profit 13,499,993 14,640,831 7,716,007 Selling and administrative expenses 2,153,261 2,639,232 2,762,855 Operating profit 11,346,732 12,001,599 4,953,152 Other income 432,219 412,887 390,145 Other expenses 108,848 188,624 180,055 Other profit (loss) 8,610,773 70,498 156,627 Finance income 1,182,988 791,543 1,530,618 Finance costs 3,015,457 2,437,087 3,127,952 Other comprehensive profit or loss of associates 207,379 (137,348) (108,317) Profit before income tax 18,655,786 10,513,468 3,614,218 Income tax expense 5,239,413 3,365,141 2,172,824 Net income 13,416,373 7,148,327 1,441,394 Other comprehensive income 34,006 (2,302) (94,716) Total comprehensive income 13,450,379 7,146,025 1,346,678 78 Appendix Sustainability Data Creating economic value (based on separate figures) (Based on separate figures) Description Unit 2015 2016 2017 Power sales GWh 483,655 497,039 513,223 Power sales revenue KRW billion 58,540.4 60,289.6 59,965.8 Operating profit KRW billion 4,425.4 4,881.5 1,553.6 Profit for the period KRW billion 10,165.7 4,262 1,506.8 Company value (based on the closing price for the period) (Based on the closing price of the year) Description Unit 2015 2016 2017 Stock price KRW 50,000 44,050 38,150 Market price KRW billion 32,098.2 28,278.5 24,490.9 Credit rating Moody’s Aa2 Stable Aa2 Stable Aa2 Stable Distributing economic value (Unit: KRW billion) Description 2015 2016 2017 Shareholders (Dividends) Total 1,990.1 1.271.1 507.2 Government 362.2 231.3 92.3 General 1,004.7 649.1 261.5 Foreigners 623.2 390.7 153.3 Dividend rate (%) 62 39.6 15.8 KEPCO Group power generation companies (Power purchase cost) 43,218.5 43,231.9 43,440.4 Creditors (Interest expense) 1,092.6 844.2 738 Donations 15.1 22.8 28.4 Purchase of products produced by SMEs 5,825.9 5,268.4 6,391.6 Employees Total 1,890.1 2,138.8 2,152.9 Salaries 1,532.5 1,674.5 1,670.9 Retirement benefits 153.7 180.9 178.7 Employee benefits 203.9 283.5 303.3 Economy Sector Goal Classification Goal for 2017 Achievement in 2017 Goal for 2018 Midto long-term goal for 2020 Blackout time (minute/household) 9.34 9.08 8.84 7.92 Capacity of electric power facilities completed for overseas businesses (MW) 5,338 6,195 5,568 6,138 Secure core strategic technologies (Case, accumulated) 69 69 89 134 Liabilities rate (%) 91.6 91 102 111.8 79 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Data Environment Use of materials (Unit: Ton) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Concrete 602,605 659,404 224,644 Metal 103,597 79,656 17,130 Ceramics 68 108 10 Power lines 42,586 44,505 15,464 Others 13,430 14,956 5,594 Total 762,286 798,629 262,842 Eco-friendly cars among business purpose vehicles Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Cars for Business No. of Cars 1,843 1,937 2,151 Eco-friendly cars (including compact cars) 1,603 1,700 1,936 Compact cars 1,312 1,243 1,130 Hybrid vehicles 146 142 142 Electric vehicles 145 315 664 Percentage of eco-friendly cars % 87 87.8 90.0 Generation and recycle of wastes by type Category 2015 2016 2017 Generation (Ton) Generation (Ton) Generation (Ton) Recycling (Ton) Recycling rate (%) Concrete 51,561 65,807 18,867 14,783 78.4 Metal 22,449 24,164 6,617 6,147 92.9 Ceramics 23 47 7 3 42.9 Power lines 6,254 7,246 2,343 2,022 86.3 Others 1,890 2,773 876 597 68.2 Total 82,177 100,037 28,710 23,552 82.0 Purchase of green products and purchase percentage (Unit: KRW million, %) 2015 2016 2017 Total Green products Percentage Total Green products Percentage Total Green products Percentage 16,575 15,574 94 26,351 25,344 96.2 26,703 25,093 94.0 80 Appendix Sustainability Data Energy (Unit: TJ) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Consumption 5,995 6,425 6,554 Performance of the emissions trading scheme* (Unit: 10,000 tCO2eq) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Allocation 111 2311) 91 2) Emissions 130.9 139.8 147.5 * Emission coefficient and methodology: “Guidelines on Emission Report and Certification for Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System” were applied. 1) Include additional quota of 1.43 million tons of CO2eq due to the early reduction performance during 2011-2013. 2) Any excess or reduction of emission is adjusted through purchase of carbon emission rights or borrowing/deferment of the quota from/to the following year. Greenhouse gas emissions and emission intensity (Unit: 10,000 tCO2eq for emissions; ton/KRW 100 million for intensity) Classification 2016 2017 Emissions Intensity Emissions Intensity Scope 1 123 2.03 129 2.15 Scope 2 17 0.29 18.4 0.3 (Unit: ton CO2eq) Classification 2017 Purchased goods Fuel and energy Upstream Waste generated in Business travel Employee and services related activities transportation and operations commuting distribution Scope 3 47,984,469 228,357,827 6 1,099 14,333 464 Air pollutants (Including KEPCO Group power generation companies) (Unit: g/MWh) Classification 2015 2016 2017 SOx 165 156 138 NOx 266 246 177 Dust 8 7 7 Environment Sector Goal Classification Goal for 2017 Achievement in 2017 Goal for 2018 Midto long-term goal for 2020 Transmission and distribution loss factor (%) 3.72 3.57 3. 716 3. 716 Rate of undergrounding electric distribution lines (%) 17.6 17.7 18.3 21 or more Renewable energy capacity (MW) 198 198 191 542 81 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Data Social Workforce (Unit: Person) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees 20,620 21,544 22,196 By employment type Regular employees 20,196 20,957 21,627 Employees under unlimited contracts 10 1 0 Non-regular employees 414 586 569 By gender Male 16,926 17,563 17,918 Female 3,694 3,981 4,278 By age Under 30 years of age 2,433 3,369 4,203 Aged 30-40 4,920 4,832 4,631 Over 40 years of age 13,267 13,343 13,362 Newly hired 1,041 1,433 1,574 Retirees 774 681 802 Employee trainings (Unit: Person) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Senior executives 2,302 2,923 3,369 Junior executives 5,750 9,059 9,253 Staff 5,849 20,981 26,050 Training hours per employee (Unit: Hours) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Training hours per employee 80.7 81.6 86.4 Maternity protection system operation performance Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Parental leave before or after childbirth Person 149 139 114 Childcare leave (Male) 336 (36) 310 (41) 328 (36) Infertility leave 22 22 12 Reduced work hours for childcare 12 22 10 Return rate after parental leave (Male) % 95 / 98.3 100 / 96.8 90.9 / 98.2 Work rate of more than 1 year after parental leave 98 97.3 97 82 Appendix Sustainability Data Labor union membership status Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Labor union status Person 20,705 21,449 22,125 Labor union membership rate % 72.46 72.66 71.80 * The issues discussed and decided at the Labor union apply to all employees Accident of outsourced construction projects Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 1) Accident rate % 0.37 0.24 0.28 Fatality rate per 10,000 persons2) 0/000 1.00 1.18 1.80 1) Accident rate =(Number of casualties/Regular employees) x 100 2) Fatality rate per 10,000 persons =(Number of the death/Regular employees) x 10,000 Purchase of products produced by SMEs (Unit: KRW billion) Classification 2015 2016 2017 Purchase 5,825.9 5,268.4 6,391.6 Major suppliers* in 2017 (Unit: Company) Classification Number of registered items Number of registered companies Transmission and substation 146 511 Distribution 91 886 Information and communication 4 6 Total 241 1,403 •Characteristics of Suppliers We register companies that produce and supply materials and equipment with major impacts on the quality and stability of power based on reviews of their qualities and processes, and manage and operate them. Status of suppliers: first-tier: 1,149 companies, second-tier: 12,706 companies Major areas of business: production of materials and equipment in the electrical power sector (e.g. cable, switch) Social Sector Goal Classification Goal for 2017 Achievement in 2017 Goal for 2018 Midto long-term goal for 2020 Rate of preferential purchase of products manufactured by SMEs (%) 70.7 72.1 70.8 70.9 Safety accident victims (person) 94 74 72 58 Number of companies attracted into the Bitgaram Energy Valley 250 280 300 500 (company) 83 2018 Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Statement Introduction •reviewed the materiality assessment report. Korea Electric Power Corporation (“KEPCO”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to Limitations undertake independent assurance of KEPCO 2018 Sustainability Report The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance (the “Report”). KEPCO have sole responsibility for the preparation of the and reporting practices of KEPCO’s six subsidiaries (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea Western to the management of KEPCO in accordance with the terms of reference. Power, Korea Southern Power, and Korea East-West Power), associated DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the the data and information provided by KEPCO for our review have been Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this prepared in good faith. Assurance Engagement. The consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr), the website of Public Management Scope of assurance Information System (ALIO; www.alio.go.kr) and KEPCO’s website (www. The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and kepco.co.kr) are not included in the assurance scope. Limited depth of non-financial performance data over the reporting period from 1st January evidence gathering were applied including inquiry and analytical procedures to 31st December 2017. This also includes; and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization. Economic •Evaluation of the Report on the adherence to the reporting performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal principles for defining report content and the reporting principles for documents and the audited consolidated financial statement. The baseline defining report quality set forth in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the Sustainability Reporting Standards. aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV •Review of the process for determining material topics for reporting GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a and the management approach to material topics and the process person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to Basis of our opinion suggest that the Report is not prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Standards The assurance engagement was planned and carried out using DNV GL’s Core option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional following Principles in the GRI Standards are made below; experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We provided the Stakeholder Inclusiveness limited level of assurance. The assurance engagement was carried out in KEPCO has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as June 2018 and the site visits were made to KEPCO’s headquarters in Naju, citizens/customers, local communities, shareholders, the government/ Jeollanam-do, Republic of Korea. We undertook the following activities as National Assembly, mass media, academia/experts, domestic partners, part of the assurance process: overseas partners, employees, and the labour union. KEPCO engages •challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made with the stakeholders through various channels to understand respective in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data stakeholder groups’ interests and expectations. The communication management system, information flow and controls; channels, major expectations and concerns from stakeholder groups, •interviewed representatives from the various departments; actions to share core values and KEPCO’s corresponding responses are •reviewed documents, sampled data, externally disclosed reports; described in the Report. 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 84 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Sustainability Context Report quality: Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and The Report addresses KEPCO’s vison, core value, the midand longTimeliness term strategy, strategic objectives and value chain. In addition, the Report DNV GL verified the data and information based on sampling methodology describes management approaches for the 5 main material topics together during the verification process. The verification team interviewed the with relevant business risks and opportunities and performances in 2017. responsible individuals, reviewed the process of gathering and processing The Report enables the stakeholders to understand KEPCO’s sustainability data and information, and the supporting documents and records. management. Relevant information and performances in the Report can be compared on a year-to-year basis. The report is published yearly on a regular Materiality schedule. Based on sampling verification and other reported information KEPCO has conducted materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The and available evidence, nothing comes to our attention that would cause relevant 34 issues were derived by analysing peers’ reports, media research us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have and the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards etc. The any intentional error or material misstatement. issues are prioritized by taking into account the stakeholders’ interest and business impact on KEPCO. Subsequently KEPCO has grouped the Competence and Independence prioritized 10 material issues into 5 main topics. The level of stakeholders’ DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies interest was measured on the survey with stakeholders (clients, employees, for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Conformity business partners, local communities and sustainability advisory agencies Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification etc.). The business impact was estimated based on the frequencies and the of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive extent of the relevant 34 issues addressed in the various global initiatives system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures and standards, peers’ reports and the mass media. The assurance team regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards has reviewed the materiality assessment process and nothing comes to and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with our attention that would cause us to believe that material topics identified the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during the assurance engagement and from the assessment are not reported. maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of Completeness sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the The Report has covered the sustainability management approach and preparation of statements or data included in the report except for sustainability performances of KEPCO for the reporting period. The this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality reporting boundary has been set for KEPCO’s domestic workplaces toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. During including the headquarters in Naju, Republic of Korea. However, the report 2017~2018, DNV GL has not provided any services which could be includes the environmental investment costs and weight of air pollutants considered as a conflict of independence or impartiality. and water pollutants from six power generation companies (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Korea South-East Power, Korea Midland Power, Korea June 29 2018 West Power, Korea South Power and Korea East Power) in which KEPCO Seoul, Korea has 100% stake. The assurance team noted that the performance results associated with the material topics were reported within the reporting boundary. Further opinions on the report quality is as follows; In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 85 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index General Disclosures Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization 8 Organizational Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 102-4 Location of operations Domestic, 40, 41 102-5 Ownership and legal form 8 102-6 Markets served Domestic, 40, 41 102-7 Scale of the organization 8, 78, 79 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 82 102-9 Supply chain 83 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Annual Report 549, 550p 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 20, 21 102-12 External initiatives 66~71 UN SDGs 102-13 Membership of associations 91 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 18 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 18 102-18 Governance structure 14 102-22 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 17 102-23 Chairman of highest governance body 14 102-25 Conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 15 102-25 Group knowledge of the highest governance body 15 102-35 Remuneration policies 17 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22, 23 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 83 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22, 23 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22, 23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 22, 23 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 548, 549p 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24, 25 102-47 List of material topics 25 102-48 Restatements of information Reported in each page 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI content index 86~89 102-56 External assurance 84, 85 86 Appendix GRI Contents Index Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 103: 103-1 Material Topic and its boundary 25 Management 103-2 Management Approach and its Components 87, 88 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of management method 87, 88 Material Topics Economic Performance (GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Economic Performance (GRI 200) Page Note GRI 203: 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 34, 58 Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 69, 74 Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 47, 53, 67, 69 GRI 205: 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 18 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 18, 19 We do not manage the number of ethics management committee members who communicate anti-corruption policies / procedures by region. We conduct ethics management training for 2,507 employees in suppliers. (Although we do not manage all suppliers number, we plan to implement data management in the future.) Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 302: 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 42 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 81 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 81 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 43~46 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 43, 44 GRI 305: 103-1, 2, 3 Management Approach 42 Emission 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 81 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 81 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 81 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 43~46 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 81 87 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index Social Performance (GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 403: 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 48 Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 54, 83 We do not manage data by gender / Health and Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities region, but we plan to manage data in the future. GRI 412: 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 48 Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 57 Assessment GRI 413: 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 48 Local Community 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 45, 66~73 assessments, and development programs Electric utility sector supplement Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Organizational profile 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 81 EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, 81 broken down by carbon trading framework R&D 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 28 EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed 32 at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development Employment 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 48 EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and 54, 55 employees of contractors and subcontractors Employment 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 48 EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that 54 have undergone relevant health and safety training Access 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 34 EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, 35, 36 to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services Provision of 103-1,2,3 Management Approach 34 information EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers 59, 67 to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services General Topics Economic Performance (GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 79 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 43 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 18, 19 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 18, 19 GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No such cases Anti-competitive Behaviour 88 Appendix GRI Contents Index Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 80 Materials 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 80 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 45 Biodiversity high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 45 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 45 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 44 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 80 306-3 Significant spills No such cases GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No such cases Environmental Compliance Social Performance (GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 82 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 51 part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 82 GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health 54 Occupational and safety committees Health and Safety 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 54 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 54 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 82 Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 50 Education GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 14, 82 Diversity and 405-2 Female basic salary and compensation ratio compared to male Same as men and Equal Opportunity women salary Non-discrimination GRI 416: 416-1 Safety and Health Impact Assessment of Products and Services 35 Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and No such cases and Safety services GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 59, 61 Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information No such cases Labeling and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No such cases GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer No such cases Customer Privacy data GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No such cases Socioeconomic Compliance 89 2018 Sustainability Report Major Subsidiaries Power generation companies Korea Hydro & Nuclear •Address 1655, Bulguk-ro, Yangbuk-myeon, Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do It is the only company in Korea that operates nuclear power plants, and also Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 9,415,751 million operates hydropower and pumped storage power plants. Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 55,011,096 million •Production 153,578GWh •Home page www.khnp.co.kr •Power generation 146,207,009MWh Korea South-East •Address 32, Sadeul-ro 123beon-gil, Jinju-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Operates five power plants: Yeongheung Power Division, Samcheonpo Power Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 5,387,846 million Division, Yeongdong Eco Power Division, Yeosu Power Division, and Bundang Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 9,879,577 million Power Division. •Home page www.koenergy.kr •Production 70,632GWh •Power generation 66,638,482MWh Korea Midland •Address 160, Boryeongbuk-ro, Boryeong-si, Chungcheongnam-do Operates six power plants: Boryeong Power Division, Incheon Power Division, Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 4,167,009 million Seoul Construction Division, Shinboryeong Power Division, Jeju Power Division, Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 9,893,822 million and Sejong Power Division. •Home page www.komipo.co.kr •Production 47,150GWh •Power generation 50,255,546MWh Korea Western •Address 285, Jungang-ro, Taean-eup, Taean-gun, Chungcheongnam-do Operates four power plants: Taean Power Division, Peyongtaek Power Division, Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 4,199,079 million Seoincheon Power Division, and Gunsan Power Division. Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 9,660,426 million •Production 47,936GWh •Home page www.westernpower.co.kr •Power generation 45,464,909MWh Korea Southern •Address 40, Munhyeongeumyung-ro, Nam-gu, Busan Operates seven power plants: Hadong Power Division, Shinincheon Power Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 4,397,552 million Division, Busan Power Division, Namjeju Power Division, Yeongwol Power Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 9,648,741 million Division, Andong Power Division, and Samcheok Power Division. •Home page www.kospo.co.kr •Production 49,014GWh •Power generation 47,659,952MWh Korea East·West •Address 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan Operates five thermal power plants: Ilsan Thermal Power Division, Dangjin Power Co., Ltd. •Sales KRW 4,644,330 million Thermal Power Division, Honam Thermal Power Division, Ulsan Thermal Power Ownership 100% •Total assets KRW 8,855,518 million Division, and Donghae Bio Thermal Power Division. •Home page www.ewp.co.kr •Production 50,802GWh •Power generation 48,310,154MWh Group companies and invested companies KEPCO Engineering & •Address 269, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do As an engineering company related to power generators and plants, KEPCO E&C Construction Company •Sales KRW 506,012 million has been engaging in the design of nuclear, hydroelectric, and thermal power Inc. •Total assets KRW 762,166 million plants, O&M for generation facilities, plant construction business, and PM/CM Ownership 65.77% •Home page www.kepco-enc.com business since its founding in 1975. KEPCO KPS •Address 211, Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do KEPCO KPS is a world-leading comprehensive plant service company and Ownership 51.00% •Sales KRW 1,214,304 million provides high-quality maintenance services for power plants (nuclear, thermal, •Total assets KRW 1,195,086 million and hydroelectric), transmission and substations, and industrial facilities. •Home page www.kps.co.kr KEPCO NF •Address 242, Daedeok-daero 989beon-gil, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon KEPCO NF is the only nuclear fuel design and manufacturing company in Korea Ownership 96.36% •Sales KRW 309,911 million that was established to localize nuclear fuel and achieve technological self•Total assets KRW 792,187 million reliance. •Home page www.knfc.co.kr KEPCO KDN Co., Ltd. •Address 661, Bitgaram-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do Since its establishment as a company in charge of KEPCO’s IT, KEPCO KDN has Ownership 100.00% •Sales KRW 588,160 million been offering total IT services in all areas of the electric power system, and is •Total assets KRW 524,520 million growing into a global electric power IT company. •Home page www.kdn.com 90 Appendix Major Subsidiaries / Memberships and Awards Memberships and Awards Memberships of Associations and International Organizations Academic Societies/Associations Purpose Year Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Promotion and development of academics and technology related to electrical engineering. 1961 Korea Standard Association Exchange of information on various technological standards, including industrial standardization and quality management. 1964 Korea Electric Association Promotion and development of the overall electric industry. 1965 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Exchange of nuclear power technology information and cooperation. 1975 International Construction Association Raising competitiveness by collecting and analyzing information on overseas construction information. 1976 Korea Management Association Innovating management and providing consulting support. 1981 Korean Society of Public Enterprises Set policy directions for research activities of public corporations. 1987 Korea Industrial Technology Association Share information on technology and environment. 1995 Korean Society for Quality Management Exchange of information among quality management organizations to improve quality management activities. 1995 Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers Between industry and academia in relation to electrical and electronic material engineering. 1996 Korea New & Renewable Energy Promotion of the renewable energy industry and information sharing. 2004 Korea Project Management Association Apply advanced domestic and international PM techniques and share information with relevant organizations. 2004 Korea Plant Industries Association Exchange of information to raise the competitiveness of the plant industry and promote exports. 2006 Korea Energy Foundation Improve energy welfare systems for vulnerable populations. 2006 Korea Development Economics Association Network with experts for the development of power industry policies. 2008 Korean Association for Industrial Technology Security Developing policies and engaging in cooperation for the protection of industrial technology. 2009 Korea Smart Grid Association Smart grid information sharing and cooperation. 2009 Korea Invention Promotion Association Exchange of information and raising competitiveness in the intellectual property market. 2009 Power Industry Research Society Power Industry Research Society. 2011 KCCSA (Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association) Distribution and support for CCS technology. 2011 Export of the Korean standard nuclear power plant, analysis of overseas nuclear trends, cooperation and information sharing Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation 2011 in the nuclear industry. Future Energy Forum Review of current affairs and policies in the energy sector. 2013 Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association Strengthen cooperation with partners in the power equipment and material industry. 2013 National Assembly Forum of Climate Change Engage in decision-making process and collect information about climate policy legislation. 2013 Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association Photovoltaic power market research and collection of new technology information. 2013 Korea Valuation Association Develop talents for patents. 2013 Korea Wind Energy Association Collection of information on R&D of wind energy technologies and participation in proposing policies. 2014 Korea Foundation for Environmental Movements Discuss environmental matters and establish a network for cooperation in the power industry. 2014 Power Law Forum Support legislation for future-oriented power industry. 2015 Korean Foundation for Quality Share information about international and domestic standardization. 2016 Korea Electric Engineers Association Organize training programs and career management for power professionals. 2016 Korea Engineering Asset Management Association Acquire the latest trends and expertise in quality, environment and green management. 2016 Power Industry Development Research Society Strengthen competitiveness with a focus on the future. 2016 The Korean Society of Safety Cooperation in research and exchange of information in safety management. 2017 Fuel Cell Industrial Development Association Gain insight into the fuel cell industry trend and strengthen cooperation and exchange of ideas. 2017 91 2018 Sustainability Report Memberships and Awards Memberships of Associations and International Organizations Academic Societies/Associations Purpose Year Korean Network on Anti-Corruption & Transparency Share anti-corruption activities and ethical practices and develop mutual cooperation. 2018 Private-Public Anti-Corruption Council Engage in anti-corruption policies. 2018 WEC (World Energy Council) Strengthen international cooperation and share expertise and technologies. 1969 AESIEAP (Association of the Electricity Supply Industry Promote cooperation between electric power companies and experts of Asia and the Western Pacific 1998 of East Asia and Western Pacific) EEI (Edison Electric Institute) Exchange of information and technology in the U.S. market 2004 CIRED (International Conference on Electricity Exchange of information with overseas power corporations and contribute to the technology development in Korea 2006 Distribution) CIGRE (International Council on Large Electric Systems) Exchange technological expertise between power system professionals around the world. 2009 WNA (World Nuclear Export Company Group) Group (WNA) Enhancement of international stature and marketing of nuclear power plants 2011 IFIA (International Federation of Inventors’ Associations) Establish connections and a cooperation system with the International Business Association regarding R&D and new technology 2015 GEIDCO (Global Energy Interconnection Development Exchange of information and cooperation on global power systems 2017 and Cooperation Organization) Awards Status Awards Organization Date 2016 Korea Energy Efficiency Award Presidential Medal Ministry of Industry 2016.10 CSV (Creating Shared Value) Porter Award 3 consecutive years Dong-A Ilbo, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 2016.12 Hall of Fame for the first time 2016 Korea Management Award ‘Top Social Value Company’ Korea Management Association 2016.12 2016 Top Korean Local Economy Leader The Seoul Economic Daily 2016.12 The 29th Korea Labor-Management Cooperation Award (first time for first-tier public corporation) Korea Employers Federation 2017. 2 BCM (Business Continuity Management) ISO22031 International Certification International Organization for Standardization 2017. 3 IJ Global Award 2016 MENA Deal of the Year in Renewable and Conversion Categories IJ Global 2017. 3 2017 Corporate Management Award Korean Corporation Management Association 2017. 4 Asia-Oceania Index Award Platinum U.S. EEI (The Edison Electric Institute) 2017. 4 2017 INPEX (Invention and New Product Exposition) Award INPEX 2017. 6 CIO 100 Awards (Technological Innovation Category, 2 consecutive years) U.S. IDG 2017. 8 UK CDP Carbon Management Energy & Utility Sector Honors UK CDP Worldwide 2017.10 2017 International Convention on Quality Control Circles Gold Award (4 consecutive years) ICQCC 2017. 11 rd The 43 National Quality Management Competition Public Sector Presidential Medal Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2017. 11 2017 Top 100 Great Places to Work Public Sector ‘Trust Management Award’ GPTW Institute 2017. 11 th The 12 Customer Satisfaction Management Award Public Sector The Korea Economic Daily 2018. 1 The 31st CIO 100 Awards (3 consecutive years) US IDG 2018. 5 2018 Malaysia International Invention Exhibition Winning 2 Categories including Gold Award ITEX 2018. 5 92 Visit our Website at http://home.kepco.co.kr/kepco/EN/ Visit our Blog ‘Good morning KEPCO’ at http://blog.kepco.co.kr Visit our Facebook Fanpage at https://www.facebook.com/iamkepco Follow us on Twitter at https://twitter.com/iamkepco Follow us on Instagram at https://www.instagram.com/iamkepco Korea Electric Power Corporation 55, Jeollyeok-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do
