Communication on Progress (COP) 2017/18 As a Signatory to United Nations Global Compact Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd November 2018 1 Scanned by CamScanner Contents Background ................................................................................................................................................... 3 Human Rights & Labor Rights ....................................................................................................................... 5 National Human Rights and Labor Laws ................................................................................................... 5 Core Business Activity ............................................................................................................................... 6 Non-Discriminatory Recruitment Policy ............................................................................................... 6 Women Empowerment......................................................................................................................... 6 Free, Prior, Informed Consent .............................................................................................................. 9 Condemnation of Forcer or Compulsory Labor and Child Labor ........................................................ 10 Environment ............................................................................................................................................... 11 Policy to Condemn Mono-Cultivation ..................................................................................................... 11 Reduce degradation of natural forests in the project areas ................................................................... 12 Reduce Human/Elephant Conflicts in the project areas ......................................................................... 13 Reduce use of chemical fertilizers and enhance soil fertility in the project areas ................................. 13 Reduce use of unsustainable sources of energy ..................................................................................... 14 Increase environmental awareness of project beneficiaries .................................................................. 14 GHG Emissions and Emission Removals Calculation............................................................................... 15 Anti-Corruption ........................................................................................................................................... 15 Sustainable Development Goals ................................................................................................................. 16 Conclusion ................................................................................................................................................... 21 2 Background The Biomass Group is a vertically integrated renewable energy company that develops biomass resources to make pellets and power. Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd is incorporated in Sri Lanka under Biomass Group and works on a sustainable supply of biomass to local and foreign industries. We work with farmers in rural Sri Lanka – 50,000+ farmers are registered with us as biomass suppliers. Our primary source of biomass is Gliricidia sepium – a nitrogen fixing tree with multi benefits, often used as a live fence in home gardens in rural Sri Lanka. Gliricidia has adapted to a wide-range of agro-climatic and soil conditions and can be cultivated all over Sri Lanka except in coastal areas, on mountain tops and in arid areas. Gliricidia sepium is one of the significant species which offer series of other complementary benefits as far as soil and environmental aspects are concerned. In Sri Lanka, Gliricidia sepium is historically grown as a boundary fence tree which does not require any special agronomic practices or care of pest control measures due to some inherited genetic characteristics. It is a drought tolerant tree crop which has the capacity of absorbing nitrogen from the atmosphere with the least intake of soil nutrients, while fixing nitrogen in to the soil.1 We promote Gliricidia trees in home gardens (as a live fence) and in plantations (as an inter-crop), providing an additional income for farmers. Biomass Supplies encourages women and young smallholder farmers to plant a triple fence of Gliricidia around their land and to intercrop it with existing cash crops. So far, Biomass Supplies has provided 600+ training programs for smallholder farmers – mainly female of the household. Currently, more than 50,000 smallholder farmer suppliers – 90 % are women – have been registered with us, giving us access to approximately 100 million Gliricidia trees, translating to 1 million tons of biomass feedstock per year. As such we provide an additional income source and empower women whom in the absence of the project were mostly housewives without economic opportunities. The business model is scalable within Sri Lanka and replicable around the world. Our target is to register 500,000 farmers – 450,000 women – by 2022. 1 Quality Assurance of the Gliricidia Growing Phase, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd, Sep. 2017 3 Picture 1Training Program for Farmers by Agricultural Expert Dr. Lionel Weerakoon in Medirigiriya, Sri Lanka Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd achieved Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) in 2015 as the first South Asian Company. Company is a member of Business Call to Action (BCtA) since 2017. Currently we work to achieve Verified Carbon Standard (VCS)/ Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standard. In November 2016, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd became a signatory to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative with business and non-business participants from 160 countries. UNGC is a call to companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd take strategic actions within its core business activities and in collaboration with other stakeholders to advance broader societal goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Through this document, the Communication on Progress (COP), the Company transparently informs the stakeholders and public on how we continue to align our practices with the UN GC 10 principles and other international relevant international standards. 4 Human Rights & Labor Rights UN Global Compact Principles Discussed in this Section Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 4: Right to collective bargaining Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd, within its scope of influence, identifies and respects universal minimum standards aimed at securing dignity and equality for all human beings. Company works in accordance with all the human rights and labor rights identified under Sri Lankan legal system and in accordance with other committed international standards (ex: RSB Principles and Criteria). National Human Rights and Labor Laws As stated above, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd duly follow the compulsory laws and regulations imposed by the Sri Lankan legal system. Sri Lankan legal system is comprehensive on employee/employer relationship and covered by many legal instruments. Following are few mainly used Acts under Sri Lankan legal system;  Shop & Office Employees Act – provides for the regulation of employment, hours of work and remuneration of persons in shops and offices, and for matters connected therewith.  Wages Boards Ordinance – provides for the regulation of the wages and other emoluments of persons employed in trades. The Ordinance further establishes the Wages Board to enforce the Ordinance in Sri Lanka.  Employees’ Provident Fund Act – provides for establishment of a provident fund for the benefit of employees. Accordingly, during the employment with the Company, employee’s contribution shall be 8% of his/her monthly earnings to the Employees’ Provident Fund and the Company will contribute to that Fund an amount equivalent to 12% of his/her monthly earnings. 5  Employees’ Trust Fund Act – provides for establishment of a fund called ‘Employees’ Trust Fund’ for the benefit of employees. Accordingly, the Company shall pay directly to the Employees Trust Fund 3% of employee’s monthly earnings as computed for the purposes of the Act.  Maternity Benefits (Amendment) Act No. 15 of 2018 – provides for special beneficial leaves in cases of live child births. Additionally, the following have been strategically merged into the Human Resource Management Policy 2 manual where appropriate to give broader, comprehensive management standards for Company;  IPPF Accreditation Standards (Principle 7)  IPPF Sexual Harassment Policy  IPPF HIV workplace policy Core Business Activity Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd works with smallholder farmers – about 90% of them are women – and larger plantations (ex: Cococnut). Company works on creating a sustainable supply chain for biomass. Therefore, all the positive social, environmental and economic benefits the Company bring are brought within the scope of core business activities of the Company. Non-Discriminatory Recruitment Policy HR Policy of the Company ensures that no person shall be discriminated based on their sex, gender, ethnicity, religion, language, political opinion, place of birth or any one of such grounds.3 Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd works with the farmers of different ethnicities, religions and who speaks different languages (local languages – Sinhala and Tamil). Accordingly, the Field Officers represent different ethnic and religious groups and speaks different local languages. Women Empowerment 40% of Employees are Women Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd has a gender neutral recruitment policy and all recruitments are done on the basis of merit. 2 Draft HR Policy, July 2018 3 Draft HR Policy, July 2018 6 The HR policy ensures that Company takes positive actions to improve the opportunities given to women in terms of careers growth, recognition, providing a harassment free working environment, and promote gender equality. Company ensures 1. Women shall be given the equal opportunities, benefits, rights, entitlements, dignity and respect during their career at Biomass Group; 2. Equal recognition of the capacities of women; 3. Balance of gender representation in teams especially at managerial level; 4. The working culture of the organization should be conducive to the empowerment of female team members; 5. Proper care and security is provided to female staff for travelling & accommodation; 6. Women shall be granted with certain special arrangements such as paid or half pay or no pay leave, flexi time to care for their dependent children to ensure that women can continue their careers even after live childbirth(s)4 Currently there are 55 employees working with Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd, 22 of them are women. Employee Gender Composition 40% 60% Male Female Job role of a Field Officer was considered as challenging for women as it involves intensive travelling in their working areas. However, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd works with farmer women, therefore it is preferable if 4 Draft HR Policy, July 2018 7 the Company has female field officers. Accordingly, from currently employed 40 Field Officers, 18 are women. Employee Gender Composition Field Officers 45% 55% Male Female 90% of Beneficiaries are Women After the civil war ended in 2009, several Government programs were initiated to provide livelihood development in rural Sri Lanka, these programs reached very few women. Economically inactive rural female percentage is high at 75% in Sri Lanka.5 Rural housewives lack specific skills and because economic opportunities in rural areas of Sri Lanka are limited, many migrate as domestic workers to the Middle East to exit poverty. Migration has untold consequences both personally and on the wellbeing of the children that they leave behind. We offer a credible alternative to empower poor rural women. 5 Information Available at: http://www.statistics.gov.lk/ 8 Picture 2Women Participation is about 90%. Here they load Gliricidia fuel wood into a truck. Our focus on home gardens makes it easy for women to join with the business as gardening is a ‘women work’ which is often considered economically unproductive. By doing so the company adds an economic value to the usual work women engage at household level. Company has a policy to conduct money transactions through bank accounts, thus giving rural women an opportunity to have bank accounts followed by savings and eligibility to access credits. By participating in the out-grower model they are better organized to help each other in planting, harvesting and collecting Gliricidia. Free, Prior, Informed Consent Biomass Supplies Pvt Ltd intends to maintain a positive relationship with farmers to ensure their active participation in the project. This can be ensured through application of Free, Prior, Informed Consent principles. 9 Picture 3Field Officers are trained well by experts as they are the face of the Company at ground level. Farmers shall freely decide without any manipulation or coercion on their participation in the project activities (including trainings). Field Officers seek prior consent of farmers by endorsing the data uploaded on the registration form and by signing the Agreement before starting any activity. In addition, PLanT IT Platform through which the famer registration is done has a Data Consent Agreement attached with the registration through which the farmer gives his/her consent to participate in the program. Farmers’ decision to participate is based on the information provided by the Field Officers (about the company and its activities) and the terms of the Agreements. Also Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd ensures that farmers fully understand the Agreement by translating it into local languages (Sinhala and Tamil). Condemnation of Forcer or Compulsory Labor and Child Labor Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd adheres to all the laws that governs the employer-employee relationship and labor rights. Accordingly, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd fully condemns any form of forced or compulsory labor. All the employees who are working with the Company is properly recruited. 10 Also, the Company policies identify any person below the age of 18 years are non-employable as they are considered as children. This is in accordance with section 10(1) of Shop & Office Employees Act6 which disables employment of any person below the age of 14 years in any business. Thus the Company threshold on child labor is higher than the threshold under national laws. As the Company works with farmers at ground level, Company introduced measures to control and monitor forced or compulsory labor and child labor incidents within the ground level operations of the Company. Accordingly, the clause 1.6 of the Forward Supply Agreement signed between farmers and the Company reads as [the Seller shall] NOT use child labor in a way that hinders the education and freedom of children nor used forced or compulsory labor. Further, in accordance with RSB Principles and Criteria Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd conducts awareness programs on the legal background and negative consequences on child labor to registered farmers. Environment UN Global Compact Principles Discussed in this Section Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd is an environmentally friendly agro-energy business that connects Food & Livelihood Development & Sustainable Energy. Company works on developing a sustainable supply chain of fuel wood in an innovative partnership with smallholder farmers and larger plantations. In doing so, the Company addresses all 3 UN GC environmental principles. Policy to Condemn Mono-Cultivation Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd extends its support to home gardens and plantations who are interested to plant (or already planted) Gliricidia as a live fence or as an inter-crop. Company clearly condemns monocultivation of Gliricidia – farmers are clearly instructed NOT to mono-cultivate through farmer training programs, and it is termed in the Forward Supply Contract signed between parties, breach of which will 6 This is the major Sri Lankan law with regard to employer-employee relationship and rights of employee. 11 lead to automatic termination of the contract between the farmers and the company. This is monitored through frequent farmer visits by Field Officers and random farmer visits by Regional Managers. Picture 4Gliricidia trees are either planted as a 'live fence' or intercropped with other crops Reduce degradation of natural forests in the project areas In Sri Lanka, major drivers of forest degradation and deforestation include illicit felling, firewood collection, illegal extraction of NTFPs, etc. Home gardens are identified as a countervailing force working against forest degradation and deforestation, acting as a source of fuelwood, timber and other forest products. In the current situation, the need to increase fuelwood supply remains strong as the local demand increases. On the other hand, with the growing demand for industrial fuelwood, there is a need to increase the current supply capacity to prevent encroachment and illegal logging in natural forests around the factories. The project will thus contribute to reduce the pressure on natural forests in critical hotspots of degradation and deforestation by increasing the supply of sustainable fuelwood. 12 Reduce Human/Elephant Conflicts in the project areas Whenever a former elephant habitat has been encroached by humans in Sri Lanka, a human-elephant conflict has emerged. Destruction of forests through logging, slash-and-burn, shifting cultivation and monoculture tree plantations are major threat to the survival of elephants. For the farmers, this conflict results in destroyed crops and sometimes houses with restrictions on mobility after sunset. Every year in Sri Lanka, over 100 wild elephants are killed by people to protect their crops and houses and 50 people are killed by elephants. After raising awareness on the importance of protecting elephants and their habitat, different organizations have been searching for solutions to resolve the conflict. A recent assessment of the social impact of Biomass Supplies activities indicates that elephants dislike Gliricidia because of its smell and that it acts as a natural and not harming repellent. A Gliricidia fence therefore offers additional protection, thus increasing the protection of both elephants and human-being. Reduce use of chemical fertilizers and enhance soil fertility in the project areas Gliricidia trees increase soil productivity and yields in addition to reducing soil erosion and control pollution associated with the use of chemical fertilizers. In Sri Lanka, use of chemicals in agriculture is very high. The soil has been destroyed and poisoned over several years with chemicals and it would currently take a minimum of three times the amount of fertilizer to be applied to generate a healthy and nutritious soil for the plants. Due to this excessive usage in plantations and paddy fields in some areas of Sri Lanka, Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is widespread. Currently it is estimated that across Sri Lanka soils and water are contaminated with chemicals, with an increased density in those areas where paddy and rice are grown. In these areas, Biomass Supplies introduced Gliricidia leaves as a natural fertilizer and suggests the farmers to switch to organic fertilizers instead of using chemicals. The consensus is that organic fertilizer made from Gliricidia is very efficient in helping to reduce pest attacks and results in at least the same yield as when applying chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Gliricidia is known for adding valuable nutrients such nitrogen, potassium and phosphorous to the soil thereby increasing its fertility many times more than any other nutrient can do. Efforts on promoting and teaching the use of organic fertilizers has also direct health impact by reducing the contamination of water supplies. 13 Reduce use of unsustainable sources of energy Imported fossil fuels are the main sources of energy production in Sri Lanka, when biomass contributes to about 40% of the total energy production. Biomass Supplies intends to increase the national supply of sustainable biomass and therefore reduce Sri Lankan dependency to external unsustainable sources. Gliricidia wood will be processed into pellets and will progressively replace unsustainable fuel sources with renewable energy: Sri Lankan industrial furnaces switch from fuel oil to biomass Sri Lankan power plants co-fire coal with biomass and ultimately can switch to 100% biomass Overseas power plants co-fire coal with biomass and ultimately can switch to 100% biomass Picture 5Gliricidia branches is neatly stacked waiting for collection – the harvest from one small holder Increase environmental awareness of project beneficiaries Biomass Supplies has conducted more than 300 trainings of farmers and plantation companies since the beginning of the projects. These trainings include different technical topics such as the production of organic fertilizer and compost, the different cultivation techniques of Gliricidia, and its environmental, social and economic benefits. In addition, the trainings cover a wide range of environmental issues and 14 thus contribute to increase the farmers’ awareness. It covers issues relating to climate change and how the project is a mitigation strategy, carbon benefits and rights and carbon registration and selling processes. Biomass Supplies also educates its staff and beneficiaries on renewable energy and its related benefits. GHG Emissions and Emission Removals Calculation According to RSB Principle and Criteria (version 3.0) Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd calculates and reports the lifecycle emissions of the biomass by using the methodology introduced through RSB GHG Calculation Tool. Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd collects manually harvested Gliricidia branches from farmlands and transport the collected feedstock to factories without any processing in between.7 Thereby, the only GHG emission source is through transportation. Currently, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd uses light goods vehicles as the current supply is comparatively small (about 20 tons per semester). In scaling up, the company plans to use rail which is sound in terms of logistics with less emissions per kilogram of biomass (as transportation of biomass happens in bulks). Company calculates GHG emissions of each batch of feedstock delivered to the final user using RSB GHG Calculator. GHG emissions per batch is mentioned in the invoice issued to the final user. We estimate about 80+ million Gliricidia trees in project areas. Thereby, our activities are considered as an AFOLU A/R project that aims to reforest degraded lands, which are expected to remain degraded or to continue degraded in the absence of the project. To assess GHG emission mitigation potential, we used the CDM methodology AR-ACM003 – Afforestation and reforestation of lands except wetlands, version 2.0. The baseline scenario and the additionality assessment were developed using the “Combined tool to identify the baseline scenario and demonstrate additionality in A/R CDM project activities, version 01”. Over 20 years, net GHG emission reductions or removals are estimated at 1,881,677 tCO2e.8 Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Discussed in this Section Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion or bribery 7 Biomass Group has incorporated Trico Pellets – a sister company of Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd to produce pellets from Gliricidia feedstock, however the Pellet Plant is under construction and will be operational by 2020. 8 The detailed methodology is available upon request. 15 Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd is committed to ensuring all business relationships with suppliers and clients are legal and based on professional integrity. Company’s HR Policy reads as; 1. No employee may solicit or accept for his/her own benefit, any benefit, bribe or advantage, in money or otherwise, from customers, suppliers, co-workers, contractors or any person having dealings with Biomass Group. 2. The term “advantage” includes a gift, loan, fee, reward, contract, service favors and entertainment. 3. All employees should actively, discourage customers or suppliers from offering personal benefits of all kinds including every type of gift, favor, service, loan, fee entitlement or anything of monetary value. 4. If there is any doubt as to whether an advantage may be accepted, the matter should be reported to the CEO/HOD as to the appropriate action to be taken. Sustainable Development Goals Our smallholder farmers are currently being registered through our PLanT (Produce, Logistics & Traceability) IT Platform, developed through a partnership with one of the leading IT company in Sri Lanka. With PLanT, we are collecting SDGs-related information such as basic socio-demographics and geospatial information, but also monitoring detailed data on smart agricultural practices and their impact, crops yield, household incomes, etc. therefore producing unique, verifiable and customizable statistics. Based on 169 targets under 17 SDGs we have developed our own PLanT indicators (increased incomes from selling biomass and produce (USD), increased area under sustainable agriculture (acre), etc.). PLanT will become one of the most powerful tool/database to monitor and trace our contribution to achieving SDGs at corporate level. This tool will also facilitate a quick, transparent and traceable access to smallholder farmers for development organizations working on achieving SDGs (capacity building, livelihood development, micro credit, etc.). 16 Additional information to SGDs Indicators PLanT Questions PLanT Indicators Consumer Indicators collect 1.1.1 Proportion of population below the international poverty How much money are you spending annually of chemical Saved money without spending on International poverty line line, by sex, age, employment status and geographical location fertilizers and pesticides? chemical fertilizers (USD) Other annual incomes at the household level (urban/rural) How much money are you spending annually of chemical Increased incomes from selling fertilizers and pesticides after using Gliricidia as Biomass (USD) biofertilizer/pesticide? Increased incomes from selling other How much incomes do you earn annually from selling crops (USD) Gliricidia biomass? How much incomes did you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …)? The project alone increases How much incomes do you earn annually by selling other farmers' incomes by XX% of the crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) after using Gliricidia as international poverty line Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms biofertilizer/pesticide? everywhere 1.2.1 Proportion of population living below the national poverty How much money are you spending annually of chemical Saved money without spending on National poverty line The project alone increases line, by sex and age fertilizers and pesticides? chemical fertilizers (USD) Other annual incomes at the household level farmers incomes to exceed the How much money are you spending annually of chemical Increased incomes from selling international poverty line by XX% fertilizers and pesticides after using Gliricidia as Biomass (USD) biofertilizer/pesticide? Increased incomes from selling other How much incomes do you earn annually from selling crops (USD) Gliricidia biomass? How much incomes did you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …)? How much incomes do you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) after using Gliricidia as biofertilizer/pesticide? 2.3.1 Volume of production per labour unit by classes of farming/ What was the yield of other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, Enhanced yield of crop1, crop2, crop3, We need to define the unit for yield pastoral/ forestry enterprise size …)? ... by using bio-fertilizers (Kg/acre) calculation (m2, per acre, etc.?) What is the yield of other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) Increased number of farmers with Total number of farmers in the project after using Gliricidia as biofertilizer/pesticide? increased knowledges (number of How many training did you receive? What are the topics people) The project alone increases yield of covered by these trainings? 'crop1' by XX% 2.3.2 Average income of small-scale food producers, by sex and How much money are you spending annually of chemical Saved money without spending on Other incomes from agricultural activities indigenous status fertilizers and pesticides? chemical fertilizers (USD) XX% of the project farmers have How much money are you spending annually of chemical Increased incomes from selling received trainings on 'sustainable fertilizers and pesticides after using Gliricidia as Biomass (USD) agriculture', 'etc' Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food biofertilizer/pesticide? Increased incomes from selling other security and improved nutrition and How much incomes do you earn annually from selling crops (USD) The project alone increases the promote sustainable agriculture Gliricidia biomass? farmers annual incomes from How much incomes did you earn annually by selling agricultural activities by XX% other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …)? How much incomes do you earn annually by selling other XX% of the project area is under crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) after using Gliricidia as productive and sustainable biofertilizer/pesticide? agriculture 2.4.1 Proportion of agricultural area under productive How many kilos of biofertilizer/bio-pesticide are you Enhanced use of organic fertilizers Total size of the homegarden under and sustainable agriculture producing annually from Gliricidia? (Kg/acre) cultivation What is the area of crops where you are appplying Increased area under sustainable biofertilizer/bio-pesticide? agriculture (acre) 17 3.8.2 Proportion of population with large household expenditures How many members of your family are affected by CKD? Reduced number of farmers family Total number of farmers family members in Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and on health as a share of total household members affected by CKD in the the project CKD is reduced by XX% in the promote well-being for all at all ages expenditure or income project areas (number of people) project area 4.6.1 Proportion of population in a given age group achieving at How many children of your family are benefiting from Increased number of farmer's children Total number of farmer's children in the The project provides English least a fixed level of proficiency in functional (a) literacy and (b) English tuition offered by Biomass Group? benefiting from English tuition project education to XX% of the farmers' numeracy skills, by sex (number of people) children Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 4.7.1 Extent to which (i) global citizenship education and (ii) How many training did you receive? What are the topics Increased number of farmers with Total number of farmers in the project lifelong learning opportunities for all education for sustainable development, including gender covered by these trainings? increased knowledges (number of XX% of the project farmers have equality and human rights, are mainstreamed at all levels in (a) people) received trainings on 'sustainable national education policies; (b) curricula; (c) teacher education; agriculture', 'etc' and (d) student assessment 5.a.1 (a) Proportion of total agricultural population with What is the gender of the farmer's family participant? Gender ratio Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and ownership or secure rights over agricultural land, by sex; and (b) XX% of the project farmers are empower all women and girls share of women among owners or rights-bearers of agricultural women land, by type of tenure Goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 7.2.1 Renewable energy share in the total final energy Are you using Gliricidia wood for cooking? Increased number of farmers using Total number of farmers in the project consumption Gliricidia for cooking (number of people) XX% of the project farmers use sustainable fuelwood for cooking Or Or or How many kilos of Gliricidia biomass are you using for Increased quantity of Gliricidia for Goal 7. Ensure access to affordable, your own consumption? farmers consumption (kg) The project farmers increase the reliable, sustainable and modern use of sustainable fuelwood by energy for all XX% How many kilos of Gliricidia biomass are sold annually to Increased quantity of Gliricidia How many kW are produced with 1T of XXkW are produced by factories factories by Biomass Group? biomass sold to factories (kg) Gliricididia biomass? annually using sustainable Gliricidia fuelwood sourced by the project Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 9.4.1 CO2 emission per unit of value added What are the CO2 emissions for all crops (crop 1, crop 2, All data collected on Gliricidia trees Total Gliricidia CO2 sequestration Goal 9. Build resilient infrastructure, crop 3, …)? (including harvesting, transportation, (VCS-related work) (tCO2eq) promote inclusive and sustainable processing, etc.) Total quantity of CO2 emissions for all Net balance of CO2 per acre of industrialization and foster crops from farm to consumer (tCO2eq) cultivated land innovation 18 10.1.1 Growth rates of household expenditure or income How much money are you spending annually of chemical Saved money without spending on Average household incomes per District per capita among the bottom 40 per cent of the population fertilizers and pesticides? chemical fertilizers (USD) and the total population How much money are you spending annually of chemical Increased incomes from selling fertilizers and pesticides after using Gliricidia as Biomass (USD) biofertilizer/pesticide? Increased incomes from selling other How much incomes do you earn annually from selling crops (USD) The project alone increases the Gliricidia biomass? household annual incomes by XX% How much incomes did you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …)? How much incomes do you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) after using Gliricidia as Goal 10. Reduce inequality within and biofertilizer/pesticide? among countries 10.2.1 Proportion of people living below 50 per cent of How much money are you spending annually of chemical Saved money without spending on Average household incomes per District median income, by sex, age and persons with disabilities fertilizers and pesticides? chemical fertilizers (USD) National median income How much money are you spending annually of chemical Increased incomes from selling fertilizers and pesticides after using Gliricidia as Biomass (USD) biofertilizer/pesticide? Increased incomes from selling other How much incomes do you earn annually from selling crops (USD) XX% of the project's farmers live Gliricidia biomass? above the national median income How much incomes did you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …)? How much incomes do you earn annually by selling other crops (crop 1, crop 2, crop 3, …) after using Gliricidia as biofertilizer/pesticide? Goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12.6.1 Number of companies publishing sustainability Biomass Group sustainability reports report is available at www.biomassgroup.com The project is RSB and VCS /CCBS Goal 12. Ensure sustainable certified consumption and production patterns 12.8.1 Extent to which (i) global citizenship education and How many training did you receive? What are the topics Increased number of farmers with Total number of farmers in the project (ii) education for sustainable development (including covered by these trainings? increased knowledges (number of XX% of the project farmers have climate change education) are mainstreamed in (a) national people) received trainings on 'sustainable education policies; (b) curricula; (c) teacher education; and (d) agriculture', 'etc' student assessment 13.2.1 Number of countries that have communicated the What are the CO2 emissions for all crops (crop 1, crop 2, All data collected on Gliricidia trees Total Gliricidia CO2 sequestration establishment or operationalization of an integrated crop 3, …)? (including harvesting, transportation, (VCS-related work) (tCO2eq) policy/strategy/plan which increases their ability to adapt to the processing, etc.) Total quantity of CO2 emissions for all adverse impacts of climate change, and foster climate resilience crops from farm to consumer (tCO2eq) and low greenhouse gas emissions development in a manner that does not threaten food production (including a national Goal 13. Take urgent action to combat adaptation plan, nationally determined contribution, national Net balance of CO2 per acre of climate change and its impacts communication, biennial update report or other) cultivated land 13.3.1 Number of countries that have integrated mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning into primary, secondary and tertiary curricula 19 Goal 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development 15.1.1 Forest area as a proportion of total land area What is the total quantity of Gliricidia biomass Increased quantity of Gliricidia generated annually? biomass (tonnes) 100% of the biomass sourced by the project come from sustainable sources Goal 15. Protect, restore and promote The project generates annually XX sustainable use of terrestrial tonnes of sustainable biomass ecosystems, sustainably manage avoiding equivalent degradation of forests, combat desertification, and natural forests halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 15.3.1 Proportion of land that is degraded over total How many kilos of biofertilizer/bio-pesticide are you Enhanced use of organic fertilizers Total size of the homegarden under land area producing annually from Gliricidia? (Kg/acre) cultivation The project supports annually the What is the area of crops where you are appplying Increased area under sustainable transformation of XX% of degraded biofertilizer/bio-pesticide? agriculture (acre) lands into productive and sustainable agricultural lands Goal 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 17.16.1 Number of countries reporting progress in multistakeholder development effectiveness monitoring Biomass Group provides a pilot frameworks that support the achievement of the framework to monitor SDGs at the Goal 17. Strengthen the means of Sustainable Development Goals corporate level in Sri Lanka implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable The project contributes to the Development achievement of 12 out of 17 SDGs in Sri Lanka 20 Conclusion Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd is a signatory to United Nations Global Company since 2016. Company brings positive economic, social and environmental benefits to its stakeholders within its core business activities and as collaborative partnerships with other organizations. In doing so, Biomass Supplies (Pvt) Ltd adheres and positively contributes to all 10 principles of United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. 21
