Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Focus on a sustainable business Dialog Semiconductor Plc Environmental Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Value chain Society responsibility Contents 1 Select these tabs above to jump to the start of that section 1 Contents 5 Select from the list below, the highlighted links marked , or the blue, underlined text to jump to a page or website Introduction 01 Materiality 08 Our colleagues 14 Business ethics 18 Environmental responsibility 21 Value chain 23 Society 28 Appendix 31 Group directory 33 02 Engaging with 04 About Dialog 08 Materiality 23 Value chain our stakeholders 3 3 3 3 “ Innovation is at the We are a fabless semiconductor company We aim to align our sustainability The technical excellence of our products and primarily focused on the development of management activities, including reporting, our deep fabrication partnerships result in core of our sustainable highly-integrated mixed-signal products with our most material issues. value to customers. business model. for consumer electronics. A collaborative and Our ambition is to power the smart connected responsible approach future with leading power management and with our stakeholders energy-efficient integrated circuits (“ICs”). ensures we remain at Our technologies contribute to the extension of battery life in portable devices, charge the centre of mobility batteries faster and safely, and provide and IoT.” efficient connectivity in Internet of Things Dr. Jalal Bagherli (“IoT”) applications. Chief Executive Officer You can read more about our sustainability performance at www.dialog-semiconductor.com/sustainability 01 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Introduction This is our sixth annual sustainability report, published in April 2018 and covering the 2017 calendar year. The report is aligned with the “Core” requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As such, it places primary focus on those issues that are considered most material to Dialog and its stakeholders – as defined through a materiality assessment (pages 08–13). Fuller details, including a table of G4 Aspects and Indicators, can be found on our website. The content of this report is not subject to external assurance. www.dialog-semiconductor.com (GRI G4 information) 02 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Engaging with our stakeholders A sustainable business model that helps drive stakeholder value “Our ambition is to power the smart connected future in a responsible and efficient manner.” Dr. Jalal Bagherli Chief Executive Officer Over the years we have built strong and responsible We also made progress in terms of business sustainability. relationships with a wide range of stakeholders. Together with Innovation is at the core of our business model. In 2017 we Our values our customers, employees, fabrication partners and the invested US$307 million in R&D, meaning that since 2012 we communities in which we operate, we create value through have invested in excess of US$1.3 billion. Our culture and values encompass our approach to doing business. innovative and differentiated energy-efficient integrated They guide us in everything we do and ensure the team spirit, dynamism The nature of our fabless model means we face limited levels and a “can do” attitude, essential for our continued success. circuits (“ICs”). Our products helped enhance the usability, of exposure to sustainability risks within our own operations. effectiveness and sustainability of more than a billion electronic Our ICs are manufactured by leading foundries in highly consumer products during 2017. It was very rewarding to see automated plants. They are staffed by qualified technicians Dialog listed in the Carbon Clean 200 index for one more year. and engineers and are subject to rigorous operational controls. This reflects the role our technology plays in supporting the Our fabrication partners apply mature management systems move to a cleaner and more energy-efficient economy. Agility to address issues such as quality control, human resources and Our ambition is to power the smart connected future in a environmental performance. responsible and efficient manner. As a participant in the United Although fabless, we are ultimately responsible for the delivery Nations’ Global Compact – to which we committed this year – of our products to our customers. In order to monitor and we continue to apply sustainability management standards in The optimise the manufacturing process, we assign Dialog staff the pursuit of our business ambitions. During 2017, we reviewed our sustainability priorities through our bi-annual materiality members to any foundry producing our ICs. This supports Ideas power Difference a continuous quality improvement process which seeks of... assessment. Dialog remains fully committed to playing an to minimise financial risks potentially associated with the active role in extending responsible business practices across manufacturing process. As a result, we are able to assure our the supply chain. Indeed our teams worked hard to strengthen customers that we will deliver the ICs on time and in line with the audit verification process relating to human and labour their exacting standards. rights, health and safety and the environment. In 2017 we Many published our Gender Pay Gap analysis, an important topic On behalf of the Board and the Executive Team I would for our industry. Legislation encouraging greater diversity like to thank our teams in Human Resources, Quality and continues to evolve and the Board is committed to playing a Environment Systems, Supply Chain and Value Management, positive role in managing this important issue. This year we and Manufacturing – as well as our sustainability champions also published “Our approach to tax”, which is in line with the and all other employees involved – for their commitment and The “Spirit of Dialog” is the articulation of our values and culture. principles of our Code of Business Conduct. efforts in support of our sustainability activities. It has helped us to deliver success for our customers, employees and shareholders. Dr. Jalal Bagherli For more information, see our 2017 Annual report. Chief Executive Officer 03 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our performance over the year In 2017, we strengthened our audit verification process relating to human and labour rights, health and safety and the environment, and distributed US$1.2 billion in economic value to our stakeholders Our materiality assessment identified and prioritised (with ee The screening and auditing of new and existing fabrication the help of our external partners) those sustainability issues partners (i.e. those supplying more than 95% of our total Our approach to tax impacting Dialog and its stakeholders. The results are volume of integrated circuits) against our Self-Audit In 2017 we published “Our approach to tax”, a document being used to help define our sustainability strategy and Checklist. This covers labour and human rights, health which sets out Dialog’s approach to how we conduct our to ensure the right allocation of resources for its effective and safety, the environment and business ethics, as well tax affairs and deal with tax risks. implementation. Furthermore, the results have directly as the application of pre-qualification audits to all new For more information see on our website informed the contents of this report – which is aligned with fabrication partners; www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investor-relations/approach-tax the “Core” requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s ee Our emerging talent programmes continued successfully in G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 2017, with 26 graduates (2016: 35) and 45 interns (2016: 51) entering the business; and Key highlights include: ee Participation in a strategic partnership with University ee Distribution of US$1.2 billion in economic value to our Technical College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”) and the UK employees, suppliers, host governments, local communities Electronic Skills Foundation (“UKESF”) in the United Kingdom. and providers of capital. This represents 87% of our In 2018 we aim to make further progress towards a welltotal turnover; defined sustainability strategy. This will help ensure that our ee The auditing of all nine existing significant fabrication sustainability strategy stays on course and we continue to partners against our Supplier Audit Checklist and Corporate integrate sustainability into our business and support Dialog’s Social Responsibility Checklist; long-term value. ee Throughout 2017 we have strengthened our supplier audit For further sustainability information, please contact: verification process relating to human and labour rights, health and safety, and the environment. All major deviations jose.cano@diasemi.com found at our subcontractors’ audits have been implemented sustainability@diasemi.com and verified by Dialog; 04 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society About Dialog Developing power management and power-efficient technologies to keep people connected Our passion for innovation and entrepreneurial spirit ensures Our products enhance consumer experience and enable our we remain at the core of mobile computing and the Internet customers to differentiate and move fast to market. Our highlyKey outputs of Things (“IoT”). integrated standard and custom mixed‑signal ICs are optimised Economic value creation 17 for mobile computing, wearables, LED solid state lighting Innovation is at the core of our business. Our most important Power-efficient product range 05 (“SSL”), and Smart Home applications. The highly-integrated assets include our highly-skilled engineers and intellectual approach helps to reduce component size and numbers, Reusable IP portfolio 20, 30 property (“IP”), the strength of our customer relationships and meaning our customers can reduce materials and costs and close collaboration with responsible production partners. Trusted relationships with customers 19, 26 maximise performance. Our technology portfolio includes All these play an important role in the design of our products. power management, audio, Bluetooth® low energy, Rapid Through a collaborative R&D approach and responsible supply Charge™, configurable mixed-signal ICs, AC/DC converters chain management, we develop and market highly‑integrated and LED drivers. power management and energy-efficient mixed-signal ICs. For more information on our business model, please see our In 2017 we expanded our product portfolio with the 2017 Annual report. acquisition of Silego Technology Inc., the leaders in Our technologies contribute to the extension of battery life in configurable mixed-signal ICs (“CMICs”). portable devices, charge batteries faster and safely, and provide For more information on our product range and forward focus, please see our 2017 Annual report. efficient connectivity in IoT applications. 05 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Key outcomes How we make our products sustainable Power ee Power efficiency; Dialog replaces multiple discrete power management ee Longer battery life; and management components with one highlyintegrated chip; these single chip solutions ee Lighter, thinner, smaller products. reduce energy usage and provide a simple yet flexible design at a lower cost. Typical usage tests show our power management integrated circuits (“PMICs”) can decrease the power consumption of a portable device by up to 30%. ee Ultra-low power Bluetooth® low energy; Since the launch of our first Bluetooth® low Smart connected devices such as Connectivity ee Approximately 50% reduction in power consumption and size of energy System-on-Chip we have shipped over 100 million units of Smartbond™. wearables or Smart Home applications, are increasingly part of our daily lives. classic Bluetooth® products; and Our Wearable on-Chip™ enables consumers to This type of device requires power-efficient benefit from more energy-efficient wearables, connectivity and sensing technologies ee One of the most energy-efficient Smart Home applications, proximity tags and to interact with the environment. connectivity solutions available various other connected smart applications. to consumers. ee High efficiency AC/DC power converter; Our AC/DC converters and LED drivers are Our SSL LED drivers support very high Advance ee Reduction in number of designed to cost-effectively reduce energy efficiency, long-lifespan SSL bulbs. mixed‑signal components required; ee Zero standby power consumption for consumption by maximising power conversion efficiency with digital technology that uses It is estimated that the increased use of energy-efficient LED lighting of all kinds fewer components. This includes converters in the United States alone will save 300 portable devices; and that use little or no power while on standby terawatt hours by 2030 – equivalent ee Configurable mixed-signal ICs (“CMICs”). – a particularly important aspect when you to approximately 210 million tonnes of consider that standby demand consumes more greenhouse gas emissions. than 100 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity CMICs integrate multiple analog, logic annually in the United States alone (enough and discrete component functionality to power more than nine million American into a single chip, reducing components households). Dialog was the first company to and board space. introduce a zero standby power AC/DC pulse width modulations (“PWM”) controller. 06 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our approach to Sustainability 07 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our vision and applicable external standards Embedding sustainable and responsible practices into our business As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we aim to do business in a way that respects human rights, supports responsible labour practices, protects the environment and maintains strong business ethics – while helping advance broader sustainable development. It’s not just the right thing to do. We believe this approach will We extend related requirements to our major suppliers Sustainability management ultimately support the long-term value of our business. This is through the application of our Supplier Code of Conduct, due to the increasingly stringent expectations of our investors, which incorporates the requirements of the Responsible During 2017 we continued to integrate sustainability our customers and the end-consumers of the products in Business Alliance (“RBA”) (formerly “EICC”) Code of Conduct. management into our business activities. Human Resources, which our technology is integrated. Manufacturing, Business Development and Legal departments In addition, we apply the following external standards: are responsible for the management of their respective As such, our Vision is to embed sustainable and responsible sustainability issues – and are subject to the oversight of the ee Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact; practices into the way we act internally and engage externally. Executive Committee. We believe this is a better way to fully We are guided in this respect by a range of corporate policies ee ISO14001 environmental management system standard, embed sustainability into the responsibilities – and actions and codes, including our: to which we are certified; – of managers throughout the Company. The Sustainability ee ISO50001 energy management system standard, to which Committee is comprised of a representative of engineering, ee Corporate Code of Business Conduct (“Dialog Code we are certified in Germany; human resources and investor relations – who coordinate of Business Conduct”); ee ISO9001 quality management system standard, to which these activities. ee Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy; we are certified; and Where sustainability management performance issues are of ee Health and Safety Policy; We are also guided in our external sustainability reporting sufficient importance, responsible departments will report ee Intellectual Property Policy; and by the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability these directly to the Board on an ad hoc basis. Further details ee Conflict Minerals Policy. Reporting Guidelines. regarding the management of specific issues within Dialog can be found in the following chapters. 08 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality 09 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality process The outcome of the materiality process informs our sustainability strategy Our approach is to undertake a full materiality assessment every other year. In 2017 we carried out a full assessment, after conducting an interim assessment in 2016. Materiality Assessment process 1 2 3 4 5 Initial review of Definition of a In-depth analysis to Gathering of feedback on Mapping of the G4 sustainability issues facing “Dashboard” of relevant prioritise each Dashboard the results from internal Sustainability Reporting Dialog (and the wider issues for Dialog and issue based on Dialog’s discipline experts and Guidelines “Aspects” electronics sector) its stakeholders actual and potential impact external stakeholders against Dialog’s most on its stakeholders and and the appropriate material issues vice versa adjustment of scores ee Dialog stakeholders including investors, This included: ee Engagement with Human Resources, value chain partners, employees, etc. Supply Chain, Manufacturing, Investor ee Analysis of Dialog’s activities, locations Relations, etc; and and business partners; ee Engagement with investors, SRI analysts, ee A review of existing company sustainability specialists, etc. management system components; ee A review of Dialog’s existing risk assessment and supply chain audit results; and ee A review of external analysis and commentary on the semiconductor (and wider electronics) industry. 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality process continued We have worked with external advisers to identify and prioritise our most material issues on the basis of: ee The potential or actual impact of Dialog on its stakeholders; and ee The potential or actual impact of stakeholders on the ability of Dialog to achieve its business objectives. Stakeholder engagement Risk Management Strategic risks Human capital: The need to support ongoing product Our ongoing engagement with internal and external Our Risk Management office identifies the key risks faced innovation and ensure Dialog has the appropriate leadership stakeholders helps us understand: by Dialog and reports these, along with the status of any capabilities for an expanding and increasingly complex mitigating actions or controls, to the Management Team global operation. ee The impact of our activities and relationships on others and Audit Committee. – and how we can best manage these impacts in a Dependency on key customers: The Company relies on responsible manner; These risks are recorded in a central risk register, which is a relatively small number of customers for a substantial ee The potential risks and opportunities associated with reviewed by our Management Team and Audit Committee. proportion of its revenue. stakeholders and how we can best manage these in The risk register is used to plan our internal audit activity a proactive way; and and assess any potential impact on our strategy. In 2017 we identified a new risk: Return on research and development investment; our efforts to develop new products, ee The ongoing effectiveness of our management actions. technology and methodologies may not result in successful Key sustainability risks in 2017 In this context, we select stakeholders we engage with on products and anticipated levels of economic return. the basis of: Although the risk register cuts across all aspects of our business, key risks relating to our sustainability performance are set out Operational risks ee Their actual and potential impact on Dialog; and below. Each of these has been integrated into our materiality Fabless business model: The need to ensure that our suppliers process. For more information on our principal risks, please see perform (both operationally and otherwise) in a way that does ee Dialog’s actual and potential impact on stakeholders – pages 55 to 60 of our 2017 Annual report. not undermine our customer relationships. both positive and negative. Legal and compliance risks In addition to informing our materiality process, stakeholder Compliance with laws and regulations: The need to understand engagement also helps inform our corporate risk – and comply with – applicable local laws and regulations as management process. Dialog expands into new jurisdictions. The need to ensure that (in the context of the fabless model) suppliers comply with applicable environmental regulations. Intellectual property protection: The need to legally and physically protect highly innovative intellectual property held by Dialog. 11 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Engaging with our stakeholders Our ongoing engagement with internal and external stakeholders helps us understand the impact of our activities and relationships on others – and how we can best manage these impacts in a responsible manner, as well as the potential risks and opportunities, to create value for all our stakeholders. Strategic partners Society/ Investors Our people and suppliers Customers Communities General stakeholder engagement activity in 2017 Stakeholder type Form of engagement Frequency of engagement Examples of issues raised Employees ee Annual employee survey ee At least monthly ee Involvement in sustainability activities ee Employee annual reviews ee Quarterly group conference calls ee Terms of employment ee Regular communications on Company intranet ee Employee turnover ee Global sustainability group representatives from ee Company strategy each office ee Learning and development Investors ee Annual report ee At least daily ee Competition for talent ee Investor roadshows ee Technological trends ee Ongoing investor relations engagement ee Company performance ee Business strategy and customer concentration ee Supply chain management ee Governance (including sustainability) Customers ee Customer service feedback ee Monthly to annual contact with key customers ee Product design ee Customer audit activity ee Product quality and price ee Delivery schedules Community ee Sustainability report ee Monthly to annual contact with ee Donations and in-kind support ee Community projects local communities Peers ee Industry forums and work groups ee Ad hoc ee Industry dynamics ee Technological trends Government/ ee Government consultations ee Ad hoc ee Environmental regulations Regulators ee Regulatory enquiries ee Product standards Suppliers ee Procurement contract tenders ee At least daily with respect to major suppliers ee Product quality and price ee Supply chain audits ee Delivery schedules ee On-site presence at fabrication plants ee Management of identified issues in the 2017 process ee Performance reviews ee Implementation of the 2018 auditing process 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Materiality process continued Our material areas have a clear link with our key business areas Material sustainability issues Our material issues Change from 2016 Mapping to business area New in material issues In 2017, we have undertaken our second full materiality assessment and as in 2016, mapped our material sustainability ee Economic performance and impact People No change topics and our key business areas. ee Technological innovation and agility Products Re-prioritisation The outcome of our materiality assessment resulted in the of material issues following changes: ee Intellectual property Other ee A number of areas have been grouped into single items, reducing the overall number from 23 to 20: ee Compliance with customer standards Products ee Recruitment of professionals and recruitment of graduates; ee Product impacts Products ee Corporate Governance and general legal compliance; and ee Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) Supply Chain ee Health and Safety (supply chain) and Labour and human rights (supply chain). ee Employee development People ee Retention, morale and engagement, and Diversity and equality became material issues for our Company. ee Retention, morale and engagement People Transparency (supply chain) and Conflict minerals dropped out of our list of our most material issues. ee Corporate governance and compliance Other ee Diversity and equality People 13 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society The outputs of our interim review are set out in the materiality matrix About the materiality matrix Materiality matrix The outputs from our materiality process are set out in the High Community/Society Economic performance matrix. This includes our most material issues, as well as a Business ethics and impact range of additional relevant issues that we are also proactively Value chain managing. In 2017 we carried out a full review of our materiality Environment Product matrix and we aim to undertake an interim materiality Employees impacts Technological innovation and agility assessment in 2018. Labour rights Diversity and and human rights Intellectual property The materiality matrix has been directly informed by: equality (supply chain) Compliance with Conflict customer standards ee Ongoing stakeholder engagement throughout 2017; minerals Employee Enhancing the external skills pool development ee Targeted stakeholder engagement in 2017 to directly Recruitment of Corporate governance and compliance Impact on stakeholders support our materiality process; and Environmental professionals and graduates Retention, morale ee Our corporate risk management process. impacts (supply chain) Transparency and engagement Philanthropy Energy and carbon emissions (supply chain) Corruption/ bribery Health and safety Pollution, resources and waste Low Low Impact on Dialog High 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our colleagues 15 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our colleagues The ability to recruit, develop and retain  e are committed to closing our W gender pay gap by increasing top talent is vital to fostering innovation the percentage of female employees in engineering and senior management roles. Materiality Management approach At the end of 2017 we employed 2,071 people (excluding temporary staff on fixed-term contracts), a 17% increase The nature of our business, which relies on the ongoing We manage our people through: on 2016. We now operate from 33 locations in 16 countries advancement of cutting-edge semiconductor technology, and our global workforce continues to increase in diversity. ee The application of national-level human resource policies, means we are highly reliant on our ability to recruit, retain Dialog employees are drawn from 65 nationalities. tailored to reflect local legal requirements, business priorities and develop high-quality electronic engineering professionals, and labour markets; We continue to recruit globally for the most talented people, as well as leading management talent. This is particularly the case given: ee The application of our corporate Code of Business Conduct, identify centres of engineering talent and build our business which sets out our minimum, Group-wide requirements in around them. In 2017, we expanded our existing design centres ee Strong, ongoing competition for skills within the sector; relation to labour and human rights, health and safety and in Europe, Asia and North America. As a result of the acquisition ee An ageing electronics engineering demographic; related issues; of Silego Technology Inc. in November 2017, we welcomed 180 ee Declining numbers of students in electronics engineering ee Ongoing talent planning and skillset gap identification; new colleagues from six different countries. degree programmes and declining numbers of students ee Proactive engagement at university level to identify and taking STEM subjects at school required for entry into recruit emerging talent; and Emerging talent programmes: Graduate electronics engineering university programmes; and and intern recruitment and development ee Ongoing identification and engagement of high-value ee Our strong commercial growth. professionals and leaders. Ensuring we maintain a robust and sustainable skills pipeline In this context, we are focused on maintaining a sustainable is essential for our current and future success. We run Responsibility for our performance sits with the Senior Vice targeted intern and graduate recruitment and development skills pipeline – ranging from the identification, development President Human Resources. She is supported in this role by (and ultimate recruitment) of high-potential undergraduates programmes to ensure our emerging talent pipelines dedicated local Human Resource teams. remain healthy. through to the attraction of experienced experts. We take For more information, please see our website a holistic view towards both recruitment and retention that www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investor-relations/corporateKey components of our emerging talent recruitment looks beyond the provision of highly competitive financial governance/code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics process include: rewards. We also aim to deliver the kind of lifestyle, working environment, development opportunities and inclusive Recruitment and retention ee Sponsorships and internships; culture that allow our people to develop high-quality, longee Direct graduate recruitment from our partner universities; The nature of our industry means those working in it are highly term careers with us. skilled, international and mobile. Our growing employment ee Careers fairs and university events; and brand and development of a strong employment proposition ee Focused graduate and intern assessment days. continues to help us attract people to all our locations. 16 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Our colleagues continued In 2017, this helped us recruit a total of 26 new graduates into our workforce – all of whom have been enrolled in our formal At the same job function and level, pay Dialog Graduate Development Programme. In addition, differences are only driven by permissible we hired over 45 interns in 2017, many of whom are likely to become our future graduate hires once their educational factors, such as performance or experience. studies have been completed. Retention Pay quartiles In 2017, staff turnover was 10.3% (2016: 7.9%). This represents a slight increase in total leavers. We continue to monitor our staff How many men and women are in each quarter of our payroll: turnover rate, analyse which type of employees leave and also examine the reasons for leaving through exit interviews. Development Upper Lower As a research and development-led business that specialises Top middle middle Lower in innovative technology, it is important that we stay at the cutting edge of our sector. We need to invest in our existing quartile quartile quartile quartile employees on an ongoing basis. In particular, we need to provide employees with access to high-quality development opportunities. This not only builds their skills, expertise and knowledge, but also enhances the MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN internal pool of world-class talent we can call upon. It also incentivises high performers to continue developing their 93% 7% 88% 12% 88% 12% 69% 31% career with us. Coaching and developing each other is an important aspect of employee life at Dialog. We offer all employees a wide variety Who received bonus pay: of development opportunities and encourage a 70/20/10 development split of “on the job” learning (70%), feedback and 100% of women mentoring (20%) and classroom learning (10%). We have also responded to business demand by developing programmes for key employee types and career stages. In 2017 we delivered development opportunities to our employees including mentoring, technical and professional training, and a strong focus on management and leadership training. We continually measure the impact of training by the percentage increase in competence 90 days posttraining, and this figure drives our return on investment 100% of men measurement. We will continue to develop our virtual and online solutions into 2018 to offer flexible development options to our employees. 17 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Diversity and equality Overall workplace profile1 as of 31 December 2017 We recognise the value a diverse workforce can bring in terms Employment type Gender of creativity, dynamism and the sharing of new perspectives. Full time Part time Male Female Total Dialog is committed to employing and developing those Permanent employees 2,005 66 1,723 348 2,071 people who have the necessary skills, experience and values Temporary employees 30 6 21 15 36 to excel in their relevant role – irrespective of their gender, Total employees 2,035 72 1,744 363 2,107 ethnicity, religion, disability or any other non-work related personal characteristic. In 2017 there were no allegations of 1 The temporary employee category is made up of employees on fixed-term contracts. Please note that we do not make discrimination made with respect to our employees. material use of workers who are legally recognised as self-employed. The globalised nature of our footprint and the nature of Geographic distribution of workforce our sector mean that we benefit from a highly international Gender workforce. We have a total of 65 nationalities represented within our business – as well as a senior executive team Region Male Female Total representing seven different nationalities. Asia 295 89 384 Europe 1,110 198 1,308 The electronic engineering sector performs relatively poorly in terms of gender diversity. Growing focus is being placed on North America 339 76 415 invisible, structural considerations that may induce a degree of Total 1,744 363 2,107 self-deselection (i.e. rather than any conscious barriers on the part of the sector). As far as our recruitment and selection processes are concerned, and subject to any relevant regulatory restrictions, the national or sub-national origins of applicants is irrelevant. Women are also underrepresented in our workforce. Female representation on our Board of Directors is 11% (one Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared with local of nine directors). We are keen to raise awareness amongst minimum wage at key operating sites women, both inside and outside the Company, about the Ratio of employees’ standard entry level exciting potential careers available to them at Dialog and to wage to local minimum wage (if applicable) encourage them to explore these opportunities with us. In April Minimum wage 2017, the Gender Pay Gap Reporting came into effect in the UK. Location in place? Male Female The difference in the median pay between all men and women Austria Yes 2.05 2.05 in Dialog UK is 23.8%. This gender pay gap is a reflection of the China Yes 5.32 5.32 lower number of women in engineering and in senior roles, Germany Yes 3.00 3.00 an important issue in the electronic engineering sector. Netherlands Yes 2.27 2.27 For more information on our gender pay gap, please see our 2017 Gender Pay Gap report United Kingdom Yes 2.16 2.16 USA Yes 3.41 3.41 Note: The standard entry level is the entry level for professionals after completed university education. Minimum wage figures used are the rates effective in January 2018. For the US the California minimum wage rate has been used and for China the Shenzhen minimum wage rate. 18 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Business ethics 19 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Business ethics We strive to establish long-term relationships with our stakeholders, based on trust and adherence to our Code of Business Conduct Materiality Compliance Maintaining our partners’ trust depends on: Customer and industry standards ee ANSI/ESD S20.20 (electrostatic discharge control); and ee Our strict adherence to our customers’ exacting technical, As a supplier of semiconductors to manufacturers of ee Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct. commercial and ethical requirements; sophisticated electronic goods, we are subject to a significant Further information on our supply chain auditing activity can ee The protection of both our own intellectual property and body of technical, legal, social responsibility, and quality control be found on pages 24 to 27. that of our business partners, which is fundamental given requirements defined by our customers. The performance of our suppliers in this regard is assessed by the technologically innovative nature of our business; and In many cases, our compliance with these requirements is the following Dialog departments on an ongoing basis: ee Our strict compliance with the laws of our host societies – included as a condition of contract with our customers – including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption. making our strict adherence essential. This is particularly the ee Quality and Environmental: Quality engineering, physical case with respect to the technical specifications and quality laboratory, quality and environment system; Any breach of this trust, or of our legal obligations, would have of our highly sophisticated products. Any slight variation in ee Global Manufacturing Operations: Test development, the potential to seriously compromise our business – whether this respect is not only likely to render them valueless from offshore operations and assembly development; and in terms of the loss of valuable commercial relationships, the perspective of our customers, but also has the potential to ee Supply Chain and Value Management: Global procurement, the undermining of our reputation or the application of undermine our customers’ own products (and thus brands). supply chain and trade compliance, customs and official sanctions. Because of this, we put a significant amount of energy into foreign trade. Management approach understanding our customers’ extensive requirements and Similarly, our customers typically apply their own set of applying comprehensive management systems to ensure that compliance measures to ensure we are meeting their We manage business ethics through: these are fully met by both the design of our products, as well requirements. This includes auditing of: ee The application of the Dialog Code of Business Conduct, as their production by our fabrication partners. This includes, which addresses a broad range of issues including for example: ee Our management systems, processes and conflicts of interest, discrimination, trading in Dialog facility specifications; ee The posting of Dialog personnel at our fabrication partners’ shares, protection of intellectual property, confidentiality, ee The communication of their own standards to our sites to monitor production activities; competition, trade restrictions and export controls, accuracy manufacturing partners and their application in practice; of records, data privacy and reporting of infractions. ee An extensive raft of operational quality control measures ee Product testing processes and documentation; The Code of Business Conduct is applicable to all Dialog through which we assess our fabrication partners; ee Materials and product traceability; and employees, consultants and contractors; ee Regular business reviews with our manufacturing partners to understand their performance and future capabilities; and ee Possible contamination of products by ee A range of specific policies addressing issues such as bribery disallowed substances. and corruption, fraud, money laundering, financial dealings ee Ongoing annual auditing of our manufacturing partners, and whistleblower protection; and including against the following management system We evaluate customer satisfaction with the quality and ee Mandatory training on specific topics such as bribery and standards (as well as our Suppliers Control Plan): specifications of our products on an ongoing basis, using: corruption, conflicts of interest, preventing harassment and ee ISO9001 (quality management); ee Individual reviews; insider dealing. ee TS 16949 (quality management); ee Analysis of any customer complaints; and Responsibility for this framework sits with our Senior Vice ee ISO14001 (environmental); ee Customer surveys. President General Counsel. He is supported in this role on ee OHSAS18001 (health and safety); a day‑to-day basis by the Assistant Company Secretary. 20 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Business ethics continued Intellectual property Conflict minerals Patented technology The protection of intellectual property is vital for any We support international efforts to ensure that the mining and business focused on the creation of innovative and hightrading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (known as “3TG”) With an expanded portfolio of patented technology, Dialog value technological solutions. Any failure in this regard could from high-risk locations does not contribute to conflict and/ leverages years of research and development in digital, have profound consequences, for example, on the value of or serious human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic mixed-signal and analog circuits to bring innovative, powerour inventions, products and Company. Furthermore, our of the Congo (“DRC”) and the Great Lakes region of Africa efficient products to market. semiconductors are specifically designed for integration as (or elsewhere). components into our customers’ own products. This means PrimAccurate™ SmartPulse™ Although we are not subject to the conflict minerals reporting SmartBond™ SmartWave™ we necessarily access and work with customers’ intellectual requirements set out in Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Act, property and/or commercial and technological secrets. Flickerless™ BroadLED™ many of our customers are. In this context, we are committed This requires a high degree of trust on the part of our customers, AccuSwitch™ SmarteXite™ to providing our customers with assurance by: whose business we would lose were this trust to be broken. SmartBeat™ ee Identifying whether any 3TG in our products has originated We ensure that all intellectual property is safeguarded through For more information on our technology see our website from the DRC or adjoining countries; the application of: www.dialog-semiconductor.com/technology ee (If it has), understanding whether the 3TG in our products ee A dedicated Intellectual Property Policy (as well as related has financed or otherwise benefited armed groups; and Information Technology and Intellectual Property Security ee Disclosing the results of this process to our customers. Policies). Together, these address issues including data security, the regulation of external communications and As such, our Conflict Minerals Policy commits us to: incident management; ee Supporting the aims and objectives of those provisions ee Related restrictive provisions in both our Code of Business of the US Dodd-Frank Act 2010 that relate to 3TG; Conduct and our contracts of employment; ee Not knowingly procuring 3TG minerals from the DRC or ee Robust information technology systems to prevent data adjoining countries that are not certified to be “conflict free”; leakage; and ee Asking our suppliers to undertake reasonable supply chain ee Access controls to specific project data for employees and due diligence to ensure that they only use 3TG that is: (1) In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to third parties. sourced from outside the DRC or adjoining countries; or complete and return information requests regarding the origin In addition, we seek to protect our intellectual property (2) sourced from within the DRC or adjoining countries of any 3TG contained in products supplied to Dialog. If we do from being illegitimately copied or used by others through and which is certified by an independent third party to identify 3TG in our products that originate from the DRC or the application of patents, copyright and trademarks on a be “conflict free”; adjoining countries and which may have financed or benefited global basis (see page 30 for further details on our creation armed groups, we will carry out further due diligence. If this ee Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers of patentable inventions). Our dedicated Patent Committee shows that the 3TG has financed or benefited armed groups, to comply with the Responsible Business Alliance oversees the identification and legal protection of all it will be excluded from our supply chain. Code of Conduct (“RBA Code”). Under the RBA Code, new inventions. companies must: Provide reasonable assurance that the In 2017, as in previous years, we did not identify any cases where In 2017 we had no complaints relating to breaches of customer 3TG in the products they manufacture do not directly or 3TG integrated into our products may have or did finance or privacy, losses of customer data or the misuse of customers’ indirectly finance or benefit armed groups that perpetrate support armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries. intellectual property (2016: nil). serious human rights abuses in DR Congo or its adjoining countries; and ee Carry out due diligence on the source and chain of custody of their 3TG and make these due diligence measures available to customers when requested. 21 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Environmental responsibility 22 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Environmental responsibility As we contract out the fabrication of our products, our direct environmental impact remains limited Materiality Energy and carbon emissions Pollution, resources and waste We operate environmentally responsible practices within our We are working across our offices to significantly reduce CO2 Natural resources own business and promote them across our supply chain. emissions and minimise the carbon footprint of our business. This year, we offset 100% of emissions from all air travel and We take the scarcity of natural resources seriously and Our products are based around a range of energy-efficient consider the conservation of raw materials to be a priority. the use of rental cars. We work with Climate Care to offset CO2 IC solutions, and we aim to have a positive impact on the Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve emissions through various renewable energy projects in Turkey, wider environment through the development and marketing existing technologies and substitute gold for copper, to China and Taiwan. of energy-saving technology. We make an ongoing effort to minimise our impact on the environment, and reduce costs minimise our: CO2 emissions 2015 2016 2017 without sacrificing quality and performance. Scope 1 159.8 86.2 92.5 ee Energy consumption and carbon emissions; Scope 2 1,890.7 1,739.2 1,651.5 Hazardous substances ee Pollution and waste; and Scope 3 (travel only) 3,975.1 4,685.2 5,210.2 The monitoring of hazardous substances used in our labs ee Use of natural resources. Scope 1: Direct emissions from self-generation. is one of the key objectives of our annual “Environment Management approach Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat Goals Programme”. or steam. Responsibility for environmental performance sits with our Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including those related to transport. Recycling Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations. CO2 emissions per employee 2015 2016 2017 We further govern our environmental responsibility through We implement the recycling of metals, such as gold, silver and Scope 1 0.10 0.05 0.05 copper, from waste and damaged products. the application of the Dialog Code of Business Conduct, which addresses our emissions to air and water, resource Scope 2 1.14 0.98 0.86 Each of our major sites systematically measures and records use, management of hazardous substances and waste Scope 3 2.39 2.65 2.71 our emissions, waste and recycling on a monthly basis. management. Furthermore, we are certified to the ISO14001 Total 3.63 3.68 3.62 This reporting system is utilised to ensure that we closely environmental management system standard, and our monitor outputs from our major offices to minimise our Company Quality and Management Manual support our environmental impact. efforts to achieve continuous improvement. Our major sites, such as our Swindon design centre, measure Our ISO50001-certified energy management system is a our recycling levels by type of waste, waste recovery levels and comprehensive tool to control energy efficiency within our the level of waste sent to landfill sites. This allows us to calculate internal facilities and equipment. the percentage of recycling, the amount of energy recovered, and the number of trees we have saved per month. 23 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Value chain 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Value chain In 2017, we strengthened our audit verification process relating to human and labour rights, health and safety, and the environment Materiality Management approach Given the nature of our business model and our commercial We manage our value chain through: ee Regular business reviews during which Dialog managers relationships, value chain management is a particularly meet with its suppliers to discuss performance and ee A policy of only dealing with fabrication partners who important issue for Dialog. This not only includes operational future capabilities. are accredited to or are compliant with the ISO14001 aspects (including the avoidance and mitigation of supply In addition, our customers carry out additional auditing both (environmental) and ISO9001 (quality) management system chain disruption and supply constraints), but also sustainability of Dialog and our suppliers. This is to ensure that: standards. In addition, we require our major suppliers aspects such as: to commit to the requirements of our Supplier Code of ee Dialog is effectively communicating customer standards ee The impact of our business partners on human rights and Conduct (and by extension, to the RBA Code of Conduct) to our suppliers – and has adequate systems in place to labour rights; and to apply their own documented corporate social monitor their ongoing application in practice; ee Health and safety performance amongst our suppliers; and responsibility policy; ee Suppliers are achieving a level of performance that is in line ee The environmental impacts of both our suppliers and the ee Screening of all new significant fabrication partners with our customers’ requirements (including those around contents of our products. (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of our total volume supplier environmental performance, for example); and of integrated circuits) against our Self-Audit Checklist This reflects: ee The products supplied to customers meet any relevant (which covers labour and human rights, health and safety, sustainability criteria that the customer has committed itself ee Evolving stakeholder expectations, which place everthe environment and business ethics), as well as preto (including those relating to the type and source of input growing emphasis on the need for companies to identify, qualification audits prior to their integration into our supply materials, for example). and use their legitimate influence to proactively manage chain. Further details on our screening activity can be found their indirect sustainability impacts; and on page 26 to 27; Responsibility for supply chain management sits with the ee Dialog’s duty to help protect its customers from reputational, ee Annual auditing of all existing fabrication partners Senior Vice President Global Manufacturing Operations. contractual or commercial harm. against our Supplier Audit Checklist and Corporate Social He is supported in this role on a day-to-day basis by the Responsibility Checklist. In addition to requirements relating Environmental Manager. to ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and ISO9001, auditing covers a range of broader sustainability issues, including those drawn from the SA8000 social accountability standard. In 2017, Dialog carried out 18 supplier audits on this basis (2016: 18). The outcomes of our auditing activity can be seen on page 26; and 25 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Labour rights An efficient and responsible supply chain Health“and Wesafety have built a strong management Environmental partnership with our fabrication is one of our competitive advantages partners and we work together to implement and maintain Global CSR principles. Moshe Reuven Vice President, Global Operations and Quality Assurance Labour rights Health and safety Environmental management Ethics About our Supplier Code of Conduct Labour rights Health and safety Environmental Ethics Management systems management We expect all of our major suppliers to comply with our Including the International Including occupational Including pollution Including business integrity, Including policies, lines of Supplier Code of Conduct. Labor Organization (“ILO”) health and safety, emergency prevention, reporting, intellectual property, accountability, compliance Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, relevant core labour standards, preparedness, industrial hazardous substances, competition, whistleblowing mechanisms, risk assessment, suppliers must comply with the RBA Code of Conduct. working hours, wages hygiene, living conditions waste and wastewater and conflict minerals. training, auditing and benefits, and the and physical safeguards. management, and and sub-suppliers. This comprehensive document imposes minimum treatment of employees in emissions to air. standards with respect to: the workplace. Labour rights Health and Environmental safety management Management systems Ethics Dialog Code of Business Conduct By requiring its suppliers to comply with the RBA Environmental requirements, Ethics management Dialog Management helps “cascade” good practice systems throughout its supplier base and minimise its indirect negative impacts. Health and safety By doing so, it is not only protecting its own reputation, but also the reputation of its customers – some of whom are potentially vulnerable to consumer activism. http://www.dialog-semiconductor.com/sites/default/files/ dialog_code_of_business_conduct_-_v4_dec_2016.pdf http://www.responsiblebusiness.org/standards/code-of-conduct/ www.responsiblebusiness.org (Code of Conduct) 26 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Value chain continued Sustainability screening and auditing of significant fabrication partners Transparency by issue type (new fabrication partners screened1/existing fabrication The mobile industry is committed Value chain transparency is vital for the maintenance of partners audited2) predictable sourcing and marketing activities, as well as to achieving the UN Sustainable 2014 2015 2016 2017 the avoidance and/or minimisation of any negative indirect Development Goals (SDGs) Health and safety 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% impacts that we might otherwise contribute to. This includes In its second edition of the Impact report (GSMA 2017), the Environment 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% impacts relating to human rights, labour rights, health and mobile industry assesses its progress towards the SDGs and Labour rights (incl. human rights) 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% safety, and the environment. its shared vision: “Connecting everyone and everything to Society 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% It is a particularly important issue for Dialog, due to: a #betterfuture”. 1 Screening activity is aimed at improving the performance of our fabrication partners where necessary, rather than their ee Our fabless business model, which makes us highly Mobile technology is having an impact across all 17 SDGs, exclusion from our supply chain. reliant on the ability of our fabrication partners to meet and is increasing its contribution. More people than ever are 2 Includes both auditing of documentation and on-site auditing. All of our fabrication partners were subjected to on-site the stringent quality requirements imposed on us by connecting and using mobile services to improve their lives. auditing of specific operating sites in 2017. our customers – and to protect our own reputation by Our technology contributes to keeping people connected maintaining responsible working practices; for longer so they can continue to access more advanced Type and number of “major” negative audit findings 3 ee High levels of sensitivity amongst key consumer-facing mobile-enabled services. 2014 2015 2016 2017 electronics brands regarding their potential exposure to Health and safety 0 0 0 6 reputational risk via their supply chains; and Through technological innovation we contribute to the Environment 0 0 1⁴ 2 commitment of the mobile ecosystem to maximise its ee Increasing stakeholder scrutiny of the electronics industry impact across the SDGs. Labour rights (incl. human rights) 2 0 0 3 regarding indirect negative impacts taking place at lower, Society 0 0 0 0 less visible tiers of the supply chain (including amongst sub-suppliers) – particularly in relation to mineral extraction, 3 i.e. audit findings of sufficient seriousness that Dialog requires immediate correction on the part of the supplier. trading and processing. 4 Discrepancy found in actual temperature setting vs Safety Data Sheet. In this context, we require our major suppliers to: In 2017 we encountered a marked increase in the number of major audit findings. This reflects the strengthened nature of our audit process. This will help ensure our suppliers continue to ee Provide assurance regarding their compliance with our be held to high standards and our customers can be confident in the quality and sustainability Supplier Code of Conduct through Self-Assessment of our supply chain. All of these findings have been communicated to the relevant suppliers, Questionnaires, validation audits and the provision who are expected to address them within a reasonable timeframe. Progress in addressing such of documentation; findings is monitored on an ongoing basis. ee Maintain membership of the RBA’s online data management system (“RBA-ON”); and Examples of negative audit findings in 2017 ee Complete and return information regarding the origin of Health and safety Insufficient signage of escape routes in some areas potential conflict minerals integrated into parts supplied Environment Weakness in storm water management to Dialog (page 20). Third-party contract handling for the recruitment In addition, we assign at least one Dialog representative to each Labour rights (incl. human rights) of foreign workers of the fabrication plants producing integrated circuits for us. Society None This allows us to clearly communicate our operational, quality control and sustainability requirements to our partners on an ongoing basis, while also identifying and (in partnership with our fabrication partners) proactively addressing any issues of potential concern. 27 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Responsible supply chain management Nonetheless, we work with our major suppliers to ensure that ee Identify and safely manage hazardous materials. what risks do exist are minimised. In this context, the Dialog This includes the provision of relevant materials declarations Human and labour rights and health and safety Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct under EU Directive 2011/65/EU (Restriction of Hazardous Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a commitment to (including the related RBA Code) require them, amongst other Substances or “RoHS2”) and EU Regulation (EC) 1907/2006 upholding workers’ human rights and to treating them with things, to: (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of dignity and respect. In addition to key requirements around Chemicals or “REACH”); ee Minimise worker exposure to potential health and the ILO core labour standards (relating to forced labour, child safety risks, including through the application of design, e e Responsibly manage solid waste (including through labour, discrimination and freedom of association/collective engineering and administrative controls (including safe work recycling) and wastewater (including through treatment bargaining), the Dialog Code of Conduct also requires our procedures, training and the encouragement of employees prior to discharge, ongoing monitoring and the control major suppliers to: to raise related concerns) – as well as the provision of of discharges to local water bodies); ee Follow relevant national law with respect to working hours, protective equipment where necessary; ee Responsibly manage emissions to air (including volatile holiday entitlements and the outsourcing of labour; and ee Apply systems to prevent, manage, track and report health organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, ozone and safety incidents, including the proper recording of depleting chemicals and combustion by-products) and ee Ensure workers are not subject to physical or verbal minimise their greenhouse gas emissions; and abuse, bullying, or any form of unlawful harassment all cases of occupational injury and illness, the provision and intimidation. of medical treatment and the development and ee Adhere to all applicable laws, regulations and customer implementation of corrective action plans; requirements regarding the exclusion of specific substances The Dialog Code of Business Conduct is directly informed in in products and manufacturing. ee Implement emergency planning and response measures, this respect by the following instruments and standards: including evacuation procedures, the provision of fire We are continuing to work with our major suppliers to develop ee Universal Declaration of Human Rights; detection and suppression equipment, the maintenance recovery processes, and resource substitution technologies ee ILO International Labour Standards; of adequate exits and recovery planning; and and other methods to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ee UN Global Compact; ee Control the exposure of workers to hazardous substances throughout the supply chain. and to physically demanding tasks. ee RBA Code of Conduct; and In 2017, none of our significant suppliers or our own operations ee SA8000 social management system standard. were found to pose a significant risk to the environment Environmental impacts (2016: nil). The highly regulated and automated nature of our fabrication It is important that our fabrication partners respect the partners’ plants – as well as the mature nature of their health environment. This is why we will only work with major and safety management systems – means that their risk profile suppliers who are accredited to, or comply with, the ISO14001 is relatively low compared with many assembly plants higher up the value chain (where chips are integrated into larger environmental management system standard. “In 2017 we rolled-out the tightened consumer products). Under our Supplier Code of Conduct (and related RBA Code), RBA Code of Conduct to our major our major suppliers are required to: subcontractors. With their support ee Comply with relevant environmental laws and regulations; we continue on our journey to 2018 ee Minimise their use of resources (including water and energy) and their generation of solid waste and wastewater; and beyond.” Bernd Müller-Allinger Quality & Environment System Manager, Quality 28 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society 29 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society Through our business activity, we create value for a wide range of stakeholders Materiality Beyond this, we also carry out community engagement and Responsibility sits with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief philanthropy. Although these do not represent material issues, Financial Officer (with respect to our economic performance). Our most important social impact (as well as our raison d’être) such activity is in line with our corporate values, the “Spirit of Meanwhile, our Senior Vice President Engineering is responsible is our generation of economic value – much of which is Dialog”, and helps support our corporate reputation. for technological innovation. distributed amongst our investors, employees, suppliers, host governments and other beneficiaries. Given the ongoing Management approach Societal benefits opportunities for expansion of our business, as well as ever increasing demand for advanced semiconductor technology, Full details on how we manage our direct and indirect Economic impact this positive impact is expected to grow – as are our associated economic value generation and distribution, as well as our research and development activities, can be found As with any business, our primary obligation is to generate indirect economic impacts. throughout our 2017 Annual report. profit for our shareholders. In pursuit of this aim, we also Furthermore, our position at the forefront of semiconductor generate broader economic value, much of which is R&D means we are constantly helping to advance scientific We help promote electronic engineering skills in our local distributed to a wider set of stakeholders. knowledge in this area – laying the ground for future communities through a range of means, including: technological innovation, whether by ourselves or others. ee The provision of sponsorship and access bursaries to Direct impacts Likewise, the nature of our products, which are primarily engineering students at the universities of Edinburgh, focused on power management, power conversion, low Our most important means of distributing value are through: London (Imperial College), Southampton, Ulm power short range connectivity and solid state lighting LED, and Karlsruhe; ee Payments to our employees and employed contractors means we play an integral role in helping millions of end-users (including both wages and benefits); access affordable and life-enhancing technology. ee Key partnerships with University Technical College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”), including the provision of an enterprise ee Payments to other businesses, including our fabrication We also remain committed to having a positive impact at adviser, in the United Kingdom and the UK Electronic Skills partners and other suppliers; a local level. Our most material issue in this respect is the Foundation (UKESF); ee Payments to government, including taxes; enhancement of local skills pools. This not only benefits school ee Industrial placements for undergraduate students in global ee Community investment spending (page 31); and and university students by enhancing their engineering offices; and capabilities, but also helps bolster our own ability to ee Payments to our providers of capital. recruit talented new graduates and support our long-term ee Mentoring and support of school students in the UK and Our business and its positive impacts would cease to exist if we skills pipeline. the Netherlands. fail to generate economic value. This would materially affect a wide range of our stakeholders, including individuals we employ, the customers whose specialised products we procure goods and services from, suppliers and the governments to 30 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Society continued whom we pay taxes. In 2017 we published “Our approach Total value generation and distribution As at 31 December 2017, we had approximately 810 inventions to tax” which follows the principles established in our Code by type (US$ millions) (2016: approximately 700) for which we are pursuing or of Business Conduct. 2014 2015 2016 2017 have already obtained patent protection, 574 (2016: 460) of which have already been granted in the United States. The table opposite shows how much value we generated Economic value generated 1,156.1 1,355.3 1,197.6 1,352.8 While intellectual property protection around this technology over the last three years – and to whom it was distributed. Economic value distributed 1,020.7 1,201.1 1,076.2 1,183.1 means it will not be shared in the short to medium term (see There are no material government shareholdings in Operating costs1 764.0 871.7 794.9 881.3 page 20), in the long term it is technology that can be applied our Company. Employee wages by anyone. and benefits2 210.4 224.3 230.3 274.5 Dialog tax principles Payments to providers Product impacts of capital 14.8 6.6 3.4 1.3 Positive product impacts ee Full compliance with applicable laws and regulation; Payments to government 31.5 98.5 47.4 25.8 ee Acting ethically, honestly and with integrity in line with The technology that we develop and market supports the the Dialog Code of Business Conduct; Community investments 0.5 0.6 0.2 0.2 wider provision (by our business partners) of advanced, Economic value retained 135.4 154.2 121.4 169.7 affordable technology to consumers in a range of global ee Consistent with the overall business strategy and approach to risk management; and 1 Excluding employee wages and benefits and property tax. mass‑markets, including: ee Utilising available and legitimate tax incentives and reliefs 2 Including share-based payments. ee Personal, portable handheld devices; to minimise the tax cost of conducting our business. Technological impact ee IoT applications; For more information, please see our website www.dialog-semiconductor.com/company/corporate-socialee LED solid state lighting; and responsibility Our business is also helping advance integrated, mixed-signal circuit technology in a range of areas, including: ee Automotive technology. Indirect impacts In this context, our products offer a range of advantages to ee Mobile power management; end-users (and, by extension, our customers who are selling In addition to our direct economic impact, we also generate a ee Power conversion; to them). These include: range of indirect economic impacts, including through: ee Bluetooth® low energy connectivity; and ee Mobile power management: Greater power efficiency, ee The application of our technology to improve the capabilities ee Configurable mixed-signal ICs. resulting in longer battery life and increased mobility. and portability of handheld electronic devices (amongst Given the rapid evolution of technology and fast-moving For example, typical usage tests suggest our Power others). This enhances the ability of our customers to develop consumer demands, the sustainability of our business requires Management Integrated Circuits decrease the power and market enhanced consumer products – as reflected us to stay at the cutting edge of these technologies. As a consumption of smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™ in the recent boom in advanced mobile communications result, we invest a significant amount into R&D. In 2017, for by up to 30%; and tablet technology. In turn, this has helped support the example, we invested US$307 million on R&D activities (2016: ee Power conversion: Our high efficiency AC/DC power creation and maintenance of jobs amongst suppliers and US$264 million, or 22.7% of our total revenue (2016: 22.1%). converters and LED drivers help maximise power conversion customers working in this exciting sector. Furthermore, it also efficiency using digital technology and fewer components; supports the delivery of ever-more productive and portable Number of United States patents (held and ee Configurable mixed-signal ICs: Integrating multiple analog, communications and computing technology to end-users. pending) in each given year (non-cumulative) logic and discrete components into a single IC, contributing In 2017, for example, we shipped approximately 1.7 billion integrated circuits; and 2014 2015 2016 2017 to a reduced number of components and board space; and ee The enhancement of skills and knowledge within the Granted 14 3 93 94 ee Connectivity: Our ultra-low power Bluetooth® low energy, electronic engineering community through our range of Filed 104 84 86 112 SmartBond™ System-On-Chip helps to significantly increase “pre-employment” educational initiatives, our recruitment the battery life of a range of connected devices and and development of high-quality graduate electronics As a result of this kind of investment, we produce original IoT applications. engineers, the experience our senior engineers gain by technological inventions on an ongoing basis. This not only working on cutting-edge products and our considerable helps underpin the future success of our business, but also investment in R&D. increases the sum of global technological knowledge in the three areas set out above. 31 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Appendix Minimisation of negative product impacts The key means by which we manage product health and External review of reporting on sustainability safety issues include the following: The nature of our integrated circuits means that their Verisk Maplecroft was commissioned by Dialog Semiconductor actual and potential negative impacts are relatively limited. ee Pre-emptive product design – including the application of Plc to help advance its sustainability reporting. Nonetheless, we design our products in a way that is intended proven “fail-safe” technology and processes; to minimise any negative impacts they might have over This included guidance with respect to reporting strategy, ee Extensive lab-testing of new designs – including factors materiality, selected content and reporting best practice. their lifecycle. This includes efforts to reduce the size of our relating to physical integrity, heat emission and functionality; integrated circuits (thus reducing the amount of input materials This statement is made in our capacity as a service provider to and Dialog Semiconductor Plc on this assignment. Verisk Maplecroft required, as well as the amount of packaging used to protect ee External auditing of product technical performance – did not verify the data contained in this sustainability report. and ship them). In addition, and as described above, we aim including by our customers. to make our integrated circuits as energy-efficient as possible – while also enhancing the energy efficiency of the larger These are applied to all of our product categories, with Approach products they are integrated into. the aim of achieving continuously improved performance. Verisk Maplecroft was involved in the following activities between These processes are overseen by the Senior Vice President mid 2017 and early 2018: Given the important role our integrated circuits play in of Global Manufacturing and Operations, who is ultimately managing the power supply of more than a billion consumer ee Review of reporting standards: Including the GRI G4 responsible for ensuring the safety of our products. end-products, we place significant emphasis on ensuring they Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“G4 Guidelines”) and do not pose health and safety risks to end-users. As a result of such efforts, in 2017 we had no reported incidents the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact; of non-compliance with any legal or customer requirements This includes extensive measures to minimise the risk of ee Gap analysis: To identify and, where feasible, help address gaps concerning the cross-lifecycle health and safety performance our products (in the context of their integration into larger in Dialog Semiconductor’s existing reporting practices against of our products. electronic end-products) contributing to: the relevant reporting standards; ee Overheating; Community benefits ee Engagement: Including both remote and face-to-face engagement with Dialog Semiconductor managers; ee Fire risks; and Community engagement and corporate giving ee Materiality process: Implementation, with Dialog ee Power overload. Semiconductor, of a full materiality assessment which was Dialog has an active community engagement and corporate Furthermore, we are subject to extensive official legal and giving programme, and in 2017 we gave US$181,000 to various aligned with the requirements of the G4 Guidelines; and customer requirements in this regard (page 19), making causes aligned with our business objectives. These included: ee Performance enhancement: The outcomes from the above product health and safety a key compliance issue. For example, the use of our technology for good causes, promoting STEM processes were used, where possible, to enhance Dialog we are required to ensure that all of our products meet the education, and encouraging women in engineering. In 2017, Semiconductor’s level of reporting and support its closer following official standards (in addition to comprehensive the Company rolled out a new corporate giving policy, alignment with the “Core” requirements of the G4 Guidelines. customer standards imposed by consumer-facing encouraging employees to engage with the communities electronics brands): in which they work. The policy put a stronger emphasis on activities to which we can bring additional value through our Gus Macfarlane, ee RoHS2; 19 March 2018 expertise and business activities. ee REACH SVHC174; and Verisk Maplecroft, 1 Henry Street, Bath BA1 1JS, United Kingdom ee Halogen-free. www.maplecroft.com info@maplecroft.com 32 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Appendix continued GRI G4 material aspects Category G4 aspect Material? Page Category G4 aspect Material? Page Economic Economic performance Y 03, 29-30 Social: Labour practices Labour practices grievance mechanisms Economic Market presence 04–05 Social: Human rights Investment Y 24–27 Economic Indirect economic impacts Y 30 Social: Human rights Non-discrimination Y 17, 26-27, GRI table Economic Procurement practices 24–27 Freedom of association and collective 15, 25, 26-27, Environmental Materials 20, 22, 24 Social: Human rights bargaining Y GRI table Environmental Energy 22 Social: Human rights Child labour Y 15, 26-27, GRI table Environmental Water Social: Human rights Forced or compulsory labour Y 15, 26-27, GRI table Environmental Biodiversity Social: Human rights Security practices Environmental Emissions 22 Social: Human rights Indigenous rights Environmental Effluents and waste Social: Human rights Assessment Environmental Products and services Y 30–31, GRI table Social: Human rights Supplier human rights assessment Y 24–27 Environmental Compliance Y 19–20, 22 Social: Human rights Human rights grievance mechanisms Environmental Transport Social: Society Local communities 03, 31, GRI table Environmental Overall 19–20, 24–26, Environmental Supplier environmental assessment 24–27 Social: Society Anti-corruption GRI table Environmental Environmental grievance mechanisms Social: Society Public policy Social: Labour practices Employment Y 15–17, GRI table Social: Society Anti-competitive behaviour 19–20 Social: Labour practices Labour/management relations Y 15, GRI table Social: Society Compliance Y 19–20 Social: Labour practices Occupational health and safety GRI table Social: Society Supplier assessment for impacts on society Y 24–27 Social: Labour practices Training and education Y 15–17, GRI table Social: Society Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Social: Labour practices Diversity and equal opportunity Y 16-17, GRI table Social: Product responsibility Customer health and safety Y 19, 26-27, GRI table Social: Labour practices Equal remuneration for women and men Y 16 Social: Product responsibility Product and service labelling Y 19, 26-27, GRI table Social: Labour practices Supplier assessment for labour practices Y 24–27 Social: Product responsibility Marketing communications Social: Product responsibility Customer privacy Y 19–20, GRI table Social: Product responsibility Compliance Y 19–20, 29-31 UN Global Compact reference table Category Principle Page Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Labour 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 07, 15–17, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 07, 15–17, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 07, 15–17, 24–27, GRI table Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 07, 22, 24–27, 29-31, GRI table Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 07, 22, 24–27, 29-31, GRI table Environment 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 04–05, 12–13, 30–31, GRI table, Annual report Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 33 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2017 Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Environmental responsibility Value chain Society Group directory Germany The Netherlands Japan China Taiwan Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Dialog Semiconductor Trading Dialog Semiconductor GmbH (Shanghai) Ltd Neue Strasse 95 Het Zuiderkruis 53 8F, W-Building 1-8-15 Konan Taiwan Branch D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch Minato-Ku Room 703, 7F, Kehui Building 7F, 392 Ruiguang Road Germany The Netherlands Tokyo 108-0075 No.1188 North Quinzhou Road Neihu District Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Japan Shanghai Taipei City 11493 Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 Phone: (+81) 3 5769-5112 200233 Taiwan, R.O.C. Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com Fax: (+81) 3 5769-5101 China Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Phone: (+86) 215 4249 058 Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 United Kingdom North America Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Ltd Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Dialog North America Korea 25F, Lifetech Scientific Building Delta 200 2560 Mission College Boulevard South 12 Road, Southern District in, Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Delta Business Park Suite 110 High-tech Zone Welton Road Santa Clara Korea Branch Nanshan District Swindon California 95054 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building, 625 Shenzhen Wiltshire SN5 7XB USA Teheran-ro 518057 United Kingdom Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Gangnam-gu China Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Fax: (+1) 408 727 3205 Seoul, 06173 Phone: (+86) 755 2981 3669 Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com Korea Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Phone: (+82) 2 3469 8200 Dialog Semiconductor Inc. Fax: (+82) 2 3469 8291 100 Longwater Avenue Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com Green Park 675 Campbell Technology Parkway Reading RG2 6GP Suite 150 United Kingdom Campbell Phone: +44 1793 757700 California 95008 Fax: +44 1189 450219 USA Email: info@diasemi.com Designed and produced by: Radley Yeldar І www.ry.com Environmental Introduction Materiality Our colleagues Business ethics Value chain Society responsibility Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK www.dialog-semiconductor.com
