Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group COP (SDS Int’l Group) 2017-2018 1 Contents: 1Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 2SDS Int’l Group Introduction 33-SDS Int’l Group Spirit 4Summary of SDS Main Sustainable activity in 2015: 4-1 Strategic Alliances 4-2 Projects a. Prime Project b. Organizational Credibility Development Project c. Joint Projects d. Establishment of New Structure and Organization e. SDS Commitments to Global Compact Clusters 2 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Rahbord Tose’ e Paydar Int’l Group (SDS) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ali Javadi Pouya Chief Executive Officer 3 CEO Statement: On 25 September 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. At the core of the 2030 Agenda are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The universal SDGs describe major development challenges for humanity. The aim of the 17 SDGs is to secure a sustainable, peaceful, and equitable life on earth for everyone now and in the future. For the goals to be reached, everyone needs to do their part: governments, the private sectors, civil society and every human being across the world. I believe that to create more sustainable world individuals must become sustainability changemakers. They require the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes that empower them to contribute to sustainable development. Since we are the UNGC participant since 2011 and UNAI (UN Academic Impact) member, the UNPRI Professional Service Provider and also the Regional Action center to Global Understanding initiative in Iran; this year we had focused in education and increasing public awareness about SDGs by consider core ideas about learning objectives for the SDGs when developing education policies or strategies in our Academy. And also we helped teachers or curriculum designers in formal educational institutions, trainers in professional capacity-building programmes, or NGO staff designing nonformal educational offers. According our experience, we find that the best chance of achieving the SDGs is if everybody is aware of them and this is where young people have a critical role to play. The overall success of the SDGs depends on youth engagement because we deeply believe young people are critical thinkers, change-makers, innovators, communicators, and future leaders. Ali Javadi Pouya 4 SDS Int’l Group Spirit The SDS Int’l Group Spirit is all about our attitude toward business. It's a way of doing things, of relating to each other and to the outside world that has made us into the company we are today. As a company committed to serving people, we seek to hire and retain the very best employees. We strive to create a dynamic, energetic organization that offers excellent growth opportunities on both a corporate and on an individual level. Our day-to-day corporate culture reflects the SDS Spirit, which is defined by: o Pride: SDS is built by the people who work here o Safety: The health of patients demands quality and safety in all our activities o Effort: Our efforts lead to our results o Commitment: Our clients are aware of our ongoing commitment o Excellence: Through efficient use of available resources, we perform at the highest levels o Teamwork: Through teamwork we become more competitive in the market o Innovation and improvement: Our commitment to innovation and improvement serves as an example to our community Quality, Integrity and Safety in all our activities Our products are of vital importance to the health and quality of life of patients. For this reason, safety is more than just a regulatory requirement at SDS. Safety is a philosophy that goes hand in hand with our commitment to integrity in everything we do. The quality and safety of our products and of our internal processes, from manufacturing to marketing, are of pivotal importance to our organization. To achieve the highest level of safety and quality possible, SDS maintains strong communication channels among all the different areas of our business. By openly sharing information, we ensure that every employee is fully aware of, and totally invested in, the company's aims, innovations and final results. Our commitment to innovation and improvement serves as an example to our community The ability to plan for the future, to invest in improvements and to strive for innovation are key factors in fulfilling our mission to improve people's health and well-being. Our efforts have helped propel us to an industry-leading position, but we must continue to develop and deliver new products, services and healthcare solutions in order to solve existing and emerging healthcare challenges. 5 SDS Int’l Group: Code of Business Principles TAP (Transparency, accountability, participation) Our code of business principles and ethics is fundamental to our culture of performance with integrity. Our code is a key element of the company’s governance, risk management, compliance with international financing standards and ethics program. As we know there is a general challenge of information that is routinely disclosed, accessible, standardized and comparable on financing for development for development flows. According to passed financing for development agreements (FfD) and recent report by intergovernmental committee of experts on sustainable development financing (ICEDSF), TAP (Transparency, accountability, participation) have recognized as the heart of the post2015 financing strategy. TAP is essential for tracking and monitoring resources and results and allows for better coordination and real-time information to support strategic decision making and make resources the most effective for development outcome. SDS setting TAP strategy as the part of business principles to create a fit-for-purpose system to track resources which supports monitoring the post-2015 commitment to promote its clients oversight of development funding decision and corporate reporting to ensure their meaningful and informed participation in UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 6 SDS Int’l Group 2017-2018 Focus on: Knowing is not enough; we need to act Since, global challenges like water shortage, deforestation, unsustainable consumption of natural recourses, etc., are common threats in West-Asia and Caucasus, contribution and collaboration of public and private sectors on sustainability appears to be very essential. We, therefore, can encourage our strategic partners all around Middle-East and West-Asia to join these initiatives and to promote sustainability practices in their sphere of influence. “As a Regional Action Center (RAC) of IYGU (International Year of Global Understanding), we have a Commitment to facilitate the bottom-up process of generating ideas for and implementing practices of everyday actions for global sustainability at the local level.” We are planning to rum educational and research activity with our national and international partners about sustainability, SDGs, CSR, Global Understanding and the role of private organization to promote global concern to important challenges. So we have Program for lunching some Special training courses with universities in Academic Class, prepare brochure about IYGU in local language and publish in all our Events. Organize research program about SDGs Performance in IRAN and gradation of Governmental authority’s awareness about Sustainability in tailor-made meeting, conference, courses. After remarking on Global Challenges and bringing all of stakeholders on the same page. We will encourage them to use Innovation and Social Innovation in their own business and own life. 7 IRAN Regional Action Center Global Understanding Summit 2017-2018 Focus on Global Risks The IRAN RAC aims to yield deep, but actionable, insights into the ways all peoples can live together more sustainably and explores the benefits governments, business and citizen stand to gain by proactively looking for ways to engage and dialogue with concerned citizens. IRAN RAC will contribute to recognizing the need for action, create an imperative towards greater resilience, and motivate change and concrete action towards a better future in IRAN. The Global Understanding Summit focus will be on developing strategies for targeted local projects with a global reach. There are three elements to this: research, education, and information. First IRAN RAC Summit subject in 2017-2018 is about Global Risks. “A global risk is an uncertain event or condition that, if it occurs, can cause significant negative impact for several countries or industries within the next 10 years.” World Economic Forum in The 11th edition of Global Risks Report 2016 draws attention to ways that global risks could evolve and interact in the next decade. The year 2016 marks a forceful departure from past findings, as the risks about which the Report has been warning over the past decade are starting to manifest themselves in new, sometimes unexpected ways and harm people, institutions and economies. 8 Five Global Risk categories: Summit Subject Matters: 1Global Understanding SummitPart 1: what is Global Risks 2016? Subject Matter 1: what are the Global Risks 2016 in different regions around the world? Subject Matter 2: what are the Main Risks that Asia has faced? 2-Global Understanding SummitPart2: IRAN Risks 2016 Subject Matter 1: Iran Risks: Economic, Geopolitical, Societal, Environmental Subject Matter 2: what Solutions are effective to resolve these Risks and its consequences? 3-Global Understanding Summit-Part 3: IRAN Risks Balanced Solutions Based on SDGs Guidelines Primary Speech: what is Global Understanding and who are the IYGU Founders? What is the Role of Global Understanding in face of global Challenge? 9 Summary of SDS Main Sustainable Activities in 2017-2018: 1Strategic Alliances 1-1 Rostam Capital; England Managing Director, Founder: Majid Sadjadi Nejad One of the first London based boutique investment banks, working with a team of internationally respected professionals to advise multinational corporations, financial institutions and private offices engaging with the growth markets of Iran and providing Iran's financial institutions access to the global capital markets. 1-2 Maxima MarketsEngland Chief Executive: Majid Sadjadi Nejad An independent investment management and advisory that forms partnerships to develop and invest in private equity ventures and provides market entry and investment advisory services to generate value for companies in European and Emerging Markets. Main Subject: SDS and Rostam Capital & Maxima Market wish to enter into a strategic alliance to promote Financial Knowledge (with a particular focus on world challenges like Sustainability, Health and Environmental crisis, Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance (CG) concepts). 10 Cooperation to: 1. Create Innovative Business Solutions with Sustainable Approach for help Iranian and Foreign Investors to access global markets. 2. Execute financial methods and instruments to facilitate transactions with national and international investors. 3. Providing Advisory Services and implementation support on a range of M&A, capital-raising and trade finance solutions in the Iran markets. 4. Providing a full range of investment-banking related services to corporations, financial institutions and individuals engaged in the Iran markets 1-3 Vidin Gestão e Participação Ltda – Brazil VIDIN is part of an entrepreneurial effort launched in 2001 by Roberto Viana and the support of several other national and international associations, both individual and institutional. Managing Director, Founder: Roberto Viana Batista Main Subject: SDS and Vidin wish to enter into a strategic alliance to promote Financial Knowledge (with a particular focus on world challenges like Sustainability, Resilience and Environmental crisis, Preserving Natural Resources, Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance (CG) concepts) Cooperation to: 1. Export and import of all non-restricted commercial, industrial, mining, medical agricultural and other Industries. 2. Investment in industrial, mining, agricultural and energy projects inside of IRAN. 3. Investment in establishing urban and rural infrastructure in IRAN. 4. Active participation in transportation sector including road, maritime, air and rail transportation in addition to all related industries 11 5. Investment in construction industry such as housing, business centres, commercial centres and entertainment complexes construction inside of IRAN. 6. Investigation and establishment of high-advantage production groups for providing the domestic needs of IRAN and Asian markets. 7. Financial and banking activities in absorbing local and foreign investment opportunities. 8. Obtaining exclusive agency permits or representative license from reputable companies and granting representative licenses of local or international entities. 1-4 OIEC GroupIRAN Oil Industries Engineering & Construction Group OIEC is a leading private, EPC contractor in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical industries and as a project leader in over 6 billion dollars projects with more than 2000 qualified personnel is planning to expand its horizons to enter the regional markets as a world-class contractor and E&P by utilizing state-of-the-art technology and benefiting from professional subsidiaries. Main Subject: SDS and OIEC wish to enter into a strategic alliance to promote Financial Knowledge (with a particular focus on world challenges like Sustainability, Resilience and Environmental crisis, Preserving Natural Resources, Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance (CG) concepts) Cooperation to: 1Create innovative solutions utilizing sustainable approach to help domestic and foreign investors to access financial resources nationally and internationally. 2Promote synergy and collaboration within Rostam Capital as the SDS trustful partner in providing investment banking services and access to global capital market 12 3Provide advisory services and support with a range of trade finance solutions in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical industries. 4Facilitate partnership process for International Business Clubs and investment forums such as NIHIK (Netherland Iran Commercial chamber), Holland-Iran, and SIIF (Swiss Iran Investment Forum) in order to extend international business communications. 5Facilitate partnership and collaboration in investment banking as well as establishment specialty investment banks in new fields (such as energy investment bank and portage and hinterland investment bank) to promote sustainable and responsible investment concepts. 6Expand communication and contribution with UN Based Organizations and global initiatives (such as UN Global Compact, UNPRI, Global Understanding) which are working on sustainability, corporate social responsibility, corporate governance (CG), business continuity, sustainable branding and other related world challenges to develop organizational credibility. 7Promote sustainability and social responsibility concepts in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical private or governmental sectors in order to help grow organizational performance regarding UN Sustainable Developments Goals. 8Improve sustainable quality, assurance and excellence systems in energy products and services through adhering international norms and technical standards which will be certified by accredited and authorized certification bodies. 13 1-5 Cell Tech Farmed – IRAN While cell replacement offers hope for the treatment of incurable diseases in the long term, CTP Company is based on the cellular and clinical research to develop and promote the stem cell therapeutic medicines and industries over the globe. We are an advanced, stand-alone stem cell therapy center offering tissue-derived stem cells, cultivate the stem cells in bioreactors, along with proprietary cell culture media, antibody reagents, molecular tools and using a variety of in vitro tissue models for demonstrating the authentic biological properties of human cells in target organs. Main Subject: SDS and CellTech wish to enter into a strategic alliance to share their knowledge for supporting innovated medicines that meet patients’ changing needs and make a valued contribution to healthcare and to discover financial solution for developing stem cell therapeutic medicines and industries over the global market, while considering world challenges like Sustainability, Health and Environmental Crisis and Social Responsibility. Cooperation to: 1. Create innovative solutions utilizing sustainable approach to help CellTech to access financial resources nationally and internationally around the world. 2. Improve sustainable quality, assurance and excellence systems in CellTech products and Services through adhering to international norms and technical standards which will be certified by accredited and authorized certification bodies. 3. Promote Sustainability and Social Responsibility concepts in CellTech in order to help grow organizational performance regarding UN Sustainable Developments Goals. 4. Expand CellTech communication and contribution with UN Based Organizations and global initiatives (such as UN Global Compact, UNPRI, Global Understanding) which are working on Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance (CG), Business Continuity, Sustainable Branding and other related world challenges to develop Organizational Credibility. 14 5. Develop CellTech marketing strategy to generate and improve a platform in order to transfer technology for cell therapy products, establishing a wellequipped center for conducting pre-clinical and clinical research in other countries and other CellTech Services. 1-6 Dr. Meidanchi Management ClinicIRAN Main Subject: SDS and Dr. Meidanchi Management Clinic. Wish to enter into a strategic alliance to promote their financial services and Economic Knowledge (with considering world challenges like Sustainability, Health and Environmental crisis, Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance (CG) concepts. Cooperation to: 1. Create innovative solutions utilizing sustainable approach to help domestic Business man to access financial resources nationally and internationally or working as representative of global companies around the world. 2. Improve sustainable quality, assurance and excellence systems in products and services through adhering international norms and technical standards which will be certified by accredited and authorized certification bodies. 3. Promote sustainability and social responsibility concepts in Iran’s private or governmental sectors in order to help grow organizational performance regarding UN Sustainable Developments Goals. 4. Expand communication and contribution with UN Based Organizations and global initiatives (such as UN Global Compact, UNPRI, Global Understanding) which are working on sustainability, corporate social responsibility, corporate governance (CG), business continuity, sustainable branding and other related world challenges to develop organizational credibility. 15 5. Facilitate partnership process for International Business Clubs and investment forums such as NIHIK (Netherland Iran Commercial chamber), Holland-Iran, and SIIF (Swiss Iran Investment Forum) and universities and academic centers in order to extend international business communications and joint educational programs. 6. Facilitate marketing in publishing industry and publisher promotion services. 16 Projects: 1-Prime Project PRIME Project: rule is emerging economies and public procurement as flagship adoption project to generate increased awareness and uptake of International Initiative standards in Sustainability and Credibility development. (For more information please see: COP 2016 or www.prime.sdsgroup.org) New prime Client in 2017-2018: 1. Sadra Trading Co. Scope: Import, Export, Trade and providing after sales services in Automotive Industry 2. Parto Energy Jam Scope: High Quality Design and Construction of Energy Systems, Oil and Gas Plants Building and Industrial Utilities, Hydrocarbon Reservoir Management Energy Finance Claims Energy, Sustainable Development Laws and contracts Goods Import and Exports Road and Building Construction, Landscape and Interior Design 3. Artmen Trading International Co. Scope: General Trading, import, Export and Technology Transfer 17 2Organizational Credibility Development Project Defining the sustainability objectives of the system and the approach to achieving them ensures that the system is aligned and oriented towards sustainability. Standards systems that have their sustainability objectives at the heart of their operations are more likely to make decisions that are in the best interests of society and the environment, rather than primarily for their own profit or benefit. The way in which an organization defines sustainability (which is usually through its standard), in and of itself, has profound impacts on its credibility and effectiveness. Communicating these objectives ensures that stakeholders are clear on what the system seeks to achieve. Sustainability performance indicators (SPI) are used as a tool to measure a company’s performance and to Gap Analyze, Training, integrated management to future progress. SPI can be grouped in three areas covering either the economic, environmental or social aspects of sustainability. Organizational Context Training & Synchronization Integrating Change Management Gap Analayze 7 days Training Courses 2 days Defining CR initiatives 7 days ESG & CR pre-audit + data gathering Determining current and future position on the CR continuum UNGC, UN-PRI, SDGU (ESG & CR) Gap Analyze report Developing Road-Map primary darft 18 1Boushehr Polimer Industrial Group (Panberes) PROFILE: Group: Chemicals & Polymer Company work: Mat waeving & Plastic industry production, Production of Cellulose industry & food industry, Polymer industry Main products: Mat, Gunny, Nylon, Yarn, Leather, Adhesive plasters (Band Aids), Shrimp, Ear cleaner, Paper towels & Diapers, Bottles & pacifiers 19 2Pars Hayan Co. Pars Hayan Laboratoris, one of the dominant leaders in the Middle East Portal in Cosmetics and Health Care Products, plays a prime role in improving the access level of end users. Pars Hayan Laboratories plans to promote the society health condition by manufacturing more than 300 various Dermocosmetics products and Personal Cares, such as Skin Care, Hair Care and Oral Care which are able to compete in international market. 20 3OIEC Group OIEC is a leading private, EPC contractor in Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical industries and as a project leader in over 6 billion dollars projects with more than 2000 qualified personnel is planning to expand its horizons to enter the regional markets as a world-class contractor and E&P by utilizing state-of-the-art technology and benefiting from professional subsidiaries. 21 Educational Projects: 1Iran Tier Co: ISO26000:2010 and Corporate Social Responsibility Iran Tire Manufacturing Co. produces different types of automobile rubber as well as van, cargo, bus, farm, and road-construction tires. The company was established in 1964 and was launched in 1965 under the name of General Tire and Rubber of Iran. Different types of automobile rubber produced by Iran Tire includes different sizes of bias tire and tread radical tires, which are all produced under the trademark of Iran Tire. In order to manufacture better quality products and to have a more effective presence in the market, Iran Tire Co. chose Matador Co., as the company to provide technical knowledge due to the company’s worldwide fame. In addition, the company chose the machines that work in the line of manufacturing automobile rubber as well as other machineries from the best manufacturers in France, Netherlands, Germany, and Slovakia in order to have a role, no matter how little it is, in the manufacturing industry and selfsufficiency of Iran. 22 2Sina Insurance; Sustainable Insurance Subject: Sustainable Insurance Workshop Sina Insurance Rebranding Seminar Sustainable insurance is a strategic approach where all activities in the insurance value chain, including interactions with stakeholders, are done in a responsible and forwardlooking way by identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks and opportunities associated with environmental, social and governance issues. Sustainable insurance aims to reduce risk, develop innovative solutions, improve business performance, and contribute to environmental, social and economic sustainability. Abstract: The world in which now seven billion people exist is becoming a riskier place to live and to operate as a result of accelerating environmental change and the interconnectedness of societies, economies and supply chains. Meanwhile, consumers and citizens are demanding higher levels of accountability and transparency from governments and companies, and policies, products and services that reflect the challenges and opportunities of a new century. The insurance industry’s core business is to manage risk and in recent years more and more insurers have been responding to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues at varying levels and scales. 23 Over the past six years, the UN Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative has been exploring the possibility of estab lish ing sustainability principles for the global insurance industry that can catalyze and amplify transformational change. Principles that tailor to the needs and aspirations of the insurance industry and the clients and citizens it serves. The result is four overarching Principles for Sustainable Insurance launched at the Rio+20 Summit in June 2012, two decades after the Rio Earth Summit of 1992 that set the course for contemporary sustainable development. In 1992, the risks to people and the planet from accelerating environmental degradation and social inequalities were just being glimpsed. Now they are fast becoming a reality for every man, woman and child alive today. Under the Principles for Sustainable Insurance, insurers joining this global initiative are embracing fundamental aspirations and turning them into concrete actions. These range from integrating ESG issues into a company’s management and operational DNA, to working together with clients, suppliers and governments to raise awareness of ESG issues, alongside developing new kinds of risk management products and services. Seven billion people, rising to over nine billion by 2050, are not going to stand still and wait for the future they want. We need to green our economies, build resilient communities, deliver wider ranging social outcomes, and better conserve our forests, freshwaters and other critical ecosystems. The Principles for Sustainable Insurance are a foundation upon which the insurance industry and society as a whole can build a stronger relationship—one that puts sustainability at the heart of risk management in pursuit of a more forward-looking and better managed world. 24 3University of Tehran – Faculty of Economics Strategic Management, Organizational Culture, Innovation and Sustainable Business 25 Joint Project: SDS Int’l Group & Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines Int’l Maritime Law Association Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines was established in 1967 and commenced its commercial operation by employing two home trade vessels and 4 larger ocean going vessels. 26 Presently, IRISL Group with around half a century experience in worldwide marine transportation field and employing a reliable international network is well-known to its clients as their global partner, capable in performing a wide spectrum of services and steps up beyond expectation of customers. The Iranian Maritime Law, in force as of 1965, which is modeled on some European countries’ maritime law, has incorporated relevant international rules and maritime customs. The said act defines rights, duties and responsibilities of the crew and masters. Furthermore, it governs transferable bill of lading, common damages and responsibilities, limitation of liability etc. Iran's Maritime Law that is among the legal sources for maritime activities in Iran needs to undergo some change to get up-to-date with the current situation in shipping industry. Int’l Maritime Law Association offers different programs of study ranging from short courses to a Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in International Maritime Law. The main purpose of the programmes is to train legal advisers in relevant areas of international maritime law, including the law of the sea, marine environmental law and shipping law. The aim of the Association is to provide a platform for an exchange of views between colleges and a channel of communication between the colleges jointly and the various national bodies involved in the training and certification process. 27 SDS Int’l Group & Port and Maritime Organization Iran and Ballast Water Management Convention Promote Treatment equipment’s for manage Ballast Water Accession by Finland has triggered the entry into force of the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. The Convention will enter into force on September 8, 2017, marking a landmark step towards halting the spread of invasive aquatic species, which can cause havoc for local ecosystems, affect biodiversity and lead to substantial economic loss. Under the Convention’s terms, ships will be required to manage their ballast water to remove, render harmless, or avoid the uptake or discharge of aquatic organisms and pathogens within ballast water and sediments Regional Organization for the Protection of the Marine Environment (ROPME Sea Area (RSA)) Ballast Water Management Regulation: In light of the Ballast Water Management Convention that replaced the voluntary guidelines and considering the specific provisions of the Convention, it is desired to take the necessary steps to mitigate the risk of introduction of harmful species and also to harmonize national and regional policies to address the issue of ballast water in the RSA. 28 The area is the largest recipient of ship's ballast water. Annually, more than 50,000 vessels visit this area and discharge a large amount of ballast water. The RSA is a semienclosed water body with intensely hot summers and short cool winters, extensive air and water temperature fluctuation and relatively high salinity. It is also characterized by high turbidity and low exchange of water with open waters. Therefore, there is also a need to manage and control the spread of harmful aquatic species in ship's ballast water by implementing a set of measures such as ballast water exchange outside the RSA. With effect from 1 November 2009, all ships, regardless of flag, will be required to exchange and treat all ballast water taken up outside the RSA for the protection of the marine environment. This comprises the states of Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Taking into consideration the provisions of the Regulation B-4 of the Ballast Water Management Convention, the following points should be observed: Vessels arriving from outside the RSA should undertake ballast water exchange route in water over 200 n.m. from the nearest land and in water of least depth 200 m. If not possible for safety reasons, vessel should be expected to make minor deviations to areas within the 200 n.m. limit that can be identified as discharge area, so long as such areas are more than 50 n.m. from the nearest land in waters of least depth 200 m. If not achievable, ship shall provide the respective authority with the reason why she has not done so, and further ballast water management measures may be required, consistent with the Ballast Water Management Convention and other international laws. Ballast water that has been treated with a ballast water treatment system approved in accordance with IMO standards does not need to be exchanged. Ships will be required to have on board an approved Ballast Water Management Plan in accordance with the IMO standards. Ships should also have and maintain a Ballast Water Record Book. From the date specified above, all the ships passing Strait of Hormuz will be required to complete the Regional Ballast Water Reporting Form (RBWRF). The ships will be inspected by the Port State Control Officers to ensure these regional requirements are fully implemented. 29 SDS Int’l Group & MIS Integrated Monitoring Water Forum West Asia, 2017 Access to SustainablyManaged Water 30 About MIS Modern International Study The Modern International Study (MIS) was established as a non-governmental, nonpolitical Centre for International Law Studies in Dubai, United Arab Emirates in 2011. The purpose of the Centre is to promote the research and study of international law with particular focus on issues that are more relevant for the countries in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA). The Centre will sponsor research projects, carry out studies, arrange courses and organize international seminars and conferences. Its headquarter is in Dubai Knowledge Village. Forum Introduction: In the modern world, we face complex challenges to ensure everyone has access to sustainably-managed water and sanitation services. We need partnerships and collaboration to tackle the complexity of those challenges while helping to create a healthy, sustainable and prosperous world where no-one is left behind. The forum’s key objectives are to provide coherent and reliable data and information on key water trends and management issues in IRAN. This Credible data about Water accessibility, water saving, wastewater and treatment technology can help advocacy, stimulate political commitment, public and private investments, inform decision-making and trigger well-placed investments. Over time, monitoring and reporting also help to identify best practices and support productive integration across sectors and targets within the SDG framework. Challenges and Opportunities International human rights law demands a specific focus on those people who do not fully enjoy their rights, leading to explicitly ‘pro-poor’ development in many countries. It also requires a commitment to progressively reduce inequalities by tackling the discrimination and stigmatization that can lead to people being excluded from, or marginalized in relation to, water and sanitation access. The ‘human rights-based approach’ stresses the correspondence between rights and obligations, providing a framework for Member States and other organizations that aims to ensure that respect for human rights are integrated into development plans at all levels. 31 What are the rights and what do they mean?  The right to water entitles everyone to have access to sufficient, safe, acceptable, physically accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic use.  The right to sanitation entitles everyone to have physical and affordable access to sanitation, in all spheres of life, that is safe, hygienic, secure, and socially and culturally acceptable and that provides privacy and ensures dignity. Forum outcomes • Improved synergy among participants including scientists, NGOs, private sectors, governments and international organizations for more effective water management • Healthier ecosystems and improved human well-being • Improve SDG 6 Effective achievements • Increased opportunities and benefits realized and concerted national and international efforts to embed effective water management in national development plans • Enhanced knowledge generation, sharing and utilization for better water management • Enhanced recognition of wastewater as a resource and an opportunity by decision makers and stakeholders • Enabled complementarities between the Forum and relevant Conventions and other international instruments, action plans, initiatives, and activities • Increased mobilization of resources to address water challenges. 32 Special Advisory Board Dr. Said Mahmoudi – Professor of International Law and former Dean of the Faculty of Law at Stockholm University Dr. Djamchid Momtaz – Professor Emeritus of International Law and former Chairman of International Law Commission 33 SDS Int’l Group & Swiss Academic Network Introduction of Swiss Schools and Universities to Iranian Students 2017Tehran Swiss Academic Network Swiss Academic Network is an educational consulting company dedicated to providing families and individuals with a world-class consulting service to help them find the most appropriate summer camps, boarding schools, hotel Management and universities in Switzerland. With our extensive academic network and firsthand industry knowledge, we are committed to ensuring each individual realizes their inner potential by providing a safe, positive, holistic and multicultural environment to grow and develop, while equipping them with the relevant skills and knowledge for the future. 34 Subject: Introduction of United Nation Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) There is UNBased guideline that I want to introduce:” the United Nation new wellestablished approach of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD)” which empowers learners to take informed decisions and responsible actions for environmental Integrity, economic viability and adjust society for present and future generations. ESD has to be understood as an integral part of quality education, inherent in the concept of lifelong learning that means: All educational institutions – from preschool to tertiary education and in non-formal and informal education – can and should consider it their responsibility to deal intensively with matters of sustainable development and to foster the development of sustainability competencies. ESD enables all individuals to contribute to achieving the SDGs by equipping them with the knowledge, not only to understand what the SDGs are about, but to engage as informed citizens in bringing about the necessary transformation. For Example: Educators can use ESD as a resource when developing training, textbooks, massive open online course (MOOCs) and exhibitions. It can help teachers or curriculum designers in formal educational institutions, trainers in professional capacity-building programmes, or NGO staff designing nonformal educational offers. Policy-makers may find it helpful to consider core ideas about learning objectives for the SDGs when developing education policies or strategies. IN ESD, for each SDG, learning objectives are described in the cognitive, socio-emotional and behavioural domains. The cognitive domain comprises knowledge and thinking skills necessary to better understand the SDG and the challenges in achieving it. The socio-emotional domain includes social skills that enable learners to collaborate, negotiate and communicate to promote the SDGs as well as self-reflection skills, values, attitudes and motivations that enable learners to develop them. The behavioral domain describes action competencies. 35 SDS Int’l Group & SwissIranian Investment Forum The Swiss-Iranian Investment Forum (SIIF) was founded in 2017 as a Civil Law association domiciled in Geneva, Switzerland. The purpose of SIIF is to facilitate economic exchanges between Switzerland and Iran, and promote better understanding of Iran’s emerging markets and financial reforms designed to protect international investments and business activities. SIIF plans include hosting a series of high-level conferences and seminars in Switzerland to provide guidance, comprehensive evaluation, analysis, and discussion of the global economic agenda. SIIF events will bring together global business leaders, experts, the media, and government officials to create favorable conditions for constructive dialogue, promotion of new ideas, and the creation of new, economically sustainable projects that support development of innovative social enterprises. SIIF Board of Trustees is made up of leading executives and investors from successful life sciences companies across the country. The board was formed with the support of the Provost and all members have deep technical expertise in the life sciences, extensive business backgrounds and strong connections to Switzerland and Iran Governments 36 First SIIF Introduction Ceremony in IRAN for Industrial, Sponsors and Professional Networks We aim at an extensive and exciting program, to be centered on the theme “investment opportunities”, focusing on market potentials, including areas such as Health sector, transportation, finance and banking and technology. SIIF will bring together investors, industry and world renowned experts and researchers, providing a privileged forum for showcasing your organization to an audience that is highly focused on your field of work. SIIF offers a set of opportunities designed to support your marketing objectives, including publishing materials as advertising packs 37 New Structure: 1Sirang Sepid The Portage and Hinterland Industries Investment Group 2Radman Trading Co. (Registered under Development) 3Sepis Salamat Khavarmianeh (Registered under Development) 4Gardeshgari Salamat Iranian Holding (Registered under Development) 38 SDS Commitments to Global Compact Clusters 1: Human Rights principles Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses Should support and respect Make sure that They are not complicit in The protection of internationally Human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Proclaimed human rights; Goals SDS Focus: Human Rights Within its sphere of influence, the SDS supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Non-Discrimination The SDS hires and treats its employees in a manner that does not discriminate with regard to gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinion, and union affiliation, social or ethnic origin. Workplace diversity at all levels is encouraged. A) Policy: Reaffirming the importance of the International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols as basic elements of international efforts to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms Acknowledging the important role of international cooperation for, and the valuable work of individuals, groups and associations in contributing to, the effective elimination of all violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of peoples and individuals SDS, prohibits discrimination in the area of employment. The AHR Act prohibits discrimination based on the protected grounds of race, color, ancestry, place of origin, religious beliefs, gender, age, physical disability, mental disability, marital status, family status, source of income and sexual orientation 39 Issue 1: Due diligence Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity Human Rights Issue 4: Resolving grievances In ISO 26000 Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work SDS promotes and implements all human rights and fundamental freedoms in a fair and equitable manner, without prejudice to the implementation of each of those rights and freedoms B) Implementation Annul Meeting about Roles and Responsibilities of Organizations For several decades now, the responsibilities of companies for complying with human rights versus the responsibility of governments in that respect has been hotly debated. Companies that place corporate social responsibility high on the agenda have already accepted a certain responsibility for human rights. SDS recently create a meeting about Roles and Responsibilities of Organizations in SDS annually, this meeting will provide the participants with an understanding of harassment, the rights and responsibilities of employers in preventing harassment, along with how best to respond to and manage harassment in the workplace. -ISO26000 Implementation In addition, according to our commitment to Human Right Consideration, we have an internationally standardized framework to base their social responsibility activities on ISO26000:2010 Social Responsibility Guide lines and also The UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business (UNGP-2011) (also known as the “Ruggie Principles”) have also become our authoritative global reference point for business and human rights. The guidelines have been drawn upon by ISO (26000), GRI and the OECD in the development of their own guideline. Three pillars of the Ruggie Framework are: 1Government: Duty to Protect 2Companies: Responsibility to respect 3Victims: Access to remedy 40 Guide line for Companies: “The corporate responsibility to respect consists of five foundational and eight operational principles. The UNGP’s five Foundation Principles explain what the ‘responsibility to respect’ means, the scope of the responsibility and the policies and management processes a company should have in place.”  SDS Human Right Activities Employee Partners Customers Community 1HSE implementation 1Non1ISO10001:2007 Code 1-Disclusing SDS 2Ergonomic Discrimination of conduct human right goals in Requirements public seminars 3Add another Office with 2speech and 2-ISO10002:2004 separate office for every mind freedom 2-Participation on employee Customer Satisfaction charities for 3Nondiscrimination in 3Brain Storming 3ISO10004:2012 protection of employment Meeting 4speech and mind defenseless people freedom Customer Satisfaction 3-WFPIran 5equal behavior 6 -educational Course for Cooperation employee (Specialized English language) 7Respect to Employee Freedom ISO 26000:2010, ISO10001:2007 Iran Labor Law C) Measurement By adhering to the ISO 26000 guide, we minimize reputational risks and increase transparency to potential investors, customers and sponsors concerned with issues on social responsibility and sustainable development and have the tools to analyze itself and its own risks. 41 We have to mention that immunity which is built by ISO26000 Requirement s (whistle Blower System) give the appropriate protection to all employees in company to report any contravention of human rights. All contraventions are documented by CEO office manager and responsible party would put under probation to resolve the issue. 2Labor Principles Principle 3: Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the freedom of the elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition compulsory labour; of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 5: Principle 6: The effective abolition of child labour; the elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment and occupation SDS Focus: Child Labour: No form of forced, compulsory or child labor is tolerated in the Volvo Group. The minimum employment age is the age of completion of compulsory school. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and agreements shall be respected in all Volvo Group operations. Work Environment: The necessary conditions for a safe and healthy work environment shall be provided for all SDS employees. Women at Work: Trends 2016 is a key contribution to these efforts and seeks to further the central goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. Occupational health and safety: As the focus on occupational health and safety performance and qualities of products and services is increasing, there is also an increasing demand for measuring, documenting and communicating these qualities in the marketing material. Occupational safety and health criteria have been included to varying degrees into existing certification schemes and labelling schemes for products and equipment. Certification schemes of management systems and subcontractors focusing primarily on occupational safety and health have also been launched. 42 Large gender gaps remain across global labour market, UN International Labour Organization (ILO) reports Despite some modest gains in some regions in the world, millions of women are losing ground in their quest for equality in the world of work, according to a new report prepared by the United Nations International Labour Organization (ILO) as part of the its Women at Work Centenary Initiative. Since the ILO’s founding in 1919, gender equality and non-discrimination have been pillars of its mission to promote social justice through the world of work. As the Organization approaches its second century, it has chosen to focus on women at work as one of its centenary initiatives. Women at Work: Trends 2016 is a key contribution to these efforts and seeks to further the central goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. On the occasion of International Women’s Day (8 March), the International Labour Organization (ILO) will publish a new report entitled “Women at Work: Trends 2016”, and hold an interactive panel discussion on how to harness the newly adopted 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda to deliver on decent work for women. “The report shows the enormous challenges women continue to face in finding and keeping decent jobs,” said ILO Director-General Guy Ryder in a press release. The report, Women at Work: Trends 2016 examined data for up to 178 countries and concludes that inequality between women and men persists across a wide spectrum of the global labour market. What’s more, the report shows that over the last two decades, significant progress made by women in education has not translated into comparable improvements in their position at work. This report examines where women stand today in the world of work and how they have progressed over the past 20 years. Employees are major stakeholders of companies. In addition, implementing corporate social responsibility needs commitment from the top management, but also innovative thinking and, thus, new skills and closer involvement of the employees and their representatives in a two-way dialogue that can structure permanent feed-back and adjustment. Social dialogue with workers' representatives, which is the main mechanism of definition of the relationship between a company and its workers, therefore plays a crucial part in the wider adoption of socially responsible practices. 43 With respect to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work is an expression of commitment by governments, employers' and workers' organizations to uphold basic human values values that are vital to our social and economic lives. The Declaration covers four fundamental principles and rights at work  Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor  Effective abolition of child labor  Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation A) SDS Policy: SDS policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in Full compliance with Local Labor applicable laws. All company associates are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, ethics, and business conduct about Local Labor law. SDS supports and upholds the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to Employment, and promotes and embraces diversity in all aspects of its business operations. SDS further supports the elimination of all forms of forced bonded or compulsory labor and the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired. SDS will also provide a safe and healthy working Environment for its entire Department. Health and safety at work has traditionally been approached mainly by means of legislation and enforcement measures. However, the trend of outsourcing work to contractors and suppliers makes companies more dependent on the safety and health performance of their contractors, especially those who are working within their own premises. B) Implementation SDS voluntary codes of conduct can contribute to promote international labour standards; their effectiveness however depends on proper implementation and verification. Codes of conduct may for instance face sub-contractors producing for a number of different multinational companies with the need to fulfill many different criteria regarding wages, working hours and other social conditions. 44 SDS Main Activities in Labor Rights are: Nondiscrimination in Employment Increase Free Day in end of work week Employ one Employee as Driver for decrease city trip by employee personal cars Healthy and safe work place by implementing HSE and ohsas18001 Implementation of 5 S Companies Commitment to prepare new technology for improving employees knowledge level Application of Local Labor Law Application of insurance requirements according Local Law Establishment of encouragement Systems Install Air Treatment system for Polluted air of Tehran in office  Training System  Strategic Management Training Course  Organizational Psychology training course  Infography workshop  English Class for employees C) Measurement “We have 100 % compliance on approved working payment and we had no claim about labor compensation in recent year and also all employees have insurance and their insurance independent share is totally paid by SDS. We have no injuries in work place since foundation. We have an employee satisfaction survey annually 45 3Environment Principles Principle 7: Principle 8: Businesses should support precautionary Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental environmental responsibility; challenges; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals 46 SDS Focus: Promoting Sustainable Development: 17 Goals to Transform Our World GOAL 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all Clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of the world we want to live in. There is sufficient fresh water on the planet to achieve this. But due to bad economics or poor infrastructure, every year millions of people, most of them children, die from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world and IRAN. Drought afflicts some of the world’s poorest countries, worsening hunger and malnutrition. By 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water Facts and Figure 2.6 billion people have gained access to improved drinking water sources since 1990, but 663 million people are still without At least 1.8 billion people globally use a source of drinking water that is fecally contaminated Between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of the global population using an improved drinking water source has increased from 76 per cent to 91 per cent But water scarcity affects more than 40 per cent of the global population and is projected to rise. Over 1.7 billion people are currently living in river basins where water use exceeds recharge 2.4 billion people lack access to basic sanitation services, such as toilets or latrines More than 80 per cent of wastewater resulting from human activities is discharged into rivers or sea without any pollution removal Each day, nearly 1,000 children die due to preventable water and sanitation-related diarrheal diseases Hydropower is the most important and widely-used renewable source of energy and as of 2011, represented 16 per cent of total electricity production worldwide Approximately 70 per cent of all water abstracted from rivers, lakes and aquifers is used for irrigation Floods and other water-related disasters account for 70 per cent of all deaths related to natural disasters 47 Through the transboundary effect of many business-related environmental problems, and their consumption of resources from across the world, companies are also actors in the global environment. A) Policy Base on The principals of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm, Sweden in June 1972 as following: 1. Human rights must be asserted, apartheid and colonialism condemned 2. Natural resources must be safeguarded 3. The Earth’s capacity to produce renewable resources must be maintained 4. Wildlife must be safeguarded 5. Non-renewable resources must be shared and not exhausted 6. Pollution must not exceed the environment’s capacity to clean itself 7. Damaging oceanic pollution must be prevented 8. Development is needed to improve the environment 9. Developing countries therefore need assistance 10. Developing countries need reasonable prices for exports to carry out environmental management 11. Environment policy must not hamper development 12. Developing countries need money to develop environmental safeguards 13. Integrated development planning is needed 14. Rational planning should resolve conflicts between environment and development 15. Human settlements must be planned to eliminate environmental problems 16. Governments should plan their own appropriate population policies 17. National institutions must plan development of states’ natural resources 18. Science and technology must be used to improve the environment 19. Environmental education is essential 20. Environmental research must be promoted, particularly in developing countries 48 21. States may exploit their resources as they wish but must not endanger others 22. Compensation is due to states thus endangered 23. Each nation must establish its own standards 24. There must be cooperation on international issues 25. International organizations should help to improve the environment 26. Weapons of mass destruction must be eliminating. SDS is committed to leading Services in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its Policy to achieve this are: • Minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible. • Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement. • Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers. • Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company including ISO14001. • Use an accredited program to offset the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities. 49 B) Implementation Implementation of ISO14001:2004 reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.) by training employees improving the energy efficiency by light management Developing environment friendly technologies in work place Application PAS 2020 Requirements in seminars and conferences Cooperation with NGO Plan for land for Suitability Project in Petroleum companies such as preservation of wild life and Dolphin in Boushehr and South area of Iran C) Measurement SDS is committed to minimizing any divers effect on the environmental which may result from its activity, as a result of our effort we are ISO14001 certifies since 2012 -Social and Environmental Checklists SDS use of social and environmental checklists to evaluate the risks of Projects, and investments in companies. Similarly, being recognized as a socially responsible enterprise, for example through listing in an ethical stock market index, can support the rating of a company and therefore entails concrete financial advantages. Within the company, socially responsible practices primarily involve employees and relate to issues such as investing in human capital, health and safety, and managing change, while environmentally responsible practices relate mainly to the management of natural resources used in the production. They open a way of managing change and reconciling social development with improved competitiveness. 50 4Anti-corruption principals Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery A) Policy Based on Preventive Measures (Chapter II, Articles 5–14) of United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) Preventive measures are directed at both the public and private sectors. Chapter II includes preventive policies, such as the establishment of anticorruption bodies and enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. Transparency and accountability in the management of public finances must also be promoted, and specific requirements are established for the prevention of corruption in the particularly critical areas of the public sector, such as the judiciary and public procurement. Preventing corruption also requires an effort from all members of society at large. For these reasons, UNCAC calls on countries to promote actively the involvement of civil society, and to raise public awareness of corruption and what can be done about it. The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct. SDS is firmly opposed to corruption in all forms and is committed to doing business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. For SDS, anti-corruption is not only a legal obligation and an ethical standpoint. Corruption is a threat to business and society in all countries. It undermines legitimate business activities and distorts competition. It ruins reputation and exposes individuals to risks. At SDS we are all responsible for understanding the important legal and ethical issues that affect our business and for acting with integrity at all times. Integrity means complying with both the spirit and the letter of the laws and regulations that govern our industry. SDS’s zero tolerance on corruption and ethical standards are set out in our Code of Conduct. SDS’s management is committed to sending clear, unambiguous and regular messages to all staff and business partners that corruption and bribery is unacceptable. 51 B) Implementation SDS’s policies require that its business be conducted with honesty and integrity, and in Full compliance with all applicable laws. Company policies establish clear ethical standards And guidelines for how we do business and establish accountability. All company associates Are required to obey the law and comply with specific standards relating to legal obligations, Ethics and business conduct. Training Employee s about ethical Business and anticorruption missions. Study Corruption Case in Official meeting Addressed stake holders about anticorruption commitment and SDS ethical code of conduct Promote Client to consider Corporate Governance in performance strategy C) Measurement Whistleblower 1system: In this system employees who become aware of illegal activities including corruption taking place in a business either through witnessing the behavior or being told about it , are encouraged to report suspected violation to manager . Whistleblowers are protected in SDS from programs created by the ISO26000:2010. THE END 1 A whistleblower (whistle-blower or whistle blower) is a person who exposes misconduct, alleged dishonest or illegal activity occurring in an organization. The alleged misconduct may be classified in many ways; for example, a violation of a law, rule, regulation and/or a direct threat to public interest, such as fraud, health and safety violations, and corruption. 52
