Annual and CSR Report 2017 2 3 Isavia ohf. 2017 Annual Report CONTENTS A B O U T I S AV I A 4 I S AV I A I N T H E S O C I E T Y 26 I S AV I A A N D T H E E N V I R O N M E N T 46 ECONOMY AND FINANCIALS 56 Layout and design: The electronic version of this annual report Hvíta húsið is available at www.isavia.is/annualreport 4 5 Isavia ohf. P A G E S 4 –2 5 2017 Annual Report A B O U T I S AV I A 6 — I S AV I A’ S O P E R AT I O N S 8 — ADDRESS OF THE MANAGING DIRECTOR 10 — ADDRESS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14 — GOVERNANCE 16 — EXECUTIVE BOARD 20 — IMPROVEMENTS IN 2017 AND AIMS FOR 2018 This is Isavia’s second Annual and CSR Report. The goal is to provide a more in-depth view of the company’s activities and its eﬀects on society at large. The report follows the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) together with special provisions on the operation of airports. Over the next few years, further eﬀorts will be made to boost the company’s sustainability. The information in the report is based on operations in 2017. 6 7 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report I S AV I A’ S O P E R AT I O N S SAF TY E RV I CE SE C N O OP E R AT IO VISION Isavia is a publicly owned company responsible for the Isavia owns four subsidiaries, each of which have their Centre for aviation in the North Atlantic. operation, maintenance and development of airports for own purpose. The Duty Free Store sells duty-free goods at scheduled flights and landing sites in Iceland. In addition, Keflavík Airport, Tern Systems manufactures software for air MISSION the company provides air navigation services for domestic navigation, Domavia manages some of the real property owned Isavia is a service company in airport and international flights over the northern part of the North by Isavia and Suluk manages the operation of air navigation in operations and air navigation and forms Atlantic Ocean. Greenland. the foundation for Iceland’s civil aviation. The core operations of the company are divided into three: The Isavia operates four international airports: Keflavík Airport, We work together to be a part of a operation of Keflavík Airport, air navigation services and the Reykjavik Airport, Akureyri Airport and Egilsstaðir Airport. pleasant journey both in Iceland and operation of other Icelandic airports. The operating structure In addition, there are ten landing sites for regular scheduled abroad. of the three core operations is, by their nature, very dissimilar. flights in Iceland. The company is also responsible for 36 other Keflavík Airport is operated wholly on business terms, which landing sites throughout Iceland. means that it is sustainable. The operation of other Icelandic airports is not sustainable and is based on the company’s Keflavík Airport has two runways, which are 3,054 and 3,065 agreement with the Icelandic Ministry of Transport and Local m long. Reykjavik Airport has two runways (1,567 and 1,230 Government, which determines their level of service, operation m long), Akureyri Airport has one (2,400 m) and Egilsstaðir and maintenance. State contributions amount to approximately Airport has one (2,000 m). Other airports and landing sites have 70% of their income. The operation of air navigation services runways ranging from 634 m to 1,887 m in length. in the upper airspace over the North Atlantic Ocean is based on agreements with 24 countries for services and financing, which is based on fee collection on a cost basis. 8 9 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report C E N T R E F O R AV I AT I O N I N T H E N O R T H AT L A N T I C Air navigation services Management of air navigation services saw an increase in traffic in line with the previous year. and Iceland as a whole. It is equally important to government to protect the sector and not to put obstacles in its path. This great expansion requires more human 2 0 1 7 WA S A Y E A R O F F U R T H E R E X PA N S I O N AT resources and updated technical equipment. If Keflavík Airport is to continue to absorb I S A V I A , P A R T I C U L A R LY A S R E G A R D S S E R V I C E S Work is currently ongoing on renewing the flight increase in passenger numbers, it is essential for data system in the flight control centre. The new development to continue. No stone will be left F O R I N T E R N AT I O N A L F L I G H T S . system will take over from the current one, which unturned in efforts to protect the competitiveness has been operating for some seventeen years and of Keflavík Airport. Increases in costs have is approaching maximum capacity. The system will already started to have an effect, and significant be designed by Term, a subsidiary of Isavia, in codevelopment over a relatively short period of time operation with Isavia’s Air Navigation Division. will almost inevitably lead to rises in user tariffs at the airport. If Keflavík Airport is remain competitive Last year was the first full year of operations for in the future, all interested parties must be well Suluk, another Isavia subsidiary, which proposes airaware of the effect of higher costs on demand. traffic controllers for air-traffic control services at Kangerlussuaq Airport in Greenland. Another aspect of the project is training Greenlandic air-traffic controllers to provide this service in the future. Isavia Never before have so many aircraft flown through and its predecessors have for many years enjoyed Isavia airspace, and never before have so many good co-operation with both Greenland and international passengers on scheduled flights used Denmark in the field of air navigation. It is a pleasure Icelandic airports as in 2017. This was the third to see good long-term co-operation expanded in this consecutive year of increases in scheduled-flight way. passengers after four years of decreases previously. RTS Keflavík Airport N SE Although there is some way to go before passenger PA S numbers return to the highs previously seen in the Passenger movements at Keflavík Airport PO domestic system, this trend appears to be holding. increased by some 2 million (28%) in 2017. This is G IR a comparable increase to that in the year before. E A S R S ' Domestic flights FL A Isavia’s passenger forecast expects an increase EW VI Care needs to be taken as regards domestic flights of more than 1.6 million passenger movements THROU GH I SA in Iceland. This mode of public transport is clearly this year. Although this is less than in 2017, it is still meeting stiff competition from other modes of substantial. Proportionally, the increase in recent subsidised transport. As previously, Isavia attaches years has been greater outside of the summer Continuing to be part of a pleasant journey great importance to ensuring that domestic flights period than during summer, which is in line with the In 2017, further efforts were made to hone the are a genuine option for travel within Iceland. priorities of the airport, the tourism industry and company’s vision to be a flight hub for the North That said, the current arrangements for funding airport users. 2017 was the first year in Iceland’s Atlantic. The key to success is co-ordinated efforts maintenance and operations for Iceland’s domestic history in which the number of foreign tourists by Isavia staff, with services to passengers, flight system infrastructure – which is owned by and in the summer period June–August was equalled by operators and other customers playing a major is the responsibility of the Icelandic state – has the number of foreign tourists in the winter periods role. Isavia has set itself the goal of being part reached saturation point, and there is a real risk of January–March and November–December. of a pleasant journey for the tens of millions of of services needing to be reduced because of a Furthermore, passenger forecasts for 2018 predict passengers using the company’s services – to lack of normal maintenance. Isavia has highlighted that more foreign tourists will visit Iceland over achieve this important objective, co-operation the importance of the infrastructure owners – the the winter period than over the summer period. among staff is essential. Icelandic state – securing long-term funding for the This success is remarkable, and it is especially system to enable domestic flights to continue to be interesting to note that the number of tourists now I look forward to continuing to be part of a pleasant a genuine option alongside other domestic modes visiting Iceland over the winter months is higher journey for my colleagues and would like to thank all of transport. Time is moving fast as regards this than the number visiting over the summer months Isavia staff warmly for their contribution to the essential project, as there is a risk that certain parts in 2015. These results are purely the fruit of cogreat success enjoyed by the company in 2017. It is of the infrastructure will soon become so worn and ordinated efforts by all those involved in tourism, admirable to see Isavia staff playing such a decisive damaged that the cost of getting them back up to and it is very important for the sector to continue role in the pleasant journeys enjoyed by our custBjörn Óli standard will multiply. to work as one, to the benefit of the sector itself omers as has proven to be the case. Hauksson 10 11 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report CHAIRMAN’S S TAT E M E N T I S AV I A O P E R AT I O N S I N 2 0 1 7 W E R E I N M A N Y W AY S EVENTFUL, JUST LIKE IN PREVIOUS YEARS. Presentation of the Annual Report are under way for equal pay certification and are This is Isavia’s second Annual and Social Report, expected to be completed by the end of 2018. which follows the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) together with special provisions The need for improvements at domestic on the operation of airports. It is a pleasure to see airports how well the company has succeeded in following Isavia’s role in operating and developing domestic the guidance set in 2016 on social responsibility, airports is set out in its service agreement with the focusing on striking a balance between economy, Ministry of Transport. Responsibility for funding environment and society. Focus has also been placed such operations and development lies with the on meeting the provisions of the general owner state. Funding is determined for one year at a time, policy of the state on publicly owned companies. and it is clear from experience that it is difficult and inefficient to handle operations and development IT IS A P L E A SU R E TO SEE HOW WEL L T H E COM PA NY of the scale necessitated HAS SUCCEEDED IN FOLLOWING THE GUIDANCE SET by airport security requirements without I N 2 0 1 6 O N S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y, F O C U S I N G O N long-term funding being S T R I K I N G A B A L A N C E B E T W E E N E C O N O M Y , E N V I R O N guaranteed. Furthermore, a M E N T A N D S O C I E T Y. persistent lack of operating income has meant that it has been impossible to carry This policy states that the company shall set out satisfactory maintenance. Many airports have policies on environmental matters, sustainable therefore reached a state where they will soon be development, social responsibility , human resource closed down if proper action is not taken. and remuneration. Policies have been formulated for Isavia in all these areas, and the company has Last year, new rules from the European Aviation also set policies on risk, procurement, marketing, Safety Agency (EASA) entered into force, setting safety, quality and information security. stricter requirements for operating international airports. As well as Keflavík Airport, the airports Governance in Akureyri, Egilsstaðir and Reykjavik also need to All areas of the company’s operations saw expansion. As airports and Keflavík Airport. In 2011, Isavia’s first full year The Board of Directors of Isavia has laid down meet these requirements, as they are all classed before, expansion in services for international travel was the of operations, air navigation services made up 31% of the detailed rules, including provision for following the as international airports. The changes involved a major factor in this growth. There have been many changes in company’s turnover, domestic airports 12% and Keflavík Guidelines on Corporate Governance published review of the operating manuals of the airports the company’s operations since it was founded in 2010, and the Airport 57%. Last year, the company’s biggest year, air by the Iceland Chamber of Commerce, SA in question, describing how the requirements laid weighting of the various work areas has changed considerably. navigation services made up 24% of the company’s turnover, Confederation of Icelandic Enterprice and Nasdaq down in the new rules are to be met. This may be chiefly attributed to the increase in the number domestic airports 7% and Keflavík Airport 69%. Operations OMX Iceland. These rules, as well as a description of international passengers using Keflavík Airport and in the at Keflavík Airport accounts for 87% of operating income of the company’s governance updated in March Growth in air navigation services increase in air traffic in Icelandic airspace – one of the largest before depreciation, and the share of Keflavík Airport in 2018, are available on the company’s website. Isavia Isavia’s air navigation services have not been airspace areas in the world, with more than a quarter of all overall operation has increased considerably. It is clear that attaches importance to equal pay and was awarded unaffected by the increase in international flights flights over the North Atlantic passing through it.Isavia’s core the biggest opportunities for continued growth and PwC’s gold medal in the company’s equal pay audit in recent years. There has been much development activities are made up of air navigation services, domestic profitability lie there. in 2017, for the third year in a row. Preparations in technical solutions and staff training to handle 12 13 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A C H A I R M A N ’ S S TAT E M E N T 2017 Annual Report to ensure that each element is as closely in line as possible with the overall picture of the airport’s development. A review of the mandatory master plan for Keflavík Airport, which began in 2011, was approved by the Minister for the Environment in August last year. There has been parallel work in the local plan for the airport zone which is expected to be completed in mid-2018. In conjunction with this work on the mandatory master plan and the local plan, in 2014, Isavia H launched an international design contest for a FL G G master plan covering development of the airport H I RO U O TS in light of traffic and passenger forecasts to the U R PA S S E D T H EA year 2040. The plan represents the future vision CON A R for the airport’s land-use plan, terminal plan TROL and environmental plan and will be of use to all stakeholders in their decision making as regards investments and planning at the airport, with econthis growth. As before, the focus is on effectiveness omy and environmentally friendly development as and foresight to meet the requirements of flight a guiding light. Six international companies with operators, who are calling more and more for extensive experience in developing airports took flexibility and increased efficiency. A new extension part in the competition and submitted ambitious of the flight control centre was brought online last proposals, with the proposal from the Norwegian expected to be completed in 2021. The total costs of One team year, as a lack of space had begun to put serious design studio Nordic Office of Architecture emergthese works will be over ISK 30 billion over the next The number of passengers using Keflavík Airport pressure on support services. Further expansion ing as the winner. The company has been involved in three years. last year are four times higher than will need to be looked into in the coming years, and numerous large-scale airport projects. Work on the in 2010, the year Isavia was founded. Over the same preparations have already begun. The main task project began in early 2015 and was completed later The next phase of the development plan involves period, air traffic in Icelandic airspace has increased will be to expand the flight control hall, as current that year. Isavia staff have since been working on an a call for tenders within two years for passenger by 81% and air traffic at domestic airports by 4.5%. air-traffic forecasts indicate that the current hall – evaluation of the commercial basis of the plan and handling facilities in a new building to be built to the Isavia staff have, by means of exceptional coinaugurated in the older building of the flight control a risk assessment, in close co-operation with major north of the current terminal and a new arrivals and operation and co-ordinated efforts, dealt with this centre in 1996 – will soon be too small. users, as development at Keflavík Airport chiefly departures wing to the east. These buildings are huge increase, which has hardly been seen elsewhere takes account of their needs. expected to come online in stages between 2023 and which has often exceeded expectations. Despite Future development at Keflavík Airport and 2025. This work is expected to deal with the the unavoidable growing pains, the results have been Work has been carried for many years at Keflavík Approval of the master plan, processing of the local increase in passenger numbers expected over the considerably better than expected, considering the Airport to meet the considerable and often plan and the drafting of a development plan forms coming decade. circumstances. There is therefore special reason to unforeseen increase in passenger numbers. the basis for all further design and development thank Isavia staff for their wonderful performance In parallel, there have been preparations and plans at Keflavík Airport up to 2040. The Isavia It should be borne in mind that this a development and their selflessness in challenging circumstances. planning for new, extensive work which could Board of Directors agreed on 1 February to make the plan for Keflavík Airport which assumes that We should also thank flight operators, management increase capacity in the long term. The aim is development plan the basis for all development the passenger forecast and business models of operators at Keflavík Airport, work contractors and to better enable Keflavík Airport to grow as an at Keflavík Airport and to commence design work aircraft operators and those of Isavia prove to be their staff for their successful work on diverse and international airport for passengers flying to for the first elements of the development plan up accurate. The main task of the Board of Directors complex solutions. All this work has contributed and from Iceland and as a hub for Europe, North to 2025. 2018 is expected to see a call for tenders and managers of Isavia, in close co-operation with to the dynamic growth in the tourism sector and America and Asia. Such work will not be undertaken for the building of a new baggage sorting and the major flight operators at Keflavík Airport, will be increased foreign currency revenue and prosperity in any satisfactory way if there is no statutory screening centre, to the east of the north wing of to arrange the timing of these works in accordance for Iceland, something which will hopefully continue Ingimundur and recognised planning work beforehand. Isavia’s the terminal. This centre is expected to be ready in with expected passenger numbers and the business in the future. Sigurpálsson Board of Directors has therefore, in recent years, 2020. There are also plans to invite bid for further model from year to year. focused on speeding up and completing this work expansion of the connecting building, which is 14 15 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report Board of Directors 2017–18. work and practices and reflecting on of Finance and Economic Affairs. Ingimundur Sigurpálsson (born 1951), those aspects which the Board believes Shareholders’ meetings are the main C O R P O R AT E Business Administrator, Managing Director of Iceland Post. Chairman of the Board since 2014. may be improved. This assessment has two aspects: a self-assessment conducted in December 2017 and a venue for providing information to shareholders and hold the supreme authority of the company. The Chairman GOVERNANCE Sigrún Traustadóttir (born 1954), Business Administrator. Vicesecond assessment with assistance from an external source. The latter was conducted in January 2018. and Managing Director met with the Minister or a representative from the Ministry on various occasions last Chairman of the Board since 2017. year. The Board conducts itself in Internal controls accordance with the “General policy on Helga Sigrún Harðardóttir (born and risk management state ownership of limited liability and 1969), Attorney at Law, Executive The Board has submitted a partnership companies”. The company Director of Icelandic Standards (IST). comprehensive risk policy for the releases press releases on the company’s Member of the Board since 2017. company and defined the major performance and other matters operational risks. The main risks for pertaining to its operation. Matthías Imsland (born 1974), the Group’s financial transactions are Political Scientist. Member of the exchange rate risk, currency risk and Corporate governance statement Board since 2014. Vice-Chairman indexing risk. A special risk committee 2018 2014–17. is active and is authorised by the Board A new corporate governance statement to determine the scope and nature of has been issued for 2018 and is available Ólafur Þór Ólafsson (born 1972), risks and profit analysis for projects on the company’s website: isavia.is/umMPA, teacher, President of the and ventures that could have significant isavia/stjorn. Sandgerðisbær Town Council. effects on operations and financial Member of the Board since 2017. position. This committee – composed of Code of ethics the Managing Director, Deputy Managing Isavia’s Code of Ethics applies to all Alternates: Director, Director of Finance and the employees and management of the Structure and composition set. No court rulings have been issued in The Board of Directors shall constitute Sigrún Traustadóttir (born 1975), Director of the Financial Resources company and is an integral part of of governance which the company is believed to have the supreme authority of the company MBA in Business Administration, Department – regularly reports to Board. all employment contracts. The code Isavia is a publicly owned company broken any laws or regulations. from one shareholders’ meeting to the Consultant. The company does not employ an internal is accessible to all employees on the owned by the Icelandic state. The opernext, in accordance with laws and the auditor, but the company’s auditors carry intranet of the company and on the ations of the company are governed by Isavia Board of Directors company’s Articles of Association. Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir (born 1983), out limited audits of company processes. Isavia website: isavia.is/um-isavia. In Act No 153/2009 on the merger of the The Board of Directors of Isavia consists The Board’s main role is to manage Political Scientist, Executive Director addition, there is a separate section government-owned limited companies of five members and five alternates, the company between shareholders’ of Efni Media. Member of the Board Remuneration Committee on disqualification in the Board’s Rules Flugstoðir and Keflavík Airport, Act No all of whom are elected at the Annual meetings and ensure adequate of Directors 2014–15. The Remuneration Committee is a of Procedure. This is available on the 76/2008 on establishing a governmentGeneral Meeting for a term of one year. supervision of the accounts and disposal subcommittee of the Board. It is made company’s website: isavia.is/um-isavia/ owned limited company for the running Board members are nominated by the of the company’s property, as well as Ingveldur Sæmundsdóttir (born up of the Chair and Vice-Chairman of the stjorn/. of Keflavík Airport, Act No. 102/2006 Minister for Finance and Economic confirming the operating 1970), MBA Business Administration, Isavia Board of Directors. The main tasks on the establishment of a public limited Affairs. The gender ratio in Isavia’s Board budget and investment plans and Assistant to the Minister for of the Remuneration Committee are to Managing Director company for air navigation services is 40% women and 60% men. All Board ensuring compliance with them. The Transport and Local Government. prepare an annual draft remuneration The Managing Director is responsible and airport operations by the Icelandic members are independent within the Board takes all major decisions in policy to be submitted to the company’s for the management of all day-to-day Civil Aviation Authority, and the Aviation meaning of the Guidelines on Corporate the company’s operations and makes Margrét Kristín Helgadóttir (born Annual General Meeting, draft proposals operations in accordance with the Act No 60/1998. Governance. sure that the company is operated in 1982), Attorney at Law, Town for the Annual General Meeting on policies and instructions of the Board. accordance with the relevant laws and Councillor in Akureyri Town Council, the remuneration of Board members, Day-to-day operations do not include The company’s corporate governance is Board’s activities and Rules regulations. Furthermore, the Board has Lawyer at the Icelandic Directorate and draft proposals for the Board on measures which are unusual or major. He prescribed by Act No. 2/1995 on publicly of Procedure the goal of promoting the company’s of Fisheries. benchmarks for salaries and other has decision-making powers regarding owned companies, the state’s general The Board has established detailed growth and results in the long term remuneration for the Managing Director all the operational and financial issues ownership policy of August 2012, the Rules of Procedure defining its scope by formulating company policy in Sigrún Traustadóttir (born 1962), and for Directors of subsidiaries. The of the company and manages its assets. company’s Articles of Association and of authority and the divisions of tasks consultation with company management. MBA in Business Administration, Committee monitors implementation of He submits an account of the company’s the Rules of Procedure of the Board. between it and the Managing Director. Consultant. Member of the Board the remuneration policy and compliance operations and performance at Board The Rules of Procedure were approved The Board’s performance of Directors 2014–17. of salaries and remuneration with laws, meetings and answers to the Board The company’s Board refers to the at a meeting of the Board of Directors assessment regulations and best practices. for all day-to-day operations and Guidelines of Corporate Governance and on 6 April 2017. They include the division The Board evaluates its performance compliance with the company’s Articles complies with them in all major respects, of tasks between Board members, regularly, the practices and Rules of Communication between of Association, laws and regulations. although it is not legally bound to do so. rules on the eligibility of politicians Procedure, development of the company, shareholders and the Board to take part in processing matters, performance of the Managing Director One shareholder, the Icelandic state, Björn Óli Hauksson (born 1961) has One formal sub-committees – the procedure and minutes for meetings, and the efficiency of sub-committees. Further information on the Isavia holds all shares in the company, and the a Master’s Degree in Operations Remuneration Committee – currently rules on confidentiality, the obligation to The performance assessment involves, Board of Directors can be found at: Minister for Finance has all shareholder Engineering from Aalborg University, operates under the company’s Board. provide information to the Board and the among other things, the Board evaluating isavia.is/um-isavia/stjorn. rights. Notices of shareholder meetings Denmark. He has been Isavia’s Managing A policy on social responsibility has been decision-making power of the Board. the strengths and weaknesses of their are sent to a contact at the Ministry Director since its founding in 2010. 16 17 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report EXECUTIVE BOARD and Performance and Finance, and in addition, Standards and Quality Management form a separate support unit. The Directors of the operations and support units form the Executive Board together with the Managing Director. Air Navigation Services Division T H E E X E C U T I V E B O A R D D E B AT E S A N D D I S C U S S E S The Air Navigation Services Division is responsible M AT T E R S O F P O L I C Y F O R M U L AT I O N F O R T H E C O M PA N Y ’ S for air navigation services for domestic flights and international flights over a large area above O P E R AT I O N S A S A W H O L E . I T E X A M I N E S I S S U E S C U T T I N G Greenland and the North Atlantic Ocean. The ACROSS FIEL DS A N D DEPA RT M EN TS. Director is Ásgeir Pálsson (born 1951), Air Traffic Controller. Director at Isavia since 2010. The Executive Board also takes a leading role in safety and quality management in the company, is chiefly responsible for Airport Operations Division future development and the implementation of a safety and With the exception of Keflavík Airport, the Airport quality management system, has an overview of the running Operations Division is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the system and assesses achievement in and maintenance of all the airports in Iceland. The respect of given objectives. Director is Jón Karl Ólafsson, born 1958, Business Administrator. Director since 2015. Five operating divisions are responsible for the core operations of the company: Air Navigation Services, Airports Keflavík Airport Operations Division and Infrastructure, Keflavík Airport Operations, Keflavík The Keflavík Airport Operations Division is Airport Technological and Assets Division and Keflavík responsible for airport security, airport services and Airport Commercial Operations. There are four support technical services for the airport. The Director is divisions: Development and Administration, Human Resources 1 2 Þröstur V. Söring (born 1968), Engineer. Director at Isavia since 2014, in the Keflavík Airport Commercial Operations Division since 2016. Keflavík Airport Technology and Asset Division The Keflavík Technology and Asset Division manages larger construction projects, environmental issues at Keflavík Airport, maintenance and the operation of real property and luggage systems. The Director is Gudmundur Daði Rúnarsson (born 1979), Business Engineer. Director since 2016. 3 4 5 6 Keflavík Airport Commercial Operations The Commercial Operations Division is responsible for passenger services, the operation of retail and catering and handles all negotiations with operators at Keflavík Airport, as well as the operation of car 1. Ásgeir Pálsson park services and the development of new flight 2. Guðmundur Daði Rúnarsson routes. The Director is Hlynur Sigurðsson (born 3. Björn Óli Hauksson 1974), Business Engineer. Director at Isavia since 4. Helga Eyjólfsdóttir 2010, in the Keflavík Airport Commercial Operations 5. Jón Karl Ólafsson Division since 2016. 6. Sveinbjörn Indriðason 7. Elín Árnadóttir Development and Administration 8. Þröstur V. Söring The Development and Administration Division 9. Hlynur Sigurðsson is a support division providing assistance to the 7 8 9 10 10. Sigurður Ólafsson Managing Director and the Board. The employees 18 19 Isavia ohf. A B O U T I SAV I A EXECUTIVE BOARD 2017 Annual Report SUBSIDIARIES Core Support Subsidiaries Board of Directors Operations Operations Managing Director Development and Administration • Business development Air Navigation Airport Keflavik International Airport • Marketing Services Operations • Organisation and Development KEF Division Division • Coordination of Airports and • Airports and Aviation Security • Air Traﬃc Landing Sites Operations Airport Commercial Duty-Free Store ehf. • Project Management Oﬃce Control Centre Division KEF Technology Operations KEF • Legal (Airport and Property The Duty-Free Store operates five outlets in the • Air Traﬃc Services, Division KEF Human Resources and Performance Service for Aviation • Aviation • B2C Leifur Eiríksson Air Terminal, four for departure Domavia ltd. / Suluk ApS Security Commercial • Career Development, Trainings Airports Security and passengers and one Duty Free Store ltd. • Engineering Division Tern Systems ltd. and Education Real Estate • Airport • Wages and Wage Processing • AIS Services and Larger • B2B and for arrivals. The shops are open in conjunction with • Project Construction • Internal Marketing and Events • Flight Management • Technology Projects Development scheduled flights. The Duty-Free Store focuses on • Policy Implementation CommunicaRoute • Performance Evaluation tions • Management Services • Environmental offering a • Car Parking • Technology of Special Issues (Transportation) wide range of goods from both Icelandic and Finance Division Projects • Accounting and Settlement Service • Maintenance international brands at reasonable prices. The Store • Finances (Flight Testing) and Operation of Real Estate has approximately 210 permanent employees. This • Economics • Development • Procurement Monitoring of Air • Baggage number increases to around 310 during the summer. Navigation Handling The Managing Director of the Duty-Free Store is Equipment and Standards and Quality Research Þorgerður Þráinsdóttir. • Security and Quality • Environmental Issues • Training and • Airport Security Control Procedure Tern Systems ehf. Tern Systems develops and manufactures software for air navigation services used in the operation of air traffic control centres, flight control towers and in training flight controllers. Systems from Tern of the Division are responsible for marketing and information Finance Division Systems are used in Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, issues, business development, project management office, The Finance Division is a support division responsible for Morocco, South Korea and Spain. The company policy formulation, legal issues, Keflavík Airport zoning, accounting, treasury, risk management, economics, financing employs fifty employees in its main offices management of corporate governance and the co-ordination operations and the monitoring of purchases. The Director is in Iceland. The Managing Director of Tern Systems is of airports and airport security. The Director is Elín Árnadóttir Sveinbjörn Indriðason (born 1972), Economist. Director since Magnús Þórðarson. (born 1971), Business Administrator. Deputy Managing Director 2013. and Director at Isavia since 2010, Director of Development and Domavia ehf. Administration since 2013. Standards and Quality Management Domavia hosts some of Isavia’s property assets. The Standards and Quality Management Division is a support Sveinbjörn Indriðason, Director of Finance at Isavia, Human Resources and Performance division that manages the organisation and harmonisation of holds powers of procuration for the company. Human Resources and Performance is a support division that safety and quality issues together with the management of manages HR functions, including professional development, environmental issues. The Safety and Quality Manager is Helga Suluk ApS training and education, payroll processing, wage agreements, Eyjólfsdóttir (born 1964), Chemical Engineer. Standards and Suluk is a private limited company in Greenland internal communications, strategy implementation and Quality Manager since 2010. owned by Isavia. The company is responsible for performance evaluation. The Director is Sigurður Ólafsson managing air navigation services in Greenland. (born 1962), Business Economist. Director since 2013. Further information on the Executive Board of Isavia can be Sveinbjörn Indriðason, Director of Finance at Isavia, found on the website: isavia.is/um-isavia. holds powers of procuration for the company. 20 21 Isavia ohf. 2017 Annual Report IMPROVEMENTS IN 2017 AND IMPROVEMENTS 2016–17 GOALS FOR 2018 Subject Status UNGC GOVERNANCE ’ 16 ’17 Achieved H I G H E S T G OV E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N R I S K M A N AG E M E N T Partially achieved G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, I S AV I A T O O K T H E P O S I T I V E S T E P O F Not achieved environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest A D O P T I N G G R I S TA N D A R D S F O R I T S N/A governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the ANNUAL REPORTS LAST YEAR. organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. The advantage of this change was that the company Objectives for 2018 R E M U N E R AT I O N A N D I N C E N T I V E S gained a better overview of the impact of its Isavia has set itself eight objectives relating to operations – which are growing fast and are rapidly social responsibility for 2018 and has drawn up an G4-52 Process for determining remuneration changing – on the community. It can be difficult to action plan for each one. When selecting objectives achieve improvements in such circumstances, but and improvement projects, the company has E N V I R O N M E N TA L references such as GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) focused on the nature of its operations and policies ENERGY make it much easier to see where efforts should be and on which aspects require most urgent attention. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization, including fuel types used 7, 8 focused. The company worked systematically on G4-EN5 Energy intensity 7, 8 improvements over the year, with some year-on-year As well as taking account of GRI aspects when G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Additionally for airports: Important for 7, 8 achievement, as shown in the adjacent table. selecting objectives for 2018, the objectives in airports to share sectoral best practice. question relate to the company’s commitment to G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 7, 8 Four areas required reassessment – two of these the main rules of the UN Global Compact, to the EMISSIONS related to environmental matters. Although total “Responsible Tourism” incentive programme run by G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Additionally for airports: 8 energy use increases where passenger numbers Festa (Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility) Reference to ACI-ACA Airport Carbon Accreditation Program. increased the most, it was possible to reduce energy and Iceland Tourism, to the Sustainable E F F L U E N T S A N D WA S T E use and greenhouse gas emission per passenger. development goals of the United Nations and to company policy. Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 8 The last report indicated that there was an an organisation within the aviation sector which A06 Airport disclosure: Aircraft and pavement de-icing/anti-icing fluid used 7, 8 and treated by m3 and/or metric tonnes insignificant risk of infringements related to aims to support sustainable growth, issued a report freedom of association and child labour, as in 2017 linking the Global Goals of the United Nations G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 7 Isavia operates exclusively in Iceland. A review to ideas for improvement projects for companies NOISE of the guidance on these aspects revealed that engaged in aviation-related activities. Isavia also A07 Special clauses for airports: Change in the number and percentage of people 7, 8 measures could be taken to try to prevent any such took account of ATAG reporting when formulating residing in areas affected by noise infringements throughout the company’s whole its objectives, which link up to five of the seventeen value chain. A Code of Ethics for the company’s Global Goals. HUMAN RIGHTS suppliers was therefore drawn up. This Code INVESTMENT was approved by the Managing Director in midGlobal Goal 3: Good health and well-being G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures 2 2017. Work is ongoing on implementing this Code, The company has set itself the objective of reducing concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained including adding relevant clauses to calls for tenders staff accidents which lead to absence. This objective and contracts. Until these rules have been fully is indirectly linked to Global Goal 3 and specifically F R E E D O M O F A S S O C I AT I O N A N D C O L L E C T I V E B A R G A I N I N G implemented, Isavia feels it is reasonable that these to Target 3.6, which aims to “halve the number G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom 2 aspects should have only partially been fulfilled. of global deaths and injuries from road traffic of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights accidents” by 2020. The Air Transport Action Group CHILD LABOUR (ATAG) report links this Global Goal to ongoing training in safety awareness in aviation, and Isavia G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 2 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor uses this as its reference. 22 23 Isavia ohf. 2017 Annual Report The company has also set itself the objective of making its purchasing more transparent, more traceable and more accessible and in this connection, adopting the Code of Ethics for GOALS LINK TO: suppliers which was approved by the Managing Director last year. This links up to United Nations’ Responsible Target 12.6, which aims to “encourage companies No. Name of goal Global goal GRI UNGC tourism [...] to adopt sustainable practices”, and Target 12.7, which aims to “promote public procurement G4-EN1, G4-EN2, A05, practices that are sustainable, in accordance with Reduce the use of fossil O F S TA F F O N 1 fuels in Isavia operations Environment G4-EN21, G4-EN15, 7, 8 national policies and priorities”. G4-EN16, EN-18, EN-19 PA R E N TA L L E AV E ARE MEN Global Goal 13: Climate action Isavia has set itself the objective of reducing use G4-EN23, G4-EN27, 2 Increase proportion of sorted waste Environment 7, 8, 9 G4-EN28 of fossil fuels. This links up to Global Goal Target Global Goal 5: Gender Equality 13.2, which aims to “integrate climate change Isavia has set itself the objectives of equal pay measures into national policies, strategies and for equal work and of increasing the number of planning”. Isavia also participates in the Airport Annual frequency of lost time acci3 Safety G4-LA6, G4-LA7 1 dents to become 0 women in third-level management positions, Carbon Accreditation (ACA) system, run by i.e. middle management. This action relates to Airports Council International. The ACA is a form of Global Goals 5.1, which aims to “end all forms carbon accreditation for airports and is therefore G4-EN32, G4-HR6, Adopt supplier code of ethics apof discrimination against all women and girls customised to airport operations. Keflavík Airport Local G4-HR10, G4-HR11, 4 proved by the Managing Director 27 2, 4, 8 community G4-LA14, G4-LA15, everywhere”, and 5.5, which aims to “ensure has taken part in the project for two years. The June 2017 G4-SO9, (G4-HR1) women’s full and effective participation and equal objective has been set to reduce carbon emissions opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision by 2030, and work on a detailed plan to achieve this Make purchases made by Isavia ohf. making in political, economic and public life”. Efforts objective is ongoing. Local 5 more transparent, traceable and G4-57 10 community will be focused on Indicator 5.5.2, which measures accessible the proportion of women in managerial positions. Global Goal 17: Partnerships Data collected by the United National from 67 for the Goals countries show that women currently occupy less Isavia’s partnership-related action focuses Focused and harmonised communicaLocal 6 G4-S01 1 tions with external stakeholders community than a third of managerial positions. on further strengthening co-operation with the company’s stakeholders by means of effective and Global Goal 12: Responsible consumption co-ordinated communication. This links up to United Increase the number of female and production Nations’ Target 17.17, under which the company aims Human 7 managers in the company's third-level G4-LA12 6 Resources Isavia has set itself the objective of increasing the to “encourage and promote effective public, publicmanagement share of sorted waste in its operations. This links up private and civil society partnerships”. to Global Goal 12 on responsible consumption and particularly Target 12.6, which aims to “substantially In 2018, the company will continue to work towards Human 8 Same wages for equally valuable jobs G4-LA13 6 Resources reduce waste generation through prevention, achieving long-term objectives and action linked to reduction, recycling and reuse” by 2030. Global Goals. 24 25 Isavia ohf. 2017 Annual Report BIGGEST SUMMER E V E R AT K E F L AV Í K AIRPORT Keflavík Airport saw a total of 5,954,761 passengers in the period January– August, an increase of 32.4% on the same period the previous year. This increase is in line with the forecast issued by Isavia in late 2016, which predicted that 5,921,693 passengers would use the airport in the first eight months of the year. This was just 0.54% less than the actual figure. SNAPSHOTS 2017 HISTORICAL I N F O R M AT I O N B O A R D S A B O U T M I L I TA R Y RELICS IN ÖSKJUHLÍÐ AND NAUTHÓLSVÍK UNVEILING OF ERRÓ A R T W O R K AT Last year, the Mayor of Reykjavik, Dagur B. Eggertsson, and Managing RE-UNVEILING K E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T Director of Isavia, Björn Óli Hauksson, O F ÁT T I R AT In May, a wonderful new piece of art by unveiled seven wonderful new historical Erró was unveiled at Keflavík Airport. information boards installed near A N E W L O C AT I O N The piece is named Silver Sabler and is significant military relics at Öskjuhlíð The artwork Áttir by Steinunn a wall installation made of hand-painted and Nauthólsvík. The boards are a coÞórarinsdóttir was re-unveiled yesterday ceramic tiles. The piece is a remake of a operative project between Isavia and at a new location. At the unveiling, the painting from 1999 with the same name the City of Reykjavik. Isavia employee ribbon was cut jointly by the artist and but has been enlarged to a ceramic image Friðþór Eydal collected the material Managing Director of Isavia, Björn Óli which is 11 m wide and wrote the texts. Eydal has written Hauksson. The piece has previously and 4.5 m high. a number of books about the military stood in the shopping area of the occupation of Iceland and is one of terminal, but due to a large increase Iceland’s leading experts in the subject. in passenger numbers in recent years, it was temporarily taken down. In consultation with the artist, a new place MEETING ON THE SUBfor the piece has been found outside the JECT OF LINKS BETWEEN arrivals area of the terminal. SIG NING OF SPACEK E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T BASED SURVEILLANCE AND EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT DEVELOPMENT IN THE Last year, Isavia signed an agreement FISHERIES SECTOR with Aireon for the use of Isavia and Kadeco held a public meeting space-based surveillance equipment for in Hljómahöll in Reykjanesbær to discuss controlling opportunities for employment development in the air traffic in Icelandic airspace. The fisheries sector in the vicinity of Keflavík Airport. technology is known as “Space Based Keflavík Airport, as part of the transport chain ADS-B” and will enable more accurate to and from Iceland, has a key role to play in the information of aircraft positions in the continued development and growth in exports of northern part of Icelandic airspace. fresh seafood products in the long term. 26 27 Isavia ohf. PAG ES 2017 Annual Report 26–45 I S AV I A I N T H E SOCIETY 28 — SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 3 0 — S TA K E H O L D E R S 30 — CUSTOMERS 33 — EMPLOYEES 34 — COMMUNITY 38 — AUTHORITIES 39 — SUPPLIERS 39 — RULINGS AND COURT J U D G M E N T S I N V O LV I N G I S A V I A O H F. I N 2 0 1 7 40 — HUMAN RESOURCES Isavia is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure that is the basis for aviation services in Iceland, connections to the wider world and flights between three continents over a large area. The operation is of considerable national interest. The employees, moreover, make every eﬀort to conduct their work in a safe and eﬃcient manner in harmony with the community. 28 29 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2017 Annual Report C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONISBILITY (CSR) P OLIC Y T H E COM PA NY ’ S SOCIA L R ESP ON SIBILIT Y P OLIC Y IS G R O U N D E D I N E X P E C TAT I O N S O N C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y A S S TAT E D I N T H E G E N E R A L S TAT E O W N E R S H I P P O L I C Y, T H E A C T O N A N N U A L A C C O U N T S A N D T H E AC T O N P U B L I C P R O C U R E M E N T, T O N A M E B U T A F E W. T H E COM PA NY H A S Isavia is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and E S TA B L I S H E D T H E F O L L O W I N G undertakes to ensure that its polices and work practices are in accordance with the ten basic POLICY AND OBJECTIVES FOR principles of the United Nations on human rights, ITSELF AS REGARDS TO CSR: work issues, environmental issues and actions against corruption. Isavia also undertakes to publish Policy: information on the company’s social responsibility in Isavia promotes balance between the economy, accordance with the criteria of UN Global Compact environment and society, with sustainability and GRI. as a guiding light. The Managing Director of Isavia has signed the Objectives UN Women‘s Empowerment Principles, which Isavia works actively and consistently towards commits the company to work towards greater the following goals: equality it in its operations. The agreement contains seven criteria to guide efforts to strengthen the • Ensure quality flight services in Iceland and carry position of women in companies and increase their out its role in society in a safe and efficient manner. participation in business. • Promote employee satisfaction and a good Isavia has laid down a Code of Ethics for suppliers working environment. in accordance with the ten main aspects. A working group of representatives of the company’s support • Develop an operation that is sustainable in the long divisions drew up these rules, which were approved term in co-operation and consultation with customers by the Executive Board and the Managing Director and other stakeholders in June 2017. The Code requires suppliers used by the company to adhere to the rules it contains and • Treat the environment in a responsible and to ensure that their own suppliers do likewise. Upon sustainable manner, reduce the company’s carbon request, suppliers must be able to demonstrate that footprint and thereby contribute to reducing the these rules are being followed. The Code of Ethics operation’s environmental impact. for suppliers will be available on the Isavia website once they been adopted. 30 31 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2017 Annual Report S TA K E H O L D E R S I S AV I A F O C U S E S O N E X T E N S I V E C O L L A B O R AT I O N W I T H on their important interests. The Keflavík Airport users or representatives of user groups if considT H E S T A K E H O L D E R S W H O R E LY O N T H E S E R V I C E S O F User Committee meets as often as necessary ered necessary. Isavia’s partner, the Icelandic but never less than once a year. As a rule, the user Meteorological Office, has a role to play in such user T H E C O M PA N Y A N D W H O A R E A F F E C T E D B Y O P E R AT I O N S . committee for domestic airports meets once a year. consultation as regards weather information and is T H E O P E R AT I O N H A S A N I M PA C T T H R O U G H O U T T H E the monitoring body as regards volcanic eruptions C O U N T R Y A N D O N A L L I T S I N H A B I TA N T S . I S AV I A H A S Consultation meetings are held once a year with and other natural disasters. the users of the flight navigation services as I D E N T I F I E D O V E R A H U N D R E D S TA K E H O L D E R S W H O regards operations and investments. Consultation Operators at Keflavík Airport CAN BE CL A SSIFIED A S CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES, THE meetings with users of other aspects of flight Communications with operators at Keflavík Airport C O M M U N I T Y, T H E A U T H O R I T I E S A N D S U P P L I E R S . navigation services also take place under the are carried out during joint meetings or with each auspices of the ICAO Planning Group (NAT-SPG) operator. The are regular group meetings with retail for the North Atlantic. Regular meetings are held and catering operators. with users, as are communications with individual CUSTOMERS The company’s main customers are aircraft operators that use airports and flight navigation areas; operators at the airports, such as flight services entities, shops, caterers, car rentals and coach service companies; and last but not least, passengers. Communications with users and operators occur first and foremost during regular meetings. Communications with passengers are the direct interactions with the company’s employees at airports and using all main communication formats: telephone, e-mails, websites and social media and through regular service surveys. Aircraft operators Communications with airlines that pass through Isavia airports take place during regular user committee meetings to which all users are invited, as well as during private meetings with each of them as needed. The airport user committees operate in accordance with the provisions of the Aviation Act and regulations. These committees can be attended by representatives from all the airlines that use the airport regularly and their agents. The meetings are an opportunity for users to discuss their views before making important decisions on operations, quality of service, fee collection, new construction, tower services or other issues that have an impact 32 33 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y S TA K E H O L D E R S 2017 Annual Report T TA K E S O F F H EV IG FL ER A Y EMPLOYEES As well as usual channels in the workplace, communications with and between employees is first and foremost through regular staff meetings with the Managing Director, the company’s intranet Passengers and events held by the staff association. Four Communications with passengers run first staff meetings with the Managing Director of the and foremost via various media where enquiries company were held in 2017. These meetings dealt are received and responded to, such as the isavia. with current issues and future perspectives for the is and kefairport.is websites and on the company’s company’s operations. social media pages on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Isavia also regularly performs marketing Much of the communication with staff happens and service surveys at its airports. Standardised via the company’s intranet, Flugan. The intranet service surveys have been carried out at Keflavík is a social media service connecting employees. Airport for the past thirteen years. The survey in Everyone can make entries and upload pictures question is an international survey created by the and videos they wish to share with their colleagues. Airports Council International (ACI) and measures Employees, moreover, can retrieve various tools passenger satisfaction at more than 250 airports and equipment to use in their work and manage worldwide and provides a good comparison. Data registrations of events, training courses and on 34 service aspects in the airport are collected entertainment in the company. throughout the year. The results are published on Staff at Egilsstaðir Airport attended a course in a quarterly basis, which allows a swift response In 2017, a Flugan app was created to further improve airport security last year, organised in co-operation if anything is found that needs remedial action. access to the intranet, particularly for staff who do with the Airport Aviation Security Department of Passenger satisfaction is measured on a scale of not work at a computer. Updating the intranet in this Keflavík Airport. 0–5. Keflavík Airport has generally improved its way has increased the flow of information within the position in recent years. In line with huge increases company. in passenger numbers, there have been times when overall satisfaction has fallen, and these can Last year also saw a review of Isavia’s external discounts with various companies for its members. usually be traced to overcrowding in the terminal websites, www.isavia.is and www.kefairport.is. All employees are eligible for membership in Staffið. disruptions due to renovations and extensions This involved creating a high-quality information Isavia considers is vital for staff to be able to of the terminal. Other surveys are carried out as website bringing together all airport web pages socialise outside of work and gives support to the needed in addition to these regular surveys. for passengers and customers in one place – staff association. It also organised events to bring www.isavia.is. The website is scheduled to come people together, such as the company’s annual party. Isavia has also carried out surveys of the general online in March 2018. public in Iceland regarding attitudes towards the The company focuses on providing a good and family company’s airports and the experience of those who The staff association of Isavia and its subsidiaries, friendly working environment, effective education have used them in any given year. The majority of Staffið (the Staff), organises numerous events for and training and positive morale. Systematic efforts respondents (66%) have had a positive experience its members and is responsible for a diverse and are spent on renewing operating units. Last year, of Keflavík Airport, and 68% have had a positive dynamic social life, such a family outing during the forinstance, there were new facilities for the S experience of domestic airports. These results are TE summer, a Christmas buffet, trips to the cinema and employ-ees of airport services at Keflavík Airport similar to 2016–17. MINU bowling. In addition, the association has negotiated brought online. 34 Isavia ohf. Stjórnvísi Iceland Tourism Main organisations of which Isavia Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation Festa, Icelandic Centre for Corporate Social Iceland Ocean Cluster Mannauður, Association of Human Resources Borealis, co-operative forum for flight navigation NAT-SPG, co-operative forum of States within the Icelandic Bar Association Airport Council International Travel Industry Association Iceland Chamber of Commerce Association of Reykjanes Employers is a member Confederation of Icelandic Employers Danish-Icelandic Chamber of Commerce French-Icelandic Chamber of Commerce (CANSO) ÍMARK – Marketing Association of Iceland American-Icelandic Chamber of Commerce Project Management Association of Iceland Responsibility Managers service providers in North-West Europe ICAO NAT Region I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y There are extensive communications with local authorities and regional In January, a meeting was held in associations in the neighbourhood of the airport such as the Suðurnes municipalities, the City of Reykjavik, The Isavia Board of Directors also holds Many members of Isavia staff have Akureyri, Ísafjörður, Fljótsdalshérað, co-operation with the Keflavík AirSauðárkrókur, Siglufjörður, Fjarðarbyggð, Hornafjörður, Þórshöfn, Vopnafjörður, Húsavík and Vestmannaeyjar. annual meetings outside of the Greater given talks at various external conferIt is vital that information provision to port Development Association, the municipalities is as good as possible, as the activities of the company can have a considerable impact on local Kadeco, under the title “Keflavík communities. This is particularly true ences and events, as can be seen on the of the Suðurnes area, as Keflavík Airport is the largest workplace in the area. Reykjavik Area, and the 2017 meeting It is a matter of significant interest that Airport – Opportunities for economic communications with local authorities are positive, and it is important that a future vision is formulated for these extremely important transport facilities was in Húsavík. next page. THE COMMUNITY development”. The topic under discussion in each location. VA R I O U S C O M M U N I C AT I O N S W I T H S TA K E H O L D E R S Future development Human resources, Social responsibility Environment Tourism and work marketing and services Talk on Isavia’s work in social Talk on Isavia’s work on Talk on drawing up a Talk entitled “Why Iceland? Talk on human resources responsibility, in connection making Keflavík Airport development plan for A competitive airport1 at matters at the ACI HR & with the conference What carbon neutral at the North Keflavík Airport and the Íslandsbanki breakfast Leadership Forum in Tel Aviv Works: The International America / Europe Airport communications with meeting in Reykjavik Summit to Advance Social Best Practices Conference stakeholders at the Talk on equal pay Panel discussions on tourism certification at the ACI HR & Progress in Reykjavik in Reykjavik Passenger Terminal in Iceland at a conference Leadership Forum in London Conference in Amsterdam Talk on Isavia’s social Talk on Isavia’s work on organised by Landsbanki responsibility objectives making Keflavík Airport Talk on information Talk on internal marketing Breakfast meetings on at the ACI Digital Communiat the Harvest Festival of carbon neutral for a Joint technology and technical passenger forecasts by cation Forum in Naples Responsible Tourism run by Nordic Aviation Environment optimisation at Keflavík Isavia in Reykjavik Festa (Centre for Corporate Committee Airport at the SITA ICT Talk to the members of Social Responsibility) and Forum Facilitator: Member of staff Meet in Reykjavik on Talk on Isavia environmental Tourism Iceland from the Startup Tourism loyalty services available at issues at the Climate Talk on Isavia BIM use at a project Keflavík Airport Talk on Isavia’s work on Meeting of Festa and the conference in Denver social responsibility at the City of Reykjavik Talk on recruitment Talk on Isavia’s meeting Invest in the Future in times of high growth Talk on Isavia’s work with implementation of BIM at oragnised by SA Business at the Reykjanesbær Green Steps at a Green the Design Management Iceland in Reykjavik Management Day Steps breakfast meeting Forum in Sweden Talk on corporate social Short talks on Isavia Talk at the BIM conference: responsibility at the Annual environmental issues at Optimising infrastructure General Meeting of Tourism the Association of Icelandic construction in Reykjavik Iceland Environmentalists Presentation on future development at Keflavík Airport at a meeting of Suðurnes municipalities Presentation on future development at Keflavík Airport for Oddfellow 2017 Annual Report 35 36 37 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y THE COMMUNITY 2017 Annual Report Division, Ásgeir Pálsson, gave a talk, together with representative of the Icelandic Met Office and Icelandair, on the impact volcanic eruptions in the Arctic region may have on air traffic. Isavia also regularly holds open meetings In 2018, it is planned to deliver three where entities within the tourism more equipment trailers for group sector, and others are informed of the accidents to ICE-SAR and two equipment company’s plans at Keflavík Airport, such trailers for group care to the Red Cross. as regarding construction and traffic forecasts. The annual breakfast meeting For more information, see isavia.is/umin which the forecast for the passenger isavia/styrkveitingar. throughput at Keflavík Airport was In 2017, air accident drills were held presented was held in November. Isavia at Akureyri Airport, Vestmannaeyjar Isavia’s Community Fund at the meeting was the opportunities Co-operation with employees have also given talks at Airport and Ísafjörður Airport. These The Community Fund awarded numerous available for economic development in the tourism sector numerous open meetings that have been drills went well and attendance was good. grants to various projects during the the fisheries sector in the neighbourhood Isavia also collaborates extensively with held by other entities. year. The grants focus on environmental of the airport. Interesting talks were entities in the tourism sector, such as the Grants to ICE-SAR issues, humanitarian issues, preventative given at the meeting and attendance was Travel Industry Association (SAF), the In the field of flight navigation services, and the Icelandic Red Cross measures, aviation matters, arts, culture good. Icelandic Tourist Board, Promote Iceland Isavia collaborates closely with service The Isavia and Landsbjörg Grant Fund and education. In addition, the company and the Tourism Task Force. In addition, providers and adjacent flight control has been active since 2012 and has, up supports various other charities by An open residents’ meeting was the company is a member of Iceland centres. The company participates in to 2017, allocated close to ISK 40 million providing space for collection boxes in held for the first time in May for the Tourism. Isavia is also an active member Borealis, a collaborative venue for nine to search and rescue teams for the the airports. A list of those receiving residents living closest to the airport of the port and transport group of the flight navigation service providers in purchase of nine group accident carts. grants can be found at: isavia.is/umto inform them of the effects of Icelandic Ocean Cluster, a collaborative North Europe. At the beginning of 2018, a three-year isavia/styrkveitingar. runway construction on air traffic and forum for companies, most of which agreement was signed with the Red environmental noise. Also presented are directly involved in transport and Civil protection Cross for the purchase of seven group Isavia’s University Grants were the results of new noise port operations. In 2017, the Iceland and accident response assistance carts over the period, for a Grants have been allocated to students measurements in the area together with Ocean Cluster held, for the third time Isavia is a member of the Civil Protection total of approximately ISK 14 million. who are taking their master’s degrees at a new noise measurement system that in a row, the conference Iceland, the Control Centre and plays a key role as Reykjavik University and the University was adopted during the year. The plan Transportation Nation in co-operation regards response plans for search and The main purpose of these grant of Iceland. The company allocated more is to hold a similar meeting on a yearly with a group of transport companies rescue in the Icelandic air traffic control funds is to purchase group accident than ISK 9 million to seven master’s basis. within the Cluster and the Confederation area. Response drills at the airport are and assistance carts with all principal degree research projects in 2017. For of Icelandic Employers (SA). The main an important part of the company’s equipment needed, such as in the further information, see https://www. There has been communication at point of discussion at the conference preparedness as well as civil protection event of a coach accident or when it is isavia.is/um-isavia/styrkveitingar. meetings with the town and municipal was how Iceland can strengthen itself measures and their development. As necessary to house a large number of authorities as well as other stakeholders. as a hub for international transport and a rule, four air accident drills are held people in help centres. The carts have Startup Tourism There is also close collaboration with at the same time, promote increased every year, and participation in them been delivered to ICE-SAR teams and Ever since its establishment, Isavia has the marketing agencies in the north and collaboration between North Atlantic has always been excellent. These drills Red Cross divisions throughout Iceland. been one of the sponsors of the Startup east Iceland areas where, for example, nations. are usually attended by over 1,000 Tourism project, which gives startwork has been carried out on marketing people from all response units. Since the Co-operation between Isavia, the Red up companies in the tourism sector a efforts on direct flights to Akureyri Isavia has been one of the sponsors of company began holding regular drills at Cross and ICE-SAR has been successful, chance to realise their business ideas. and Egilsstaðir in collaboration with the consultation venue Arctic Circle airports, the response plans of the Civil and the volunteers from these Ten teams were selected to participate the Icelandic Route Development Fund. from the very beginning, and employees Protection unit for multi-party accidents organisations are an important parts of in a business accelerator which began in In July, the Super Break travel agency take an active part in discussions on have developed in tune with the working the airports’ response systems. February and lasted for ten weeks. Team announced plans to launch a direct flight the issues facing the Nordic region, procedures used. The company’s drills, leaders were provided with a training between Cardiff (UK) and Akureyri in whether in connection with air traffic therefore, have become a consultation In 2017, the Kári Rescue Team in Öræfi, course and guidance by various experts the beginning of 2018, with the first in the Nordic area or in connection with venue for response entities for the the Stefán Rescue Team in Mývatnssveit to further develop their business ideas. passengers expected to land in January. ideas of developing a rescue services development of knowledge and proand the Ísafjörður Rescue Team all The teams presented the results to This is the first time there has been a hub in Iceland. At this year’s conference, cedures that have been codified in regureceived equipment trailers for group investors and key entities within the direct flight from the UK to Akureyri. Director of the Air Navigation Services lations and the Act on Civil Protection. accidents. tourism sector in April. 38 39 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2017 Annual Report THE AUTHORITIES Communications with the authorities take many forms. The state is the owner of the company, and it follows the general owner policies of the state in its operations. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs has overall control of the share, and formal communications are carried out at shareholders’ meetings and the Annual General Meeting. Other communications with the owner take place during meetings that are convened as needed. The Ministry of Transport and Local Government plays a two2015 2016 2017 fold role in connection with operations of Isavia: on the one hand as the responsible ministry for air traffic issues and on the other, as a business partner of the company as regards the operation of the domestic airport system and other aspects under the responsibility of the authorities. The company has a Isavia has a great deal of interaction with many public bodies Social responsibility milestones seat on three committees and boards operated by the Ministry: due to the diversity of the company’s activities. The closest the Professional Board for Aviation Issues, the Flugvirktarráð interaction is with the Icelandic Transport Authority, which Council and the Transport Council (observer). The company issues operating permits for airports and flight controls and is has regular professional communications with the Ministry of responsible for the appropriate supervision of implementation Transport and Local Government as regards aviation issues as and operation. Other monitoring bodies of note are the well as close collaboration as regards the implementation of National Centre for Hygiene, Food Control and Environmental the service agreement. Protection, the Construction Authority, the Administration of Occupational Safety and Health, the National Planning In addition, Isavia is responsible for the implementation of Agency and the Environment Agency. Many public bodies have SUPPLIERS RULINGS AND two international agreements on flight navigation services. The first is the “Joint Finance” agreement, which applies operating units that are within or in close collaboration with the company, such as the Police Commissioner, the Directorate Since Isavia is owned by the Icelandic state, COURT JUDGMENTS to flight navigation services within the Icelandic flight of Customs, the National Civil Protection Authorities and the the company is subject to the Act on Public I N VO LV I N G I S AV I A information region (Reykjavik FIR), with 24 other states, and Coast Guard. The municipal bodies connected to the operation Procurement. The company’s main purchases may the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) is its of Isavia are mainly the health authorities and fire brigades. be divided between building construction, service O H F. I N 2 0 1 7 monitoring body. The second is an agreement with the Danish purchases and operating purchases. From 2017, government for Iceland to manage air-traffic control in the Isavia is also monitored by and collaborates with foreign Isavia was able to use the provisions of Regulation No court judgments or rulings have been made upper section of the airspace above Greenland. Isavia has entities. The most noteworthy of these are the European No 340/2017 on procurement by parties operating where the company was considered to have violated also entered into an agreements with the Greenlandic airport Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), which guarantees harmonised in the water, energy, transportation and postal acts of law or rules in 2017. There is one court case company Mittarfeqarfiit for Isavia’s Air Navigation Services safety requirements in Europe, and the International Civil service sectors. Last year saw organisational ongoing at a District court, following a referral from Division to handle air traffic control services at the airport at Aviation Organisation (ICAO), a sub-organisation of the United changes involving the creation of a centralised the Supreme Court. and around Kangerlussuaq/Sönderström. Nations which establishes international standards for all main purchasing department. The role of this department aspects of civil aviation and monitors the performance of is to handle and support the company’s purchasing There were five complaints regarding invitations Meetings are regularly held with the Ministry of Industries states and service providers. The Organisation also monitors in accordance with the principles of public to tender. In all cases, the Public Procurement and Innovation in connection with flight connections and the performance of the abovementioned “Joint Finance” procurement. There has been particular focus on Complaints Commission ruled in favour of the tourism issues. Meetings are also held with the Ministry agreement. Isavia also co-operates with the EASA as part of electronic communication with a view to maintaining company. One complaint was filed regarding a for Foreign Affairs and the Icelandic Coast Guard in co-operation for Borealis. Due to the company’s operations and improving traceability in procurement. dispute over data submission. In this case, there connection with defence-related operations at Keflavík in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, Isavia is monitored by was no ruling in favour of the company’s position Airport and the airport’s organisational issues. In January, the Trafikog byggestyrelsen (Transport, Construction and The proportion of Icelandic suppliers is 88%, and that the data in question were sensitive and should Isavia representatives took part in a brainstorming session Housing Authority) in Denmark, and for collaboration on flight that of overseas suppliers is 12%, although there not be submitted. organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding Iceland’s communications services in the North Atlantic, there is close are no records detailing which of these are based presidency of the Arctic Council in 2019–21. communication with the Irish Aviation Authorities. outside the European Economic Area. 40 41 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y 2017 Annual Report HUMAN RESOURCES T H E PA R E N T C O M PA N Y I S AV I A E M P L OY S A D I V E R S E G R O U P O F P E O P L E AT VA R I O U S W O R K P L A C E S A C R O S S T H E C O U N T R Y. AT T H E E N D O F 2 0 1 7, T H E R E W E R E 1 , 2 0 2 E M P L O Y E E S , O F W H I C H A T H I R D W E R E W O M E N . AT T H E S A M E T I M E , T H E R E W E R E 3 1 3 S TA F F W O R K I N G F O R S U B S I D I A R I E S – 2 2 1 AT T H E D U T Y F R E E S T O R E A N D 4 6 AT T E R N S Y S T E M S . T R A I N I N G H O U R S F O R E AC H E M P LOY E E The average age of employees is 40.6 years, and the The company is unique in that the majority of its 2017 saw a total of 24,225 hours of learning activities, average length of service is 7.32 years. Staff turnover employees receive basic training within the company. corresponding to 20 hours per employee over the AGE in 2017 was 11.28%. This rate varies across jobs and The education is specialised and is intended to ensure year. Some 90% of these learning hours involved professional fields. The workforce is growing rapidly the appropriate training of employee groups who basic training, refresher courses and vocational and 60–69 140 and 504 employees were recruited in the course of require special rights or special skills, such as in the professional training required by staff to retain their 2017, of which 300 for summer work. field of air navigation, airport security services and certification and skills in jobs such as air navigation, 50–59 216 ground handling services. The training schedules for airport security services and ground handling An extensive campaign was launched to attract new these groups are approved by the Icelandic Transport services. 40–49 221 employees and present the various jobs available Authority, as there are strict rules that apply to with the company. This included presentation by international airports. Labour market 30–39 300 company workers themselves, in seven videos Isavia operates in the general labour market and produced for this purpose. A Facebook page Isavia’s teaching methods are under continuous follows general collective wage agreements which 20–29 304 called “Störf hjá Isavia” (Jobs at Isavia) was set up development, and IT is used extensively. In recent the Confederation of Icelandic Employers has to advertise all available jobs with the company. years, the trend has increasingly been to offer a negotiated with numerous unions on behalf of the >20 Presentation material about jobs with the company blend of study techniques, with coursework provided company. Special collective wage agreements 21 was also made available in upper secondary schools via a learning site and practical training at the place have been made with the following unions: and universities. of work. Landssamband slökkviliðsmanna (LSS) (firefighters), Félag flugmálastarfsmanna ríkisins (FFR) (stateThere is great focus on properly welcoming new employed aeronautics employees), Stéttarfélag í Employee age range colleagues. All receive an electronic presentation, almenningsþágu (SFR) (public servants) and Félag which they are expected to view before beginning íslenskra flugumferðarstjóra (FÍF) (air traffic 80 work. A member of the management team meets controllers). each new recruit on their first day, welcomes them, 70 presents the workplace and colleagues and goes 60 Written contracts of employment are made with all 0–5 over the main points that new employees should employees specifying their wages, working 50 6–10 know. All new temporary staff received a gift and a arrangement, rights and obligations. All employees presentation booklet setting out the main points of 40 are made aware of the company’s Code of Ethics 11–15 the employee handbook. 30 when signing their recruitment contract. 20 16–20 Learning Absence rights are linked to collective wage 10 Educational courses, refresher courses and regular agreement. Absence due to illness was 5.6% of all 21–25 training are part and parcel of everyday working 0 man-hours in 2017. Occupational illnesses, however, Human Res. and Finance Development KEF Commercial KEF Tech. and Airports Air Navigation KEF Operations 26–30 life. Organised training and learning takes place all are not specifically recorded by Isavia. Divison year round. The company organises extensive and Divisions and Administr. Division Performance Division Property Division Services Division 30+ ambitious educational activities with the goal of The company complies with laws and regulations on developing the knowledge and skills of employees health and safety, human rights and child labour. The in accordance with the policies and values of the Male Female company does not employ persons under the age of company. This educational work can be divided into eighteen and pays all public charges and does not two categories: specialised learning and general Number of training hours employ persons to do undeclared work. Years worked at Isavia learning. by gender and field of work 42 43 Isavia ohf. I SAV I A I N T H E CO M M U N I T Y HUMAN RESOURCES 2017 Annual Report Finance Divison The notice of termination of employees is in Four formal reports of violations of equal rights, There are systematic efforts to improve the staff accordance with the applicable collective wage bullying or harassment were submitted in 2017. These Air Navigation working environment. A new service building has Services Division agreement but varies according to length of service were processed according to company procedure and been brought online at Keflavík Airport, new work and age. The right to terminate employment is a solution was found in all cases. Airports Divisions stations have been set up in the flight control hall mutual, and all information is in writing. and the flight communication centre and various Human Res. and Equal rights Performance improvements have been made to the Leifur Social environment The object of Isavia’s equal rights programme is to Eiríksson Terminal and the control tower at Reykjavik The company’s Code of Ethics states that ensure full equality between men and women in the KEF Operations Airport. Continuous improvements are being made Division everybody’s work deserves respect and that workplace, with the goal of making full use of staff to technical equipment, e.g. the introduction of new KEF Tech. and neither colleagues nor customers should suffer any abilities, energy and knowledge, free of genderProperty Division weapons-detection machines at Keflavík Airport. discrimination on the basis of sex, religion, beliefs, based discrimination. All positions are accessible ethnic origin, race, colour, financial situation, origin, to both genders, consideration is taken of family KEF Commercial Occupational health Division disability, age or on any other grounds. life / work balance, bullying and sexual harassment Development are prevented, gender ratios are balanced in and Administr. Particular emphasis is placed on staff safety in the There is an action plan in place for dealing with management positions and equal rights are ensured workplace. All accidents are recorded. The company’s bullying, sexualor gender-based harassment in determining wages. Isavia job advertisements occupational health representative is responsible and violence in the workplace. This action plan is encourage applicants of both genders for available Employee split The standard deals with employer obligations to pay for describing the circumstances of each case and accessible to all employees on the company intranet positions. by field of work men and women equal wages and ensure they receive proposing improvements to facilities or procedures and is presented to all new employees. Last year, the same terms for doing the same and equally to prevent reoccurrences. Accidents are recorded managers received specific training on social Isavia’s equal rights programme is accessible to all valuable work. In August 2017, a project manager electronically, and particular efforts have been environment and guidance on how to respond on the employees on the company intranet and is presented was recruited to handle planning and adoption of the made to raise awareness of the concept of basis of the plan. to all new employees. The equal opportunities standard, and external consultants are also working “near-miss accidents”, by means of a special button representative ensures that the on the project. In November 2017, a steering group in the staff website (Flugan) and special information company’s goals and schedules in equal was set up to participate actively in the project, which cards displayed everywhere. The Safety Committee, opportunities are followed and provides is directed by the Human Resources Department. made up of staff and company representatives, Average advice to management and employees. One of the tasks of the steering group is to keep discuss all cases relating to the occupational health Male Female Total age The findings of a review of achievements senior management informed of the progress of of Isavia staff. in equal rights issues are presented implementation. It is expected that adoption of the Manag. Dir. and Deputy Manag. Dir. 8 3 11 50 annually to the Board of Directors. equal pay standard will be completed by the start A risk assessment has also been carried out with an of April 2018, the company will be ready for preexternal consultant regarding the new work stations Department managers 16 11 27 49 Isavia was awarded PwC’s gold medal in testing by mid-summer and in service facilities at Keflavík Airport and in the 80 the company’s equal wage audit in 2017, certification will happen in Leifur Eiríksson Terminal. Other managers 50 5 55 50 the third year in a row. The certification 70 autumn 2018. confirms that there is equal pay at Reports of work-related accidents have increased Total 74 19 93 60 Isavia, with less than 3.5% difference Health and working year-on-year, in conjunction with the wider scope of 50 between genders. Isavia has placed great environment operations, an increase in the number of employees Gender split importance on the equal pay of men and 40 We focus on raising employee and improved reporting procedures. Last year, 67 among managers women, and this has been very successful. awareness of the importance work accidents were reported, of which 32 led to 30 of having a healthy lifestyle the staff member in question being absent from All employees are, by law, entitled to 20 and thus show that the work. In light of this, one of the objectives that Isavia KEF Tech. and payments from the Parental Leave Fund. company cares for both has set itself for 2018 is for “no accidents to occur Property Division 10 A total of 69 employees took parental the health and safety of its at the workplace requiring staff to be absent from Air Navigation Services Division leave in 2017, 24 women and 45 men. All 0 employees. The company’s aim work”, and there will be systematic efforts to make 2016 2017 KEF Operations employees who took parental leave in is to support the psychological improvements to achieve this. Division Reported workCases with days away KEF Commercial 2017 returned to their job at the end of related accidents and physical well-being of Division their parental leave period. its staff, provide them with End of employment Development and Administr. a good working environment End of employment is regarded as the end of the Finance Equal pay certification and meet their psychological, month in which the employee reaches the age of 70. Divison Isavia is currently working on adopting an Number of reported social and physical needs in the workplace. The The members of the Icelandic Air Traffic Controller Human Res. and Performance equal pay standard and is aiming for wage work-related accidents company gives its staff financial support to take Association, however, retire at the age of 63. The equality certification in autumn 2018. physical exercise. Employees can also apply to the company offers end-of-employment counsel for The objective of adopting the equal pay trade union for financial support. those nearing their retirement age, and their spouses 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% system by means of an equal pay standard are also invited. The course covers useful information (IST 85:2012) is to maintain wage equality Employees can contact the service desk of Vinnuand deals with the changes that end of employment Male Female and fulfil the employer obligations laid vernd (Occupational Health Service) and obtain will bring. The course is also an opportunity for down in Chapter III of Act No 10/2008 on advice on their own illness or that of family members. an enjoyable gathering with colleagues, spouses/ Gender split the equal status and equal rights of men In addition, Vinnuvernd nurses hold regular consulfamilies and company representatives. Eleven by field of work and women. tations at the company’s largest operating units. employees participated in such a course in 2017. 44 45 Isavia ohf. 2017 Annual Report I S AV I A B R E A K FA S T M E E T I N G ON PA SSENG ER N U M B ER FORECASTS FOR 2018 The annual Isavia breakfast meeting was held at the Hilton Nordica in November. At the meeting, AN EVENTFUL Isavia presented a new forecast for passenger numbers for Keflavík Airport in 2018. Dr Huginn Freyr Þorsteinsson discussed the impact on YEAR Iceland of Keflavík Airport being an exchange point between continents. Ásta Kristín Sigurðardóttir, Managing Director of Icelandic Tourism, introduced Startup Tourism’s business accelerator, which has helped a number of tourism companies to establish themselves. TEMPORARY SHOPPING A N D F O O D S PA C E AT K E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T In 2017, Isavia innovated at Keflavík Airport by offering a temporary shopping and food space in the Leifur Eiríksson Terminal. The restaurant Sbarro, the outlet Epal and the Ísey skyr bar were selected to take part in the project. I S AV I A B R E A K FA S T M E E T I N G ON SUMMER 2017 TOURISM Last spring, Isavia held a breakfast meeting on the upcoming summer tourism season at the Hilton Reykjavik Nordica. The meeting looked at Isavia’s forecast for passenger numbers and how accurate it had been so far that year, the expected number of tourists over the summer, the measures Isavia had taken to handle the large numbers of passenger using the airport and the results achieved in the airport’s service survey despite the huge increase in passenger E X T E N S I V E A S P H A LT numbers. Director-General of the Icelandic Tourist PAV I N G C O M P L E T E D Board, Ólöf Ýrr Atladóttir, also went over the projects that the Icelandic Tourist Board has undertaken to The asphalt paving of the runways at Keflavík Airport improve the handling of tourists and how money from was completed in September, and the ribbon was cut the Tourism Site Development Fund had been used. on the opening of the eastwest runway. Work began I S AV I A C H R I S T M A S during the summer in 2016. The overall project was to GREETING pave both runways, renew all electrical equipment and change the runway lights to energy saving diode lights. Isavia involved it staff in the making of the Isavia The extent of this work was the equivalent of all asphalt Christmas greeting which was published in the paving in the Greater Reykjavik Area in 2017. media in the run-up to Christmas 2017. Over 200 employees from all over the company took part. G R A N T S F R O M I S AV I A’ S COMMUNITY FUND 26 project received grants from Isavia’s Community Fund last year. Grants from the Fund are awarded twice a year. The selection process for grant recipient focuses on environmental issues, humanitarian issues, prevention, flight-related issues, arts, culture and educational issues, and a large number of applications were received. 46 55 47 Isavia ohf. PAG ES 2017 Annual Report 46–55 I S AV I A A N D THE ENVIRONMENT 4 8 — E N V I R O N M E N TA L ISSUES IN FULL FLIGHT 4 9 — U S E O F M AT E R I A L S 50 — ENERGY 5 0 — WAT E R 5 1 — WA ST E 52 — NOISE 52 — AIR QUALITY 54 — ECOSYSTEM The company’s environment policy can be found on the website, together with detailed information on Isavia’s work in environmental issues. 48 I SAV I A A N D T H E 49 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2017 Annual Report E N V I R O N M E N TA L ISSUES IN FULL FLIGHT U S E O F M AT E R I A L S In December, Isavia received the Incentive Award for Climate Matters from the City of Reykjavik and Festa. Keflavík Airport renewed Step 1 of the Airport Carbon Isavia’s operations are in many respects energy hours a day. It can prove difficult to manage use, Accreditation system run by Airports Council International. intensive, both as regards use of electricity and fuel. but efforts are being made to reduce it as much Preparation has begun for Step 2, which it is hoped will as possible without compromising operations be achieved in the course of 2018. Two of the objectives The weightiest environmental factor in the or safety. Electric cars have been purchased for set by Isavia in relation to Responsible Tourism deal with company’s operations is the use of fossil fuels. use airside at Keflavik Airport, employees with two important factors in greenhouse gas emissions in the Use is at its highest during the winter months when a commercial driving licence take a course in company’s operations – the use of fossil fuels and the sorting runways and aprons need to be cleared almost 24 eco-driving and even more measures linked to of waste. Work has also been ongoing on an environmental this issue are being lined up for the coming years. action plan up to 2030. Fuel use per passenger was just less than one litre As previously, Isavia is taking part in the Green Steps project, last year – a decrease of just less 10% from 2016. and several workplaces have made progress in the course of Total fuel use was, however, higher in 2017 than in the year. For instance, Iceland Radio has completed four steps, previous years. Keflavík Airport has completed the first step and the airports at Egilsstaðir and Akureyri have completed the second step. The project is a real driver for raising employee awareness of the environment. LESS FUEL USAGE P E R PA S S E N G E R S I N C E 2 0 1 5 2015 2016 2017 2016 2017 Petrol 45,665 l 47,131 l 40,769 Clearway SF3 27 58 in tonnes Diesel 751,722 l 714,574 l 819,696 Clearway F1 54,300 79,959 Aircraft fuel 62,468 in litres Litres per passenger 1.48 l 1.06 l 0.96 l 50 I SAV I A A N D T H E 51 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2017 Annual Report ENERGY WAT E R WASTE Total electricity used last year was Isavia obtains water from utilities One of Isavia’s objectives as regards Several workplaces have long been kg 29,421,110 kilowatt-hours, the equivalent operated at each site and has not reused Responsible Tourism and the Climate sorting waste thoroughly, e.g. Akureyri of just more than 5,800 homes. The or recycled water from airport areas. Agreement is to reduce the amount of Airport and Iceland Radio. Iceland Radio Waste material 84 amount of hot water used by Isavia unsorted waste from its operations. has gone even further and uses a large recycled corresponded to the annual use of some The company has begun groundwater Great steps have been taken in 2017 to proportion of the organic waste pro5,780 people, i.e. 894,979 cubic metres. research at Keflavík Airport, supervised increase sorting. Waste sorting at Isavia duced either for compost or to feed hens Waste material 45,337 by Verkís Consulting Engineers. Last varies considerably between the comkept by the staff at the workplace. This is disposed of As indicated above, fuel consumption year, samples were taken twice – in April pany’s operating locations. The most a special and fun way of using food waste is the weightiest environmental factor and in September. Groundwater samples common is the separation of paper, and gives staff the pleasure of looking Electronic 445 in Isavia’s operations. The greatest from boreholes show traces of chemical deposit beverage containers, plastic and after and following the progress of the equipment for proportion can be traced to the servicing use in the airport areas; this indicates general waste. Great efforts were made hens – not to mention the possibility recycling and maintenance of airport operating that some pollution is occurring but in the autumn to bring about more sortof daily fresh eggs. Staff will be more areas. Services are very dependent not to any great degree. It is thought ing at Keflavík Airport, and December active as regards this king of incentive For recycling 420,794 on the weather. This means that major that most of the pollutants detected in saw the start of sorting for organic measures, and such measures could be fluctuations can occur from year to year the readings can be traced back to the waste by operators landside. As 2018 looked into at other workplaces. The For landfill/ 1,235,220 – regardless of passenger numbers – operations of the US Army at Keflavík progresses, more operators will increase total recycling rate increased from 14% disposal particularly if winter services using the Airport years ago. In light of these their waste sorting and passengers will in 2016 to 25% in 2017. The rate of sorted most energy-intensive equipment are findings, further measurements will be be able to sort paper and plastic, as waste per passenger also increased from Total 1,701,880 required for many days in the year. taken, including of groundwater flow. well as the deposit containers they can 14% in 2016 to 20% in 2017. currently sort. Recycling share 25% Last year, new equipment was installed Further details on water and sewage More information on waste sorting at to start up aircraft engines using matters can be found on the Isavia Isavia workplaces can be found on the electricity instead of fossil fuels. website. company website. Isavia uses both sand and de-icing material on runways and other areas of its airports. Sand is in use at domestic airports and de-icing material at Keflavík 2016 2017 Airport, while 5,000 litres of de-icing fluid is used at Akureyri Airport. Isavia kg % kg % uses Clearway F1 de-icing fluid and Clearway SF3 de-icing granules. Sorted per 0.03 14% 0.04 20% The former is made from odium passenger formate and the latter from potassium formate, and both carry the Blue Angel Unsorted per 0.16 86% 0.16 80% (Blauer Engel) environmental label. passenger They are biodegradable and have a low toxicity effect on water. They meet all Total per 0.19 0.20 mandatory environmental and ecological passenger requirements. 52 I SAV I A A N D T H E 53 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2017 Annual Report NOISE AIR QUALITY Last year, three fixed acoustic noise The direct emission of greenhouse gasses by Isavia can be totalled 347 tonnes of CO2. The landfilling of waste and staff monitors were installed at selected traced to fuel use. In 2017, the amount of greenhouse gas travel can also be considered indirect sources of greenhouse locations in the vicinity of Keflavík emissions caused by burning fossil fuels was 2,458 t CO2e. The gas emissions from the company’s operations. In 2017, 1,235,220 Airport. There is also a portable meter company’s best opportunity to reduce emissions is to reduce kg of waste went for landfill or disposal. This figure includes which allows Isavia to respond to fossil-fuel consumption. This is one of Isavia’s objectives for raw waste, screenings, soil and concrete debris. Greenhouse specific complaints with more accurate 2018. In previous years, higher average emission values for the gas emissions from landfilling Isavia waste in 2017 totalled measurements. As well as these acoustic burning of fossil fuels were used to calculate greenhouse gas 717 tonnes, a figure which includes emissions from organic noise monitors, a system was set up to emissions than are used today. The values used today are those waste for composting. Emissions from staff flights abroad allow residents and other stakeholders given in the calculator linked to the City of Reykjavik and Festa totalled 286 t CO2e. to monitor which aircraft are generating Climate Agreement. The calculated values for previous years on noise and report any disturbances. This the basis of those values are given here. There are next to no emissions of ozone-depleting substances gives a better picture of where and which emitted as part of the operations of the company. Nitrogen flights are causing the most disturbance, Direct greenhouse gas emissions from the burning of fossil dioxide levels are monitored by means of an air-quality meter to enable an appropriate response. Last fuels per passenger in 2017 totalled 0.257 kg, a reduction of 9% located over Eyjabyggð in Reykjanesbær. There are also plans year, eleven disturbance reports were from 2016 to 2017. to measure sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and particulate made in this way at Keflavík Airport and matter airside at Keflavik Airport. four at Reykjavik Airport. There was an increase in direct GHG from fuel use from 2016 to 2017, due to the increase consumption of fuel. Despite this, More information on air quality can be found on the Isavia For more information, see the Isavia emission per passenger fell (as described here), and the same is website. website. The website gives a link to the true for fuel consumption per passenger. noise monitoring interface and a button to use to report disturbances caused by The company has set itself the objective, by 2020, of reducing flights. greenhouse gas emission by around 10% per passenger, 2015 based on the figures from 2015. In 2015, emissions stood at 0.6 kg CO2e, and in 2016, 0.45 kg CO2e. In 2017, greenhouse No of passengers 5,548,127 gas emissions totalled 0.37 kg CO2e, i.e. a 38% reduction as compared to 2015. This means that Isavia has already achieved Total CO2 emissions from fuel 2,187,120 kg its 2030 objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions per CO2 emissions per passenger 0.394 kg passenger by 30% as compared to 2015. 2016 Account was taken of the emissions of CO2 from the use of fossil fuels, production of electricity and sending waste to No of passengers 7,618,793 landfills. Total CO2 emissions from fuel 2,146,070 kg The energy used by Isavia in the form of electricity or heat CO2 emissions per passenger 0.282 kg comes from district heating plants or hydropower plants. In both cases, the energy in question is from renewable sources 2017 which generate very low emissions of greenhouse gases. Indirect emissions due to heat and electricity, therefore, are No of passengers 9,577,927 very slight if account is taken of electricity production by other Total CO2 emissions from fuel 2,458,376 kg means. According to the National Energy Authority, the average emission level for energy generation is 11.8 g CO2e per kilowattCO2 emissions per passenger 0.257 kg hour. Indirect emissions from electricity use at Isavia in 2017 54 I SAV I A A N D T H E 55 Isavia ohf. ENVIRONMENT 2017 Annual Report E N V I R O N M E N TA L NEWS ECOSYSTEM Isavia airport zones are as diverse as regards ecosystems as they are numerous. For years, Isavia has been closely monitoring fauna airside at its airports and has analysed adjacent airport environments in terms of the presence of animals and birds. The appearance of wild animals varies greatly from place to place as vegetation and food supply differs. Major efforts are made at airports to reduce the likelihood of collisions between aircraft and animals, for instance, by deterring them and managing habitats. Isavia registers all collisions between birds and wild animals with aircraft at airports. In 2017, there were V E H I C L E E L E C T R I F I C AT I O N fourteen reported cases of birdstrike at Keflavík HAS BEGUN Airport and 22 at domestic airports. In March, Isavia took delivery of three new Kia More information on ecosystems within airport Soul EV electric cars from the Askja car dealership. zones and on registration of wild animals is available The cars are very environmentally friendly and on the Isavia website. economic, as they are pure electric cars. They will therefore help towards reducing the company’s Last year, there was one accident at Keflavík carbon footprint. Airport, in which 200 litres of oil leaked out, necessitating the replacement of 1.18 tonnes of soil. No rulings have been made where the company was considered to have violated environment legislation. RESPONSIBLE TOURISM In January, together with 300 other tourism companies, Isavia signed a declaration on Total no of flight movements 194,415 INCENTIVE RECOGNITION responsible tourism. This is an incentive project I N C L I M AT E I S S U E S aimed at supporting environmental protection and social responsibility. No of birdstrikes 36 Last year, Isavia was awarded an incentive recognition in climate issues from the City of Reykjavik and Festa (Centre No of birdstrikes per for Corporate Social Responsibility). These awards were 1.85 given out for the first time in 2017. The City of Reykjavik 10,000 flight movements and Festa consider that Isavia has set itself ambitious objectives as regards climate issues. 56 99 57 Isavia ohf. PAG ES 2017 Annual Report 56–103 ECONOMY AND FINANCIALS 58 — INCREASED SCOPE O F O P E R AT I O N S 6 0 — F L I G H T S TAT I S T I C S 62 — PA SSENG ER AND TRAFFIC FORECASTS 64 — KEY FIGURES 66 — GRI OVERVIEW 78 — REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 80 — INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 8 2 — C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2017 Following approval by the Isavia Board of Directors to make the Keflavík Airport Developmental Plan the basis for all development at the airport, it is clear that a great amount of work will be need to be undertaken over the coming years, requiring a great deal of funding. Isavia’s financial position is more than healthy enough for the development that lies ahead. The company’s access to credit has been good, and as things stand, there is no real indication that this might change. That said, it is important – given the scope – to approach all further development with a certain amount of risk awareness, as the planned investment runs to tens of millions of ISK over the coming years. As an example of the strength of the company’s financial position, Isavia’s equity ratio has remained almost constant since the end of 2013, despite investment – funded from operation or by loans – of more than ISK 43 billion since then. 58 FINANCIAL POSITION 59 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report SCOPE OF O P E R AT I O N S T W O FA C T O R S H AV E T H E G R E AT E S T I M PA C T O N Scope of operations at Keflavík Airport T H E S C O P E O F I S AV I A’ S O P E R AT I O N S : T H E N U M B E R The number of users of Keflavík Airport is constantly rising. Over summer 2017, 27 airlines flew from the airport to more OF FLIGHT MOVEMENTS AND THE NUMBER OF than ninety destinations. Twelve airlines flew to and from PA SSENG ER S. Iceland all year round: Icelandair, WOW air, easyJet, Wizz Air, British Airways, Norwegian, SAS, Air Iceland Connect, Delta, Lufthansa, Finnair and Primera. Four handling agents operate at Keflavík Airport: IGS, Airport Associates, ACE Handling and South Air. As a whole, the company’s operations have widened Air Iceland Connect flies from Reykjavik to several Numerous passengers take advantage of Keflavík Airport as a in scope as compared to last year. In 2017, passenger locations in Greenland, and Atlantic Airways flies transit airport, and both WOW air and Icelandair use the airport numbers at domestic airports increased by 3%; at to the Faroe Islands. In addition, the Icelandic Flight for such purpose on routes between Europe and North America. Keflavík Airport, passenger numbers increased by Academy (Flugskóli Íslands) and Flugfélagið Geirfugl The minimum flight connection time for passengers at Keflavík 28%; and traffic in Icelandic airspace increased have facilities at Reykjavik Airport. BIRK Flight Airport is 25 minutes. by 12%. Services and Air Iceland Connect are responsible for ground handling services at airports. Isavia has, with the assistance of an incentives system, been quite successful in getting airlines to fly to Iceland over the At Akureyri Airport, Norlandair has regular winter months. In addition, Isavia has marketed time slots scheduled flights within Iceland and scheduled outside peak hours each day, with the aim of making better use and chartered flights to Greenland. In addition, of the airport’s facilities. There was a sharp increase in use travel agencies in the area offer direct flights of these slots in 2017. from Akureyri to a few destinations overseas. AIRLINES Circle Air offers chartered and sight-seeing flights from Akureyri and Reykjavik. Air Iceland Connect has being flying between Akureyri and Keflavík Airport in connection with the Icelandair’s main destinations in Europe and North America since 2017. In February 2018, the company announced that it intended to drop this route as of summer 2018. In addition, the Akureyri Aviation Academy (Flugskóli Akureyrar) is based at the airport. Flugfélag Íslands and South Air are responsible for ground handling services at Akureyri Airport. MORE THAN Air Iceland Connect deals with ground handling services at Egilsstaðir Airport. Scope of flight navigation operations Scope of airport operations The largest customers of Isavia’s flight navigation Three aircraft operators ran scheduled flights services are Icelandair, WOW air, United Airlines, within Iceland, i.e. Flugfélag Íslands, Flugfélagið Emirates, Delta, SAS, Lufthansa, British Airways, Ernir and Norlandair. Other aircraft operators Air Canada and Qatar. These airlines fly the greatest who regularly used Isavia services were Mýflug, number of kilometres within the Icelandic flight Atlantsflug and Norðurflug. Vesturflug/Blue traffic control area. Icelandic airlines are the West and Helo operate a helicopter service at the biggest users of flight navigation services company’s airports. at Keflavík Airport. 60 FINANCIAL POSITION 61 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report FLIGHT S TAT I S T I C S 70,000 60,000 12,000,000 50,000 10,000,000 40,000 Passenger movements through Isavia 8,000,000 airports totalled 9.6 million in 2017, 30,000 6,000,000 an increase of 25.7% from 2016. The 20,000 flight airports totalled more than 4,000,000 number of international passengers 129,000, a increase of 9% year-on-year, 2,000,000 10,000 increased from almost 6.9 million to after having fallen significantly the more than 8.8 million, i.e. an increase of 0 previous year due to the use of larger 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 some 28.2% year-on-year. The greatest 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 aircraft on domestic routes. increase (28.3%) was at Keflavík Airport, Domestic Passengers International Passengers Domestic International while international passenger at other Number of passengers In total, almost 60,000 tonnes of goods airports increased by just less than 5%. at all Isavia airports Number of freight were transported through the company’s The number of domestic passengers transportations airports in 2017, an increase of more increased during the same period from than 11% from the previous year. Freight just more than 749,000 to just less than 250,000 transportation between countries 772,000, i.e. an increase of some 3%, as 200,000 was almost 1,000 tonnes in 2016, an indicated above. 200,000 180,000 increase of more than 11% year-on-year. 160,000 In 2017, domestic freight transportation There were just more than 196,000 flight 150,000 140,000 totalled just more than 1,300 tonnes – a movements at Isavia airports in 2017. 120,000 considerable fall from 2016, when the This is an increase of just more than 12% 100,000 figure was almost 1,800 tonnes. 100,000 from the previous year. International 80,000 50,000 flight movements at Icelandic scheduled60,000 Over 185,000 aircraft passed through flight airports totalled over 65,000, an 40,000 Icelandic airspace in 2017, an increase of 0 increase of some 20%. The increase 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20,000 around 11.8% from 2016. A total of almost was by far the greatest at Akureyri (just 253 million kilometres were flown in the 0 less than 39%), with an increase of more Domestic International 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Icelandic air traffic control area in 2017 – than 19% at Keflavík Airport. Flight Number of flight Number of aircraft the equivalent of 300 return journeys to movements within Iceland on scheduledmovements using the airspace the Moon. 62 FINANCIAL POSITION 63 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report PA SSE NG E R AN D TRAFFIC FORECASTS I S AV I A C O M P I L E S A T R A F F I C F O R E C A S T AT L E A S T O N C E A Y E A R F O R T H E C O M PA N Y ’ S C O R E O P E R AT I O N S – O N E F O R PA S S E N G E R N U M B E R S AT D O M E S T I C A I R P O R T S A N D K E F L AV Í K A I R P O R T A N D ON E FOR T R A FFIC IN ICEL A N DIC AIR SPACE . A passenger forecast for domestic airports is compiled at the end of each year. It is based on information obtained from the largest users of the airports and is used in connection with operating plans and the preparation of fee lists. Traffic in the Icelandic air traffic control area is assessed in accordance with information from a working group entitled the Economic Financial Forecasting Group (EFFG). The working group, which prepares a forecast for air traffic over the North Atlantic, is made up of all service providers and representatives of associations using the service in the North Atlantic. A passenger forecast for Keflavík Airport is compiled at the end of each year. The forecast is based on information about time slots that airlines have reserved for the upcoming summer and the winter schedule that they have prepared. Major airlines have been very co-operative in providing information about seat availability. Isavia focuses on sharing information that the company collects with tourist services entities, analysts and the public and holds open meetings for such purposes. The passenger forecast for 2018, presented in November 2017, expects passenger movements to increase by 18% at Keflavík Airport, rising from 8.8 million to 10.4 million. The share of transit passengers continues to grow, making up an expected 35% of the total number of passengers at the airport. 64 FINANCIAL POSITION 65 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report K E Y F I G U R E S F R O M O P E R AT I O N S 2017 2016 From the balance sheet 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Group Revenue Revenue 37,974 33,008 26,013 22,079 19,810 4.4% Income from airport services 14.9% EBITDA 9,853 8,857 6,008 4,906 4,470 Income from property 38.9% EBIT 6,523 6,322 3,999 3,328 2,818 3.5% Goods sold 14.5% Financial revenue/expenses -1,607 2,304 -181 -605 1,200 Income from 38.0% international services Pre-tax profit 4,916 8,626 3,818 2,724 4,018 Other income 31.7% Overall result 3,949 6,923 3,073 2,197 3,217 33.9% 10.1% 10.1% From the statement of financial position Property, plant and equipment 54,332 42,922 31,425 25,715 23,179 Income from Assets 72,548 59,229 45,187 40,849 34,511 airport services 5.4% Equity 31,005 27,057 20,134 17,061 14,864 Service agreement 11.6% with IRR Interest-bearing liabilities 25,515 24,206 18,565 18,963 15,886 Landing charges 37.6% Current ratio 0.92 1.49 1.30 1.91 1.24 4.5% Airport security fees 12.9% Passenger fees 20.5% 36.7% From the statement of cash flows Other fees 21.9% Operating activities 3,166 6,151 6,326 4,628 4,032 Investment activities -14,542 -13,760 -5,747 -5,754 -2,966 24.8% 24.0% Financing activities 8,750 8,798 67 2,857 -1,324 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 3,101 5,831 4,994 4,491 2,730 Operating costs Financial ratios 10.6% Contribution margin 26% 27% 23% 22% 23% Costs of goods sold 18.6% Profit margin 10% 21% 12% 10% 16% Payroll expenses 53.2% 9.5% Rate of return on assets 0.58 0.63 0.60 0.59 0.58 Oﬃce and administrative costs 20.4% Return on equity 14% 29% 17% 14% 24% Other operating costs 2.0% 15.4% Earnings per ISK of share capital 0.71 1.24 0.55 0.39 0.58 Depreciation 2.7% Equity ratio 43% 46% 45% 42% 43% 15.6% 52.0% Average number of positions 1,350 1,215 1,017 914 848 66 FINANCIAL POSITION 67 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report GRI OVERVIEW Content Placement Status Page UNGC G4-9 Scale of reporting organization: Total Isavia’s operations, Stakeholders 6–7, number of employees, total number of (customers), Human resources, Key 30–32, operations, net sales or net revenue, figures from operations, Financial 40–43, total capitalization broken down in Statement 58–63, terms of debt and equity and quanity 64–65, of products or services provided. 78–103 Additionally for airports: size of Isavia is issuing its second Annual Accounts and and opportunities that airports face when it comes airport, number and length of runways, Social Report in accordance with the criteria of to sustainability. stating whether they are primary or crosswind runways, minimum the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report connection time between flights at discusses the manner in which the company follows The information in the report is based on the airport, number of operations, the criteria of GRI G4, with more comprehensive operations in 2017. The information in the social number of airlines served and number of destinations served. provision of information. and environmental sections of the report refer to G4-10 Total number of employees by Human Resources 40–43 6 In addition, the report discusses the manner in which the parent company. The report was prepared by employment contract and gender (a-f Isavia follows the special provisions applicable experts in their fields at Isavia. The table below total 6 items). to the operation of airports according to the G4 gives the state of play for each GRI G4 criterion and G4-11 Percentage of total employees Human Resources 40–43 3 Airport Operators Sector Disclosures. The special indicates where related information can be found. covered by collective bargaining provisions are specifically intended to address the Over the next few years, further work will be carried agreements. challenges out on strengthening the company’s sustainability. G4-12 Description of the organization’s Stakeholders (suppliers) 30–39 supply chain: G4-13 Significant changes during the Center for aviation in the North 10–13, Content Placement Status Page UNGC reporting period regarding the Atlantic, Corporate Governance 14–15 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. Compliance C O M M I T M E N T S T O E X T E R N A L I N I T I AT I V E S S T R AT E G Y A N D A N A LY S I S Partially compliant G4-1 Statement from the most senior Center for aviation in the North 8–9 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the Stakeholders (government), 38–39, None compliance precautionary approach or principle is Environment 48–55 decision-maker of the organization Atlantic Not applicable (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent addressed by the organization. senior position) about the relevance G4-15 List of externally developed economic, Chairman’s statement, Community, 10–13, of sustainability to the organization environmental and social charters, Stakeholders (Community), 28–29, and the organization’s strategy for principles, or other initiatives to which Environment 30–39, addressing sustainability. the organization subscribes or which 48–55 G4-2 Description of main influences, risks Center for aviation in the North 8–13 it endorses. and opportunities Atlantic, Chairman’s statement G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Chairman’s statement, Community, 10–13, industry associations) and national or Stakeholders (Community), 28–29, O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L P R O F I L E international advocacy organizations. Environment 30–39, 48–55 G4-3 Name of the organization. Isavia ohf. I D E N T I F I E D M AT E R I A L A S P E C T S A N D B O U N D A R I E S G4-4 Primary brands, products, and Operations, Executive Board, Scope of 6–7, services. operations 16–17 G4-17 Operational Structure of the Isavia’s financial statement 78–103 organization. G4-5 Location of the organization’s Reykjavík Airport, 101 Reykjavík headquarters. G4-18 Details on report content and aspect This is the second CSR report boundaries. published by Isavia. It is based on the G4-6 Number of countries where Isavia operates only in Iceland. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). the organization operates, and company owns four subsidiaries: With additions from the Airport names of countries where either the Duty Free Store, Tern Systems, Operators Sector Disclosures. the organization has significant Domavia and Suluk. operations or that are specifically G4-19 All material Aspects identified in the Operations, Stakeholders, 6–7, relevant to the sustainability topics process for defining report content. Environment 30–39, covered in the report. 48–55 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Isavia is a public limited company. G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the Scope of operations, Human 40–43, organization: Methodology for resources, Environment 48–55, G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Operations, Stakeholders, Scope of 6–7, measures, including assumtions. 58–63 breakdown, sectors served, and types operations, https://www.isavia.is/en/ 30–39, Addidionally for airports: Passengers of customers and beneficiaries). corporate/about-isavia/reports-and58–63 and cargo from customers statistics/passenger-statistics/factsand-figures G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the Scope of operations, Human 40–43, organization. : Methodology for resources, Environment 48–55, measures, including assumtions. 58–63 Addidionally for airports: Passengers and cargo from customers 68 FINANCIAL POSITION 69 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any Improvements in 2017 20–21 G4-36 Report whether the organization has Corporate Governance (Executive 16–17 restatements of information provided appointed an executive-level positions Board) Partially compliant in previous reports, and the reasons with responsibility for economic, None compliance for such restatements. environmental and social topics, and Not applicable G4-23 Significant changes from previous Improvements in 2017 20–21 whether post holders report directly reporting periods in the Scope and to the highest governance body Aspect Boundaries. G4-37 Process for consultation between The project was managed by the S TA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T stakeholders and the highest Manager of PMO Development & governance body on economic, Administration Isavia on behalf of the G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Community, Stakeholders, 28–29, environmental and social topics. If Managing Director the organization. Scope of operations 30–39, consultation is delegated, describe to 58–63 whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-25 Basis for identification and selection Community, Stakeholders, 28–29, of stakeholders with whom to engage. Scope of operations 30–39, G4-38 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance Statement: 58–63 governance body and its committees. https://www.isavia.is/en/corporate/ about-isavia/the-company/operatingG4-26 Organization’s approach to Center for aviation in the North 8–9, divisions--organisation-chart stakeholder engagement, including Atlantic, Chairman’s statement, 10–13, frequency of engagement by type and Corporate Governance, stakeholders, 14–15, G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the Rules of Procedure of the Board: by stakeholder group, and an indication Scope of operations, Human 30–39, highest governance body is also an https://www.isavia.is/en/corporate/ of whether any of the engagement was Resources 40–43, executive officer about-isavia/the-company/operatingundertaken specifically as part of the 58–63 divisions--organisation-chart report preparation process. G4-40 Report the nomination and selection General State ownership policy G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have Center for aviation in the North 8–9, processes for the highest governance been raised through stakeholder Atlantic, Chairman’s statement, 10–13, body and its comittess, and the criteria engagement, and how the organization Community, Stakeholders, 28–29, used for nominating and selecting has responded to those key topics Environment 30–39, highest governance body members, and concerns, including through its 48–55 including: Whether and how diversity reporting. is considered, whether and how independence is considered, whether REPORT PROFILE and how expertise and experience G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal Report for 2017 relating to economic, environmental or calendar year) for information and social topics are considered provided. and whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved G4-29 Date of most recent previous report The most recent report was issued in (if any). March 2017 G4-41 Processes for the highest governance Board’s Rules of Procedure and Code body to ensure conflicts of interest of Conduct: https://www.isavia.is/en/ G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, Yearly are avoided and managed corporate/about-isavia/the-company/ biennial). governance G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding Enquiries to be sent to: https://www. H I G H E S T G OV E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N S E T T I N G P U R P O S E , VA L U E S A N D S T R AT E G Y the report or its contents. isavia.is/en/corporate/about-isavia/ the-company/contact-us/contact-us G4-42 Highest governance body’s and Board’s Rules of Procedure and senior executves’ roles in the Corporate Governance Statement: G4-32 GRI Content Index. Process for Use was made of GRI-G4 criteria with development, approval, and updating https://www.isavia.is/en/corporate/ determining the content of the report. special clauses on airports of the organization’s purpose, value about-isavia/the-company/ GRI CONTENT INDEX or mission statements, strategies, governance policies, and goals related to G4-33 Policy and current practices with Independent Auditor’s Report, 14–15, economic, environmental and social regard to seeking external assurance Compliance with laws and regulations 48–55, impact for the report applicable to the company, Risk 80–81 management, Corporate Governance, H I G H E S T G OV E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S A N D S E N I O R E X E C U T V E S ’ R O L E S I N T H E D E V E L O P M E N T, A P P R O VA L , Environment A N D U P D AT I N G O F T H E O R G A N I Z AT I O N ’ S P U R P O S E , VA L U E O R M I S S I O N S TAT E M E N T S , S T R AT E G I E S , P O L I C I E S , A N D G O A L S R E L AT E D T O E C O N O M I C , E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S O C I A L I M PAC T GOVERNANCE G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance GOVE R NANCE ST RUC T U R E AN D COM P OSITION body’s collective knowledge of G4-34 Governance structure of the Corporate Governance 14–15 economic, environmental and social organization, including committees topics of the highest governance body. G4-44 Processes for evaluation of Identify any committees responsible the highest governance body’s for decision-making on economic, performance with respect environmental and social impacts to governance of economic, G4-35 Process for delegating authority for Corporate Governance (Executive 16–17 environmental and social topics. economic, environmental and social Board) topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees 70 FINANCIAL POSITION 71 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance H I G H E S T G OV E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N R I S K M A N AG E M E N T ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Partially compliant G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Corporate Governance 14–15 S TA N D A R D D I S C L O U S U R E S P R O V I D E A N O V E R V I E W O F : VA L U E S , P R I N C I P L E S , None compliance identification and management of S TA N D A R D S A N D N O R M S economic, environmental and social Not applicable G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, Human resources, on the website: 40–43 10 impacts, risks, and opportunities. standards and norms of behavior https://www.isavia.is/en/corporate/ Include the highest governance body’s such as codes of conduct and codes about-isavia/the-company/companyrole in the implementation of due of ethics. policies diligence processes. G4-57 10 G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in Corporate Governance 14–15 Internal and external reviewing the effectiveness of the mechanisms for seeking organization’s risk management advice on ethical and lawful processes for economic, behavior, and matters related to environmental and social topics. organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance Corporate Governance 14–15 body’s review of economic, G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Rulings and verdicts, Laws and 39 10 environmental and social impacts, reporting concerns about unethical or regulations: https://www.isavia.is/en/ risks, and opportunities. unlawful behavior, and matters related corporate/about-isavia/the-company/ to organizational integrity, such as icelandic-law H I G H E S T G OV E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T I N G escalation through line management, G4-48 Highest committee or position that Managing Director whistleblowing mechanisms or formally reviews and approves the hotlines. organizations sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects ECONOMIC are covered ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE H I G H E S T G O V E R N A N C E B O DY ’ S R O L E I N E VA L U AT I O N G E C O N O M I C , E N V I R O N M E N TA L AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Isavia’s financial statement 78–103 and distributed: Revenues, operating G4-49 Process for communicating critical Via the Managing Director and costs, employee wages and benefits, concerns to the highest governance Executive Board payments to providers of capital, body payments to government (by country), G4-50 Report the nature and total Board Minutes community investments number of critical concerns G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities posed by 7 that were communicated to the climate change that have the potential highest governance body and the to generate substantive changes in mechanism(s) used to address and operations, revenue or expenditure resolve them G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined Isavia’s financial statement 78–103 R E M U N E R AT I O N A N D I N C E N T I V E S benefit plan obligations G4-51 Remuneration policies for the The 2016 remuneration policy was G4-EC4 Total monetary value of financial None highest governance body and senior ratified at the Annual General Meeting assistance received by the executives organization from governments G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Human Resources 40–43 MARKET PRESENCE G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought G4-EC5 Standard entry level wage by gender 6 and taken into account regarding compared to local minimum wage at remuneration, including the results significant locations of operation of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-EC6 Prorportion of senior management All Isavia managers are Icelandic. 6 hired from the local community at In the aviation sector, this is the G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation No bonuses are paid in the company significant locations of operation. definition of the community’s for the organization’s highestAdditionally for airports: Is of immediate community. paid individual in each country of particular relevance to the airport significant operations to the median sector. annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid A01 Airport disclosure: Total number of Financial position, Facts and figures: 58–63 individual) in the same country. passengers annuarlly, broken down https://www.isavia.is/en/corporate/ by passengers on international about-isavia/reports-and-statistics/ G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in No bonuses are paid in the company and domestic flights, and broken passenger-statistics/facts-andannual total compensation for the down by origin-and-destination and figures organization’s highest-paid individual transfer passengers, including transit in each country of significant passengers. operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation A02 Airport disclosure: Total annual Scope of operations 58–63 for all employees (excluding the number of aircraft movements by highest-paid individual) in the same day and by night, broken down by country. commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation, and state aviation flights. 72 FINANCIAL POSITION 73 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance A03 Airport disclosure: Total amount of Scope of operations 58–63 G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN RED list species Environment, Ecosystem: 8 cargo tonnage and national conservation list species www.isavia.is/ecosystem Partially compliant with habitats in areas affected by I N D I R E C T E C O N O M I C I M PA C T S None compliance operations, by level of extinction risk Not applicable G4-EC7 Development and impact of Isavia’s financial statement 78–103 EMISSIONS infrastructure investments and services supported. Additonally for G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Environment 51–53 7, 8 airports: Particular relevance to the emissions (scope 1) airport sector because of high impact on local economies. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse Environment 51–53 7, 8 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, Scope of operations 58–63 gas (GHG) emissions including the extent of impacts (scope 2) P R O C U R E M E N T P R AC T I C E S G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse Environment 51–53 7, 8 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Stakeholders (suppliers) 39 gas (GHG) emissions suppliers at significant locations of (scope 3) operation G4-EN18 Environment 51–53 8 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity E N V I R O N M E N TA L M AT E R I A L S G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas Environment 48–55 8, 9 (GHG) emissions. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or Environment 49–50 7/8 Additionally for airports: volume Reference to ACI-ACA Airport Carbon Accreditation Program. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials Environment 8 A05 Airport disclosure: Ambient Environment 52–53 7, 8 used that are recycled input air quality levels according to materials pollutant concentrations in ENERGY microgram per cubic meter or parts per million by regulatory regime. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Environment 49–50 7/8 organization, including fuel types used G4-EN20 Emissions of ozoneEnvironment 53 7, 8 depleting supstances (ODS) G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the Environment 49–50 8 organization, including fuel types used G4-EN21 Nox, Sox and other Environment 52–53 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity More applicable to manufacturing 8 significant air emissions companies. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Environment 8, 9 E F F L U E N T S A N D WA S T E Additionally for airports: Important G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Environment, Water: https://www. 50 8 for airports to share sectoral best destination isavia.is/en/corporate/about-isavia/ practice. community-and-environment/isaviaG4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of Environment 49–50 8, 9 in-society/environment/water products and services G4-EN23 Environment, Recycling: https://www. 51 8 Total weight of waste by WAT E R isavia.is/en/corporate/about-isavia/ type and disposal method. community-and-environment/isaviaG4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment 50 7, 8 Additionally for airports: in-society/environment/recycling Report on the weight of waste from G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected No water shortage in the country. 8 international flights. by withdrawal of water A06 Airport disclosure: Aircraft and Environment 49–50 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Environment 8 pavement de-icing/anti-icing fluid recycled and reused used and treated by m3 and/or metric A04 Airport disclosure: Quality of storm Environment 50 tonnes water by applicable regulatory G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant Environment 54 8 standards. spills BIODIVERSITY G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, Environment 8 G4-EN11 Operational sited owned, leased, Environment, Wildlife: https://www. 54 8 exported, or treated waste deemed managed in, or adjacent to, protected isavia.is/fyrirtaekid/um-isavia/ hazardous under the terms of the areas and areas of high biodiversity samfelag-og-umhverfi/umhverfi/ Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, value outside protected areas lifriki and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts Environment, Ecosystem: 8 of activites, products, and services www.isavia.is/ecosystem G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and Environment 8 on biodiversity in protected areas biodiversity value of water bodies and and areas of high biodiversity value related habitats significantly affected outside protected areas by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment 8 74 FINANCIAL POSITION 75 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance G4-EN27 Environment, Air: www.isavia.is/air 48–55 7, 8, O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y Extent of impact mitigation 9 Partially compliant of environmental impacts of G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce Human Resources 40–43 products and services represented in formal joint None compliance management-worker health and Not applicable G4-EN28 Environment 8 Percentage of products sold safety committees that help monitor and their packaging and advise on occupational health and materials that are reclaimed safety programs by category G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of Human Resources 40–43 1 NOISE injury, occupational A07 Additionally for airports: Number and Environment, Noise: https://www. 52 diseases, lost days, and percentage change of people residing isavia.is/en/corporate/about-isavia/ absenteeism and total number of in areas affected by noise community-and-environment/ work-related fatalities, by region and isavia-in-society/environment/noiseby gender monitoring G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence COMPLIANCE or high risk of diseases related to their occupation G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines Environment 52 8 and total number of non-monetary G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in sanctions for non-compliance with formal agreements with trade unions environmental laws and regulations T R A I N I N G A N D E D U C AT I O N TRANSPORT G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Human Resources 40–43 6 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of 8 employee by gender, and by employee transporting products and other goods category and material for the organization’s G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Human Resources 40–43 operations, and transporting members lifelong learning that support the of the workforce continued employability of employees OVE R AL L and assist them in managing career endings G4-EN31 Total environmental protection 7, 8, expenditures and investments by type 9 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Human Resources 40–43 6 performance and career development S U P P L I E R E N V I R O N M E N TA L A S S E S S M E N T reviews, by gender and by employee G4-EN32 8 category Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using DIVERSIT Y AND EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y environmental criteria G4-LA12 Composition of governance Human Resources 40–43 6 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential 8 bodies and breakdown of negative environmental impacts in the employees per employee supply chain and actions taken category according to gender, age E N V I R O N M E N TA L G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-EN34 Number of grievances about Environment 48–55 8 environmental impacts filed, E Q U A L R E M U N E R AT I O N F O R W O M E N A N D M E N addressed, and resolved through G4-LA13 Human resources, Equal Pay Audit by 40–43 6 Ratio of basic salary and formal grievance mechanisms PwC remuneration of women to men by employee category, SOCIAL by significant locations of operation L A B O R P R AC T I C E S A N D D E C E N T W O R K S U P P L I E R A S S E S S M E N T F O R L A B O R P R AC T I C E E M P L OY M E N T G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Human Resources 40–43 6 that were screened using employee hires and employee turnover labor practices criteria by age group, gender and region G4-LA15 Significant actual and G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Human Resources 40–43 potential negative impacts emplyees, by significant locations of for labor practices in the operation supply chain and actions taken G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates Human Resources 40–43 6 L A B O R P R AC T I C E S G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S after parental leave, by gender G4-LA16 Number of Grievances about labor L A B O U R / M A N AG E M E N T R E L AT I O N S practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Human Resources 40–43 3 mechanisms operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 76 FINANCIAL POSITION 77 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance G4-HR11 Significant actual and 2 HUMAN RIGHTS potential negative human Partially compliant INVESTMENT rights impacts in the supply None compliance chain and actions taken Not applicable G4-HR1 Total number and percentage 2 H U M A N R I G H T S G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S of significant investment agreements and contracts G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human No complaints 1 that include human rights clauses or rights impacts filed, addressed, and that underwent human rights resolved through formal grievance screening mechanisms G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on Human Resources 40–43 1 human rights policies or procedures SOCIETY concerning aspects of human rights THE SOCIETY that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees LOCAL COMMUNITIES trained G4-SO1 Percentage of operations Community, Stakeholders 30–39 1 N O N D I S C R I M I N AT I O N with implimented local G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of None 6 community engagement, discrimination and corrective actions impact assessments, and development taken programs F R E E D O M O F A S S O C I AT I O N A N D C O L L E C T I V E B A R G A I N I N G G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and Community 30–39 1 potential negative impacts on local G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in Isavia operates only in Iceland, and 28 3 communitis which the right to exercise freedom of such violations are deemed to be association and collective bargaining unlikely. A code of ethics for suppliers A08 Airport disclosure: Number of persons No such incidents reported may be violated or at significant risk, is been introduced. physically or economically displaced, and measures taken to support these either voluntarily or involunatirly, by rights the aiport operator or on its behalf by a governmental or other entitity, and CHILD LABOUR compensation provided. G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified Isavia operates only in Iceland, and 28 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION as having significant risk for incidents such violations are deemed to be of child labor, and measures taken to unlikely. A code of ethics for suppliers G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of 10 contribute to the effective abolition of is been introduced. operations assessed for risks related child labor to corruption FORCED OR COMPUL SORY L ABOUR G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiBoard’s Rules of Procedure and Code 10 corruption policies and procedures of Conduct: https://www.isavia.is/en/ G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers Isavia operates only in Iceland, and 4 corporate/about-isavia/the-company/ identified as having such violations are deemed governance significant risk for incidents to be unlikely. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No complaints received 10 of forced or compulsory labor, and actions taken measures to contribute to the elimonation of all forms of forced or PUBLIC POLICY compulsory labor G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions No funding is granted to political 10 S E C U R I T Y P R AC T I C E by country and recipient/beneficiary parties G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel 1 A N T I C O M P E T I T I V E B E H AV I O U R trained in the organization’s human G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for None rights policies of procedures that are anti-competitive behavior, anti trust, relevant to operations and monopoly practices and their INDIGENOUS RIGHTS outcomes G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations Not applicable to Iceland 1 COMPLIANCE involving rights of indigenous peoples G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines No fines for violations of laws and actions taken and total number of non-monetary and regulations ASSESSMENT sanctions for non-compliance with the laws and regulations G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Not applicable to Iceland 1 operations that have been subject S U P P L I E R A S S E S S M E N T F O R I M PAC T S O N S O C I E T Y to human rights reviews or impact G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers assessments that where screened using SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT criteria for impacts on G4-HR10 2 society Percentage of new suppliers that where screened using G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential human rights criteria negative impacts on society and supply chain and actions taken 78 FINANCIAL POSITION 79 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A GRI OVERVIEW 2017 Annual Report Content Placement Status Page UNGC Compliance G R I E VA N C E M E C H A N I S M S F O R I M PAC T S O N S O C I E T Y Partially compliant G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts Community, Environment 30–39, None compliance on society filed, addressed, and 48–55 resolved through formal grievance Not applicable mechanisms SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY C U S T O M E R H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes A09 Airport disclosure: Total annual Environment 54 number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of nonNo complaints received by Isavia compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring Stockholder (customers) 30–32 customer satisfaction M A R K T E I N G C O M M U N I C AT I O N S G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Isavia does not sell prohibited or controversial products itself. However, the company has an A1:H229 with the operators of shops and restaurants at Keflavik Airport which sell alcohol and tobacco. One of them is the Duty Free Store Ltd., Isavia’s subsidiary. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of No complaints to Isavia non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by types of outcomes. G4-PR8 Total number substantiated No complaints received complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data COMPLIANCE G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines No fines have been imposed on the for non-compliance with laws and company regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 80 FINANCIAL POSITION 81 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I S A V I A O H F. I S A P U B L I C LY O W N E D C O M P A N Y O P E R A T I N G O N T H E B A S I S O F A C T N O . 2 / 1 9 9 5 O N P U B L I C LY O W N E D C O M P A N I E S . T H E S T A T E T R E A S U R Y I S T H E O N LY S H A R E H O L D E R I N T H E C O M P A N Y, A N D T H E C O M P A N Y ’ S D O M I C I L E A N D L E G A L V E N U E I S AT R E Y K J AV I K A I R P O R T. The Board and Managing Director of Isavia ohf. the company, this will affect the company’s operations. confirm to the best of their knowledge that these It is the opinion of the Board and Managing Director of consolidated statements provide a fair view of the Isavia ohf. that the company’s accounting standards results of the company, its assets, debts and changes are appropriate and that these Consolidated Isavia ohf. is responsible for the operation and The Board of Directors recommends that the year’s to cash and cash equivalents during the year. It should, Financial Statements contain a good overview of the development of all Icelandic airports, as well as profits be transferred to the next year and refers in however, be specifically pointed out that there is some development and achievements in the operation of the controlling air traffic in the Icelandic air traffic other respects to the financial statements as regards uncertainty as regards the processing of VAT reports company, risk management and main uncertainties in control area. Isavia ohf. is a service company in changes in equity. submitted to the Directorate of Internal Revenue. the company’s environment. airport operations and air navigation and forms the Discussion of this can be found in Explanation 14 of foundation for Iceland’s civil aviation. The Board has established detailed Rules of the Financial Statements. The company has presented The Board and the Managing Director of Isavia ohf. Procedure defining its scope of authority and the its views in a reasoned and justified manner. Until have today examined and approved the consolidated The 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements have been divisions of tasks between it and the Managing such time as there is a definite ruling in this case, the accounts of the company for 2017 and confirm these prepared in accordance with International Financial Director. In addition, the company has established uncertainty will remain. If the ruling is unfavourable to accounts with their signatures. Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the a comprehensive risk policy for the company, a European Union (EU). Code of Ethics and focus points as regards social responsibility. The Rules of Procedure provide for Reykjavik, According to the overview of the overall results of the the company’s Board following the Guidelines on 15 March 2018 consolidated accounts of Isavia ohf., the operating Corporate Governance published by the Iceland income in 2017 amounted to approximately ISK 37,974.3 Chamber of Commerce, Nasdaq OMX Iceland hf., million and had, therefore, increased by ISK 4,966 and the Confederation of Icelandic Employers. The million year-on-year. The year’s profits amounted to company’s corporate governance statement was ISK 3,948.6 million, an ISK 2,974.2 million increase renewed in March 2018. Board of Directors Ingimundur Sigurpálsson, Margrét Guðmundsdóttir year-on-year. This fall in profits can be entirely or more Chairman of the Board than entirely accounted for by a change in exchange Isavia ohf. has established policies on social rate of ISK 3,602 million, caused chiefly by obtaining responsibility for itself and became a member of the credit in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates UN Global Compact (UNGC). At the same time, efforts caused by a change in the ISK rate are, by their very have been made to harmonise the company’s policy nature, not part of the core operations of the company. formulation and corporate governance to the ten main Helga Sigrún Harðardóttir Ólafur Ólafsson According to the balance sheet, the company’s total principles of UNGC. The company’s annual accounts assets increased by ISK 13,319.3 million in 2017 and now reflect these focus points in environmental, social were ISK 72,548.3 million at the end of the year. The and employee issues. In addition, Isavia ohf. annually company’s recorded equity amounted to ISK 31,005.5 submits a report to the United Nations describing million at the end of 2017, increasing by ISK 3,948.6 the company’s goals and achievements in the ten Matthías Páll Imsland million from the close of 2016. The equity ratio at yearcategories specified. The report was submitted for the end 2017 was 42.74%, compared to 45.68% at year-end first time in 2017. 2016. Full-time positions were on average 1350 in 2017, increasing by 135 year-on-year. Managing Director Björn Óli Hauksson 82 FINANCIAL POSITION 83 Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A 2017 Annual Report INDEPENDENT In the preparation of the consolidated financial not for the purpose of expressing an opinion of AUDITOR’S REPORT statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the operability of Isavia ohf. Where appropriate, the effectiveness of the internal controls of the company. the Board of Directors and Managing Director • Assess whether the accounting methods used TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS shall provide the appropriate explanation of and the related notes are appropriate and whether A N D S H A R E H O L D E R S O F I S A V I A O H F. operability and the reason why they decided to the accounting assessment of the management is apply the criteria for operability in the preparation realistic. and presentation of the consolidated financial statements, unless the Board of Directors and • Form an opinion on the use by management of the the Managing Director have decided to dissolve criteria for operability and assess on the basis of the the company or cease operations or have no other audit whether there is significant doubt as regards Opinion Our opinion of the consolidated financial statements does not realistic options. operability or whether there are circumstances We have audited the accompanying 2017 Consolidated cover other information, and we neither reach a conclusion on that could give rise to significant doubts regarding Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. The Consolidated Financial nor provide confirmation for their content, with the exception Auditor’s responsibility for the audit of the operability. If we consider that there is significant Statements contain the consolidated income statement, the of the confirmation relating to the report of the Board of consolidated financial statements doubt of operability, we are under obligation to draw consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash Directors stated below. Our goal is to obtain sufficient certainty that the attention to the appropriate notes in the annual flows and information on significant accounting policies and consolidated financial statements are free of financial statements in our report. In the event that other explanatory notes. In connection with our audit, we are responsible for reading material misstatements, whether through fraud or such notes are inadequate, we must depart from the aforesaid other information and examining whether such by mistake, and to issue a statement that contains an unqualified report. Our conclusions are based In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a information is significantly inconsistent with the consolidated our opinion. on the auditing data that we have obtained up to true and fair view of the results of the company in 2017, the financial statements or our knowledge which we have obtained the date of our signature. Nevertheless, events or financial position of the company as at 31 December 2017 and during the audit or which appears in other respects to contain Sufficient certainty, however, is not a guarantee circumstances may arise in the future that can cause of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then significant errors. If we reach the conclusion, based on the that the audit performed in accordance with uncertainties about the operability of the company. ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting work that we have performed, that there are significant international auditing standards will discover all Standards as approved by the European Union and additional inconsistencies in the other information, we are under significant errors should they be there. Errors • Assess overall whether the consolidated annual requirements provided for in the Act on Annual Accounts. obligation to disclose this fact. There is nothing that we need can occur by mistake or fraud and are considered financial statements provide a clear image of the disclose relating thereto. significant if they can have an impact on the underlying business and Comment financial decision-making of the users of the events and assess the presentation, structure and Without making a reservation to our opinion, we would point If we reach the conclusion that there are significant consolidated annual financial statements, whether contents, including the notes to the consolidated out Explanation 14 of the Financial Statements, which deals inconsistencies in the annual financial statements of Isavia on their own or in aggregate. annual financial statements, in light of a clear image. with uncertainty about the collection of VAT claims at the ohf. when we read it after the date of signing, we are under Directorate of Internal Revenue. obligation to disclose this fact. Our audit, in accordance with international auditing We are under obligation to inform the Board of standards, is based on professional judgement, Directors, among other things, about the scope and Basis for opinion In accordance with Article 104(2) of Act No 3/2006 on Annual and we make use of critical thinking in our audit. In timing of the audit and significant issues that arose We conducted our audit in accordance with international Accounts, we confirm that, according to the best of our addition, we carry out the following: during our audit, including significant shortcomings standards on auditing. Our responsibility according to those knowledge, the report of the Board of Directors attached to to internal controls that came to light during the standards is further described below in the section on auditor this Annual Financial Statement provides the information that • Analyse and assess the risk of significant errors audit, where appropriate. responsibility. We are independent of Isavia ohf. in accordance should be contained therein pursuant to the Act on Annual in the consolidated annual financial statements, with established codes of ethics for auditors in Iceland, and Accounts and is not contained in the notes. whether due to fraud or mistakes, design and we have fulfilled their conditions. We believe that the audit execute auditing actions to respond to such risks Reykjavik, evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Responsibility of the Board and Managing Director for and collect auditing data that are sufficient and 15 March 2018 provide a basis for our audit opinion. the consolidated annual financial statement appropriate to base our opinion on. The risk of not The Board and Managing Director are responsible for the discovering a significant error that is due to fraud Other information preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated is greater than one due to a mistake, as fraud can The Board of Directors and Managing Director are responsible financial statements in accordance with International involve collusion, forgery, misleading presentation for other information. Other information consists of the report Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the European of annual financial statements, something that is Anna Birgitta Geirfinnsdóttir, of the Board and Corporate Governance Statement which Union and additional requirements contained in the Act on deliberately left out or the deliberate bypassing of Auditor we received before the date of endorsement and the annual Annual Accounts. The Board and Managing Director are also internal monitoring actions. financial statements of Isavia ohf., which we expect to receive responsible for the internal controls relevant to the preparation after the date of endorsement and which do not contain the and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements • Obtain an understanding of internal controls, annual financial statements and our signatures thereon. so that it is free from material misstatement, whether due to which has an impact on the audit, for the purpose Kristjan Þór Ragnarsson fraud or error. of designing appropriate auditing actions, but Auditor 84 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T 85 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 7 ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P R E H E N S I V E C O N S O L I D AT E D B A L A N C E INCOME IN 2017 SHEET AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2017 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 2017 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidation Assets Consolidation Notes 2017 2016 Notes 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Non‐current assets Operating revenues .............................................................................. 4 37.974.293 33.008.318 Property, plant and equipment ............................................................ 9 54.331.542 42.921.660 Intangible assets ................................................................................... 10 5.173.155 5.320.693 Cost of goods sold ................................................................................ (5.842.486) (5.449.860) Bonds and other long term assets ....................................................... 12 188.262 223.944 Salaries and related expenses .............................................................. 5 (16.741.851) (13.863.834) Administrative expenses ...................................................................... (627.211) (731.905) 59.692.959 48.466.297 Other operating expenses .................................................................... (4.909.509) (4.106.199) Depreciation and amortization ............................................................ 9, 10 (3.330.096) (2.534.516) Current assets Inventories ........................................................................................... 13 546.721 519.486 Operating profit 6.523.140 6.322.003 Accounts receivables ............................................................................ 14 4.653.881 2.625.764 Current maturities of long term assets ................................................ 12 12 36.964 36.551 Financial income .................................................................................. 7 226.080 349.742 Other receivables ................................................................................. 14 4.516.482 1.750.430 Financial expenses ............................................................................... 7 (1.022.348) (837.089) Bank balances and cash ....................................................................... 14 3.101.287 5.830.506 Net exchange rate differences ............................................................. 7 (810.548) 2.791.234 12.855.335 10.762.737 Profit before taxes 4.916.324 8.625.890 Total assets 72.548.293 59.229.033 Income tax ............................................................................................ 8 (967.738) (1.703.060) Equity and liabilities Total comprehensive income for the year 3.948.586 6.922.830 Equity 15 Share capital ......................................................................................... 5.589.063 5.589.063 Statutory reserves ................................................................................ 2.483.798 2.483.798 Revaluation reserves ............................................................................ 45.007 46.331 Retained earnings ................................................................................ 22.887.611 18.937.671 Total equity 31.005.480 27.056.864 Non‐current liabilities Loans from credit institutions .............................................................. 16 25.515.178 22.970.292 Deferred tax liabilities .......................................................................... 17 2.056.586 1.987.019 27.571.764 24.957.311 Current liabilities Accounts payable ................................................................................. 18 2.276.999 2.567.127 Current maturities of non‐current liabilities ........................................ 16 8.223.715 1.236.190 Current tax liabilities ............................................................................ 8 898.152 1.075.721 Other current liabilities ........................................................................ 18 2.572.183 2.335.821 13.971.050 7.214.859 Liabilities 41.542.814 32.172.170 Total equity and liabilities 72.548.293 59.229.033 86 FINANCIAL POSITION C O N S O L I D AT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T 87 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A F O R I S A V I A O H F. 2 0 1 7 ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report E Q U I T Y S TAT E M E N T S TAT E M E N T O F C A S H F L O W S 2 0 1 7 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidation Share Capital Statutory Revaluation Retained Total Equity reserves reserves earnings Notes 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Opening balance at 1 January 2016 .................. 5.589.063 2.483.798 47.655 12.013.517 20.134.034 Operating profit ............................................................................... 6.523.140 6.322.003 Transfer to retained earnings .......................... 0 0 (1.324) 1.324 0 Depreciation and amortization ........................................................ 9, 10 3.330.096 2.534.516 Comprehensive income .................................... 0 0 0 6.922.830 6.922.830 Accounting provision of current assets ........................................... 13,14 76.305 17.693 Balance at 31 December 2016 .......................... 5.589.063 2.483.798 46.331 18.937.671 27.056.864 (Gain) Loss on disposal of assets ..................................................... (14.394) (2.738) Opening balance at 1 January 2017 .................. 5.589.063 2.483.798 46.331 18.937.671 27.056.864 Operating cash flow before transfer to working capital 9.915.147 8.871.474 Transfer to retained earnings .......................... 0 0 (1.324) 1.324 0 Changes in inventories ..................................................................... 13 (29.803) (67.176) Translation exchange differences ..................... 0 0 0 30 30 Changes in operating assets ............................................................ (4.904.808) (1.935.246) Comprehensive income .................................... 0 0 0 3.948.586 3.948.586 Changes in operating liabilities ........................................................ (34.979) 248.942 Balance at 31 December 2017 .......................... 5.589.063 2.483.798 45.007 22.887.611 31.005.480 Cash generated from operations 4.945.556 7.117.994 No dividends were paid to shareholders for the year. Share capital has been fully paid. Interest earned ................................................................................ 290.528 318.997 Finance costs .................................................................................... (994.055) (805.308) Income taxes paid ............................................................................ (1.075.721) (480.729) Net cash generated from operating activities 3.166.308 6.150.954 Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment ................................ 9 (14.424.814) (13.735.567) Sales of property, plant and equipment .......................................... 23.411 23.545 Acquisition of intangible assets ....................................................... 10 (176.643) (93.051) Installments on bonds ..................................................................... 12 36.298 44.607 (14.541.748) (13.760.466) Financing activities Repayments of borrowings .............................................................. 16 (1.234.444) (1.135.128) New bank loans raised ..................................................................... 16 9.984.250 9.933.200 8.749.806 8.798.072 Net change in cash and cash equivalents ........................................ (2.625.634) 1.188.560 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year ................. 5.830.506 4.993.722 Effect of foreign exchange rates ...................................................... (103.585) (351.775) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ........................... 3.101.287 5.830.506 88 FINANCIAL POSITION 89 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes NOTES Notes 1. General information 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Construction contracts Isavia ohf. (the Company) was established in the beginning of 2010 with a merger between Flugstodir ohf. and Keflavíkurflugvöllur ohf. Isavia ohf. is a government owned private limited company and complies with the Icelandic limited companies law No. 2/1995. The Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of company‘s domicile and venue is Reykjavik Airport. completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date, measured based on the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date relative to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion. Isavia ohf. is the national operator of airports and air navigation services in Iceland. The Company ensures flight safety and airport security Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed upon. in accordance with recognized international standards and operating licenses issued and supervised by the Icelandic Transport Authority. Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs The Consolidated Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. consist of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Companies within the incurred that is probable to be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they incur. consolidation are in addition to Isavia ohf., Duty Free Store ehf., Tern Systems ehf., Domavia ehf. and Suluk ApS in Greenland. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is immediately recognised as an expense. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Leasing Statement of compliance Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the The Consolidated Financial Statements have not implemented new and revised IFRS in issue but not yet effective. The company has lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Company at their examined the impact of three new standards that will be effective in year 2018 and 2019. The IFRS standards are IFRS 9 Financial fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers that are effective January 1st 2018. On the other hand IFRS 16 Leases lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. that is effective January 1st 2019. The impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 have been assessed insignificant for the company's financial statements. The effect of IFRS 16 have not been fully assessed but the implementation of the standard will have the effect that Fríhöfnin Foreign currencies ehf. will capitalize the right that reflects the use of lease from Isavia and debt that reflect the obligations to pay rent but IFRS 16 will have Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Monetary insignificant influence on other company of this consolidation. assets and liabilities denominated in such currencies are re‐translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Profits and losses arising on exchange are included in net profit or loss for the period. Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except that certain assets are evaluated by the Borrowing costs revaluation methods. Accounting policies which concern certain properties and financial instruments that are measured at fair value is Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily explained in note below. The Financial Statements are presented in ISK, which is the Company's functional currency. take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. The principal accounting policies are set out below. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Basis of consolidation Income tax The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its Income tax is calculated and recognised in the Financial Statements. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee enterprise statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that so as to obtain benefits from its activities and use its power to affect the time of investment. are never taxable or deductible. The Company's current tax rate is 20%. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared using the purchase method. The result of subsidiaries acquired during the year The tax currently payable is income tax that is likely to be paid within the next 12 months for taxable income of the year and corrections in are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments income tax for previous years. are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Company. Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. The One of the purposes of Consolidated Financial Statements is to show only the net external sales, expenses, assets and liabilities of the difference is due to different assumptions in calculation of income tax. consolidated entities as a whole. Hence, intercompany transactions have been eliminated within the consolidated businesses in the presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Risk management The Company's general policy in risk management is to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. The Company has no currency swap contracts, options or derivatives outstanding at year‐end. Special risk committee operates under mandate from Board of Directors and determines scope and nature on risk and profitability analysis for construction and projects which can have significant influence on income and financial position. Revenue recognition Revenues are recognised when earned as required by International Financial Reporting Standards. Interest income is accrued over time, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable interest rate. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 9 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 10 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 90 FINANCIAL POSITION 91 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) Property, plant and equipment Inventories Property, plant and equipment are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, after taking obsolete and defective goods into consideration. Net flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured in a reliable manner. Property, plant and equipment which qualifies for realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling recognition as an asset is initially measured at cost. The cost of a property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any and distribution. directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use. Provisions With the merger of Flugfjarskipti ehf. and Isavia ohf. the properties of the former company were revaluated because the market value of Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Company will their properties were considered higher than the book value. The revaluation is based on an estimated sales price, which has been be required to settle that obligation. confirmed by appropriated assessor. The changes in the value is credited to other equity as revaluation reserve and the tax effect in deferred tax liability. Financial assets The depreciable amount of an asset is allocated on a straight‐line basis over its useful life, less residual value. The depreciation charge for Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss' (FVTPL), ‘held‐to‐ each period is recognised as an expense. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year maturity' investments, ‘available‐for‐sale' (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables'. The classification depends on the nature and end, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets. Effective interest method The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points Intangible assets paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Intangible assets are recognised only if it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets includes softwares. Intangible asset which qualifies for recognition as an asset is initially measured at cost. The depreciable amount of the asset is allocated on a fixed annual percentage of the historical cost over its useful life, less residual Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL. value. Estimated useful life and depreciaton methods are evaluated in end of each accounting period. Investments held to maturity Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in wich it is incurred. Developement cost is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: Financial assets are classified as financial assets intended to be held to maturity when the Company has investments, i.e. bills or bonds with ‐ The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be avilable for use and sale the intent and the ability to hold to maturity. When applicable, investments held to maturity are recognised at amortized cost, using ‐ The intension to complete the intangible asset and use or sell effective interest method less any impairment losses. ‐ The ability to use or sell the intangible asset Loans and receivables ‐ How the intangible asset will generate probable future enocomic benefits ‐ The avilabilty of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset Loans and receivables are non‐derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. ‐ The ability to mesure reliably the expenditure attributable to intangible assets during its development. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is Where no intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred. recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short‐term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial. Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Impairment of financial assets Intangible assets resulting from the merger of the companies are only accounted for if they are distinctive from goodwill. At the initial Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for impairment at the end of each reporting period to evaluate if there has been registration they are recognized at cost, but with later assesments they are stated at cost less accumulated depreciations and impairment an impairment to the asset. Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more losses. events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial assets, the estimated future cash flows of the asset has been affected. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after Impairment the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying At the end of each reporting period, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the cost would have been had the impairment not there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the been recognised. asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Derecognition of financial assets Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows The Company derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers are discounted to their present value using a pre‐tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash‐generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash‐generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash‐generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash‐generating unit) in prior years. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 11 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 12 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 92 FINANCIAL POSITION 93 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 5. Salaries and related expenses Financial liabilities and equity instruments 2017 2016 Financial liabilities Salaries ................................................................................................................................................... 12.838.337 10.770.430 Pension fund, employers's contribution ................................................................................................ 1.772.964 1.261.081 Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL' or ‘other financial liabilities'. Payroll taxes ........................................................................................................................................... 990.759 846.012 Salary‐related expenses ......................................................................................................................... 201.142 178.477 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Additional contribution to pension fund and changes in vacation obligation ....................................... 564.149 401.000 Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. Capitalized employment expenses ......................................................................................................... (314.699) (166.828) Contractor payments ............................................................................................................................. 5.174 10.149 Other employee expenses ..................................................................................................................... 684.026 563.512 A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: 16.741.851 13.863.834 ‐ Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or Average number of employees ............................................................................................................. 1.350 1.215 ‐ The financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information The Company´s total salaries and benefits to the boards of the companies in this consolidation, managing director, directors for about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or subsidiaries and executives of the parent company for the year 2017 were ISK 351 million compared to ISK 306,2 million for the year 2016. ‐ It forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and The Company´s CEO and Managing Director of Duty Free Store ehf. and Tern Systems ehf. salaries were decided by the wage negotiation Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. committee until laws regarding negotiation committees changed July 1st 2017. In June 2017 negotiation committee ruled about change for the salaries of managing director of Duty Free Store ehf. which was valid from January 1st 2016 and is corrected salaries for year 2016 Other financial liabilities charged in the year 2017. Other financial liabilities (including borrowings) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 6. Fees to auditors Derecognition of financial liabilities 2017 2016 The Company derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company's obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. Audit Other service Audit Other service Deloitte ehf. ........................................................................ 26.143 28.451 19.463 20.749 Other services are mainly review of interim financial statement, accounting and tax service and assistance on tax return. Included in other 3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty service for the year 2017 are ISK 17,5 million (year 2016: ISK 2,1 million) because of projects that are not related to accounting. In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual 7. Financial income and expenses results may differ from these estimates. Accounting judgements are preferably in estimated useful life of assets and in write‐downs of Financial income receivables and inventories, as described at note no. 9, 10, 13 and 14. 2017 2016 The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Interest on bank deposits ...................................................................................................................... 108.857 202.952 period in which the estimate is revised. Interest revenue on investments held to maturity ............................................................................... 19.381 34.234 Other interest revenue .......................................................................................................................... 97.842 112.556 226.080 349.742 4. Revenues Financial expenses The consolidated composition of revenues, is specified as follows 2017 2016 2017 2016 Revenue from sales ............................................................................................................................... 12.033.544 11.205.968 Interest expense and indexation ............................................................................................................ (931.555) (727.356) Revenue from services .......................................................................................................................... 21.626.387 18.375.338 Debt collection fee ................................................................................................................................ (86.612) (104.545) Revenue from contracts ........................................................................................................................ 109.165 121.809 Interest on late payments ..................................................................................................................... (4.181) (5.189) Revenue from long term assets.............................................................................................................. 4.205.197 3.305.203 (1.022.348) (837.089) 37.974.293 33.008.318 Net exchange rate differences Revenue from long term assets consist from revenues of assets, land and equipment. 2017 2016 Net exchange rate differences .............................................................................................................. (810.548) 2.791.234 (810.548) 2.791.234 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 13 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 14 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 94 FINANCIAL POSITION 95 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 8. Income tax 9. Property, plant and equipment (continued) Income tax has been calculated and recorded in the Financial Statements, the amount charged in the Income Statement is ISK 967,7 The assessment‐ and insurance value for the Company's assets is itemized as the following: million. Income tax payable in the year 2018 is ISK 898,2 million. In year 2016 income tax charged in the Income Statement was ISK 1,703,1 million and income tax payable in year 2017 was ISK 1,075,7 million. 2017 2016 Assessment Insurance Assessment Insurance The effective tax rate is specified as follows: Consolidation value value value value 2017 2016 Buildings and sites ............................................................... 23.499.100 54.968.780 21.970.934 44.483.064 Amount % Amount % Machinery and equipment, asset insurances ...................... 10.926.075 12.899.952 Profit before taxes ................................................................ 4.916.324 8.625.890 Other insurances ................................................................. 692.686 712.958 Halt insurance ...................................................................... 15.440.299 13.158.988 Tax rate ................................................................................. 983.265 20,0% 1.725.178 20,0% Non‐taxable revenues .......................................................... (16.216) (0,5%) (19.791) (0,2%) 10. Intangible assets and amortization Joint taxation ........................................................................ 319 (0,3%) (3.402) (0,0%) Other changes ...................................................................... 371 0,3% 1.075 0,0% Consolidation Usage agreement Usage agreement Software Total Income tax acc. to Statement of Comp. Income ................. 967.738 19,5% 1.703.060 19,7% on facilities on runways Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 ................................................... 477.035 5.706.000 1.142.244 7.325.279 9. Property, plant and equipment Additions ............................................................................. 0 0 93.997 93.997 Disposals .............................................................................. 0 0 (3.159) (3.159) Buildings Aprons Control Other Total Balance at 1 January 2017 ................................................... 477.035 5.706.000 1.233.082 7.416.117 and artwork and car parks systems assets Additions ............................................................................. 0 0 176.643 176.643 Cost Disposals .............................................................................. 0 0 (44.328) (44.328) Balance at 1 January 2016 .................... 24.079.700 4.740.637 4.386.424 9.598.937 42.805.698 Balance at 31 December 2017 ............................................ 477.035 5.706.000 1.365.397 7.548.432 Revaluation .......................................... 0 0 9.018 (9.018) 0 Additions .............................................. 6.126.606 5.221.393 407.736 1.978.887 13.734.621 Amortization Disposals ............................................... 0 0 0 (148.375) (148.375) Balance at 1 January 2016 ................................................... 111.308 1.331.400 338.825 1.781.533 Balance at 1 January 2017 .................... 30.206.306 9.962.029 4.803.178 11.420.431 56.391.944 Charge for the year .............................................................. 15.901 190.200 110.949 317.050 Disposals .............................................................................. 0 0 (3.159) (3.159) Additions ............................................... 4.082.305 7.308.869 263.030 2.770.609 14.424.814 Balance at 1 January 2017 ................................................... 127.209 1.521.600 446.615 2.095.425 Disposals ............................................... 0 0 (189.781) (886.962) (1.076.743) Charge for the year .............................................................. 15.901 190.200 118.080 324.181 Sold ....................................................... 0 0 0 (36.346) (36.346) Disposals ............................................................................... 0 0 (44.328) (44.328) Balance at 31 December 2017 .............. 34.288.611 17.270.898 4.876.427 13.267.732 69.703.669 Balance at 31 December 2017 ............................................. 143.110 1.711.800 520.367 2.375.277 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2016 .................... 5.357.801 1.254.807 1.968.711 2.799.068 11.380.386 Book value Charge for the year .............................. 672.774 251.347 333.247 960.098 2.217.466 Book value at beginning of year .......................................... 349.826 4.184.400 786.467 5.320.693 Disposals ............................................... 0 0 0 (127.568) (127.568) Book value at year‐end ........................................................ 333.925 3.994.200 845.030 5.173.155 Balance at 1 January 2017 .................... 6.030.575 1.506.154 2.301.958 3.631.598 13.470.284 Charge for the year ............................... 991.945 545.752 338.178 1.130.041 3.005.915 Due to the development of software intended for sale on the global market in the coming years, the development cost amounts to Disposals ............................................... 0 0 (189.781) (728.300) (918.081) approximately ISK 62.5 million which was capitalized in calendar years 2012 to 2015. This is due to additions in one of the company's Sold ....................................................... 0 0 0 (185.991) (185.991) software product which is Tern ATC System or TAS but this software divides into several parts. The software development was completed in the second half of calendar year 2015 and are availble for sale and already in use by clients. The Company has assessed the recoverable Balance at 31 December 2017 .............. 7.022.519 2.051.906 2.450.356 3.847.348 15.372.127 amount of this intangible asset and determined that this asset has not suffered an impairment loss. Other software is purchased and its estimated lifespan is 3‐20 years. Book value Book value at beginning of year ........... 24.175.731 8.455.876 2.501.220 7.788.834 42.921.660 According to an agreement between Keflavik International Airport ohf., now Isavia ohf. and The Icelandic Defence Agency, now the Book value at year‐end ......................... 27.266.092 15.218.993 2.426.071 9.420.385 54.331.542 Icelandic Coast Guard, signed on April 22nd 2009, the Company would take over certain NATO inventory airport facilities and equipment at Keflavik from the beginning of 2009 for the next 30 years. No fees will be charged for the usage but the Company must cover all costs of Estimated useful lives of fixed assets are as follows: daily operations and maintenance expenses, to ensure the conditions are in accordance with the regulated standards by The International Civil Aviation Organization. On behalf of NATO inventory, the Icelandic Coast Guard has the right to use these facilities of which the usage Buildings and artwork .......................... 7‐100 years rights are recognised proportionately over the lease term. Aprons and car parks ........................................................... 5‐50 years Fixtures and machinery ........................................................................................ 3‐20 years 11. The Consolidation Other assets .......................................................................................................................................... 3‐20 years The Consolidated Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. consists of the parent Company and the following subsidiaries: Information about the revalued properties in year‐end: Ownership% Nominal amount Principal activity 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Shares in subsidiaries Revalued book value .............................................................................................................................. 112.712 115.708 Duty Free Store ehf., Keflavik Airport ................................. 100,00% 50.000 Retail and commerce Impact of the special revaluation ........................................................................................................... (54.887) (56.501) Tern Systems ehf., Kopavogur ............................................. 100,00% 80.000 Software and consulting Book value without impact of revaluation ............................................................................................ 57.825 59.207 Domavia ehf., Reykjavik ...................................................... 100,00% 500 Real estate business Suluk ApS, Greenland ............................................................ 100,00% 1.999 Services of air traffic controllers Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 15 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 16 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 96 FINANCIAL POSITION 97 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 12. Bonds and other long term assets 14. Other financial assets (continued) Aging and allowance for doubtful accounts 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Analysis of aging and allowance for doubtful accounts at the balance sheet date were as follows: Bond loan, weighted average of interest rate 5.48%. ........................................................................... 225.226 260.494 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Current maturities ................................................................................................................................. (36.964) (36.551) Gross amount Allowance Gross amount Allowance 188.262 223.944 Receivables not yet due ........................................................ 2.007.007 24.914 1.726.539 20.380 Bonds and long term assets installments are specified as follows: Receivables, overdue 1‐90 days ........................................... 1.471.454 56.057 673.977 14.969 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Receivables, overdue 91‐180 days ....................................... 183.902 24.787 90.292 9.816 Receivables, overdue 181‐210 days ..................................... 30.367 17.682 10.208 9.232 Receivables, overdue 211 days and older ............................. 25.141 8.585 11.648 3.892 Year 2017 ............................................................................................................................................... ‐ 36.551 Year 2018 ............................................................................................................................................... 36.964 36.845 3.717.872 132.026 2.512.665 58.289 Year 2019 ............................................................................................................................................... 37.277 37.153 Year 2020 ............................................................................................................................................... 37.605 37.475 Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts: Year 2021 ............................................................................................................................................... 37.947 37.812 Year 2022 ............................................................................................................................................... 38.305 38.163 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Installments later ................................................................................................................................... 37.128 36.495 At the beginning of the year ................................................................................................................. (58.289) (42.129) 225.226 260.494 Impairment loss recognized on receivables ......................................................................................... (73.737) (16.171) Amounts written off as uncollectable.................................................................................................... 0 11 There is an insignificant difference between the fair value and the book value of financial assets in the management's opinion. At year‐end .............................................................................................................................................. (132.026) (58.289) 13. Inventories Allowance has been made for doubtful accounts, this allowance has been determined by management in reference to past default 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 experience. Goods for resale ................................................................................................................................... 538.977 502.153 Other receivables Goods in transit .................................................................................................................................... 19.841 31.998 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Allowance for old and obsolete inventory ............................................................................................ (12.097) (14.665) 546.721 519.486 Value added tax, receivables ................................................................................................................. 4.005.085 1.320.776 Prepaid expenses ................................................................................................................................... 96.191 96.776 Changes in allowance for old and obsolete inventory: Capital income tax ................................................................................................................................. 34.709 29.620 Prepaid salaries ...................................................................................................................................... 60.032 64.421 At the beginning of the year ................................................................................................................. (14.665) (13.132) Other receivables ................................................................................................................................... 320.464 238.837 Reversed allowance for old and obsolete inventory ............................................................................ (18.330) (19.040) 4.516.482 1.750.430 Inventories written off ......................................................................................................................... 20.898 17.507 At year‐end .............................................................................................................................................. (12.097) (14.665) The company's claim for value added tax consists mainly of unprocessed VAT reports from the Directorate of Internal Revenue for the Insurance value of inventories .............................................................................................................. 686.549 708.382 period September 2016 to December 2017. The Directorate of Internal Revenue has questioned the validity of the assumption of value added tax registration that the company serves international flights at Keflavík Airport, according to article 12 in the Act on Value Added No inventories have been pledged at year‐end 2017. Tax, and the company does not therefore have the right to use a zero tax rate method and get VAT refunded from purchased supplies and services at the same time. The company on the other hand believes that this important assumption was in place when the company was The Company´s plan is to sell all of its inventories in next 12 months. established. The company has made it's argument but The Directorate of Internal Revenue has not ruled on the matter. The financial statement for the year 2017 is done according to the methodology that has been used since the company was established in the year 2010. 14. Other financial assets If the ruling of the matter becomes unfavorable for the company, the impact can be significant. The estimated effect on the financial Accounts receivables statements for the period will be a decrease in the operating income for the period by 578 million ISK, increase in tangible fixed assets by 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 3.758 million ISK while the corresponding decrease in other short‐term claims is the same. There will also be a decrease ISK 462 million in Domestic receivables ............................................................................................................................ 2.963.459 1.897.470 equity after taking into account tax effects. Foreign receivables ............................................................................................................................... 645.247 493.387 Construction contracts ......................................................................................................................... 109.165 121.809 Allowances for doubtful accounts ......................................................................................................... (132.026) (58.289) Bank balances and cash Receivables Joint Finance contract ....................................................................................................... 1.068.034 171.387 The Company´s cash and cash equivalent consist of cash and bank balances. 4.653.881 2.625.764 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Construction contracts consist of two contracts. In the year 2017 a contract was made regarding installation of system for four largest Bank balances in ISK ............................................................................................................................. 1.354.884 1.487.033 airports in South‐Korea and that contract is still in progress. Also the company made a contract regarding installation on a system at Jeju Bank balances in foreign currencies ...................................................................................................... 1.738.149 1.168.823 Island in South‐Korea which is still not finished. At the end of year 2017 the company credited because of these contracts ISK 109,2 million. Cash in ISK ............................................................................................................................................. 8.254 12.436 At the same time last year the credit was ISK 121,8 million because of contracts. Time deposit ......................................................................................................................................... 0 3.162.214 3.101.287 5.830.506 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 17 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 18 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 98 FINANCIAL POSITION 99 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 15. Equity 17. Deferred tax liability (continued) Share capital is specified as follows: Deferred tax balances consist of the following account balances Shares Ratio Amount 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Total share capital at year‐end ............................................................................ 5.589.063 100,0% 5.589.063 5.589.063 100,0% 5.589.063 Property, plant and equipment ............................................................................................................. 1.974.767 1.600.928 Current assets ........................................................................................................................................ 2.594 5.823 Each share of one ISK carries one vote. The Ministry of Finance carries the voting rights on behalf of the Icelandic Treasury. All shares have Other items ............................................................................................................................................ 1.138 (11.002) been paid in full. Exchange differences ............................................................................................................................. 78.087 391.270 2.056.586 1.987.019 16. Long term borrowings 18. Other financial liabilities Loans from credit institutions 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Accounts payable 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Liabilites in CHF ..................................................................................................................................... 0 2.599.378 Liabilites in EUR .................................................................................................................................... 24.611.729 11.721.939 Domestic accounts payable ................................................................................................................... 1.890.185 2.336.971 Liabilites in USD .................................................................................................................................... 2.764.134 3.167.489 Foreign accounts payable ..................................................................................................................... 386.814 230.156 Liabilites in ISK ...................................................................................................................................... 6.363.030 6.717.676 2.276.999 2.567.127 33.738.894 24.206.482 Current portion of long term liabilities ................................................................................................. (8.223.715) (1.236.190) Current maturities of long‐term liabilities 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Non‐current liabilities at year‐end .......................................................................................................... 25.515.178 22.970.292 Loans from credit institutions ............................................................................................................... 8.223.715 1.236.190 8.223.715 1.236.190 Change in liabilities for the year is following: Other current liabilities 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Liabilities at beginning of the year ........................................................................................................ 24.206.482 18.564.692 New liabilities in the year ..................................................................................................................... 9.984.250 9.933.200 Value added tax, payable ..................................................................................................................... 23.596 23.111 Installments for the year ...................................................................................................................... (1.234.444) (1.135.128) Deferred revenue .................................................................................................................................. 13.232 13.206 Exchange rate difference and indexation ............................................................................................. 782.605 (3.156.282) Accrued additional contribution to pension fund ............................................................................... 292.551 221.496 Liabilities at the end of the year ............................................................................................................ 33.738.894 24.206.482 Salaries and related expenses payable ................................................................................................. 645.885 514.909 Accrued holiday commitment ............................................................................................................... 1.227.694 1.119.385 Installments of non‐current liabilities are specified as follows: Accrued interest, payable ..................................................................................................................... 150.669 142.413 Other liabilities ...................................................................................................................................... 88.311 106.331 Loans from credit institutions Deferred revenue .................................................................................................................................. 129.791 187.850 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Unfinished construction contract .......................................................................................................... 455 7.121 Installments in 2017 ............................................................................................................................. ‐ 1.236.190 2.572.183 2.335.821 Installments in 2018 ............................................................................................................................. 8.223.715 1.131.133 Installments in 2019 ............................................................................................................................. 4.634.826 1.260.336 19. Financial risk Installments in 2020 ............................................................................................................................. 1.409.903 1.389.881 Installments in 2021 ............................................................................................................................. 1.416.623 1.396.475 Financial instruments Installments in 2022 ............................................................................................................................. 1.332.836 1.314.242 Installments later .................................................................................................................................. 16.720.991 16.478.225 The consolidated financial assets and liabilities are specified into following types of financial instruments: 33.738.894 24.206.482 Financial assets 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Loans amounting to ISK 32.552,6 million are subject to financial covenants regarding equity ratio. Thereof loans amounting to ISK 19.167 Bank balance and cash ......................................................................................................................... 3.101.287 5.830.506 million are also subject to condition of net interest bearing debts/EBITDA ratio. The financial covenants are reviewed on a regular basis and Financial assets that are intended to hold to maturity ........................................................................ 225.226 260.494 it is management view that they are unlikely to be breached. Loans and receivables ........................................................................................................................... 9.014.140 4.214.997 17. Deferred tax liability Financial liabilities 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 Other financial liabilities ....................................................................................................................... 39.486.228 30.185.151 Balance at beginning of the year ........................................................................................................... 1.987.019 1.359.680 Financial assets which are intended to hold to maturity, loans and advances and other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost Effects from joint taxation .................................................................................................................... (3.992) (3.402) with effective interest method less impairment. Calculated income tax for the year ....................................................................................................... 972.229 1.706.462 Income tax payable for the next year ................................................................................................... (898.670) (1.075.721) Risk management Balance at the end of the year ................................................................................................................. 2.056.586 1.987.019 The company has established a risk policy and have an active risk management that has the role of assessing and managing the risk factors that the company has. The risks under active risk management are market risk, counterparty risk and liquidity risk. There are also other risks related to, operations, reputation, management and other factors that have been mapped and evaluated on the basis of seriousness and probability. The Risk Committee of the Company regularly meets about issues related to risk management. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 20 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 19 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 100 FINANCIAL POSITION 101 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 19. Financial risk (continued) 19. Financial risk (continued) Interest rate risk Foreign currency risk 31.12.2016 Assets Liabilities Net balance Interest rate risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. EUR ....................................................................................................................... 1.210.340 11.882.603 (10.672.263) Interest rate changes affect the expected cash flow of assets and liabilities which bear floating interest rates. GBP ....................................................................................................................... 70.601 11.659 58.942 JPY ........................................................................................................................ 1.537 0 1.537 Sensitivity analysis CHF ....................................................................................................................... 63.468 2.611.332 (2.547.864) DKK ....................................................................................................................... 54.257 13.026 41.231 In the analysis below the effects of 50 and 100 basis points increase on profit or loss and equity are demonstrated. The sensitivity analysis NOK ...................................................................................................................... 2.861 3.291 (430) below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date. The analysis is prepared assuming the SEK ....................................................................................................................... 2.186 2.891 (705) amount outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. The analysis assumes that all other variables than basis USD ...................................................................................................................... 257.573 3.194.161 (2.936.589) points are held constant. The sensitivity analysis does take into account tax effects. A positive amount below indicates an increase in profit CAD ...................................................................................................................... 1.387 0 1.387 and other equity. A decrease in basis points would have an opposite impact on income statement and equity. Sensitivity analysis The table below shows what effects 5% and 10% increase of the relevant foreign currency rate against the ISK would have on profit or loss Effects on profit or loss and other equity are the same as change in valuation of the underlying financial instruments is not charged directly and other equity. The table above details monetary assets and liabilities that are denomintated in foreign currency and the sensitivity to equity. Positive amount indicates increased profits and equity. Lower interest rates would have the same effect but in the opposite analysis apply to. The foreign currency assets and liabilities in the sensitivity analysis are mainly foreign currency borrowings and foreign direction: currency bank balances. The analysis assumes that all other variables than the relevant foreign currency rate are held constant. The sensitivity analysis does take into account tax effects. An decrease of the relevant foreign currency rate against the ISK would have an 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 opposite impact on profit or and other equity. 50 bps. 100 bps. 50 bps. 100 bps. Effects on profit or loss and other equity ............................. (116.511) (233.022) (66.810) (133.623) Effects on profit or loss and equity 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 5% 10% 5% 10% Foreign currency risk EUR ....................................................................................... (907.335) (1.814.671) (426.891) (853.781) Foreign currency risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign GBP ....................................................................................... 684 1.369 2.358 4.715 currency rates. Foreign currency risk exposure does arise when there is a difference between assets and liabilities denominated in foreign JPY ........................................................................................ 33 67 61 123 currency. CHF ....................................................................................... (211) (422) (101.915) (203.829) DKK ....................................................................................... 2.308 4.615 1.577 3.155 The majority of assets of the Company are in the local currency, but some of the financial assets are denominated in foreign currency. The NOK ...................................................................................... (235) (470) (17) (34) majority of the liabilities of the Company are denominated in foreign currencies. Following table details the currencies that affect the SED ....................................................................................... (44) (88) (28) (56) operations of the Company. Rates and volatility in exhange rates are based on mid rates. USD ....................................................................................... (106.115) (212.230) (117.464) (234.927) CAD ....................................................................................... 135 271 55 111 Year‐end rate Average rate Currency 2017 2016 2017 2016 Credit risk EUR ...................................................................................... 125,05 119,13 120,54 133,78 Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. The GBP ...................................................................................... 140,98 138,91 137,45 164,27 Company monitors the credit risk development on a regular basis. JPY ....................................................................................... 0,928 0,966 0,951 1,113 CHF ...................................................................................... 107,07 110,81 108,43 122,66 Maximum credit risk Carrying amount DKK ...................................................................................... 16,80 16,02 16,20 17,97 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 NOK ..................................................................................... 12,73 13,11 12,93 14,39 SEK ...................................................................................... 12,71 12,43 12,52 14,16 Bonds and other long term assets ........................................................................................................ 225.226 260.494 USD ..................................................................................... 104,42 112,82 106,78 120,83 Accounts receivables ............................................................................................................................ 4.653.881 2.625.764 CAD ..................................................................................... 83,32 83,72 82,36 91,18 Other receivables .................................................................................................................................. 4.360.259 1.589.233 Bank balances and cash ........................................................................................................................ 3.101.287 5.830.506 12.340.652 10.305.997 Foreign currency risk 31.12.2017 Assets Liabilities Net balance The maximum risk of the Company is the carrying amount itemized above. EUR ....................................................................................................................... 2.180.470 24.863.853 (22.683.383) GBP ....................................................................................................................... 36.376 19.263 17.112 JPY ........................................................................................................................ 832 0 832 CHF ....................................................................................................................... 6.801 12.074 (5.273) DKK ....................................................................................................................... 78.037 6.871 71.166 NOK ...................................................................................................................... 1.293 7.171 (5.878) SEK ....................................................................................................................... 915 2.016 (1.101) USD ...................................................................................................................... 309.855 2.962.730 (2.652.875) CAD ...................................................................................................................... 3.385 0 3.385 Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 21 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 22 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 102 FINANCIAL POSITION 103 ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN Isavia ohf. O F I SAV I A NOTES ISK ‘000. 2017 Annual Report Notes Notes 19. Financial risk (continued) 21. Other obligations Liquidity risk management Operating license Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company has difficulties to meet its financial commitments in the near future. On a regular basis the Isavia ohf. holds a license from the Iceland Civil Aviation Administration for the operations of air navigation services under regulation No. Company monitors the liquidity balance, development and the effects of market environment. 1129/2014 and a license for the operation of airports according to regulation No. 464/2007. The Company is also a holder of flight operating license to operate aerial work (flight test etc.) according to regulation No. 97/2009. The licenses are granted for variable periods. Payable Payable between Payable Licenses for the operations of air navigation service is valid until 2021 and Keflavik Airport, Reykjavik Airport, Akureyri Airport and within 1 year 1 ‐ 4 years after 4 years Total Egilsstadir Airport are valid for an indefinite period. Registered landing area or other airports including airports for scheduled flights are Liabilities 31.12.2017 valid for an indefinite period. Non‐interest bearing ........................................................... 5.747.334 0 0 5.747.334 Floating interest rates ......................................................... 8.119.749 8.405.433 16.027.382 32.552.564 Under its operating license the Company is required to respect and meet all obligations within the range of responsibilities and the Fixed interest rates .............................................................. 103.966 388.755 693.609 1.186.330 operational area of the airport, the runways and terminal at Keflavik Airport which the Icelandic goverment has undertaken, and may 13.971.050 8.794.187 16.720.991 39.486.228 undertake. Assets 31.12.2017 Non‐interest bearing ........................................................... 9.016.248 0 0 9.016.248 In times of war, and in emergencies, the Company shall be obliged to grant the American Military Authorities, use of airport facilities at Floating interest rates ......................................................... 3.136.142 151.134 37.128 3.324.404 Keflavik Airport. The International and Security Affairs Department of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs shall be responsible for liaising 12.152.391 151.134 37.128 12.340.652 between the Company and the American Military Authorities, whether directly or indirectly. Net balance 31.12.2017 (1.818.659) (8.643.053) (16.683.863) (27.145.576) Service agreement for construction Payable Payable between Payable The service agreement between the Ministry of the Interior and the Company applies to maintenance and construction of airports others within 1 year 1 ‐ 4 years after 4 years Total than Keflavik Airport. The company works with the Ministry of the Interior and prepares a proposal for maintance and construction which Liabilities 31.12.2016 the company believes is neccessary to perform in accordance with the National Transportation Policy. The construction projects are Non‐interest bearing ........................................................... 5.978.669 0 0 5.978.669 included in this plan and are therefore agreed, according to the transportation policy. Payments are received according to a payment plan. Floating interest rates ......................................................... 1.139.714 4.732.936 17.071.243 22.943.893 In 2017 the amount for construction projects was in total ISK 246,9 million (2016: ISK 349,9 million). Fixed interest rates .............................................................. 96.475 444.889 721.225 1.262.589 Service agreements for operations 7.214.858 5.177.825 17.792.468 30.185.151 Assets 31.12.2016 On the basis of the service agreement with the Ministry of the Interior the Company provides navigation services in local airspace; Non‐interest bearing ........................................................... 4.064.867 0 0 4.064.867 operations, maintance and construction of airports and landing strips and publishes the AIP handbook. Floating interest rates ......................................................... 6.017.187 149.286 74.658 6.241.131 The Company is obliged to have in effect all legally binding insurance including liability insurance for air traffic control and airports. The 10.082.054 149.286 74.658 10.305.997 liability coverage at year‐end for air traffic control and airports amounted to USD 1.000.000.000 and for flight testing amounted to USD 1.000.000.000. Net balance 31.12.2016 2.867.196 (5.028.540) (17.717.810) (19.879.153) The Company's legally binding insurance is exempt from liability due to acts of terrorism. The Company has procured insurance against terrorism covering damage in air navigation services and airports amounting to approximately USD 250.000.000 and USD 15.000.000 at 20. Other issues Keflavik Airport. Revenues of International Air Navigation Services The Company has purchased an idemnity insurance for the Board of Directors and Management which covers a loss up to ISK 300.000.000. On the basis of a service agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, the Company offers air navigation services within the Icelandic, Greenland, and Faroese airspaces in accordance with the Icelandic Government's commitments in international agreements. For this Obligation due to employees obligation, there is a so called Joint Financing Agreement which was signed in 1956 between 13 member countries of ICAO, The The Company has insured all its employees in accordance with applicable collective agreements, except certificates of insurance for air International Civil Aviation Organization. These member countries are now 24. The users of the service pay for the service in full. traffic controllers. According to collective agreements, the Company shall at its own expense ensure certification of each controller that has VFR and/or IFR qualifications. The Company has not purchased insurance and therefore has an obligation in accordance with applicable Court Proceedings collective agreements, if loss of certifications occurs. In the year 2015 Drífa ehf. started Court proceedings against Isavia ohf. demanding compensation for alleged damages in connection with the pre‐qualification process when renting commercial space in the duty free area of Leifur Eiríksson Air Terminal. A selection committee 22. Related parties considered an offer from another bidder more advantageous. The amount of Compensation claimed is ISK 1,5 billion. Isavia ohf. is on the opinion that it acted in accordance with the pre‐qualification procedure and the lawsuit is without merit. Related parties are those parties which have considerable influence over the Company, directly or indirectly, including parent company, owners or their families, large investors, key employees and their families and parties that are controlled or dependent on the Company, i.e. affiliates and joint ventures. Isavia ohf. is a government owned private limited company and partial exemption is provided from the disclosure requirements for government‐related entities in the revised version of IAS 24. Disclosures regarding salaries for the Board of Directors and Managing Director is explained in note no. 5. Sales of goods and service to key management personnel and related parties where immaterial. 23. Approval of financial statements The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on March 15th, 2018. Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 23 All amounts are in thousands of ISK Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 24 All amounts are in thousands of ISK 104 Isavia ohf. e) f) g) a) b) c) h) d) Notes a) EBITDA/total revenue Cost of goods sold/income from retail division .................................................................................... e) Inventory/revenues Profitability From Cash flow: Liquidity ratios Activity ratios From Balance sheet: 24. Consolidated ratios c) Earnings per share (EPS) n) Net cash debt coverage ........................................................................................................................ Coverage ratios FINANCIAL POSITION Salaries and related expenses/operating revenues .............................................................................. Earnings before interests, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) .......................................... l) Shareholders equity/total assets f) Net income/average total assets Investment in inventories ..................................................................................................................... n) Cash flow from operat./Total liabilities O F I SAV I A Consolidate Financial Statements of Isavia ohf. 2017 From Statement of Comprehensive Income: i) Quick or acid‐test ratio ......................................................................................................................... Administrative expenses/operating revenues ...................................................................................... Operating expenses as percentage of revenues Contribution margin on operation ........................................................................................................ i) (Current assets ‐ inventories)/average total assets Rate of return on assets ....................................................................................................................... NOTES o) Quality of sales ..................................................................................................................................... l) Equity ratio ............................................................................................................................................ Other operating expenses/operating revenues .................................................................................... Profit margin on operating revenue ...................................................................................................... 25 j) Current ratio ......................................................................................................................................... b) Net income/total revenue o) Paid in revenue/stated revenue g) Cost of goods sold/average inventory Inventory turnover ................................................................................................................................ Depreciation and amortization/operating revenue ............................................................................. Earning per share (EPS) ........................................................................................................................ j) Current assets/current liabilities d) Net income/average equity p) Cash flow from operat./net profit m) Shareholders equity/capital stock p) Quality of net profit .............................................................................................................................. k) Net Interest Bearing Debts/EBITDA ...................................................................................................... Operating expenses/operating revenues Receivables turnover ............................................................................................................................ m) Internal value of shares ........................................................................................................................ h) Reveneus/average accounts receivables Return on equity ................................................................................................................................... 9.853.236 2017 2017 25,95% 2017 15,39% 44,09% 42,74% 0,01 10,40% 1,65% 0,08 0,88 31.12.2017 12,93% 0,58 0,71 8,77% 0,80 0,92 10,96 82,82% 0,76 5,55 3,11 10,43 13,60% 8.856.519 2016 2016 26,83% 2016 16,51% 42,00% 0,02 20,97% All amounts are in thousands of ISK 2,22% 0,19 45,68% 1,42 31.12.2016 12,44% 0,63 1,24 7,68% 0,89 1,49 11,20 80,85% 1,13 4,84 2,03 15,50 29,34% Notes 25. Segment reporting Segment information are disclosed on basis of organizational structure and internal management information. Segments are divided on basis of three operational components from the parent company and one subsidiary. Majority of Air navigation component consists of service to carriers granted on basis of the Joint Finance Agreement. Domestic systems are operation of airports and airport control towers for domestic flights. Keflavik airport are operation of airport and control tower in Keflavik in addition to Leifur Eiriksson Air Terminal. The Duty Free is a retail business and Others consists of support units of the parent company and two subsidiaries. One client has revenues that comprise more than 10% of the consolidation revenue, that is Icelandair Group ISK 5.964 million or about 18.1% of the consolidate operating revenues. Comprehensive income from Domestic airports is to a large extent based on a service agreement between the government and Isavia ohf. The operating profit in this segment reporting does not take into account the cost of capital from what Isavia has invested in non current assets that are used for the Domestic airports operation. From the year 2011 the aggregated operating profit before financial income and expenses has been ISK 28,7 million while Isavia estimated aggregated cost of capital because of these investments are about ISK 281,6 million. Therefore operating profit from the operation of the Domestic Airports in the years of 2011 – 2017 is considerably too low to cover the cost of capital from the investments in the current assets. Segment information year 2017 AirDomestic Keflavik Duty Free ALL AMOUNTS ARE IN navigation Airports Airport Store Others Eliminations Consolidated Revenue: External revenue ............................................................................ 6.766.500 2.391.179 16.305.631 12.256.870 254.114 37.974.293 Inter-segment revenue ................................................................... 735.691 66.061 4.255.892 0 655.589 (5.713.232) 0 Total revenue ................................................................................. 7.502.190 2.457.240 20.561.523 12.256.870 909.703 (5.713.232) 37.974.293 ISK ‘000. Comprehensive income: Operating profit .............................................................................. 608.307 104.233 5.745.106 241.244 (16.058) (159.692) 6.523.140 Net financial income / (expenses) ................................................... (1.606.816) Profit before taxes ......................................................................... 4.916.324 Total comprehensive income ......................................................... 3.948.586 Balance sheet: Non-current assets ......................................................................... 3.894.852 1.226.600 52.686.490 412.152 2.037.157 (564.293) 59.692.959 Other assets unallocated to segments ............................................ 12.855.335 Total assets .................................................................................... 72.548.293 Total liabilities ................................................................................. 41.542.814 Other information: Capital additions ............................................................................ 586.158 411.516 13.055.694 157.419 385.252 14.596.038 Depreciation and amortization ........................................................ 307.669 91.221 2.780.835 95.834 54.537 3.330.096 Segment information year 2016 AirDomestic Keflavik Duty Free navigation Airports Airport Store Others Eliminations Consolidated Revenue: External revenue ............................................................................ 5.796.641 2.150.209 13.309.093 11.410.034 342.341 33.008.318 Inter-segment revenue ................................................................... 605.194 42.399 3.812.414 0 655.822 (5.115.829) 0 Total revenue ................................................................................. 6.401.835 2.192.609 17.121.507 11.410.034 998.162 (5.115.829) 33.008.318 Comprehensive income: Operating profit .............................................................................. 578.533 24.772 5.327.352 319.051 72.296 6.322.003 Net financial income / (expenses) ................................................... 2.303.887 Profit before taxes ......................................................................... 8.625.890 Total comprehensive income ......................................................... 6.922.830 Balance sheet: Non-current assets ......................................................................... 3.652.045 906.997 42.839.059 350.568 1.281.920 (564.293) 48.466.297 Other assets unallocated to segments ............................................ 10.762.737 Total assets .................................................................................... 59.229.033 Total liabilities ................................................................................. 32.172.170 Other information: Capital additions ............................................................................ 764.048 125.869 12.464.160 102.310 375.728 13.832.115 2017 Annual Report Depreciation and amortization ........................................................ 263.338 79.256 2.052.082 94.465 45.374 2.534.516 105 Isavia —— 424 4000 — isavia@isavia.is — isavia.is
