United Nations Global Compact Report 2017 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Communication on progress WELCOME TO KOHBERG 3 LIST OF CONTENT 3 WELCOME TO KOHBERG 4 KOHBERG MISSION & SET OF VALUES 6 THE STORY OF KOHBERG 8 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME 11 SELF-ASSESSMENT ACCORDING TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES 13 HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR RIGHTS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 14 16 EMPLOYEES SAFETY WELCOME TO KOHBERG 18 PRODUCT Kohberg Bakery Group is among the 20 biggest food producing compa20 SUPPLY CHAIN nies in Denmark – and the largest Danish owned bakery. Almost 100 23 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE % of all consumers in Denmark know our brand, our bread is present in 24 SOURCING most Danish households, and every day around 550 people are doing 24 PRODUCTION their best to make sure we bake first quality bread. We consider that a 25 DISTRIBUTION serious obligation – and we are humble about this position. 26 OUTCOMES During recent years, our export activities are heavily increasing especially in Norway, Sweden, Germany, and the US – and thus more consumers and buyers from the rest of the world get to know the taste of Kohberg these years. People, health, environment and climate are focus areas. Both as a natural consequence of the above and of the fact that we are a part of UN Global Compact. In the coming years we will invest even more in initiatives that will improve food safety, working environment and reduce our impact on environment and climate. 1% 100 % 100 % In 2017 our focus was specifically on people and health, environment and climate. In this report, we communicate the progress of our targets substainable of our flour and grain and our plans for the years to come. We welcome your comments and Palm Oil perspectives on our work – and we will do our utmost to live up to of our EBT dedicated are grown without the essence of our brand promise: “Kohberg bager for dig”. (Kohberg glyphosate and to People & Health is baking for you). This brand holds a strong focus on people – both BRC straw-shortening employees and consumers and our surrounding world. Colleagues engagement Food Bolderslev, March 2018 83 % Certi­ Peder Christensen answered ficate CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group A/S A decrease in No 1 Job satisfaction emission of greenand loyalty house gasses by 20 % per kg 79 % Danish owned bakery finished product produced before 2020 71 % of our bread were co-distributed 4 KOHBERG MISSION & SET OF VALUES KOHBERG MISSION & SET OF VALUES 5 KOHBERG MISSION & SET OF VALUES We have it as our common goal, at all ATTENTIVE times, to bake the best bread to the Based on mutual trust and respect and a Danes. And we have set clear frames high degree of involvement of employees for ourselves, our business and set up and management in all aspects, we will be a mission. Further, we have a set of better when acting as one incorporated whole values which we would like to share towards our customers! with our customers. RESPONSIBLE MISSION We are a socially responsible organisation and We have a passion for bread, we prioritize the we demonstrate due care towards customers, good taste of bread and we make the experisuppliers and other stakeholders. We keep our ence of fresh bread easier for you – regardless bargains and take ownership for our products of where you do your shopping or enjoy our and actions. And we take pride that our credibread. bility must never be questioned! SET OF VALUES TEAM PLAYERS Our set of values is the DNA of our company We make good results by working together in and the backbone of everything we say and teams across our organisation, utilizing the do and we are happy to defend our five core differences of our skilled colleagues to reach values: the goals set. CODE OF CONDUCT IMPASSIONED ADAPTABLE Our Code of Conduct is an important part of our overall company values. Our values are further developed and interpreted into a Passion for quality bread is the driver of In a market in constant development, we are manage­ment behaviour and employee behaviour document. Basically, our Code of Conduct document is based on the ten principles our business. We want to win and we are forward-looking and adaptable. of the UN Global Compact. ambitious and try harder to bake the bread preferred by Danes. We are highly engaged in This goes for both our organisation as a whole Our Code of Conduct is about human rights. We oppose the violation of internationally proclaimed human rights and we oblige both developing our bread with a focus on health, and each of the employees. We are open and ourselves and our suppliers to comply with local laws and standards. Furthermore, our Code of Conduct includes numerous requirements great ingredients and good taste. We have a curious to taking new ways and do our best to for worker rights. Our Code of Conduct must also ensure that both we and our suppliers act responsibly in relation to the environment. distinct professional pride – we never comproconstantly improve. This also applies for the work environment. Finally, our Code of Conduct commits our suppliers to discourage all forms of corruption. mise on quality. We want to be proud of each Kohberg recognizes the importance of ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour rights’ and ‘Anti-corruption’ and will take any necessary precautions to and every product we make and action we sustain the high performance regarding these principles. take, in relation to both internal and external customers. 6 THE STORY OF KOHBERG THE STORY OF KOHBERG 7 THE STORY OF KOHBERG It all began in 1969 when Alfred Kohberg, the local rye bread With higher sales and new bread on the shelf, time had come for champion, opened his craft bakery in Rødekro in Southern Kohberg to expand from South Jutland., Kohberg had years ago started Jutland. As the good reputation spread, Alfred Kohberg a cooperation with HC Andersen Bagergården in Haderslev, which was moved the bakery to the nearby city of Bolderslev, where he now a part of Kohberg, and we also took over Trianonbageriet, which is today our large bakery in Taastrup. Also the bakery Møllens Brød laid the founding stone for the Kohberg you know today. And became a part of Kohberg and Kohberg grew to be able to bake for all it is still here, at the same address, we bake for you today. Danes – and even our neighbours in Germany and Scandinavia. Twenty years later, Alfred Kohberg’s bakery was a growing success Soon the professional market, hotels, restaurants and professional – and the time had come to strengthen and prepare the company for canteens began to demand our products, especially pre-baked pastry, a future with growing competition; Alfred Kohberg decided to sell and seizing the opportunity, we opened a new production plant in Kohberg to Preben and Inga Fogtmann, whom he was certain would 2001, where we bake everything from traditional “spandauer” and have the ability and the will to drive Kohberg even further and cinnamon buns to braided pastry bars. In 2006, we opened a brand continue with his concept of baking good bread for the Danes. new and modern rye bread bakery. After many years of baking solely rye bread, Kohberg expanded its Today, Kohberg Bakery Group A/S comprises three bakeries with business in 1994; we wanted to bake for any occasion in Danish famimore than 550 employees in Bolderslev, Taastrup and H. C Andersen lies’ lives – every day needs as well as special occasions. Therefore, we Bagergården in Haderslev. This makes us the largest Danish owned added wheat bread and especially the soft and delicious buns to our bakery. product range. 8 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME 9 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL PEOPLE & HEALTH To ensure a high performance in relation to ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE When it comes to environment and climate, potential (GWP) of other greenhouse gasses on a 100-year time horizon as provided in the RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME the people and health focus area, Kohberg has we focus on three separate areas; sourcing, fourth assessment report by IPCC (2013). decided to support people and health projects production and distribution practices. Our To reduce the environmental impact from our At Kohberg, we have built our corporate social responsibility (CSR) prowith at least 1 % of our EBT result per year. main environmental target is to decrease distribution, we sustain our goal of having at gramme based on two focus areas, in accordance with the 10 principles In recent years, we have more than fulfilled emission of greenhouse gasses by 20 % per least 50 % one truck stops at customer sites in the UN Global Compact. this – and in 2017, we did too. The number for kilo finished product produced before 2020 for all fresh bread in Denmark (co-distribu2017 seems considerably lower than previous compared to 2009 as the year of reference. tion). In relation to sourcing, 100 % of flour These are: years, however, some of the difference is due The emissions of greenhouse gasses will be and other grain-based ingredients used in our to the fact that the estimated result is consid­ measured as the total annual emission of bakeries must be from grain grown without People and Health glyphosate and straw-shortening. erably higher in 2017 compared to 2016 – an CO2-equivalents (CO2eq) from consumption Environment and Climate increase of 17m DKK which has a negative of fuels (scope 1) and electricity from the effect. national grid (scope 2) for our three bakeries We define and specify our commitments in table 1. in Bolderslev, Haderslev and Taastrup, respec­ Furthermore, we spent 900,000 DKK less in tively, as well as our cold store in Haderslev education etc. in 2017 compared to the year and depot in Soeften. before. Primarily as we in 2016 implemented a major leadership education which resulted in The scopes included have been defined based essentially higher educational costs in 2016. on the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (2004) as illustrated in Figure 1. By selecting CO2eq as measure, we correct for the global warming Outcomes Target 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 People & health People and health: We will use at least 2.3 % 2.5 % 22.4 % 16.8 % 6.0 % 14.2 % 15.0 % 13.7 % b 1,52 % 1 % of our EBT a Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Target result per year on achieved sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained people and health projects. Sourcing: 100 % of our flour and SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 other grain-based 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % ingredients must be Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Target achieved sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained from grain grown without glyphosate and straw-shortening. Fuel consumption Electricity Waste Environment and Climate and heating Production: Reduce our total Our own and Purchased materials Target set Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction leased vehicles emissions of CO2eq by (reference of 3.6 % of 15.9 % of 27.0 % of 19.5 % of 24.2 % of 39.6 % of 18,5 % of 27,8 % 20 % per kg finished year) On target On target Target On target Target Target Target Target Figure 1: Illustrated scope for calculation of product produced temp. achieved sustained sustained sustained Outsourcing before 2020 compared achieved to 2009 as reference year. Use of product Distribution: Ensure one truck stop 32 % 70 % 75 % 69 % 69 % 70 % 67 % 68 % 71 % CO2eq/kg finished product. for 50 % of all our fresh Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Target Employee transport bread products in achieved sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained sustained Denmark through co-distribution. Cargo transport services Table 1: Focus areas, targets and outcomes. a EBT = Earnings Before Tax. b Estimated based on the expected financial result for 2016. 10 SELF-ASSESSMENT KOHBERG MISSION &ACCORDING SET OF VALUES TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES SELF-ASSESSMENT ACCORDING TO THE TEN PRINCIPLESE 11 SELF-ASSESSMENT ACCORDING TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OUR PRIORITIES ‘low risk countries’. Although we have committed us to and are actively In previous years, we have used the Global Compact Self-­ working with reducing our environmental and climate impacts, and assessment tool from 2010 to do our self-assessment – and thus, consider our performance as primarily ‘green’ in this area, we for the 2017 report, we have followed the same guidance1. still recognize our environmental responsibility and believe this should continue to be one of our main focus area in the future. The overview of focus areas, targets and outcomes can be found in table 2. It should, however, be noted that the self-assessment tool and the information provided by it is only intended as a general guide to the All areas within ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour’ and ‘Anti-corruption’ were issues covered, and thus, is based on a qualitative assessment with assessed as ‘satisfactory performance’ based on the fact, that they answers from individual persons responsible for the respective areas are covered by both our ‘Code of Conduct’ as well as the legislation in at Kohberg and thus only provides an indication of the performance. In practice, this means that yellow, or maybe even red, can still indicate a good performance compared to other companies. Topic Status Comments Health and safety Hours, wages and leave Human rights Fair treatment Covered by legislation Community impacts and our Code of Conduct Product stewardship Country risk Suppliers Trade unions Forced labour Lahour Covered by legislation Child labour and our Code of Conduct Non-discrimination Suppliers Compliance and Environment management Focus through our Code of Precaution Conduct as well as our Responsibility and F/A sourcing, production and performance distribution practices Technology Anti-corruption Anti-corruption environment Covered by legislation Policy and procedures and our Code of Conduct Third Parties Joint Actions Table 2: Business potential and relevance assessment In Table 2, green indicates a satisfactory level of performance with limited risk and potential for improvement, yellow indicates principles where practices can be enhanced and red indicates the principles where focus should be emphasized for improving our performance. 1) http://www.globalcompactselfassessment.org/aboutthistool/termsofuse 12 HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR RIGHTS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR RIGHTS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 13 HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR RIGHTS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION We work actively with sustaining and In the following, we will account for the improving our performance in rela­ actions taken to archive and sustain our tion to the seven principles for human people and health target, as specified earlier rights, labour rights and the fight in our CSR programme (see Table 1), as well as our commitment to the related principles against corruption: in the UN Global Compact (principle 1-6 and 10). The main target is to support people and Principle 1:  Businesses should support and respect the protection health projects with a minimum of 1 % of our of internationally proclaimed EBT result per year to achieve an even higher human rights. responsibility than ensured by our Code of Principle 2:  Businesses should make Conduct as well as national legislation as sure they are not complicit in specified in Table 2. As a result, we have human rights abuses. decided to group the actions taken in Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold accordance with the structure of Figure 1. the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 1 2 forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Employees Products Principle 6:  Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 10:  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 3 bribery. Supply chain Figure 2: Focus areas in relation to People and Health 14 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 15 51 EMPLOYEES HEALTH/JOB SATISFACTION MEASUREMENT All of the 562 employees at Kohberg were invited to participate in the job satisfaction measurement we made in 2017. We consider this measurement to be an important tool for our work, and we are very pleased to see 83 % of our employees participate in the survey. We measured two overall areas – job satisfaction and loyalty. Regard­ HENNING WORKS FOR TWO ing loyalty, Kohberg achieved a high score of 79 and the score on job satisfaction was 72. We are striving to improve this result and have an HOURS THREE TIMES A WEEK ambition of reaching a score of 74 on job satisfaction when we have Through a long course of a illness, Henning EMPLOYEES our next measurement in 2018. ­Johansen has maintained his connection to ­Kohberg. The job satisfaction measurement includes 8 focus areas, among these In a close co-operation with the bakery, they have reputation, management – both top management and immediate found a solution where he is helping out in the warehouse as far as his health allows. ­superior – co-operation, working conditions as well as education and development. Each manager has subsequently received a report with FINISHED AN IKUF COURSE IN 2017 the score for his or her responsibility area, and in order for them to be I am most grateful for the help and support I have received able to work actively with the job satisfaction measurement, we have from Kohberg during my disase – and in my present job. held three workshops for all managers. Here they have been intro­ duced to how to be working on actual action plans together with their Henning Johansen, who is 55 years old, has been working in teams to further improve the job satisfaction of their employees. the Kohberg warehouse for 24 years. He has always loved his job but was afraid to lose it when he was affected by among We are very much looking forward to seeing the results of this work in other things a slipped disc and degenerative joint disease connection with the job satisfaction measurement in 2018. which further lead to stress and a depression. DEVELOPMENT/EDUCATION In 2017, 51 employees finished an IKUF course, corresponding to ­ STAFF RETENTION Henning was absent owing to illness for more than two years A focus area in 2017 has been to incite even more of our employees to 11 % of our target group. We strive to see an increase in the number At Kohberg we believe that happy employees are key to our company’s whereafter he, in a close co-operation between Kohberg and begin an education or a continuing education. Well-educated employees of completed courses by five per cent in 2018, in 2019 and in 2020. success and one of our focus areas is therefore staff retention – also of the public employment service, was given the opportunity to help Kohberg attain our strategic goals but our focus is also caused employees with health problems. try out his ability to work. He has now returned to Kohberg by the fact that we know the value of happy employees who get an Apprenticeships are a natural part of the working day at Kohberg. We in a so-called ‘flexjob’, meaning that he today works for two opportunity for self-development. An upgrading of qualification will have at present four apprentices as automatic technicians and four as Every fifth Dane experiences psychical problems like e.g. stress to an hours, only three days a week. further help us in connection with internal recruiting. process operators. We have entered into a co-operation with Danfoss extent which will influence on his/her job, so a survey published by the in Graasten to have an exchange of apprentices. Thereby, the young Danish pension fund, PFA in February 2018. This means that Kohberg During his entire course of an illness he was supported by Through IKUF – a foundation for upgrading of qualification by among persons will get even better opportunities to develop both profes­ will also have employees who for various reasons are stressed. As we Kohberg and his superiors. others The Confederation of Danish Industry – all employees are given sionally and personally and to improve their qualifications during their are aware of the value of helping and retaining our employees, we (in the opportunity of having two weeks of education of their own choice apprenticeship. co-operation with an external consultant) offer individual courses for I cannot do my job as a warehouseman any more but I can every year. We have a monthly meeting with a consultant from the employees who need extra help to overcome their stress. help in cleaning up where needed and I hand out the daily educational institution IBC and together with him and our trade union mail. I know everyone in the bakery, and they know me – representative we have prepared a catalogue with a number of courses Further to this, our employees are covered by a health insurance which and this arrangement works for all parties, says Henning for our employees to attend, based on their own interests and wishes. among others includes a number of treatments and operations, and Johansen. For instance, our unskilled employees can take a course in order to be we keep focus on employees with a reduced ability to work. In close industrial operators via IKUF. co-operation with the public employment service we offer company ­internship programs to such employees to help them try out their ability to work and to help them gradually return to their working life. Hereby, Kohberg takes responsibility for our own employees and also takes a social responsibility as we also offer company internship programs to non-employees. 16 SAFETY SAFETY 17 SAFETY SAFETY IS IMPORTANT meetings – whether they are board meetings 116 near misses were registered in 2017 Safety is an important topic at Kohberg in the production or the weekly meeting for which is the same as for the year before. – and thus also in 2017. We go through all production managers. Already 38 near misses have been reported every inch of the bakery to avoid during the first two months of 2018. The 40 employees of the working environaccidents and ensure the best possible ment organisation have been attending The tendency of an increasing number of near conditions for our employees. several courses concerning legislation and misses indicates that the entire organisaticommunication and we are at present accomon is observant in connection with adverse A number of initiatives has put focus on plishing a total screening of the bakery in incidents and that everybody wants trans­ safety at Kohberg in 2017. Both management, relation to safety and risk areas. We want the parency. By registrating as many near misses the working environment organisation and safety at Kohberg to be ahead of legislation. as possible, these incidents are highlighted all employees are in the middle of a cultural and we will hopefully avoid repetitions. change where safety is not a mere chore The initiatives have led to an increased focus but a focus point for the sake of everybody. on registration of near misses. Therefore, safety is first on the agenda at all COVERING THE BLUE LIGHT ON TRUCKS PREVENTS ACCIDENTS COOLING BELT The bakery trucks have been fitted Kohberg is constantly working to separate with lights which light up the ground ­pedestrians and vehicles in the bakery and No employee will risk having his or her two trucks were fitted with Blue Light in 4-5 meters in front of the vehicle. fingers jammed in the CapWay belt in October 2017. The experiences are very good BEFORE ­Pedestrians are thereby warned that the bakery. The long conveyor, winding and the bakery plans to have the safety light the truck is approaching and this will its way through the bakery has been fitted on all trucks. avoid collisions. covered. Blue Light prevents accidents in the bakery When a blue cone of light is sweeping over When the bread leaves the hot ovens, it is and takes off the pressure of the driver who the bakery floor the staff knows that a taken out of the form and placed on the has previously been afraid to collide with his truck will approach 4-5 meters behind the CapWay belt – a very long conveyor, running or her walking colleagues. light. Blue Light is thus a safety precaution through the entire bakery. The bread cools ensuring that pedestrians are not surprised down here, before it is packed and sent to the by a truck and thus minimizing the risk of frost storage. collisions. The cooling belt has changed its appearance An advantage of the blue cone of light is after a safety assessment of the bakery. that the light is seen before the truck moves To make sure that nothing is caught by the around a corner. The cone of light points wire mesh of the belt, it has been covered by to the driving direction of the truck and spe­cial fittings. For now, the belt has been ­pedestrians are therefore also warned if they covered all places where it runs close to are behind a reversing truck. employees and over time, the entire belt will AFTER be covered. Kohberg has thus eliminated the risk of jammed fingers and the working place has become even more safe. 18 PRODUCT PRODUCT 19 PRODUCT FOOD SAFETY AND CERTIFICATES THE DANISH WHOLE GRAIN HEALTHIER FOOD COELIAC DISEASE In 2017 Kohberg received for the first PARTNERSHIP – A SUCCESS STORY – THE KEYHOLE INITIATIVE – WITHOUT GLUTEN AND WHEAT time the BRC Food Certificate of the Kohberg is an active partner in the With the ‘keyhole symbol’2 Kohberg At Kohberg, we want to bake to everyBritish Retail Consortium used by food efforts of the Danish Whole Grain helps consumers identify healthier body – also persons who do not tolerate manufacturers exporting to Great Partnership to promote public health, food products within a product group. normal bread. Therefore, a number of Britain and the rest of the world. encouraging Danes to increase their our products are baked without gluten consumption of whole grains. Choos­ Kohberg is working actively with increasing and wheat and are labelled with the BRC Food Certificate is considered one of the ing whole grains is one of the official the number of products labelled with the logo of the Danish Celiac Society. certificates with the highest demands on food ‘keyhole symbol’ which is a label identifying dietary guidelines. manufacturers concerning both management, healthier food products within a product Around 50,000 Danes are suffering from the Danish Whole Grain Partnership group. product safety, hygiene, maintenance and For a number of years, we have, together with coeliac disease and they do therefore not education of staff. health organisations, the Danish Veterinary have been successful in encour­ tolerate gluten and wheat. In 2017, Kohberg In 2017, most of our branded product range and Food Administration and food companies, aging Danes to increase their introduced the series ‘GlutenFRI’ (without The overall goal of the BRC Food Certificate in the retail market was labelled with the gluten) to foodservice market. Further to focused on encouraging Danes to increase consumption of whole grains. keyhole and whole grain label. Also in our is to ensure the health of the consumers and their consumption of whole grains. being gluten free, bread and cakes are baked through our co-operation with BRC we have In less than 10 years, we have products intended foodservice, such as sandwithout wheat and lactose. The label from the wich bread and burger buns, we continuously been going through and described all our Each of us contributes with our own succeeded in doubling the Danes’ Danish Celiac Society shows our consumers procedures and work processes. focus on supplying healthy alternatives with that Kohberg is serious about product safety. s­tre­ngths and competencies. Together, we whole grain intake. I am unaware the two labels. have achieved unique results that we could One of the focus areas of BRC is food safety not have reached on our own. Since the found­ of any similar prevention initia­ DANISH CELIAC SOCIETY and we have carried on this focus in a food ing of the Danish Whole Grain Partnership tive in the world that has been as The safety requirements for our gluten free safety plan where we in 2017 and in 2018 will in 2007, a total of 800 products have been products are extremely high, as even a tiny bit successful as this partnership, invest in equipment to increase both safety developed that meet the requirements for of flour dust or crumbs can cause illness with and hygiene. displaying the whole grain logo and Danes eat Gitte Laub Hansen, Project Manager persons with coeliac disease. Kohberg’s gluten in average 63 grams of whole grains per day. at the Danish Cancer Society. free products are therefore produced in a 100 The plan is among other things to replace our % gluten free bakery in Ireland. In this way, metal detectors with x-ray equipment. This Kohberg continuously introduces new and we make sure that everybody with coeliac means that we will x-ray our products to find healthier products with the campaign label disease can eat these products without a fear foreign objects which have been added to the to promote healthier consumer choices. The of getting sick3. bread via the ingredients – e.g. pebbles which label guarantees that a product contains a are not discovered by a metal detector. high percentage of whole grain and also has a healthy nutritional profile in terms of fat, By end 2017 we have x-ray devices on sugar, salt, and fibre. two rye bread lines – and we already see a decrease in customer complaints. We plan to 27 of our products are labelled with the implement x-ray on all lines and in 2018 we whole grain label and whenever we launch will also work on a hygiene plan with focus on new prod­ucts in the future we will consider the indoor environment. By using sophisti­ whether the product is suitable for containing cated filters, we will keep the air in the bakery a high percentage of whole grain and thus even cleaner, thus increasing the shelf life of meeting the criteria of the whole grain label. our products. 2) http://www.noeglehullet.dk/services/English/forside.htm 3) https://www.coeliaki.dk/dk/annoncering-samarbejde/ 20 SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN 21 100 % SUBSTAINABLE PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN THE END OF CONVENTIONAL PALM OIL SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Kohberg has almost no suppliers located in high risk countries. For Kohberg uses solely certified segreSegregated (SG) palm oil is certified all the An acceptance of our Code of Conduct is an integrated part instance, less than 5 % of our purchases of ingredients are coming from gated palm oil and all of our bakeries way through the supply chain. Two of our have phased out conventional palm oil. ­bakeries have been certified since 2014, and of our commercial agreement with our suppliers of raw and outside Europe. As a result, human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption are mainly covered by local laws and regula­tions. as from 2017 this goes for our entire produc­ packaging materials; today we already ensure this in our This also applies for our bakeries and the transport providers used. In Through our Code of Conduct Kohberg has tion. This certification is specifically demand­ supplier approval documentation. any case, we ensure that our company always, as a minimum, fulfils a focus on what takes place further down ed by the market and since this level also the Danish legislation concerning human and labour rights. We are our supply chain. One of our focus areas is allows for a stable delivery of palm oil to the Although Kohberg does not perform audits to confirm that our furthermore against all forms of corruption and do not accept the use palm oil and from having used around 20 production, we have chosen this. We are of suppliers are actively living up to these standards, we do perform of it. % segregated certified palm oil (SG) in 2016 course able to produce 100 % without palm oil audits to ensure product quality and food safety, when necessary. we have increased our effort to using 100 if our customers require this. The main reason for not auditing our suppliers according to our Code of Conduct is that the majority of the ingredients used in our production % segregated (SG) palm oil in our production in 2017. We are proud of this effort and will We also use solely segregated oil elsewhere are bought from suppliers located in Europe with the largest supplier continue this work. in production – among other things for our located in Denmark. cutting oil and belt oil. These initiatives were Kohberg Bakery Group A/S became an also implemented during 2017. ordi­nary member of the ‘Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil’ (RSPO) initiative on Learn more about Kohberg and RSPO: https:// 4 December 2012 and since then we have www.rspo.org/members/1904/Kohberg-Bakworked on replacing our consumption of ery-Group-AS conventional palm oil by RSPO certified palm oil. We succeeded 100 % in 2017. 22 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE 23 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE We work actively with improving our We have assessed our performance in environmental performance in relation accordance with the four areas specified in to the three principles in the UN Global the self-assessment tool provided by the UN Compact: Global Compact Initiative from 2010. The areas can be seen in Table 2 and comprise: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 1) Compliance and management environmental challenges. 2) Precaution Principle 8: undertake initiatives to pro3) Responsibility and performance mote greater environmental 4) Technology responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development In accordance with the principles in the UN and diffusion of environmenGlobal Compact, the environmental criteria tally friendly technologies. included in our Code of Conduct are: 1) The supplier is obliged to comply with local laws and standards related to environmental issues. 2) The supplier is committed to proactively take necessary precautions and take necessary initiatives to minimize adverse environmental impacts of its activities. 24 SOURCIN G& PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION25 PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION Overall, we have over the recent years built up a production LESS EMPTY LORRIES system with less energy consumption. This counts for both Co-distribution with other bread manufacturers have over I 2017 we invested in new refrigeration our production facilities in Bolderslev, Taastrup and Haderslev. the years been a focus area for us and an initiative we have equipment to reduce the energy taken to reduce our use of diesel etc. to reduce the environAs part of our target of reducing our total emissions of CO2eq by 20 % mental impact of too many lorries on the roads. consumption used per cooling unit in per kilogram finished product produced before 2020 compared to 2009, our bakery in Haderslev. This enables we have focused on decreasing the energy used in the making of the In 2017 we went new ways and began co-distribution with other types us to phase out the use of freon and rebread. And we have reached our targets. of producers and companies. It is our goal that our lorries will not just place it with CO2. The motor in the cooling carry air when we deliver our bread, and we will continue with this REDUCING WASTE work over the years to come. We have further worked to reduce our compressor reduces the energy In previous years, we have identified the potential in waste reduc­ stop prices as these are clear indicators on reducing our consumption consumption by 4 % compared to the tions and in 2017 this has also been one of our focus areas – when we of time and diesel. We are evaluating the routes to take to avoid extra reduce our waste we also reduce our use of energy. Even if this target previous motor. In our bakery in kilometers and we have reduced the number of lorries and fill them to is not currently part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the extent possible. In every possible way, we are trying to bring the Bolderslev we have replaced a motor in a Communication of Progress, we still feel that it is important to mention sales as close to the production as possible. central cooling unit, which also reduces it in the report. our use of energy in the unit. For just one supplier of diesel for transports we have reduced our We strive to minimize our generation of wastewater discharges and consumption by 26,000 litres, corresponding to 6 % of our entire conwaste in all forms. When we reduce the amount of technical waste and sumption. Our total reduction in 2017 is 4.2 %, cf. table 3, and it is our discardings it leads to a reduced consumption of raw materials, elec­ goal to reduce it by further 10 % in 2018. tricity and energy in general. For 2018 we aim for further reductions. 71 % of our fresh bread was co-distributed in 2017 and this is an The environmental initiatives and activities have primarily been interincrease of 3 % compared to 2016. nally focused, due to the relatively high energy consumption required for bread-making (Nordic Ecolabelling, 2013). Our suppliers are, however, taken into account by including environmental criteria as part of SOURCING our Code of Conduct; all our suppliers are required to comply with and have agreed on the terms, including the environmental criteria. A PRINCIPLE OF SUBSIDIARITY INGREDIENTS Our general view on sourcing is based on a principle of All our flour is certificated and free from glyphosate and straw shorten­ subsidiarity. We like to be close to our suppliers, also in terms ing remedy and it is grown on fields that are not utilizing sludge from of geography. Over the past years, we have reduced the cities. We require of our suppliers that rye and wheat are not sprayed number of suppliers with up to 15 % to make sure we have with herbicides containing glyphosate. 106 a close connection with the suppliers we trade with. At the We believe that the policy benefits the environment and ensures a same time this enables us to reduce the numberr of lorries 104 healthy product for our customers and consumers. In any case, the on the roads. products will comply with the Danish and European legislation. 102 When it comes to rye, we only buy Danish rye – by doing so we meet LOGISTICS Index, basis = week 1 market demands and at the same time it secures that we do not use As part of our purchasing practice, we aim at consolidating our supplier 100 unnecessary transport of the ingredient, we use the most of. portfolio to create better relations and optimize our logistics processes. This allows for full shipments to the extent possible and generally 98 increases the fill rate of trucks thereby saving emissions from transportation. We have sustained our target to mainly use Danish grown rye 96 which reduces the requirement for transportation to a minimum from an environmental (CO2eq) perspective 94 92 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 Weeks in 2017 Table 3: Development in our cost per stop in 2017 – reduced prices also indicates reduced consumption of time and diesel 26 OUTCOMES AND REFERENCES KOHBERGENVIRONMENT MISSION & SET OF & CLIMATE VALUES 27 OUTCOMES MEETING OUR TARGETS – REACHING OUT FOR NEW GOALS We have managed to achieve and sustain all targets – even before planned. That is a result of a dedicated effort to achieve our goals during recent years. We have a taken a number of actions in relation to people & health, environment & climate. During the year, we have managed to sustain our target of using at least 1 % of our EBT result per year on people and health projects. As highlighted in the “Human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption” section, we have taken a number of actions in relation to employee health, safety and development to ensure continuous progress in this area. Steps have also been taken to ensure better social responsibility in our supply chain from “high risk ingredients” that are embedded in the ingredients we purchase, and in 2017 we managed to secure that 100 % of the palm oil we use is segregrated palm oil. In the environmental and climate area, we have managed to sustain our target of using flour and other grain-based ingredients that are grown without the use of glyphosate and straw-shortening. We have also maintained our achievements on reducing our total emissions of CO2eq. by 20 % per kg finished product. FUTURE PERSPECTIVES Kohberg has been part of the UN Global Compact for almost 10 years by now and the targets we defined from the beginning have been fulfilled as described in this progress report for 2017. With 2017, we therefore draw a line for the targets set in the past. It is time to set new targets, see new ambitions and reach for new stars when it comes to people & health, environment & climate. In 2018, we will set new targets when it comes to living up to the ten principles of UN Global Compact. We look forward to reporting on our new initiatives in 2019. REFERENCES · DEFRA, 2014: UK statement on sustainable palm oil – 2 year on progress report, Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs, London. · IPCC, 2013: Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K. Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M. Midgley (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA, 1535 pp. · Nordic Ecolabelling, 2013: About Nordic Ecolabelled Bakeries and Bread: Background to ecolabelling. Consultation version 1.0, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. · The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), 2004: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Conches-Geneva and World Resource Institute (WRI), Washington. Kohberg Bakery Group A/S, Foodservice, Sverigesvej 3, DK-6100 Haderslev +45 73 64 64 00, Foodservice@kohberg.com, kohberg.com
