COP 2018 Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that African Skies Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Heckie Horn Managing Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. African Skies Limited confirms its support of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The company also updated its policies during the past year in order to ensure that Human Rights principles were included. Management is continuously made aware of Human Rights related risks and ensures that proactive actions are taken and best practice applied. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. During the past year, continuous retraining was presented to all supervisors in the company to empower them to handle Human Rights issues in an effective and professional manner. A grievance box system is still operational to serve all African Skies employees at their different places of work. The Normandy Company , a Ugandan registered labour company, is handling all labour related issues. The company employs professionals that assist with Human Rights issues, should they occur. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No violations of Human Rights were reported during the last 12 months. Senior Management continuously monitors results in order to implement corrective action when necessary. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The Normandy Company a Uganda registered labour company is handling all African Skies' labour related issues that cannot be resolved internally. The company has a wide range of professionals in service who can address labour related issues, should they occur. Before employment, employees sign a contract in which all labour related issues, including remuneration, rights and responsibilities, benefits and insurance are clearly laid out. African Skies Limited management regularly provides training to leadership and personnel on labor policy and practice. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. A grievance box system is operational within African Skies and serve all African Skies employees at their different places of work. African Skies Limited liaise with The Normandy Company an independent Uganda registered labour company on a daily basis concerning labour related issues. Monthly “Workers Forum” meetings are held with all employees where any labour related aspects can be discussed. If management cannot resolve any of the matters that are raised, professional assistance is requested from the Normandy Company. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Appointments are done with careful consideration of the diversity, (especially tribal diversity) of the Ugandan population. The Normandy Labour Company plays an important role to ensure that all ethnic groups and genders get equal opportunities during the recruitment and appointment process. All labour related issues are handled by an independent legal team from the Normandy Company. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. African Skies Limited adheres to the environmental laws and restrictions of the country where its employees are deployed. The Program Manager of each of ASL's projects is directly responsible to the Managing Director for adherence to environmental policies and Global Compact environmental principles. ASL implemented various environmental friendly measures in its work environment. Some of these include the re-use of air conditioner water, the installation of LED lights at its facilities and the reduction of our footprint on the environment. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Recycling was partly implemented at the International Campus in Mogadishu, Somalia in order to reduce the environmental impact. Programs are also being implemented at all other facilities where ASL is responsible for the provision of life support and ASL enforces this on local service providers. ASL employees are given on the job training to make them aware of environmental protection and to ensure that best practices in this regard are effectively implemented. ASL is continuously evaluated by its clients for adherence to internationally acceptable environmental standards, the European Union Training Mission in Mogadishu, Somalia serves as an example of this. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Implementation of recycling at various campsites see above. Senior Management monitors progress on environmental issues during visits to deployment areas and gives feedback to Program Managers. During the reporting period no incidents of transgression of environmental principles were reported. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. The tendency of corruption and bribery in the countries where African Skies operate, especially Somalia is still seen as high. Because of this reason all African Skies personnel is made aware of the fact that paying or receiving bribes is in contravention of company policy. Memorandums of Understanding are drawn up with all local business partners in which ASL's approach to bribery is clearly spelled out and it is made clear that contravention of this will lead to the termination of the business relationship. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. The suggestion boxes as described under Human Rights are available to ASL employees to report corruption. During monthly meetings ASL's policy concerning bribery and corruption is re-affirmed with employees. Program Managers are personally responsible to the Managing Director to report any contraventions concerning bribery and corruption. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No incidents of corruption have been reported during the reporting period.
