Chapter of the Annual Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report Vontobel uses only recycled paper for printing. It takes about 1.5 times less energy and 2.5 times less water to produce recycled paper than it does to produce paper from fresh fiber. Recycled paper also cuts greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20 %. We offset the remaining emissions with various CO2 projects around the world. Further information: vontobel.com/sustainability Quotes from the Vontobel movie “Taking responsibility” What does corporate responsibility mean after all? “It’s about entrepreneurship. “It's not just about acting It’s about thinking long term … ecologically or ethically” and not just about yourself.” Isabel Reck Senior Specialist Public Relations Maja Baumann Board member & 4th generation of owner-family “Clearly, it starts with the customer.” “We are not only here for the next 18 months, we are here for many times 18 months” Zeno Staub CEO Vontobel Alex Fung CEO Vontobel Wealth Management Asia 4 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 5 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 6 Vontobel and Sustainability 10 Sustainable Investing 19 Environmental Sustainability 23 Social Sustainability 29 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Notes and Index 32 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 34 Vontobel Advisory Council Photo: Milan Rohrer, Zurich Commissioned by Vontobel. One of four winning images in the “Advertising photography” category of the “swiss photo award” in 2018. 6 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Vontobel and Sustainability Corporate responsibility and sustainability form part of In addition, Vontobel hosted the Annual Meeting of the Vontobel’s strategic commitments Corporate Support Group of the International Committee 2017 was a pivotal year for Vontobel in the area of corpoof the Red Cross (ICRC) in 2017. Vontobel is a member of rate responsibility and sustainability: We included the the Support Group, which was founded by selected inter“Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability” objectives and national companies in conjunction with the ICRC. In the KPIs that were defined by the Vontobel Sustainability context of this partnership, we carried out our company’s Committee in our “Strategy 2020”. third fundraising campaign in 2017. Together with the ICRC, we are thus supporting efforts to help children in Reflecting this milestone, Vontobel also launched its new Syria to attend school safely despite the country’s military corporate film “Taking responsibility” in which employees conflict. – together with Maja Baumann, representing the Board of Directors and the Vontobel family – talk about what susOur wide-ranging commitments demonstrate that we are tainability means to them and how they adopt a sustainaa global financial expert that offers sustainable investment ble approach in their daily roles at Vontobel. solutions as a key part of our product range and that our approach to business is characterized by foresight and We have been committed to value-oriented and farownership. sighted investing for generations. As a pioneer in this field, Vontobel has been offering clients a wide range of sustainable investment solutions since the 1990s. At the end of 2017, we had a total of almost CHF 14 billion of sustainably invested assets under management and we have received various awards for our ESG investment solutions. Ten awards were won by funds in the mtx product family alone. Our Clean Technology fund was rated the leader in its category by Asia Asset Manager and Investment Week. Vontobel is also responsible for portfolio management for Dr Zeno Staub, CEO Vontobel Raiffeisen Futura Swiss Stock, which has received the “Lipper Fund Award” for the best fund in the category “Swiss Equity” many times over the last decade. In 2017, our company joined the global network of the “United Nations Global Compact” as well as the “Global Compact Network Switzerland”. We have thus pledged to rates Vontobel as an “Industry Leader” align our operations and strategies with ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Within our sphere of influence as a company, we thus help to promote key sustainability principles around the globe. Our first Communication on Progress (COP) report relating to the UN Global Compact can be found in the appendix to the Sustainability Report. Vontobel ranks in the top-10 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 7 Memberships and awards Vontobel is a member of various organizations and The awards we have received for our sustainable networks that promote the sustainable development investment solutions in the recent past underscore of the economy and encourage finance industry our leading position in the field of sustainable and participants to place a greater emphasis on thematic investing: sustainability: –– Asia Asset Manager: Vontobel Fund – Clean –– Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI): Technology: “Best Asset Manager in the Global unpri.org Infrastructure category” –– UN Global Compact: unglobalcompact.org –– Asset View Awards: Vontobel Fund – mtx Sustainable Asian Leaders (ex-Japan): “Best fund –– CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project): in the category Asia ex-Japan” cdp.net –– Citywire Asia Awards: Vontobel Fund – mtx –– Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF): China Leaders: “Best Group in the category China sustainablefinance.ch Equity” –– Sustainable Finance Geneva: –– Citywire Italy Awards: Vontobel Fund – mtx sfgeneva.org Sustainable Emerging Markets Leaders: “Best manager in the category Emerging Markets –– Forum per la Finanza Sostenibile: Equity” finanzasostenibile.it –– Gouden Stier Awards: Vontobel Fund – mtx –– Spainsif – Foro de Inversión Sostenible de Sustainable Emerging Markets Leaders: “Best España: spainsif.es sustainable fund” –– The Austrian Ecolabel: umweltzeichen.at –– Il Sole 24Ore: Vontobel Fund – mtx Sustainable Emerging Markets Leaders: “Best Fund in the –– Öbu (the Swiss association for sustainable Emerging Markets Equity category” business): oebu.ch –– Investment Week, Sustainable Investment –– Climate Foundation Switzerland: Awards: Vontobel Fund – Clean Technology: klimastiftung.ch “Best sustainable fund” –– Energy Agency for the Economy (EnAW): –– Lipper: Five awards for the Vontobel Fund – mtx enaw.ch Sustainable Emerging Markets Leader 8 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Our understanding of corporate responsibility and opment in this integrated world. We believe that promoting sustainability sustainable development in our markets is both an ecoWe fulfill our corporate responsibility by considering the nomic necessity and an ethical duty. needs of our clients and pursuing a risk-conscious approach while operating successfully on a long-term Two key documents form the basis of Vontobel’s sustainabasis. By doing so while complying with ethical business bility commitments: standards, we can make a contribution to the economy. –– The Code of Conduct defines basic principles that employees must observe to ensure that we perform As an employer and taxpayer and also as an active parti­ our business activities in a fair and forward-looking cipant in economic life – e.g. in our role as a purchaser and manner. investor – we contribute to the creation of value at a –– The Sustainability Guidelines define the areas in regional level in the locations in which we operate. This which we take action to implement our sustainability includes the corporate taxes that we pay annually, as well strategy. as the payment of salaries and the provision of innovative and sustainable financial services for private and instituVontobel strives to continuously improve its own sustainational clients. We also make a contribution through the bility performance and has two committees that work efficient use of energy and resources, by serving commutowards this goal: The Vontobel Sustainability Committee nities and by engaging in an active dialogue with the genconsists of representatives from all divisions and reports eral public about the role of financial services providers. to the CEO. Based on Vontobel’s Sustainability Principles, the Committee defines the Sustainability Strategy and We permanently strive for sustainability, since it goes hand specific targets. In the context of our “Strategy 2020”, the in hand with business success and stability. Sustainability Committee defined strategic objectives and KPIs for the and an effective business strategy are closely interconarea “Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability”. Corponected. For this reason, Vontobel is committed to the conrate Sustainability Management coordinates the impletinuous optimization of sustainable business management mentation of the measures that have been decided in conin all our divisions in the long term. junction with the relevant specialist units. A systematic client focus, a long-term growth strategy, The ESG Investment Committee (ESG: Environmental, and a solid capital and risk policy are core elements of social, governance) determines the Sustainable Fund Unieconomic sustainability at Vontobel. Information and verse and core sustainability themes that are to be covexplanations on this topic can be found in the relevant ered in various sustainability-oriented financial solutions. chapters of Vontobel’s Annual Report. It defines the architecture of all ESG investment products and determines the applicable investment thresholds and Vontobel has been committed to value-oriented and farexclusion criteria. The Committee consists of representasighted investing for generations. As a pioneer in this field, tives from the boutiques in Asset Management, as well as we have been offering our clients a wide range of sustainWealth Management and Corporate Sustainability Manable investment solutions since the 1990s. Our growth agement. The ESG Investment Committee reports to strategy is focused on our competencies and on our offerVontobel’s Executive Board. ing in the area of sustainable investing. In terms of environmental sustainability, we take targeted measures when Our sustainability commitments center on our main groups conducting our operations to achieve a significant reducof stakeholders: clients, shareholders, employees, society tion in CO2 emissions and other factors that are harmful to and the environment (G4–24, G4–25). The gathering of key the environment. Based on our strong commitment to supsustainability data is an important means of measuring our porting communities, we invest in initiatives and projects progress and of prioritizing our next steps. We have to promote social sustainability. A dedicated team defined material topics and indicators for this purpose addresses these topics. (see chapter: Notes on the report) and we report in accordance with GRI guidelines. Sustainability commitment and management As a financial services provider, Vontobel is closely conCompliance is key nected with the economy and society in all the locations in Effective compliance forms the basis of our long-term sucwhich we operate. Consequently, the nature and design of cess and is therefore one of the most important aspects of our products and services and the way we conduct our our business. Vontobel takes comprehensive measures to banking operations have an impact on sustainable develensure continuous compliance with laws and regulatory Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 9 requirements, and this is also essential in order to identify Training and raising awareness and prevent reputational risks. As part of our Group-wide All new employees have to attend an introductory complirisk analysis, teams of specialists continuously assess all ance course, complete an e-learning basic module on our divisions using appropriate compliance processes to compliance topics and pass an online test. In addition to ensure they are legally compliant. this basic module, classroom learning is carried out each year on specific topics within the divisions. At departmenOur business philosophy centers on maintaining both the tal level, further training courses are offered on certain satisfaction and trust of our clients, as well as on protectsubjects to also address the handling of specific risks. ing and building the wealth they have entrusted to us. These tasks have become increasingly complex as the Other training courses were carried out on the subject of financial sector is faced with growing requirements and compliance issues in international markets. These measstricter regulations. At the same time, clients have become ures prevent infringements of internal and external rules more discerning, and the demand for individually tailored and regulations. New employees are also issued with the solutions has increased. Sustainability aspects have Employee Handbook, which contains specific regulations become more important in this context, including from an and instructions, as well as the Code of Conduct. The economic risk perspective. most recent version of the Employee Handbook is available on the Intranet. All employees can access current and Offering each of our clients the right solution or best poscomprehensive policies at any time. sible service is the primary goal of our three divisions – Wealth Management, Asset Management and Investment In 2017, we updated various internal policies that raise Banking. Compliance with the product naming requireemployee awareness about money laundering and PEPs. ments defined by regulators is vital for all our divisions. In In the case of suspected breaches of legal or regulatory the year under review, there were no cases of misconduct requirements, internal guidelines or ethical standards, a or financial penalties for non-compliance with regulations whistleblowing system is in place to allow employees to governing the provision of products and services. report these incidents anonymously. No such reports were made in 2017. To continue developing our business, each of our three divisions – Wealth Management, Asset Management, The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) is Investment Banking – carries out product development, an EU directive designed to harmonize financial markets client communications and marketing activities. The Prinwithin the single European market. We have given our ciples for Responsible Investment (PRI) guide us in this employees intensive training in connection with the fortharea and we also comply with the requirements set out in coming implementation of the MiFID II regulations to prethe European SRI Transparency Code. pare them for the changes that will take effect from January 2018. One of the main areas of focus of our risk analysis is the identification of risks arising from money laundering During the year under review, Wealth Management con­ (including the financing of terrorism). Our aim is to avoid tinued to conduct training courses for relationship managbusiness relationships that are used for money laundering ers, known as the “Vontobel Curriculum”. Compliance topor terrorist financing. In addition, we have a special proics also feature prominently in this Curriculum. Further cess to monitor our relationships with politically exposed information can be found in the chapter “Sustainable persons (PEPs). Investing – Wealth Management”. Vontobel also assigns key importance to the protection of client data and to complying with all applicable legal requirements in this area. The cross-divisional Legal, Compliance & Tax department defines the parameters for compliance with these requirements and monitors them. There were no cases involving breaches of client privacy in 2017. 10 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Sustainable Investing Vontobel has been committed to value-oriented and fartions and land mines are included in our investment funds, sighted investing for generations. As a pioneer in this field, discretionary mandates or investment recommendations. we have been offering our clients a wide range of sustainable investment solutions since the 1990s. For a wealth and asset manager, the consideration of environmental, social 3 Wealth Management and governance (ESG) factors in the investment business is a key part of a comprehensive sustainability strategy. This At Vontobel Wealth Management, we strive to protect and reflects the fact that the integration of sustainability criteria build the assets entrusted to us by our clients. This promise into the product and services portfolio is a very effective is growing increasingly important in today’s more complex lever when it comes to fostering sustainable development. and uncertain world. We focus on the active and forward-looking management of our clients’ assets across All three divisions (Wealth Management, Asset Managegenerations based on a holistic approach. With our ment, Investment Banking) offer sustainable investment “Vontobel advisory philosophy”, we see ourselves as a persolutions and advice in one form or another and cooperate sonal advisor to our clients, partnering with them throughclosely in this area. The aim is for clients to be able to genout their lives. We want to gain a precise understanding of erate a financial return while also contributing to sustainaour clients, their personal circumstances and their objecble development. Here, our clients can select investment tives so that we can draw on our expertise to meet their themes that reflect their own values and investment objecexpectations. We do so based on a continuous and recurtives. ring dialogue, since client needs can change over time. Vontobel considers it important to promote a sustainable An in-depth knowledge of our clients – especially their approach to finance and to actively participate in a dialogue understanding and experience of the financial markets and on this topic. Reflecting this commitment, Vontobel repretheir related risk capacity and risk tolerance – are also sentatives gave presentations or took part in panel discusimportant when offering comprehensive and future-orisions at the following events in 2017: “Die Zukunft im Portented advice that is tailored to the client’s objectives. The folio”, Swiss Sustainable Finance, Zürich; Impact Forum, suitability and appropriateness of investment services are Berlin; Deutscher Stiftungstag, Osnabrück; Seminar “The important parameters for the provision of long-term, fair Evolving Landscape of ESG & Impact Investing”, Amsterand transparent service to our clients, whether it takes the dam; ESG & Pensions Forum, Asia Asset Management, Sinform of an investment or portfolio management mandate, a gapur. financing solution or an offering to safeguard their financial position in the future based on financial, succession, inheritance or retirement planning. 1 Principles for Responsible Investing (PRI) At Vontobel, we are committed to operating with foresight, prudence, personal responsibility and transparency in the Vontobel has been a signatory to the PRI, a UN initiative to areas of portfolio management and investment advisory. promote sustainable investing, since 2010. The Principles We also strive for continuity of client service. Our clients were developed by an international group of institutional gauge our performance based on these values. The regular investors in 2006. They were launched by the then UN Secfeedback from our clients, which is supplemented by the retary General and take account of the growing relevance of analysis of input from our client survey in January 2017, help ESG themes in investment practice. Von­tobel is also a sigus to continuously develop our offering for their benefit. In natory to the European SRI Transparency Code. the survey, 90 % of the respondents reported a high or very high level of client satisfaction and an above-average proportion said they would recommend Vontobel. For all com2 No investments in controversial ponents of client satisfaction, we achieved improvements weapons compared to the last survey in 2013. Furthermore, our clients indicated that we had achieved a better positioning All our investments have to fulfil certain minimum requirethan our peers, resulting in continued increases in client ments. Cluster munitions and land mines are banned by loyalty. international conventions. In 2011, Vontobel therefore approved a Group-wide policy that prohibits investments in Our last client survey also makes it clear that the topic of companies that manufacture these types of arms. Stringent “sustainable investing” is becoming increasingly important processes ensure that no manufacturers of cluster muniamong private clients. A total of 63 % of our clients want sustainable investment opportunities – with almost 30 % Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 11 indicating that for them, the topic is an absolute must. The well as a financial return. Our five-step investment process consideration of personal values and the assumption of takes account of the individual sustainability wishes and responsibility towards society and the environment play an goals of our clients when determining the composition of important role in this context. As a result, new criteria for the portfolio. sustainable investing were defined in Wealth Management. 3.2 Investment communications 3.1 Investment solutions In 2017, we once again used a variety of communication In 2017, we adapted our entire investment offering across channels to keep our clients informed about the topic of both portfolio management and investment advisory. Our sustainability. These included an introduction to the “clinew product range now also incorporates sustainable mate change” megatrend in our monthly Investors’ Outlook. investment solutions aimed specifically at private clients. In addition, we launched a number of sustainable investOne example is the “Vontobel Conviction Sustainable” ment initiatives, e.g. on the topics “Water” and “Electrificaportfolio management mandate that invests according to tion 2.0” for our clients. sustainability criteria and is diversified across various asset classes. Sound, long-term strategic asset allocation serves Sustainability is positioned as a Group-level topic and we as the robust basis for the mandates. We also cover “high additionally addressed it in Wealth Management and speconviction” themes (e.g. healthy living, clean tech, new cifically incorporated it into our offering for private clients. power or microfinance). In the area of investment advisory, As part of these efforts, we established our “Expert Circle we now also offer clients the opportunity to invest on the Sustainable Investing” in Wealth Management in the course basis of our sustainability universe. Since 2017, we have of the year. The Expert Circle is designed to foster a regular been working together with the renowned international dialogue about sustainability themes and to ensure the sustainability rating agency Sustainalytics in this field. transfer of knowledge with a view to constantly promoting Based on its sustainability research, our relationship manthe topic of sustainability within the organization. At the agers can filter the investment universe using a Web-based same time, we want to ensure through the Expert Circle that tool (“VT Invest”) to identify sustainable stocks. This allows the topic features prominently in our client communicathem to compile sustainable portfolios more efficiently and tions. to provide our clients with appropriate advice about sustainable investments. Vontobel has been a partner of Sustainable Finance Geneva (SFG) since the start of 2017 in order to help promote a susIn cooperation with our partners, we continue to offer flexitainable approach to business within the finance industry in ble investment solutions in the areas of vested benefits, French-speaking Swtizerland. In the context of this partnermanagement pensions and Pillar 3a pension provision. ship, Vontobel provided financial support to the association Depending on the needs of the client, Vontobel offers manfor the publication of a book about sustainable financial dates or fund solutions. The Vontobel funds “Pension Invest innovation. The book features 60 innovations to resolve 10 Yield” and “Pension Invest Balanced” invest globally and global challenges and was launched in September 2017. combine the goals of capital preservation and capital growth with ethical, environmental and social aspects. 3.3 Transparency & Services At Vontobel Wealth Management, enhanced transparency In spring 2017, we launched a structured product incorpoand improved protection in the area of investing are becomrating sustainability criteria – the Sustainable Global Food ing increasingly important. We have therefore used the Basket. It enables private investors to participate in the introduction of the new European Markets in Financial development of solid and sustainable companies in the Instruments Directive (MiFID II) as an opportunity to realign food sector. As a result of drivers such as population growth, our services and processes. These efforts focused on the the expanding middle class in developing countries or the provision of greater client benefits, the streamlining and trend towards healthy eating, the outlook for this sector more flexible use of the product range, and increased transremains positive. The basket focuses on small to mid-sized, parency – especially with regard to fees. When implementundervalued quality companies. These firms meet ing these measures, we basically focused on the following Vontobel’s sustainability criteria, which take account of aspects: economic, social and environmental criteria. 1. Gaining a comprehensive overview of the client’s situaIn addition, Vontobel has developed a concept for Impact tion, including an in-depth analysis of his / her circumInvesting, which we define as an investment that is stances, the detailed profiling of the client and the determiintended to resolve a specific problem or generate a connation of his / her risk capacity and risk tolerance. crete and measurable social or environmental impact, as 12 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 2. Aligning all financial transactions with the individual client regular training courses about specialist themes and reguprofile to ensure the targeted composition of the portfolio. latory aspects, Vontobel’s new advisory philosophy was a prominent topic in the training we provided during the year. 3. Detailed reports about transactions as well as periodic reporting. In 2017, around 150 people completed the Vontobel Curriculum for Relationship Managers. This training course, which 4. General organizational aspects such as the prevention of was developed specifically for Vontobel Wealth Manageconflicts of interests, best execution or access to disment, consists of four days of classroom learning as well as counted fund classes for both portfolio management and around 25 hours of online training about topics such as investment advisory clients. finance, regulation and advisory capabilities. The structured program is based on the certification efforts (ISO 17024) of 3.4 Digitization other banks but exceeds minimum requirements in terms of Digitization remains one of our focus themes in Wealth its scope and content. A key component of the curriculum Management and we are investing in it selectively for the is the transfer of knowledge about sustainable investing benefit of our clients. Digital development is mainly driven and the expansion of expertise in this field across the whole by our efforts to streamline and improve the quality of proof Wealth Management. Relationship managers complete a cesses, to provide swifter access to key information, to offer certification test at the end of the program. In line with our new functionalities and, in particular, to make our offering new advisory philosophy, our employees also receive trainmore user-friendly for clients. Digitization also helps to ing about client communications. In view of the complex reduce paper consumption. needs of our clients, it is essential that we take account of their overall circumstances when offering service and Our digital solution “Vontobel Wealth” has been incorpoadvice. We can ensure a comprehensive multi-solution rated into our new offering and its design has been aligned approach that incorporates the client’s various objectives. to Vontobel’s new brand presence. At the same time, we have made it even more user-friendly: The functions are In addition to our usual compliance training, we responded shown more clearly and key information can be found more to the introduction of MiFID II and the Swiss Federal Finanrapidly. This digital round-the-clock access to Vontobel idecial Services Act (FIDLEG) by placing a focus on these new ally complements the physical presence of our relationship regulations and their impacts on systems and processes at managers. MyPrivateBanking ranked “Vontobel Wealth” Vontobel in our training program. It encompassed both among the top-three online wealth management solutions introductory and in-depth modules as well as supplemenglobally in its study “Behind the Log-in 2017”. tary online training. In addition, we launched a client app that serves as a digital We continued our “Entry Training First Week” in 2017. This mailbox. Here, clients can find information including updates induction program, which lasts several days, allows new from Vontobel investment specialists and can access the employees in Vontobel Wealth Management to get to know latest publications as well as market data. With the digital the company and ensures they are ideally prepared for their mailbox, we ensure that our clients promptly receive inforchallenging new role. mation about the purchase of financial instruments (transaction fees, as well as product information where applica3.6 Vontobel charitable foundation ble) for stock market transactions in accordance with the Since 2004, clients have been able to lend their support to regulatory requirements. They can also manage a wide a variety of projects focusing on social issues, culture, ecolrange of digital documents, including their statement of ogy, education or medicine through the Vontobel Charitable assets, via the app – thus helping to reduce paper conFoundation. In 2017, the Charitable Foundation contributed sumption. Our goal is to connect our various digital points of almost CHF 580,000 of donations and sponsorship funding contact with clients in order to provide them with the (2016: CHF 660,000). During the year under review, it supsmoothest and most integrated access to Vontobel possiported projects including “Coaching Transfair Zurich” in ble. view of the growing need for coaching projects to benefit school leavers and young adults. This offering is intended 3.5 Training as an individual measure to combat youth unemployment The knowledge of our employees is the most important facand is targeted at young adults looking for support in order tor determining Vontobel’s success, stability and our ability to embark on a career or begin the work process. to operate effectively in the future. Against this backdrop, we once again invested intensively in the training and develVontobel also supports the foundation TRIGON, a soil fertilopment of our relationship managers in 2017. In addition to ity fund. The intensive use of agricultural land is leading to a Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 13 general decline in soil fertility, including in the area of organic 4.1 Sustainable & Thematic Boutique farming. This is reflected by the degradation within a few In this boutique, Vontobel manages various sustainable decades of the humus layer of soil that is formed over long investment strategies for clients who want ESG criteria to periods of time. The soil fertility fund is committed to ensurbe incorporated into the investment process. ing that as much fertile soil as possible can be handed on to future generations by providing financial support and 4.1.1 mtx Strategies advice on the implementation of sustainable cultivation In the case of our investment funds in the “mtx” strategy methods to farmers both on the ground and at training group, “mtx” is an abbreviation of “matrix” and is derived events. The fund carries out active public relations work on from the underlying investment process used by the portfothis subject – partly also with the aim of ensuring long-term lio management team. Our analysis is based on four pillars: funding opportunities to maintain and increase soil fertility. Profitability, industry position, intrinsic value and the examiTRIGON has therefore launched a three-year pilot project nation of specific ESG criteria. Sustainability-related issues involving more than 30 partner organizations and covering and challenges that apply to each sector are defined in 1,000 hectares of land in Switzerland, Germany, Austria and detail in “Minimum Standard Frameworks” (MSFs) and Liechtenstein. divided into nine different fields. Within each MSF, companies must meet the defined minimum criteria in order to be considered for investment. 4 Asset Management The assessment of the sustainability performance of indiVontobel Asset Management focuses on active asset manvidual companies using MSFs is conducted in house by agement and has a multi-boutique model with independent specialist financial analysts with many years of experience centers of competence. As a global asset manager with a in evaluating sustainability criteria. Their combined experlong track record in sustainable investing dating back to the tise in the areas of financial and ESG analysis is an impor1990s, our main goal is to generate higher returns and to tant success factor when identifying financially attractive allow our clients to invest according to their moral and ethiand highly sustainable companies in each sector. cal values. The multi-boutique set-up allows Vontobel Asset Management to cover the entire spectrum of potential cliIn their analysis, Vontobel analysts use information from the ent needs: Our organizational structure ensures that the companies themselves (e.g. annual reports and sustainabilvarious investment teams have a high degree of independity reports) as well as information from external research ence, thus also fostering innovation. Vontobel therefore agencies and publicly accessible analyses by non-governoffers various sustainable portfolios with different investmental organizations (NGOs). We believe that companies ment approaches and processes. that adopt an active and long-term approach to challenges based on a sustainable perspective have better prospects Vontobel’s sustainability-oriented funds incorporate of success in an increasingly globalized and dynamic world aspects of global change and sustainable business pracand thus gain a competitive advantage over their peers. tices. In addition, Vontobel manages numerous individual sustainable mandates. The ESG Investment Committee Our regular performance assessments based on ESG criteoversees the architecture of all ESG investment products ria are an indication that the consideration of ESG criteria (e.g. investment approach and processes), as well as the can create clear value for our clients. In regular sustainabilapplicable investment thresholds and exclusion criteria, ity meetings, analysts and portfolio managers discuss comand it is responsible for the Vontobel Sustainable Universe. pany-specific ESG assessments and ensure that the findThe Committee consists of portfolio managers and portfoings are incorporated into the investment process. lio advisors from the various sustainable strategies, as well as representatives of Wealth Management and Corporate 4.1.2 Global Trend Strategies Sustainability Management. Here, our clients can select funds that focus on the trends New Power, Clean Technologies, Future Resources and Vontobel is a signatory to the European SRI Transparency Sustainable Water. These funds address long-term trends Code. Various Vontobel funds where sustainability aspects such as the restructuring of the energy system, resource are incorporated in the investment process bear the Eurosif efficiency, the supply of clean technologies and the sustaintransparency logo. This guarantees that comprehensive able management of water as an essential resource. information is provided to investors about the funds’ investment processes and selection criteria. The funds invest in companies which, thanks to their products and processes, either have a positive impact on the environment or have a less negative impact on the environ14 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability ment than their peers. In this context, we take account of —— 4.1.2.4 Global Trend Strategy “Sustainable Water” the entire life cycle of these products and processes, since Here, we focus on the following investment areas: Water the largest environmental impact very often occurs while infrastructure; water technology; water quality; water effithe product is in use. ciency; water supply. A positive impact on the environment can take very differ—— 4.1.2.5 Climate Change: Presentation of potential ent forms. For example, we assess reductions in the energy avoided emissions consumption of innovative products due to optimized proThere is broad consensus among politicians, scientists and cesses or weight reductions in the area of transportation. the business community that global warming needs to be New materials or special coatings can also result in restricted to 2° Celsius. The Paris Agreement, which enhanced energy efficiency. Closed loop systems, modern entered into effect on 4 November 2016, will accelerate the cleaning technologies, improved infrastructure or targeted transition to a climate-friendly society. It is therefore necesirrigation in agriculture reduce the consumption, pollution sary for the finance industry to take greater account of the and wastage of water. In the case of traditional energy risks of climate change and to report on them transparently. sources such as oil and gas, modern technologies can often This is why Vontobel works with ISS Ethix Climate Solutions also significantly reduce environmental impacts during the (formerly South Pole Group), a specialist in the measuregeneration, transportation and consumption of energy. This ment of CO2 and environmental factors. is important because the transition to renewable, emissions-free energies takes time and can only be achieved in The current carbon footprint of an investment portfolio is stages. measured primarily for risk assessment purposes. This is the most common method used and shows which sectors If a company is considered for potential investment, the and companies – in absolute terms – are responsible for the responsible analysts not only take financial but also ESG highest emissions in the portfolio. The focus here is primarcriteria into account. While social and governance criteria ily on the calculation of the emissions generated as a result are mainly considered in the risk evaluation, a positive of the company’s operations, e.g. when manufacturing impact on the environment is a compelling investment critegoods and products. rion and should also make a positive contribution to the company’s financial success. When assessing social and With the additional presentation of potential avoided emisgovernance criteria, we consult with external ESG research sions (PAE), we are pursuing a solution-oriented approach: agencies. To ensure a holistic approach to environmental We record the contribution that energy-efficient, cliaspects, an additional comprehensive analysis by our own mate-friendly products and services are expected to make analysts is essential. to the reduction of CO2 emissions in the portfolio. After all, the emissions generated during the phase when a product —— 4.1.2.1 Global Trend Strategy “Clean Technology” is in use are often significantly higher than the emissions Here, we focus on the following investment areas: generated during the production phase. For example, a Resource-efficient industry; building technology; clean refrigerator generates substantially more emissions while in energy infrastructure; low-emission transportation; life-cyuse than during production. The energy efficiency of applicle management; clean water. ances such as these is therefore the decisive factor when determining the amount of avoided CO2 emissions. —— 4.1.2.2 Global Trend Strategy “New Power” Here, we focus on the following investment areas: Biofuels, This approach is especially pronounced in the Clean Techgeothermal energy and other demand-side energy savings; nologies and New Power themes. The funds focus on comefficient power generation and transmission; natural gas panies that have a positive effect on the environment with markets; solar panel producers and operators; wind turbine an emphasis on positive climate impacts, which we quantify manufacturers and suppliers of equipment for wind turin collaboration with ISS Ethix Climate Solutions based on bines. PAE. With this methodology, we show the level of emissions that can be avoided at company or portfolio level thanks to —— 4.1.2.3 Global Trend Strategy “Future Resources” energy-efficient products or services. Here, we focus on the following investment areas: Advanced materials technology; agriculture and water technology; At the same time, PAE help us to reach investment deciunconventional energies. sions: To achieve the ambitious targets set out in the Paris Agreement, countries will implement stricter regulatory measures to reduce emissions. This, in turn, will drive a shift in demand towards energy-efficient products. PAE serves Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 15 as an important indicator in this context in order to identify pursue what they believe to be the best approach in a chalthose companies that stand to benefit most from this lenging market environment. change in demand – thus enabling us to allocate capital on a solutionand return-oriented basis. Our client service offering provides access to flexible and client-specific investment universes and includes reports 4.1.3 Swiss Equities about the impacts of portfolios on sustainable development The Swiss Equities team provides an extensive offering for in general as well as on specific parameters. For example, clients seeking sustainable investment solutions with a we have developed a proprietary methodology for the disfocus on Switzerland. The team has been addressing the closure of CO2 risks that both quantifies CO2 emissions topic of sustainable investing for more than 15 years and from companies and assesses business risks related to the offers a broad range of sustainability strategies. ongoing energy transition process. When determining exclusion criteria and “best-in-class” The sustainability analysis forms the starting point for our approaches, analysts and portfolio managers work primarinvestment process. The first stage of the process involves ily with external sustainability rating agencies such as Inrate the exclusion of issuers whose activities are highly controor Ethos. In the integrated approach, ESG criteria form an versial and therefore present an unacceptable level of risk. integral part of the investment process. The responsible Investee companies should not generate more than 5 % of analyst assesses the company from both a financial and a their turnover from controversial activities such as nuclear sustainability perspective. Analysts record MSFs for all of energy, gene technology or arms. Countries are subject to the investee companies – similar to the mtx approach – with exclusion criteria such as human rights violations (accordESG criteria being assigned different weightings depending to Freedom House) or threats to freedom and security ing on the sector. (according to the Global Peace Index). We can apply further exclusion criteria to direct investment mandates at the The three sustainability funds managed by the Swiss Equirequest of clients. ties team have achieved an extremely successful performance. They all outperformed their benchmark over the last In the second stage of the process, we evaluate the remainthree and five years. With an investment volume exceeding ing issuers. This analysis is performed using external raw CHF 1.6 billion, we also have one of the largest volumes of data from recognized data suppliers, which we review and actively managed Swiss equities in the sustainable investassess using our own in-house methods. The analysis ing space and we once again outperformed the Swiss Perresults in a sustainability rating that consist of two different formance Index by more than one percent in 2017. Since dimensions: The sustainability performance of an issuer 2006, Vontobel has received a number of awards from Lip(e.g. a company) and its environment (e.g. the industry in per in recognition of this performance, including being which it operates). The principle that applies here is: The named the best fund in the category “Equity Switzerland” higher the level of risk associated with the issuer’s environfive times in succession over a period of 10 years. ment from a sustainability perspective, the stricter are the requirements that the individual stocks must meet in order Legal information: Past performance is not a reliable indicato be included in our sustainability universe. tor of current or future performance. Performance data does not take into account any commissions and costs 4.1.5 Sustainable Real Estate charged when shares of the fund are issued and redeemed, Our real estate experts manage a Swiss and a European if applicable. The return of the fund may go down as well as real estate fund in conjunction with external partners. They up due to changes in rates of exchange between currenmeasure the success of the investments using economic cies. categories such as rental income or changes in market value. These categories, which our experts assess using a 4.1.4 Sustainable Balanced / Sustainable Bonds two-stage process, are in turn affected by a number of ecoOur investment philosophy is based on the belief that we nomic and socio-demographic factors. can create value for our clients through a sustainable investment style on the one hand, and through active manageThe first part of the analysis involves the Vontobel location ment in the form of tactical asset allocation and stock rating, which assesses 450 conurbations with a total of 500 selection on the other. In this context, we carry out quanticities across 30 European countries. The aim is to identify tative and qualitative analyses at different levels of the prosperous, high-potential areas that qualify as sustainable investment process. Portfolio managers can exercise a high locations. In this context, we also analyze the political, legal level of discretion when making investment decisions and and general economic conditions at country level. The other factors we evaluate are the population and economic struc16 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability ture, quality of life and the infrastructure at conurbation 5 Investment Banking level. Based on this, we produce a differentiated location quality ranking for European cities. Vontobel Investment Banking is one of the leading issuers of structured products in Switzerland and the rest of Europe. The careful real estate sector analysis of the respective conWe rank second in Switzerland, while in Germany, our marurbation, together with the detailed assessment of micro-loket share has risen to 10 % over the last seven years. In the cations and buildings, is carried out in a second stage. The Northern European markets of Sweden and Finland, we aim is to invest in sustainable mid-sized buildings with the have a market share of around 9 % and 20 %, respectively. In most diverse tenant structure possible. The evaluation of Italy, we had a market share of around 5 % at the end of 2017. specific properties is carried out according to clearly defined We continued our expansion within Europe during the year criteria: Here, we take account of both energy and environunder review with our successful market debut in France mental factors, as well as other key aspects that could have and the Netherlands. In addition, Vontobel launched its first a significant negative impact on the rental capacity of the structured products in Hong Kong – the world’s largest marproperty (and consequently on risk and return). These facket for leverage products – in 2017. We also made further tors include mobility and the surrounding area, comfort and investments in technology and new platforms: With the wellbeing, as well as quality of use and flexibility. We also launch of the Investment Scout app, we built a direct distritake account of reputational risks – particularly with regard bution channel to our end-clients. The app enables clients to to tenants. make targeted use of market opportunities by issuing their own individual investment certificates rapidly and easily. 4.1.6 Vontobel Sustainable Universe Based on deritrade® technology, we also further developed In addition to the above-mentioned sustainable investment our new issuing platform mein-zertifikat.de in Germany. solutions and its expertise in respect of individual mandates, Securities and foreign exchange trading, securities services Asset Management offers a sustainable investment unisupplied by Transaction Banking, Brokerage, the External verse. Portfolio managers and clients across all divisions can Asset Managers (EAM) business and Corporate Finance select stocks from this universe for their investments. Here, complete the range of services offered by Vontobel Investthe goal of our sustainability analysis is to determine which ment Banking. companies are ahead of their peers in terms of an active sustainability approach. The most progressive issuers are Our clients have the option of individually structuring prodselected for the sustainable investment universe (equities ucts based on a sustainable underlying through the Vontobel and bonds). Sustainable Investment Universe, which is used across our divisions. Vontobel also offers various sustainability-themed Comprehensive evaluation criteria cover sector-specific structured products, including the “Solactive Global SusESG themes and serve as a basis to assess a company’s tainability Leaders Performance Index” launched in 2017. In sustainability performance. Environmental themes include addition to traditional investment criteria such as liquidity, the reduction of environmental impacts caused by the comthis index incorporates environmental, social and governpany’s products, such as cars with reduced fuel consumpance aspects in its analysis. The index includes companies tion, recyclable appliances, and products with reduced that rank as best-in-class in their industry and excludes energy consumption and a lower toxic-material content. firms that engage in controversial business practices. FurSocial criteria include progressive employee conditions, ther structured products address sustainable themes in a such as the promotion of employee diversity and the implebroader sense or are dedicated to megatrends. One exammentation of occupational health and safety management ple is the “Solactive Demographic Opportunity Performance systems, as well as the inclusion of social criteria into strateIndex”. The elderly are increasingly becoming a key factor for gic and management processes. In addition to the division the economy and represent their own long-term demoof powers and the enhancement of transparency, governgraphic trend, benefiting various areas of business as well ance themes include progressive risk and information manas investors. agement systems, the functional independence of the supervisory board and advisory staff, or measures to comThe “Solactive Smart Grid Performance Index” also focuses bat corruption. The exclusion criteria include nuclear arms, on a sustainable mega trend. A “smart grid” is an intelligent gene technology, tobacco, coal and serious infringements of electricity network that optimizes the collaboration between human rights or the UN Global Compact. electricity producers, storage facilities, consumers and energy transmission and distribution networks. The aim is to secure the energy supply based on efficient and reliable systems. Energy transition and the related expansion of renewable energies is automatically leading to a restructurCorporate Responsibility & Sustainability 17 ing of the electricity network, with electricity no longer being results for clients when executing stock market orders. This generated solely in large power plants but now also on a policy safeguards client interests. Clients who conduct their decentralized basis. securities transactions via Vontobel can count on our professional, fair and transparent services. The more women who are in decision-making roles, the better a company performs, according to the findings of various In January 2018, many Swiss financial institutions will implestudies. The percentage of female executives is also an ment extensive regulations in connection with MiFID II. important indicator that is considered in the context of susInvestment Banking played an important role in this transitainability analyses. tion process by actively preparing its clients for this step – including holding detailed workshops with clients aimed at With the “Top Executive Women Basket”, investors can parbuilding and transferring knowledge about this complex ticipate in a group of companies where women hold a key topic. Through these efforts, we help to ensure that our cliposition in top management or have served as CEO or a ents are sustainably positioned in terms of regulatory commember of the Board of Directors for at least two years. pliance. The independent sustainability rating agency Inrate is responsible for the composition of the “Vontobel Climate 6 Volume of sustainable investments Protection Index”. It considers the shares of companies from five different areas that combat the causes of climate In total, Vontobel manages CHF 13,962 million of sustainachange and it places an emphasis on innovation and effible investments, with mtx Strategies funds reporting a total ciency when selecting stocks. An index is compiled using fund volume of CHF 2,346 million at the end of 2017. The the companies and it is calculated, updated and published various theme funds had a fund volume of CHF 830 million at daily. the end of 2017. The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) is Vontobel Asset Management also manages sustainability leading to fundamental changes in market infrastructure, and theme funds and mandates with a volume of CHF 5,655 facilitating and fostering competition in the area of securities million for its cooperation partners. Vontobel also has a trading. Today, European equities are traded in various marstake in responsAbility, one of the world’s leading asset kets, new markets known as Multilateral Trading Facilities managers in the field of development investments. It offers (MTFs) have been established, and trading volumes are professionally-managed investment solutions to both pribecoming fragmented. At the same time, this growing comvate and institutional investors. plexity is making it more difficult for investors to benefit directly from greater competition and increased transparSustainable and theme funds managed by Vontobel ency. Investors are therefore dependent on the expertise of CHF MN 2017 2016 specialized financial services providers such as Vontobel to Volume of sustainable funds 9,157 6,380 ensure the efficient execution of the orders in this fragVolume of theme funds 830 647 mented stock market landscape. Vontobel is clearly one of the leading companies in Switzerland in this context. It is connected to over 100 markets Sustainable investments around the globe, either as a direct member or through its 2017 2016 own network of brokers. An innovative IT infrastructure Volume of sustainable investments allows us to use market data as well as our access to differ(CHF mn)1 13,962 10,704 ent markets to ensure best execution for our clients – meanProportion of sustainable ing we place their orders in accordance with their interests. investments (in % of AuM)2 8.4 7.7 It also allows us to protect them against adverse influences by means of client order protection (COP). In this context, 1 Including volume of structured products 2 Excluding volume of structured products our transaction cost analysis (TCA) reports meet the very highest standards across Europe in terms of content and The volume of sustainable investments managed by transparency. With our extensive expertise, we are able to Vontobel rose by almost 30 % in 2017 compared to the precreate significant value for our clients. vious year. Measured as a proportion of total assets under management, sustainable investments increased from 7.7 % The “Vontobel Best Execution Policy” contains a summary to 8.4 %. of the measures taken by us to achieve the best possible 18 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 7 Voting and engagement 7.2 Engagement We consider active ownership to be a key part of sustainaMaterial ESG issues can impact the success of a company ble investing. At Vontobel, we have both indirect engageand consequently its capacity for future investments and ments, based on our partnership with Hermes EOS, as well growth. At Vontobel, we believe that voting and engageas direct engagements, which are undertaken by our anament can have a positive influence on a company’s values lysts and portfolio managers. The Hermes EOS, service and behavior and strengthen its longer-term contribution covers funds that take account of sustainability criteria (mtx towards building more sustainable economies and sociestrategy), as well as our global trends funds. Our cooperaties and protecting the environment. tion with Hermes EOS strengthens our position by enabling us to join forces with other investors. This allows us to exer7.1 Voting cise greater influence than the size of our holdings would Vontobel exercises its voting rights for all investments in the otherwise permit. mtx and Global Trends strategies. We have been working with Hermes Equity Ownership Services (Hermes EOS) in In 2016, Hermes EOS, engaged in a critical dialogue with 60 this context since 2011. All other funds come under our companies on a total of 171 issues on our behalf, of which internal “Management Company Voting Policy”, which is in 15 % related to environmental, 29 % to social and 17 % to line with the corporate governance recommendations of strategy and risk matters. Corporate governance was once the European Fund and Asset Management Association. again the main topic discussed in 2016, accounting for 39 % of all issues. The guidelines followed by Hermes EOS have been reviewed and approved by Vontobel. Hermes EOS uses the research In addition to the formal engagement process through of its proxy voting provider and adds its own research in Hermes EOS, our analysts and portfolio managers engage order to issue recommendations to its clients on how they with the management of companies informally on relevant should exercise their voting rights. Our portfolio managers topics as part of their fundamental research activities. Freand analysts receive alerts of forthcoming shareholder quently, ESG topics are not covered in company reports or meetings together with voting recommendations that are by our research providers. We therefore carry out informal based on standardized Hermes policies and approved by fact-finding engagements to better understand a compaVontobel. Portfolio managers and analysts review the voting ny’s performance and standards (e.g. its governance polirecommendations and if they agree with them, Vontobel will cies or environmental performance). This includes assessvote accordingly. If they disagree, which may occasionally ing the impact of its products and services on the happen if the standard recommendation does not match environment – looking in particular at whether they can help our in-depth knowledge of the company in question and its to reduce or eliminate carbon emissions. management, the analyst or portfolio manager can change the vote directly via the online proxy voting platform. This Through these consultations, we encourage companies to process ensures that we execute all of our voting obligaimprove their risk management practices and ESG disclotions and that our analyst and portfolio managers retain the sures in general and to also report on the impacts of their authority to personally make decisions in the interests of products over their entire life cycle. For example, we have our investors. contacted all holding companies included in our Clean Technologies and New Power strategies to assess and Each year, Vontobel publishes a Voting and Engagement measure potential avoided emissions. We asked these Report (www.vontobel.com/voting). The report for 2017 will companies to report on their products and services and be published in mid-2018. In 2016, we voted on a total of how they can improve energy efficiency and reduce emis5,325 resolutions at 455 general meetings worldwide for sions over their entire life cycle. the above-mentioned strategies. At 52 % of the meetings, we voted with the management. At 46 % of the meetings, The engagement activities of our mtx team, for example, we voted against the management (or voted against it and included the dialogue with a Russian consumer staples abstained) on at least one agenda item. At 2 % of the meetcompany over the past two years. When the company was ings, we abstained or voted with the management by first considered for investment, it did not fulfil our minimum exception. ESG standards. While gathering information about the company, our analysts were able to make specific suggestions for improvement, including improved transparency regarding ESG issues. We were pleased to see that the company has since improved its ESG disclosures in its annual report. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 19 Environmental Sustainability The Vontobel Sustainability Committee ensures the tarThe company Dolder Electronic also focuses on increasing geted management of our environmental responsibilities. efficiency. Waste heat from refrigerated shelves in shopThe Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, meets at ping centers or from computers or machines needs to be least twice a year and includes representatives from used more efficiently, e.g. to produce hot water or for heatHuman Resources, Operations, Investor Relations, Finance ing. Dolder Electronic aims to improve the heat cycles in & Risk and the divisions. shopping centers and in industrial sectors and to ensure that energy cycles are linked. In this way, companies can avoid having to use a lot of energy for the cooling of equip1 Climate protection ment on the one hand and having to use oil for heating on the other. We have engaged in various activities to protect the environment for many years and are particularly committed to “Battere” is a project involving solar-charged reusable batclimate protection. teries. Companies in Zurich as well as private individuals can now use this service for solar-charged batteries. As 1.1 Climate neutrality soon as their batteries are flat, Battere sends out a bike Vontobel has been carbon neutral since 1 January 2009 courier to replace them with newly recharged batteries. (Scope 1, 2 and 3). We offset the greenhouse gas emisOver a period of five years, a rechargeable battery can sions we produce each year by purchasing CO2 emissions replace up to 100 disposable batteries. certificates to support projects that save the same volume of emissions. In 2015, the Sustainability Committee Finally, the project “FluidSolids” involves the production of selected three new climate neutrality projects for the plastics from natural fibers. A Zurich-based SME has period from 2015 to 2017 with a focus on the areas of fordeveloped an alternative to conventional plastics, where it estry, water and landfill gas, since they effectively compleproduces “FluidSolids” primarily from agricultural waste ment the GoldPower certificates purchased separately by and natural binding agents. The end-product is odorless Vontobel. Projects were selected in Brazil, China and and stable. To date, it has been used to manufacture chairs Kenya to ensure broad diversification across different and coat hangers. regions. Information about the projects is available at: www.vontobel.com/sustainability. 1.3 CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) The CDP provides companies with a scoring system that 1.2 Climate Foundation Switzerland they can use to measure and disclose their environmental As a founding member of the Swiss Climate Foundation, impacts. Based on the data provided in questionnaires we donate a significant proportion of our refunded CO2 completed by the companies, the CDP produces an annual levy to the Foundation, which then uses these funds to “CDP Climate Score”. Vontobel performs a dual role with support projects to improve the energy efficiency of SMEs. regard to the CDP. First, it is one of the signatory investors The projects supported by the Climate Foundation in 2017 that use the CDP database as a source of research inforincluded various heating innovations. mation for sustainable investments. Second, Vontobel is a CDP reporting company. Digitization is, in particular, creating new opportunities in the area of wood-fueled heating, where a wide range of materials are used. To ensure that the maximum benefits are achieved when burning these different types of wood, the Thurgau-based company Schmid Energy is developing a technology that analyzes the raw material used for larger wood-fueled heating systems in order to optimize combustion. 20 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 2 Environmental protection Electronic appliances that are used within the business must comply with the highest standards and requireVontobel is committed to using processes that reduce the ments. Many electrical devices disposed of by Vontobel environmental impacts of our activities and help to protect still work, meaning they can be put to reliable use in a nonthe climate. Each year, we gather comprehensive environprofit environment. In 2017, Vontobel therefore donated a mental data in order to measure our progress. When convariety of electronic equipment to “AfB social & green IT”. ducting our operations, we strive to use materials as sparThis foundation provides IT services while generating ingly as possible and place an emphasis on energy social and environmental value. It does so by reconditionefficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. ing and remarketing used equipment from companies and public institutions. AfB partners with the Swiss foundation Total energy consumption GEWA, which employs people with mental illnesses to per Full Time Equivalent (in kWh) help them reintegrate into the world of work after a period 8,000 of crisis. 7,000 6,000 The reconditioning and remarketing of the equipment 5,000 conserves scarce resources and prevents electronic 4,000 waste. This reduces the need to produce new equipment 3,000 and leads to improvements in terms of the carbon foot2,000 print. In addition to taking account of social aspects, AfB’s 1,000 concept thus makes an effective contribution to the pro0 tection of the environment, resources and the climate. 2015 2016 2017 2.3 Office buildings When selecting and renovating office buildings, we systematically focus on environmentally friendly and energy-­ Business travel efficient measures to achieve energy savings. High energy per Full Time Equivalent (in km) standards and good insulation of the building envelopes 12,000 are part of this approach. 10,500 9,000 2.4 Supply chain 7,500 Vontobel purchases a large quantity of products and ser6,000 vices from external providers, including facility manage4,500 ment services, IT infrastructure, and the design and pro3,000 duction of printed materials, as well as catering and 1,500 cleaning services. Wherever possible, we work with local 0 suppliers and we are committed to building fair, long-term 2015 2016 2017 partnerships with them. We purchase fruit for our employees from a Swiss family-owned company, for example, and all of our print orders in Switzerland are awarded to Swiss printing companies. A major proportion of the advertising 2.1 Lighting and Christmas gifts used throughout the company are The use of energy-saving LED lighting is a standard feaalso purchased from Swiss providers. ture of all new and renovated office buildings at Vontobel. Wherever possible, we switch to LED lighting in existing Vontobel strives to conduct its own operations according buildings in view of the massive reductions in electricity to high environmental and social standards and we also and maintenance costs that can be achieved. This form of expect our business partners to help protect the environlighting also results in less waste that requires special disment and to offer good employment conditions. These posal. During the year under review, Vontobel switched the aspects are incorporated into our tendering process and lighting systems in another large area of office space on serve as a guide for us when selecting suppliers. The relethe Zurich Campus to LED. The remaining areas will be vant details are set out in Vontobel’s “Guidelines for susequipped with LED lighting in the coming years. tainable procurement”. They address matters such as employment conditions, child labor and forced labor, envi2.2 Disposal of waste ronmental protection and the prevention of corruption. When disposing of waste at Vontobel, all paper products These guidelines are available at www.vontobel.com/susare sent for recycling. PET bottles, aluminum and special tainability and form part of Vontobel’s general purchasing waste such as fluorescent light tubes are also collected guidelines. separately. The recycling rate is 35 %. Employees are required to separate waste into PET bottles, aluminum, 2.5 Mobility paper and other waste in all the buildings on the Zurich Vontobel continued its commitment to sustainable mobilCampus. This waste disposal concept will be implemented ity in 2017. Our participation in the “bike to work” initiative in all new and renovated offices in future. proved successful, with 64 employees in 16 teams cycling to work. They covered a total of 27,500 kilometers by bike. Based on the principle that each kilometer cycled saves Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 21 the equivalent to 160 grams of CO2 (the CO2 output of an 3 Environmental key figures average Swiss mid-sized car, according to the Swiss Federal Statistical Office), this corresponds to a CO2 saving of The first table contains environmental key figures on an 4.4 tons. In 2015, Vontobel purchased two Citroën Berabsolute basis, while the second table shows the figures lingo electric vehicles for its Mail Services d ­ epartment. per full-time equivalent (FTE). Total energy consumption During the year under review, they covered 12,000 diewas higher in 2017 than in the previous year. This was sel-free kilometers, corresponding to around 2.2 tons of partly due to low temperatures in January 2017, which CO2 savings. increased heating requirements, and partly to a further rise in electricity usage during the year under review. 2.6 Catering In 2017, we continued with the “One Two We” program The growing number of employees are working with two or introduced in our employee restaurant in 2013 and the more computer screens and the opening of a second resrelated “One Climate Menu” launched in connection with taurant during the year under review are factors that conthe program. “One Two We” is a sustainability program tributed to this development. As part of the acquisition of launched in conjunction with WWF Switzerland. Its aim is Vescore, additional locations were temporarily taken over, to offer more meals that mainly use seasonal produce and with a corresponding effect on the energy balance. include fewer products that are transported by air and less meat, while making increased use of different types of Paper consumption per employee rose slightly, reflecting cereals as an alternative to rice – thus reducing the carbon the initial impacts of our rebranding, which resulted in the footprint in the food chain. printing of new materials as well as the disposal of old documents and brochures. However, the paper recycling Since the program began, the Uto employee restaurant rate increased significantly to more than half during the has saved almost 250 tons of CO2 as a result of the measyear under review. The consumption of foodstuffs, which ures taken, corresponding to a reduction of over 15 %. On was assessed for the first time in the previous year, average, our partner SV Group served 840 meals to declined slightly. employees and guests each day. In the cafeteria of the employee restaurant in Zurich, around 40 % of the coffee There was a significant increase in business travel, with a consumed comes from Fair Trade sources. The coffee clear rise in the number of business flights in particular. served from the other coffee machines on the Zurich CamThis is attributable to Vontobel’s international expansion, pus is certified according to UTZ. which has resulted in higher levels of activity outside Switzerland and therefore in more air travel. Flights are the 2.7 Electricity main driver of higher CO2 emissions, which also grew due Vontobel has been purchasing electricity from renewable to an increase in commuter travel as well as the previously sources for all 21 of its locations globally since 2013 – mentioned rise in heating requirements. ­either directly or otherwise indirectly via the “Gold Power” solution offered by South Pole. With “GoldPower”, companies can purchase renewable energy irrespective of the actual electricity used. This promotes the building of global capacity for the production of electricity from ­renewable sources. 22 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Environmental key figures, absolute 2017 1,5 2016 1 2015 1 Total energy consumption (MWh) 10,487 9,403 9,447 Electricity consumption (MWh) 7,009 6,578 6,362 Heat consumption (MWh) 3,478 2,494 2,709 District heating / cooling usage (MWh) 0 331 376 Business travel (1,000 km) 17,952 14,346 15,773 of which business flights (1,000 km) 17,227 13,192 13,017 Commuting (1,000 km) 17,458 16,545 Paper consumption (t) 101 88 155 Proportion of recycled paper used (%) 58 42 29 Water consumption (drinking water, m 3) 22,902 18,807 18,217 Volume of waste (t) 155 151 218 Recycling ratio (%) 35 51 49 Food (t) 91 103 Total greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in t) 2 7,720 6,316 3,513 Greenhouse gas emissions: scope 1 and 2 (CO2 equivalents in t)2,3 857 912 1,174 Greenhouse gas emissions: scope 3 (CO2 equivalents in t)2,4 6,863 5,405 2,339 1 Figures are based on the period from 1 October in the previous year to 30 September 2 Definition according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 3 Greenhouse gas emissions associated with electricity consumption of 21 t CO2 equivalents are reported according to the market-based approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Standard. 4 Of which 5,840 t CO2 equivalents from business travel by air, rental car and train. Other Scope 3 categories covered: Commuting, water, paper, dispatch, food, waste. 5 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions factors Environmental key figures per full-time position (FTE 2) 2017 1,4 2016 1 2015 1 Total energy consumption (kWh / FTE) 6,279 5,125 6,677 Electricity consumption (kWh / FTE) 4,197 3,585 4,497 Heat consumption (kWh / FTE) 2,082 1,359 1,915 District heating / cooling usage (kWh / FTE) 0 180 265 Business travel (km / FTE) 10,750 7,818 11,149 of which business flights (km / FTE) 10,316 7,189 9,201 Commuting (km / FTE) 10,454 9,017 Paper consumption (kg / FTE) 61 48 110 Water consumption (drinking water, l / FTE) 13,714 10,249 12,876 Volume of waste (kg / FTE) 93 82 154 Food (kg / FTE) 55 56 Total greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in kg / FTE) 3 4,623 3,442 2,483 Greenhouse gas emissions: scope 1 and 2 (CO2 equivalents in kg / FTE) 3 513 497 830 Greenhouse gas emissions: scope 3 (CO2 equivalents in kg / FTE) 3 4,110 2,945 1,653 1 Figures are based on the period from 1 October in the previous year to 30 September 2 FTE = full time equivalent 3 Definition according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 4 Figures are based on a broader scope and adapted emissions factors Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 23 Social Sustainability At Vontobel, we define social sustainability as our responIn 2017, the employee turnover rate decreased from 13.7 % sibility as an employer, our comprehensive commitment to to 10.7 %. A total of 77 female employees and 112 male serving communities, and our efforts to promote culture employees left the bank during the year. Meanwhile, a total and education. of 239 new employees were hired during the year under review (77 women and 162 men). 1 Responsibility as an employer Employee turnover and training 2017 2016 The skills and expertise of our employees are vital to Turnover rate (in %) 10.7 13.7 Vontobel’s long-term success. Vontobel is aware of the Training costs (1,000 CHF) 1,464 1,532 competition that exists for skilled employees: As an interTraining costs (CHF / FTE) 867 915 nationally active Swiss wealth and asset manager and Number of apprenticeships product specialist , we have to compete with major players (incl. trainees) 28 28 both in our Swiss home market and internationally. Employee departures by age category: up to 20: 1; 21–30: 25; We therefore want to offer our employees attractive 31–40: 68; 41–50: 54; 51–60: 27; 61–64: 13; from 65: 1 Hires by age category: 21–30: 17; 31–40: 87; 41–50: 83; 51–60: 51; employment conditions. Training and development, 61–64: 1 employee health and wellbeing, and a good work / life balance are especially important in positioning Vontobel as an attractive employer. Another key factor is the provision 1.2 Compensation concept of a pleasant working environment that is free from disVontobel is convinced that compensation should be detercrimination and promotes diversity and equal opportunimined solely on the basis of an employee’s abilities and ties. To prevent discrimination in the workplace, the princifunction. Consequently, Vontobel does not measure wage ple of non-discrimination is enshrined in our Employee equality on an individual basis or by gender. Vontobel’s Handbook. Both the Employee Handbook and the Vontobel compensation system has the following objectives: To Code of Conduct form an integral part of the employment promote a performance-oriented culture and foster an contract. No cases of discrimination were reported in 2017. entrepreneurial mindset and actions and a prudent approach to risk among employees; to promote a longThe Employee Handbook also sets out our Human term commitment to the company among top performers; Resources Principles, which define the objectives of our and to position Vontobel as a competitive employer. The human resources and leadership processes and the measshare participation plan, which has a long-term focus, also ures taken to achieve them. In addition, the Employee incorporates risk aspects. It thus provides incentives for Handbook contains comprehensive information about employees to contribute to the sustained success and staemployment conditions, social benefits and training, as bility of Vontobel in accordance with the principles defined well as compliance and security guidelines, and it is supby the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority plemented by internal policies. Up-to-date information is FINMA. Further information on this topic can be found in always available to employees on the Intranet. the Compensation Report (Vontobel Annual Report 2017, page 57 ff.). 1.1 Number of employees As of 31 December 2017, a total of 1,767 employees held 1.3 Performance evaluations and development planning full-time positions at Vontobel and were based in 21 locaWe consider it important for employees to assume respontions – 6 in Switzerland and 15 abroad. In addition to sibility for their own professional development. As part of employees with permanent contracts, a total of 104 temthe annual definition of performance objectives and porary employees worked for Vontobel at the end of 2017. behavioral competencies (performance management) These individuals either have fixed-term contracts or are and their evaluation, all employees are given the opportuavailable on an “on call” basis to assist the company when nity to draw up a personal development plan. This develneeded. Headcount remained largely stable compared to opment plan, which employees define in consultation with 2016. In Switzerland, all employees up to and including their line manager, forms the basis for their personal career middle management are covered by the Agreement on progression. Vontobel provides appropriate online tools Conditions of Employment for Bank Employees (VAB) for this process and employees are supported by Human issued by the Employers Association of Banks in SwitzerResources and business partners in the individual diviland (AVG). sions. 24 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Number of employees by domicile NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2017 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 31.12.2016 WOMEN MEN TOTAL WOMEN MEN TOTAL Switzerland 403 1,021 1,424 410 1,008 1,418 Germany 42 63 105 44 66 110 USA 31 51 82 28 46 74 United Kingdom 17 40 57 15 36 51 Hong Kong 10 13 23 12 10 22 Italy 8 9 17 7 9 16 Luxembourg 8 9 17 8 9 17 Liechtenstein 7 10 17 9 8 17 Singapore 4 6 10 4 7 11 U.A.E 2 9 11 2 11 13 Spain 1 2 3 1 2 3 Australia 0 1 1 1 1 2 Austria 0 0 0 2 0 2 Total 533 1,234 1,767 543 1,213 1,756 Number of employees by nationality 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Switzerland 1,132 64 1,146 65 Germany 228 13 225 13 Italy 71 4 64 4 USA 68 4 66 4 United Kingdom 67 4 60 3 France 36 2 30 2 China 21 1 Austria 18 1 24 1 Spain 14 1 13 1 Other 112 6 128 7 Total 1,767 100 1,756 100 Since the skills and expertise of our employees are the as part of our executive dialogue. Diversity & Inclusion is most important factor determining Vontobel’s long-term one of the topics discussed in our leadership courses: To success, we carry out a “People Day” process each year. bring about change and realize our objectives in this area, Its goal is to manage our internal talent pool more actively we actively address this subject with our management and to give employees the opportunity to continue develteam at Vontobel. oping professionally. As part of this process, top management discusses succession planning and identifies key The completion of various e-learning and classroom trainhigh performers as well as talented employees – particuing modules is now a mandatory requirement for new larly with a view to increasing the proportion of women in employees. In addition, a “Welcome Day” is held four times management functions and at senior management level. It a year at which the divisions present themselves and also discusses nominations for the Senior Leadership Proemployees obtain valuable information about Vontobel’s gram and the “SeitenWechsel” program. strategy, objectives and corporate culture. Welcome Day is mandatory for all employees in Switzerland and for all 1.4 Training and development employees from the rank of Director in international locaContinuous learning is essential to keep pace with industions. The Intranet also features “getting started” pages to try developments. We recognize our responsibility as an facilitate the employee onboarding process at an internaemployer and therefore offer a broad range of training tional level. This includes a video welcome message from courses adapted to Vontobel’s business objectives on an the CEO and useful information and tips to help employees ongoing basis. settle into their new roles at Vontobel. 1.4.1 Training and development measures in 2017 All Vontobel employees worldwide attended “Vontobel In 2017, we once again invested intensively in training and Experience Workshops” focusing on our new brand presdevelopment measures for our relationship managers in ence in 2017. During these events, they discussed Wealth Management (see “Sustainable Investing – Wealth Vontobel’s new values and competencies in order to interManagement”). We regularly run leadership courses in nalize them and to be able to implement them in their daily which members of the Executive Board play an active role work going forward. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 25 To review the quality of the courses and programs that are Vontobel has been an official member of “Fondsfrauen”, a completed, we provide participants with a questionnaire professional network aimed at promoting the role of on aspects such as content, design, applicability and women and ensuring they have equal opportunities in the transferability and we evaluate their responses. In addition German-speaking investment fund industry. Vontobel to qualitative reporting, we also produce quantitative began by organizing a presentation and a discussion reports. This enables us to produce a comparison with round with one of the network’s founders. In the “Nationaltraining and development activities in previous years and ity” focus area, we want to ensure that the composition of also in comparison with the industry benchmark. Training our workforce reflects our target markets while, at the costs declined slightly in 2017 compared to the previous same time, preserving the “Swissness” that is valued by year on both an absolute and per capita basis. our clients. The number of different nationalities at Vontobel remained largely stable in 2017 compared to the 1.4.2 Training and development previous year. In 2017, the Vontobel Academy once again offered a large number of internal and external courses on specialist, perFinally, in the “Demography” focus area, we will aim to sonal development and management topics. The third verachieve a more balanced age mix. Long-term succession sion of the Vontobel Ambassador e-learning program was planning that addresses the needs of the divisions is an expanded to include further modules and is now mandaessential part of Vontobel’s long-term human resources tory for all employees. Its aim is to inform all employees planning. This is another area in which we take our Diverabout Vontobel’s most important products and services. sity & Inclusion focus areas into account. The age strucSince 2017, we have offered employees the opportunity to ture shows that most employees are aged between 30 and take a test at the end of the e-learning course. 50. Targeted measures are needed to align the potential of this age group with the divisions’ staffing needs. Vontobel also supports its employees in completing external training courses where appropriate. These courses Of the total of 1,767 employees at Vontobel, 1,485 held mainly involve business-specific qualifications such as the full-time positions. There was little change in the proporMaster in Banking and Finance, Bachelor or Master in tion of employees who worked on a part-time basis comBusiness Administration, CFA or CIIA. The “SeitenWechpared to 2016: The proportion of female employees worksel” program gives senior managers the opportunity to ing part-time remained unchanged at 31 %, while the further develop their personal and leadership skills. proportion of male employees in part-time positions increased slightly from 8 to 9 %. In principle, part-time 1.4.3 Training for apprentices and graduates employees receive the same benefits as full-time employVontobel offers a range of apprenticeships to enable ees. Different benefits apply in the case of temporary young people to embark on a career in a fascinating indusemployees or staff who are available on an “on call” basis. try. This, in turn, benefits Vontobel by giving it access to a pool of well-qualified young professionals who can be 1.6 Health and wellbeing offered a permanent position. In 2017, Vontobel once again Employee health and wellbeing is assigned considerable offered attractive training positions to future professionals importance at Vontobel. The employee restaurant at in the form of 28 apprenticeships (commercial or IT Vontobel’s head office serves healthy meals every day. The apprenticeships, including three traineeships). Apprensalad buffet, starters, main courses and drinks available on tices can also obtain a vocational “Matura” when complettap are offered free to employees; they only pay for deserts. ing their training at Vontobel. In 2013, the Vontobel employee restaurant in Zurich introduced SV Group’s “One Two We” sustainability program In 2013, Vontobel piloted the Graduate Trainee Program as part of a pilot scheme (see also “Environmental sustain(GTP), which is targeted at university graduates with proability”). In addition, baskets of fresh fruit are available in fessional prospects and leadership potential. The GTPs Vontobel’s offices so that employees can help themselves have different areas of focus in the fields of Investment at any time. Banking and Information Technology. The programs last two years. In 2017, a total of 21 graduate trainees were Vontobel employees regularly train together in various employed at Vontobel. sports clubs. Suitable changing facilities are available for employees to use in each of Vontobel’s offices. When 1.5 Diversity & Inclusion equipping new work spaces or renovating offices, elecVontobel wants to strengthen employee awareness of the tronically adjustable desks are usually installed to allow topic of Diversity & Inclusion. We have therefore defined employees to alter their height of their work station – three main areas that we will focus on going forward: reflecting ergonomic recommendations that employees “Gender”, “Nationality” and “Demography”. We have forshould switch positions while working. Studies have conmulated appropriate and realistic goals – referred to as our firmed the benefits of this approach: By reducing the “Aspirations 2020” for each area. We provide detailed amount of time that employees spend sitting by up to information about our various activities on the Intranet on 30 %, it is possible to mitigate health problems. an ongoing basis. In the “Gender” focus area, we are striving to continuously increase the number of women at senior management level or with leadership responsibilities. Since 2017, 26 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Age structure 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Up to 20 years old 28 2 27 2 21 to 30 years old 184 10 171 10 31 to 40 years old 527 30 511 29 41 to 50 years old 620 35 602 34 51 to 60 years old 364 21 387 22 More than 60 years old 44 2 58 3 Total 1,767 100 1,756 100 Average age (in years) 43 43 Age structure of the Board of Directors 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % 31 to 40 years old 2 22 2 22 41 to 50 years old 2 22 2 22 51 to 60 years old 2 22 3 34 More than 60 years old 3 34 2 22 Total 9 100 9 100 Years of service 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 NUMBER IN % NUMBER IN % Up to 1 year 220 12 221 13 > 1 up to 5 years 664 38 672 38 > 5 up to 10 years 415 23 455 26 > 10 up to 20 years 371 21 312 18 > 20 up to 30 years 67 4 67 3 > 30 years 30 2 29 2 Total 1,767 100 1,756 100 Breakdown of rank structure by gender as of 31.12.2017 PROPORTION NUMBER OF PROPORTION NUMBER OF OF WOMEN OF WOMEN MEN MEN Employee 125 51 % 120 49 % Middle management 260 43 % 343 57 % Senior management 148 16 % 765 84 % Executive Board 0 0% 6 100 % Total 533 30 % 1,234 70 % Board of Directors 3 33 % 6 67 % Breakdown of full-time and part-time positions by gender as of 31.12.2017 NUMBER OF PROPORTION NUMBER PROPORTION TOTAL TOTAL WOMEN OF WOMEN OF MEN OF MEN NUMBER PROPORTION 20–49 % 20 4% 10 1% 30 2% 50–79 % 73 13 % 44 3% 117 6% 80–99 % 74 14 % 61 5% 135 8% 100 % 366 69 % 1,119 91 % 1,485 84 % Total 533 100 % 1,234 100 % 1,767 100 % Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 27 1.7 Combining family and professional commitments 2 Serving communities In the case of both maternity and paternity leave, the benefits that Vontobel grants to working parents go beyond We have a long tradition of social responsibility at Vontobel. the statutory minimum. Female employees who have been Our company is an integral part of the global economic with the company for up to six years are entitled to four system and we benefit from the excellent operating envimonths of maternity leave on full pay. After completing six ronment in our Swiss home market, with its high standards years of service, they benefit from six months of maternity of education, good infrastructure and political stability. We leave on full pay. Vontobel grants new fathers five days of therefore have a responsibility to promote the welfare and paternity leave. For a number of years, we have been a stability of the communities in which we work and we member of kcc group (globegarden), an organization that invest in a variety of initiatives and projects in this context. offers families complete childcare solutions. Wherever possible from an operational perspective, Vontobel Economic value distributed endeavors to meet requests for part-time working arrangeCHF MN 2017 2016 ments from employees, including members of middle Value creation 1 794.3 829.1 management. Taxes 2 55.6 61.8 Dividend for the fiscal year 3 117.6 111.8 Since 2016, employees in Switzerland have had the option of purchasing up to a maximum of 10 individual days of 1 Income less general expense and depreciation of property, holiday in addition to their normal holiday entitlement. equipment and intangible assets 2 Includes income tax, tax on capital and other taxes and Almost 12 % (2016: 7 %) of employees have so far made contributions use of this option. 3 As per proposal submitted to the General Meeting 1.7.1 Swiss National Future Day 2017 In 2017, value creation declined by 4 % compared to the In 2017, Vontobel participated in National Future Day for previous year and taxes paid decreased by 10 %. In the the twelfth time. Hundreds of companies, organizations previous year, value creation and net profit were higher and universities across Switzerland open their doors on due to significant one-off impacts. However, on an this day and children in grades 5 to 7 are invited to accomadjusted basis, net profit rose in 2017. The Board of Direcpany an adult with whom they have close ties (parents, tors will therefore propose a 5 % increase in the dividend to god parents, aunts or uncles) to work. During the morning shareholders. The total amount donated by Vontobel in session of Future Day at Vontobel, the children learn inter2017 was CHF 175,391 (2016: 150,750). esting facts about the bank and then spend the remainder of the day – i.e. lunch and the afternoon session – with the 2.1 Supporter of the Munich Security Conference accompanying adult. In 2017, more than 80 children took Vontobel is one of the supporters of the internationally part in Future Day at Vontobel. renowned Munich Security Conference (MSC). Over the past five decades, the MSC has become a leading forum 1.8 Employee satisfaction for the international strategic community. It brings together In 2017, we continued working on the topics identified in heads of state and government, ministers, leading figures the 2015 employee survey. This includes measures in the in international organizations and NGOs, CEOs and other Diversity & Inclusion focus areas, regular town halls at all specialists to debate key security policy challenges. In locations, and the more targeted promotion of talent and 2017, a study by the University of Pennsylvania once again employee development. The next regular employee survey named the MSC the “Best Think Tank Conference” in the is due to take place in 2018. world. 1.9 Employee engagement 2.2 Founding member of the Corporate Support Group The transfer of knowledge benefits society. A number of Vontobel is a founding member of the Corporate Support Vontobel employees share their expertise with others by Group of the International Committee of the Red Cross giving talks and presentations at training events that are (ICRC). This Support Group was established by the ICRC held internally or at external educational establishments. and selected Swiss companies in 2005 in order to build an This makes it possible to ensure the transfer of knowledge innovative long-term partnership. This cooperation allows within the company and to raise public awareness about complex risks to be better identified and resources to be the complex interrelationships within the financial markets used more effectively. and the importance of the finance industry for the Swiss economy. Education is increasingly becoming a humanitarian need – especially in countries with long-running conflicts such During the Advent period in 2017, Vontobel employees set as Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. Vontobel therefore works up a market stall in front of Vontobel’s office at Bleicherwith the ICRC to help children in Syria to attend school weg and handed out warm punch to passers-by. A donasafely despite the country’s military conflict. In late 2017, tion was made to the University Children’s Hospital Zurich Vontobel launched its third fundraising campaign involving (Kispi) for each beaker of punch given out. all employees to support the ICRC. In addition, we made a donation to this ICRC project for every Christmas card sent by the company. 28 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 2.3 Financial inclusion The winner of “A New Gaze” in 2017 was Eva O’Leary (born Access to financial services – which is referred to as 1989), whose work “Concealer” was exhibited at “financial inclusion” – has a key role to play in efforts to Vontobel’s head office at the start of the year. With her combat poverty and has been classed as a civil right in camera, the young American photographer explored US many European countries for over a century. We have a society with a focus on the conflict between appearance stake in responsAbility, one of the world’s leading asset and reality and between security and insecurity. She intermanagers in the field of development investments. connected seemingly perfect advertising images with Through its investment vehicles, responsAbility supplies everyday life, which is increasingly defined by the Internet debt and equity financing to non-listed firms in emerging and social media. In 2018, “A New Gaze” will be dedicated economies and developing countries. to African photography and we will present the wining project in autumn 2018. 3 Promoting culture and education Vontobel also lends its support to leading institutions in the fields of modern and contemporary art. For example, Renowned cultural institutions and events increase the we are one of the supporters of the association of the attractiveness of the places where they are located and friends of the Pinakothek der Moderne museum in Munich enhance quality of life. Consequently, we give some of the (PIN) and we support the annual PIN.PARTY, which value we create back to society by promoting culture and includes a charitable auction. education. At present, our primary focus is on classical music. Another area of focus is modern art. On the educa3.3 Vontobel Impact tion side, we are involved in initiating and supporting platIn a globalized world, the permanent exchange of knoforms that promote dialogue about key issues of our time. whow across borders creates value for individuals and society. We make a significant contribution towards this 3.1 Lucerne Festival with “Impact”, our platform that enables committed figThe Lucerne Festival is one of the world’s most renowned ures from society, science, politics and the arts to share classical music festivals. In addition to its unique line-up of their views. With their expertise, they provide insights into top international orchestras and soloists, the Lucerne Festhe challenges of our time from a new perspective. In 2017, tival in Summer features a general theme that is reflected we published an issue of the magazine “Impact” that was in its program and the artists selected to perform in it. As dedicated to the topic “Identity” and established a correwell as promoting musical excellence, the Lucerne Festival sponding digital platform that regularly featured articles initiates and supports cultural and social projects. In 2017, and reports during the year (vontobel.com/impact). We the theme of the Lucerne Festival in Summer was “Idenalso held two events with renowned experts on the topics tity”. It therefore provided support to organizations includ“100 days of Trump” in Zurich and “Germany has voted – ing the charitable organization “hope”, with asylum seekwhat next?” in Munich. ers being given tickets to attend a performance of Mozart’s opera “Idomeneo” that largely focuses on the topic “Identity”, thus closing the circle. Vontobel supports the Lucerne Festival as the theme sponsor. We are also one of the main supporters of the American Friends of Lucerne Festival. 3.2 Contemporary art Art has always been part of Vontobel’s corporate culture. Since 2015, the Vontobel Art Committee has been building a collection of contemporary photography in consultation with experts in this field. The works in the collection help to promote an inspiring environment and artistic creativity at an international level. In addition to this collection, the Vontobel Art Committee launched “A New Gaze” – a new photography prize for young artists – in 2017. It includes CHF 20,000 of prize money and will enable one young photographer each year to realize his or her own artistic project – from the design phase through to an exhibition and catalogue. “A New Gaze” searches for new perspectives of our world and moves from continent to continent. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 29 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Notes on the report As a provider of financial products, we also incorporate Sustainability reporting according to the Global sustainability aspects into our products and services and Reporting Initiative (GRI) into partnerships and relationships with suppliers. Further Our sustainability report has been produced in accordinformation is available in the preceding chapters (G4 –20, ance with the principles set out in the Global Reporting G4–21). Unless stated otherwise, the reporting boundary Initiative (GRI) for the eighth time. The GRI has set itself the encompasses Vontobel Holding AG with the subsidiaries goal of increasing the transparency and comparability of listed in the consolidated annual financial statements as corporate reporting globally (www.globalreporting.org). In well as their locations. Unless stated otherwise, the reportimplementing this reporting standard, we provide a high ing period is from 1 January to 31 December 2017. The level of transparency about our sustainability objectives environmental key figures relate to the period from 1 Octoand performance for all stakeholders. Consequently, our ber 2016 to 30 September 2017. Information on the scope Sustainability Report describes numerous current key perof consolidation can be found on pages 205–206 of the formance indicators and changes and it applies the GRI Annual Report (G4–17). We have not made any restateG4 guidelines. As in prior years, we have selected the ments or corrections to the previous year’s disclosures “core” reporting option. (G4–22, G4–23). Material topics and system boundaries for reporting Commitment to stakeholders Vontobel carried out the process defined under G4 to An open dialogue (G4–26) is key in order to gain a better determine material aspects and indicators in various workunderstanding of the needs of our clients, employees, shops and interviews. During this process, we discussed suppliers and cooperation partners and to take account of all the GRI aspects and the Financial Sector supplements the interests of local communities and NGOs. We want to that apply specifically to the financial sector and deterengage with our stakeholders by providing clear and commined their materiality for Vontobel. Corporate Sustainaprehensible information on different challenges and bility Management carried out a final review and already opportunities relating to ESG matters. Regular employee included the material aspects in the Sustainability Report and client surveys are key tools in this context, as are tarin 2014, assigning them the relevant indicators. The followgeted discussions with our suppliers. In 2017, we impleing GRI aspects continue to be material for the company mented measures based on the results of the 2015 and we cover them in the report in accordance with the employee and client surveys. Issues raised by employees GRI G4 guidelines (G4–19): included calls for enhanced internal communication and –– Economic performance targeted support in the area of career development. The –– Indirect economic impacts majority of clients indicated that they were very satisfied –– Materials with Vontobel but we nonetheless want to achieve –– Energy improvements in this area and to further strengthen client –– Emissions satisfaction and trust in our company (G4–27). –– Employment –– Training and education We are making good progress in these efforts: In 2017, –– Diversity and equal opportunity Vontobel once again received numerous awards. After –– Non-discrimination 2014, 2015 and 2016, the Swiss business magazine –– Anti-corruption “Bilanz” assigned us another top-three place in its private –– Product and service labelling banking ratings. In the “Fuchsbriefe TOPs 2017”, we –– Customer privacy achieved the highest rating “excellent” in Private Banking –– Product compliance in the overall evaluation. We also took first place in the –– Product portfolio “Best advisory team” category and came third in the coun–– Active ownership try rating for Germany. 30 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability GRI Content Index PAGE IN ASPECTS / INDICATORS NOTES ANNUAL REPORT* Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Statement core 88 G4-2 Sustainability driven risks, opportunities and impacts core 88 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization core 228 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services core 12, 13, 24, 26, 28 G4-5 Organization headquarters core 214, 228 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates core 12, 228 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form core 35 G4-8 Markets served core 24, 26, 28 G4-9 Scale of the organization core 105 G4-10 Total number of employees core 106 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements core 105 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain core 102 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period core 206 G4-14 Application of the precautionary approach or principle core 135, 88 G4-15 Support for external initiatives core 109, 110 G4-16 Memberships core 89 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated annual statements core 111 G4-18 Determination of report content core 111 G4-19 Material aspects core 111 G4-20 Material aspects and report boundaries within the organization core 111 G4-21 Material aspects and report boundaries outside the organization core 111 G4-22 Corporate changes compared to the previous year core 111 G4-23 Significant changes in scope as well as report boundaries from the previous period core 111 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Relevant stakeholder groups core 90 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders core 90 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement core 111 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders core 111 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period core 111 G4-29 Date of last report core Feb 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle core 111 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report core 227 G4-32 Chosen reporting option core 111 G4-33 External assurance core no ext. assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure core 34 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization values, principles, standards and norms core 90 Economic performance m. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 109 G4-EC1-FS Community investments p.c. 94, 95, 109 G4-EC3 Coverage social benefits 161 * Page numbers refer to the Vontobel Annual Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 31 PAGE IN ASPECTS / INDICATORS NOTES ANNUAL REPORT* Indirect economic impacts m. G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and supported services p.c. 94, 95, 109 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 109 Materials m. G4-EN1 Materials used 104 G4-EN2 Recycled input materials used 104 Energy m. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 104 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 104 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 104 Emissions m. G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN15-FS Business travel related direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN16 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN17 Other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 104 G4-EN17-FS Other business travel related Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions intensity 104 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 Employment m. G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 105 G4-LA2 Employee benefits 107, 109 Training and education m. G4-LA10 Continued Learning Training programs 106, 107 G4-LA11 Employee performance and career development reviews 105, 106 Diversity and equal opportunity m. G4-LA12 Staff and managment structure 108 Non-discrimination m. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 Anti-corruption m. G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 90, 91 G4-SO4 Anti-Corruption employee training 91 Product and service labelling m. G4-PR3 Product and service information 91 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction surveys 92, 93 Customer privacy m. G4-PR8 Loss of customer privacy and data 91 Product compliance m. Fines due to non-compliance with respect to the provision of products and G4-PR9 services 91 Financial Sector specific indiactors: product portfolio and active ownership m. FS6 Business lines by region, size and sector p.c. 25, 27, 29 FS7 Contribution of products and services to the facilitation of social capital p.c. 92 FS10 Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 FS11 Assets subject to environmental or social screening 99 core = general standard disclosures; mandatory reporting m.= aspect defined as material for Vontobel p.c. = Omissions due to partial coverage. We are working to increase data coverage in the coming years. * Page numbers refer to the Vontobel Annual Report 2017 32 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Over 9,200 companies from 164 countries have signed the UN Global Compact and pledged to uphold ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Vontobel became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2017. This is the first Communication on Progress (COP) report on the implementation of the ten principles at Vontobel. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED ASPECTS PAGE IN ANNUAL REPORT* AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should Aspect Non-discrimination support and respect the G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 protection of internationally Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership proclaimed human rights FS7: Contribution of products and services to the facilitation of social capital 92 FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 95–99 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 99 Principle 2: Make sure that Aspect Organizational Profile they are not complicit G4–12: Organization’s supply chain 102 in human rights abuses Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS7: Contribution of products and services to the facilitation of social capital 92 FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 95–99 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 99 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should Aspect Organizational Profile uphold the freedom of G4–11: Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 105 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all Aspect Organizational Profile forms of forced and compulsory G4–12: Organization’s supply chain 102 labor Aspect Economic performance G4–EC3: Coverage social benefits 161 Principle 5: Effective abolition of Aspect Organizational Profile child labor G4–12: Organization’s supply chain 102 Principle 6: Elimination of Aspect Organizational Profile discrimination in respect G4–10: Total number of employees 106 of employment and occupation Aspect Employment G4–LA1: New employee hires and employee turnover 105 Aspect Training and education G4–LA10: Continued Learning Training programs 106, 107 G4–LA11: Employee performance and career development reviews 105, 106 Aspect Diversity and equal opportunity G4–LA12: Staff and management structure 108 Aspect Non-discrimination G4–HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 105 * Page numbers refer to the Vontobel Annual Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 33 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION AT VONTOBEL: CONTENT-RELATED ASPECTS PAGE IN ANNUAL REPORT* AND COVERAGE ACCORDING TO GRI REPORTING Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Aspect Materials support a precautionary approach G4-EN1: Materials used 104 to environmental challenges G4-EN2: Recycled input materials used 104 Aspect Energy G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization 104 G4-EN5: Energy intensity 104 G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption 104 Aspect Emissions G4-EN15: Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN15-FS: Business travel related direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN16: Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN17: Other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 104 G4-EN17-FS: Other business travel related Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN18: Greenhouse Gas Emissions intensity 104 G4-EN19: Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 Financial Sector specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership FS10: Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental issues 95–99 FS11: Assets subject to environmental or social screening 99 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives Aspect Materials to promote greater environmental G4-EN1: Materials used 104 responsibility G4-EN2: Recycled input materials used 104 Aspect Energy G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization 104 G4-EN5: Energy intensity 104 G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption 104 Aspect Emissions G4-EN15: Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN15-FS: Business travel related direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN16: Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN17: Other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 104 G4-EN17-FS: Other business travel related Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 G4-EN18: Greenhouse Gas Emissions intensity 104 G4-EN19: Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 Principle 9: Encourage the Aspect Energy development and diffusion G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption 104 of environmentally friendly Aspect Emissions technologies G4-EN19: Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 104 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Aspect Ethics and Integrity work against corruption in all its G4–56: Organization values, principles, standards and norms 90 forms, including extortion and G4–SO3: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 90, 91 bribery G4–SO4: Anti-Corruption employee training 91 * Page numbers refer to the Vontobel Annual Report 2017 34 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Vontobel Advisory Council: Sparring partners and ambassadors for Vontobel The Vontobel Advisory Council is a group of individuals with a business or political background from Switzerland and Vontobel’s focus markets who are selected to act as sparring partners to the Executive Board and as ambassadors for Vontobel. Their external expertise and experience is to be put to targeted use to identify trends and to discuss Vontobel’s further development. The Vontobel Advisory Council, which will meet twice annually, currently has the following members: The Rt Hon. Lord Patten of Barnes CH, whose long career includes posts as European Commissioner and as the last Governor of Hong Kong, who transferred sovereignty over the former British crown ­colony to the People’s Republic of China in 1997. Following his active political life, Lord Patten served as Chancellor of Newcastle University, among other roles, and has been Chancellor of the University of Oxford since 2003. Picture by Caroline Forbes, courtesy to Penguin Books Vittorio Volpi, who has more than 50 years of experience in management positions across a wide variety of businesses within the international finance industry, including serving as President of UBS in Italy and as Chairman of UBS Japan for many years. Today, Vittorio Volpi is Chairman of a range of companies and consultancies in Europe. Carlo Pesenti, who has served as Chief Operating Officer of Italmobiliare SpA since 2014. Italmobiliare, a leading Italian holding company with a history spanning more than 150 years manages holdings in a large number of industrial, media and private equity firms. Carlo Pesenti is a member of the governing bodies of numerous companies and has a seat on the Board of the Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore. Felix Happel, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Porterhouse Group AG, Lucerne, a European holding company that combines innovative firms with unique selling propositions. Porterhouse uses its own funds to acquire majority stakes in small and medium-sized companies and supports their long-term development. Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability 35 Legal Information This report is intended solely for information purposes and is expressly not addressed to any person who by domicile or nationality is prohibited to receive such information according to the applicable law. The information and views contained in it do not constitute a request, offer or recommendation to use a service, to buy or sell investment instruments or to conduct other transactions. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. This report also appears in German. The German version is prevailing. At Vontobel, we actively shape the future. We master what we do – and we only do what we master. From Zurich, Frankfurt am Main and London over New York and Dubai to Hong Kong – throughout 20 offices, we service our clients. Vontobel Gotthardstrasse 43 8022 Zurich vontobel.com
