Annual & Sustainability Report MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Index 3 Messages from the leadership 3 Message from the President of the Board of Directors 27 Toll roads 4 Message from the CEO 29 Quality of service 30 Safe operations 5 About the report 31 Operational eco-efficiency 7 The CCR Group 32 Urban mobility How to use this document 10 Strategy and opportunities 34 Quality of service MENU 10 Strategy and opportunities 35 Safe operations Navigate through the top menu for 13 Economic performance 36 Operational eco-efficiency MESSAGES ABOUT THE REPORT the chapters of your interest 15 Business model 37 Airports HOME Arrows Click this icon Navigate page 17 Governance and ethical conduct 39 Quality of service to return to by page using the index the arrows in 40 Safe operations the upper right 21 Services 41 Operational eco-efficiency PRINT corner Use this shortcut to 23 Development of human capital print PDF content 26 Excellence in innovation and technology 42 Outlook 2 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Message from the President of the Board of Directors CCR Group is recognized, in Brazil and all other All these actions, together with the continuous evolution countries where it operates, for the good corporate of the Integrity and Compliance Program, are of great governance practices that it incorporates into its importance in driving CCR Group to a new cycle of growth management. This commitment dates back to the in its history. The confidence of Brazilian and international creation of Novo Mercado, a B3 segment that brings investors leverages our ability to invest, acquire more business together companies with superior governance and enhance the benefits that the responsible management standards and that we were the first company to join. of concessions brings to society as a whole, while maintaining capital discipline. We stress our commitment to the decision to adopt, in 2018, all the recommendations of the Novo Mercado The Board of Directors actively strives to identify and assess regulation approved by participants last year, including risks and opportunities for business in the domestic and those that have until 2021 to be incorporated. We foreign markets, defining the strategic guidelines to be went further and will also be incorporating the executed by the Executive Board and by employees. The changes that we voted for but that did not become alignment of the management structure is one of the mandatory, namely: a public offering for relevant share factors that explain how we have, in almost two decades of ownership and the obligatory publication of a report existence of CCR Group, overcome challenges and achieved with environmental, social and corporate governance so much valuable recognition for our reputation. information. We hope that the country will soon be able to leave behind Another development that emphasizes transparency the political and economic turmoil that hit the infrastructure in our relationship with all stakeholders, and in sector so hard. There are already signs of a new growth particular with our shareholders, is alignment with the trajectory and we will be increasingly prepared to seize guidelines of the Brazilian Corporate Governance Code opportunities and contribute to Brazil’s development. for Publicly-Held Companies, in accordance with the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (Brazilian Securities Murilo Passos and Exchange Commission – CVM) instruction. President of the Board of Directors 3 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Message CCR Group made important progress towards achieving its strategic goals and growing in an officially recognized In the second half of 2017, the Brazilian economy began to show signs of recovery, indicating that the country may be from the CEO manner in 2017, while maintaining capital discipline over one of the most serious crises in its history. The increase and the integration of sustainability in all segments. We in productive activity, which is important for generating value have dedicated efforts to a major project to revisit our in our business model, is already visible in the increase in organizational structure and therefore created four new traffic on toll roads and the reduction of unemployment. business areas: CCR Rodovias SP, CCR Rodovias BR, CCR Mobilidade and CCR Aeroportos. However, the resumption of economic growth still depends on other factors such as the government’s ability to approve This configuration will be crucial in enabling us to acquire the reforms needed to adjust public spending and the new projects in the short and medium terms, and to make comeback of the investment capacity. It is for this reason that the investments that Brazil so badly needs in infrastructure, the partnership with the private sector for the development of with the professionalism and commitment that mark our infrastructure is so opportune and necessary for Brazil. trajectory of almost 20 years. The teams that are part of these new areas are formed by current employees of The growth of CCR Group therefore meets a very significant CCR Group, who are familiar with our values and demand in the country. Our cities depend on more modern committed to overcoming new challenges. mobility systems and airports need to be modernized to amplify the flow and generation of wealth. The preparation and impressive qualifications of our employees were essential in enabling us to reach this Our way of operating and managing business serves the new stage. We must remain firm in the strategy of training interests of our main stakeholders, including shareholders, and preparing our people so that they are ready to occupy grantor authorities and users. Investments made through new positions as new opportunities emerge alongside CCR Institute bring benefits for communities and contribute business growth. to the social and economic development of the municipalities in which we are present. Our corporate governance ensures The confidence of our shareholders is another key factor the highest level of compliance and transparency in our that leverages our ability to start a new cycle of growth. management, guaranteeing ethics in all our activities. In 2017, we raised capital for CCR Group through a new share offering that brought in R$ 4.07 billion, an important Our success in implementing the strategy we have defined resource for maintaining the company’s solidity and financial is therefore in line with relevant global movements such health. as the Global Compact principles and the achievement of targets proposed by the Sustainable Development Goals, both Financial resources are essential for the realization of United Nations (UN) initiatives. With the commitment of all investments in our concession units, and we must continue our employees, the greatest strength of CCR Group, we will to seek more competitive options for CCR Group. CCR continue to contribute to society for many more decades. AutoBAn delivered the first phase of the Jundiaí Road Complex (SP) last year, three months ahead of schedule, an example of how we work to honor the commitments Renato Alves Vale assumed in the concessions. CCR Goup’s CEO 4 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY About the report The Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 is available in a set of versions tailored for the CCR Group, one of the pioneers in adopting the into this publication. The company also implemented different stakeholders: International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) changes based on inquiries and feedback from rating • GRI Guidebook – framework, presents in its Annual & Sustainability agencies and demands of the main sustainability consolidated publication of Report the main business challenges and advances indices, the B3 Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and information that meets GRI that occurred throughout 2017. The document, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), as well as Standards requirements, released at the same time as the financial statements, lessons learned from the last reporting cycle. grouped by material issue provides information on performance and strategy in a transparent, timely and integrated manner, A significant development of this edition is the early • Online version – website with focusing on the more pressing risks and opportunities adoption of the GRI Standards which was published summarized content and for the creation of value in the six capitals: financial, by the Global Reporting Initiative in October 2016 and accessibility resources manufactured, human, intellectual, social & will become mandatory for reporting according to the • Greenhouse Gas Inventory relationship and natural. entity’s guidelines only after July 2018. This alignment (GHG Inventory) – helps to highlight the material issues of CCR Group communicative version In order to continually improve its accountability, CCR throughout the publication, and was reflected in the with the main results and Group submitted its Annual & Sustainability Report presentation of indicators in addition to those of 2016, initiatives in climate change 2016 for evaluation by specialists and investors over especially those related to remuneration, governance the course of last year. Comments were reviewed and compliance. Complete responses to GRI indicators • Report on Activities of the by the company and incorporated as improvements are available in the GRI Guidebook. CCR Institute – published for the first time, the report highlights the value proposition and important advances of the Institute in REPORT EVOLUTION the year Opportunity Improvement implemented • Specific version for employees Provide evidence of the relationship between the A new business model representation proposal seeks to provide evidence of where and how business model and the ability to create long-term value value is created in the activities of the Group. Find out more in the Business model chapter. All these publications were written in Portuguese, English Strengthen the correlation At the beginning of each chapter, the report contains a special section that presents and Spanish. Whenever with global commitments the key value creation levers and opportunities for alignment with the SDG for possible, refer to the a particular business or issue. institutional and investor relations websites and other Drill down through information In addition to emphasizing the relationship between the company’s activities, risks and public documents, such as on risks and opportunities opportunities throughout the text, the Strategy and opportunities chapter consolidates the policies and reports submitted reporting of external factors and strategic priorities with the greatest impact on business. to the Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), for Facilitate the identification The adoption of GRI Standards facilitated the connection between performance indicators and of material issues material issues. Moreover, the structure of the chapters of the GRI Guidebook also reflects the further details. topics prioritized in the materiality matrix. Read more about this topic here. Click here to access them. 5 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Materiality Material issues of CCR Group Global Compact matrix Click on each issue to understand how it is related to the SDG The material issues underpinning and the 10 Principles of the Global Compact 1 Respect the 2017 Annual & Sustainability Report do not present any significant change in comparison Business to the matrix presented in the strategy and 17 1 economic 2 Ensure previous publication. In the cycle of surveys held in 2016, the company performance 16 2 had engaged its key internal (employees and top management) Governance and 15 3 3 Support and external (suppliers, municipal authorities, users, regulators, ethical conduct grantor authorities, institutional partners and the community) stakeholders. The prioritization Relations with 14 4 of the issues considered, above all, the possibility of future stakeholders and community 4 Eliminate opportunities; control of risks development by the company; and positive SDG 5 Erradicate or negative impacts on the 13 5 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Development of human capital 6 Stimulate This matrix matured and was 12 6 incorporated into management over the past year on a basis of the Quality opportunities for improvement of of service 7 Assume the report identified with the IIRC 11 7 and capital market representatives. Safe From this point on, the material operations 8 issues were regrouped into five 10 corporate issues and two related 9 to modes of transport (toll roads, urban mobility and airports), Operational eco-efficiency Back to start 8 Develop reflecting synergies of structure and management. Excellence and Innovation was incorporated into Quality of Service, and Relationship Click here to learn more about 9 Promote with Grantor and Regulatory the materiality process starting Authority was absorbed by on page 89 of the Annual & 10 Fight Governance and Ethical Conduct. Sustainability Report 2016 6 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY The CCR Group The new organizational CCR Group was created with the purpose of facilitating Chief Executive structure will facilitate infrastructure investment and service solutions that contribute to Brazil’s social and economic development. Since 1999, Office a new cycle of growth when it was founded, the Group has improved the conditions of roads on which the people and products that create Institutional and investments the country’s wealth travel. Throughout its trajectory, it has expanded its presence into the urban mobility and Relations for CCR Group airport sectors, reached the international market, and put all its technical and management knowledge to use in the Communication Compliance development of more sustainable and intelligent cities. & Sustainability Between 2016 and 2017, aware of its role in society, CCR Group developed the Repensar Project, promoting a Corporate CCR CCR CCR CCR transformation in its governance model. Now, each segment – Management Rodovias SP Rodovias BR Mobilidade Aeroportos state toll roads, federal toll roads, airports and urban mobility – is managed by a specific business area, with dedicated and Business New New New New exclusive professionals and to which the business units are Development Business Business Business Business now directly accountable. With this new organizational structure, CCR Group has two Finance & IR Functional Functional Functional Functional main objectives. The first is to promote synergy between units Support Support Support Support and the sharing of good financial, operational and social and environmental management practices, along with an increase in the capacity to create value for all stakeholders in different Legal Department CCR USA types of capital. The second is to add even more efficiency NovaDutra ViaLagos and flexibility to the act of prospecting and capturing new business, enabling a new cycle of growth and investments. Planning & Control Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Assinatura Secundária Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Assinatura Secundária Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Assinatura Secundária Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Assinatura Secundária The Shared Services Center, formed by CCR Actua, CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec, is a competitive differential that drives CCR Group in search of this new cycle of growth. Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária The units render administrative, engineering and information C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 technology services with innovation, quality and competitive costs, providing efficient and differentiated solutions to Referência de cores: PANTONE 294 C PANTONE Process Cyan C PANTONE Cool Gray 11 C Assinatura Preferencial C-100 M-70 Y-0 K-20 C-100 M-0 Y-0 K-0 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Referência de cores: improve the performance of the operational units and the PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Referência de cores: Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 integration of new business. C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Institutional strategic management Business development and management Assinatura Secundária Referência de cores: Corporate management Corporate officer management PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 7 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Map of business presence Click on the map key to discover the location and the scope of operations of CCR Group CORPORATE Actua Instituto OFFICES CCR Actua provides CCR Institute consolidates administrative management services the social investiments of to CCR Group companies, handling CCR Group, with special the organization of processes and emphasis on the Estrada para providing gains of scale. a Saúde (Road to Health) and TOLL ROADS Caminhos para a Cidadania (Paths to Citizenship) projects. Engelog CCR Engelog provides management URBAN service in the area of engineering to MOBILITY CCR Group companies. Samm provides high capacity data transmission services in the regions of São Paulo, 1 Rio de Janeiro and Paraná. EngelogTec AIRPORTS CCR Engelog Tec handles the management of information technology for CCR Group companies. It plays a strategic 1 CCR Actua, and functional role in processes São CCR Engelog, Paulo related to concession user service SERVICES CCR EngelogTec delivery technology. and CCR Institute 2 2 Samm Back to start 8 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY CCR Institute R$ 37.2 Click here To increase the likelihood of positive impacts of the to find out more about million business model and generate positive transformations activities involved in the communities served by the concessions, the and the results of the projects developed on invested Group created CCR Institute in 2014 with the mission of qualifying and structuring the management of projects the website or in the by the CCR 26 Report on Activities of that promote the social and environmental and economic development of municipalities. The CCR Institute is a Institute in the CCR Institute Public Interest Civil Society Organization (Oscip) which, besides managing its own investments or tax incentives, 2017 thousand acts as a facilitator for the formation of partnerships with truck drivers assisted in the 3 other players capable of multiplying the Group’s strategic Estrada para a sustainability vision. One of the key projects developed by CCR Institute, Saúde program milion which partnered up with Mercedes-Benz in 2017, is people served by Estrada para a Saúde (Road to Health), which provides various types of services to improve the health and the Caminhos quality of life of truck drivers traveling on CCR Group’s para a Cidadania toll roads. In 2017, 26 thousand of these professionals made use of the services provided at the fixed stations of program CCR ViaOeste and CCR AutoBAn, or the touring stations operated by CCR NovaDutra, CCR RodoNorte and CCR MSVia. The most popular services include nursing, dentistry and hairdressers. Caminhos para a Cidadania (Paths to Citizenship) is another major initiative that serves approximately 110 municipalities in the states of São Paulo, Paraná and Rio de Janeiro. The program is of a social and educational nature, promoting lessons and reflections on traffic safety, citizenship and environmental preservation for public school students. In addition, it trains teachers, provides educational materials and carries out complementary activities, such as theater performances and educational campaigns. The CCR Institute follows the guidelines of CCR Group’s Social Responsibility Policy, which aims to provide business sustainability through the creation of value for shareholders, employees, users, suppliers and communities close to the concession areas. 9 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Strategy and opportunities CCR Group’s business model and the creation In the political scenario, important structural of value within the units are directly linked Toll roads Growth of traffic (millions of equivalent vehicles)* reform projects were resumed by the to Brazil’s economic growth and dynamism. 1,005 government, aimed at reducing indebtedness 969 981 Between 2015 and 2016, there was a and adjusting government accounts. However, cumulative decrease of 7.2% in the country’s the government’s capacity to make the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which resulted infrastructure investments needed for the in higher unemployment, lower household country’s growth continues to be negatively consumption, less traffic on the roads, affected by the recent recession and the slump and other factors. These conditions were in tax revenues. compounded by rising inflation which led to 2015 2016 2017 continuously high interest rates. *Information only on the controlled concessions, The partnership between private sector and disregarding Renovias and ViaRio. grantor authorities is an important lever Starting in the second half of 2017, this to enable the country to overcome the scenario began to change and to indicate various challenges it currently faces, such as the recovery of Brazilian economic activity. The Selic rate dropped to 7%, the lowest Urban Passengers transported improving the logistics of goods and services and mobility in urban centers. In this respect, level since 2013. The country recorded, for mobility (millions)* 239 272 the Investment Partnership Program (PPI), example, an increase in exports of agricultural 219 launched in 2016 by the federal government, products and mineral commodities, as well caters to the interests of society, having as an increase in the production and sale of enabled approximately R$ 142 billion in vehicles. The level of unemployment, although investments in the last 18 months, according still at high levels (above 12%) at year-end to data released by the Federal Government closing, also began to drop. Avançar Parcerias (Advance Partnerships) 2015 2016 2017 program. Last year another 57 projects were The more favorable conditions allowed CCR *Consolidated information on the concessions, regardless of the included in the PPI; among these were new ownership percentage of CCR Group. Group to present more positive financial and airport and toll road concessions expected to operating performance results at the close be awarded by the end of 2018. of 2017. While the interest rate downslide favored the reduction of the net debt, the Airports Boarding passengers At the state level, local governments have volume of traffic on the roads grew in the (millions)* also shown signs to willingness to form last two quarters of the year. The number of 11.1 partnerships in the area of infrastructure. 10.2 10.5 urban mobility equipment users and airport The urban mobility segment, with special departures also increased in the period, emphasis on rail transport, will require another sign of economic recovery. significant investments in the construction and modernization of assets, opening up new business opportunities for CCR Group. 2015 2016 2017 *Consolidated information on the concessions in Brazil and abroad, regardless of the ownership percentage of CCR Group. 10 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY The reorganization of the administrative Airports structure completed in 2017 by CCR Group is partly aimed at supporting the identification Toll roads Urban of opportunities, the achievement of new concessions and the consolidation of a new In Brazil, more than 1.5 mobility In Brazil and abroad, CCR Group cycle of growth. Therefore, each of the four thousand kilometers of has the chance to expand its In the urban mobility areas (CCR Rodovias SP, CCR Rodovias BR, federal and state toll presence in the airport sector. The segment, the main CCR Mobilidade and CCR Aeroportos) has roads are scheduled to be main opportunities in the country opportunities for growth its own team to develop new business, with tendered for concessions are in the secondary market, in qualified people dedicated to understanding of the Group’s business in 2018. These involve which 13 assets already granted the demands and specificities of the segment. are in rail transportation. important commercial hubs will be re-tendered by the federal In São Paulo, the state in different states, such as government. In the United New business opportunities in the coming government is considering Rio Grande do Sul, Santa States, where the sector operates years unfold on two fronts, basically: assets assigning new stretches Catarina, Minas Gerais, São differently from the Brazilian to be made available for the first time by of the subway and the grantor authority and secondary market Paulo, Goiás, and others, sector, opportunities have been metropolitan train network. concessions, in which CCR Group acquires an which connect agricultural mapped out in municipalities In other capitals such as asset already installed. These scenarios occur production regions to responsible for the administration Belo Horizonte, Recife, both in Brazil and abroad, in Latin American industrial areas and ports. of local airports in which there Porto Alegre, Brasília and countries and in the United States. In South America, business is growing interest in forming Fortaleza the demand for expansion opportunities partnerships with the private an increase in the mobility In addition, CCR Group identifies are in countries such as sector. To this end, the presence opportunities for growth within the infrastructure may also Colombia, Peru, Chile of CCR Aeroportos in that concessions it already manages, by extending create new business. and Argentina. country, through TAS and CCR the concession period vis-à-vis the investment USA, is strategic. in important works identified. Within this scope, different possibilities are evaluated by concessionaires such as CCR SPVias, CCR AutoBAn, CCR ViaOeste and CCR RodoNorte. • South Integration Road • Line 15 • Brazil Rio Grande do Sul Metrô SP New round In both scenarios, the Group’s ability to be • BR-101 • Lines 8 and 9 of biddings more competitive, to plan investments and (13 airports) Palhoça (SC) CPTM fundraising options, to integrate systems and processes with efficiency and lower • BR-364 • Lines 11, 12 and 13 • Latin America costs, to propose and implement innovative Jataí (GO) to Uberlândia (MG) CPTM and The Caribbean Most of airports under solutions, and other aspects, will be a decisive • MG-424 • TIC and Line 7 management of differential for the success of the strategy. Belo Horizonte to CPTM private initiative Sete Lagoas (MG) • Bogota Subway • United States • International Market Colombia 17 opportunities Colombia, Peru, mapped (short list) Chile and Argentina • Lima Subway – Line 3 Peru 11 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Growth THE 5 GROWTH PILLARS: pillars CCR Group’s business growth is based on five pillars that guarantee the evaluation Capital discipline: Qualified People Sustainability: Corporate and measurement of economic, social ensures that investments growth: management: qualified management, governance: and environmental impacts in decision are made to achieve the responsible training and planning and monitoring adoption of the making. These guidelines have always expected and projected assessment of current appreciation of to maximize opportunities highest standards been present in management and were the results in all contracts concessions and human capital, and minimize the risks of governance bases on which the number of units and entered into by CCR market opportunities putting the right of social, economic to ensure new businesses expanded in a solid and Group, balancing the in order to ensure people in the right and environmental transparency, sustainable way throughout the company’s interests of shareholders, business continuity, places and providing business impacts for all fairness and ethics 18 years of operation. users and grantor portfolio and risk opportunities for stakeholders. when conducting authorities. diversification. professional growth. business. Risk management Just as it continually evaluates opportunities By means of constant dialogue with committees that advise the Board of for growth and diversification of its regulatory agencies, one of the Directors. The internal audit, compliance, business, CCR Group also constantly stakeholders with which CCR Group financial management and internal monitors changes in the macroeconomic shares value in its business model, controls processes, working synergistically, and sectoral scenario that may influence strategic issues and those with an impact provide an integrated view of the risks its ability to create value and execute its on business are discussed in order to and of governance and control strategy. The main externalities monitored find solutions that ensure the balance improvement activities. by the Group are alterations of projections between the interests of shareholders, for the growth of the national economy, society and the grantor authority. This The Internal Audit, as defined in the which may impact the number of users in interaction is carried out in a transparent Internal Audit Policy, aims to provide concessions, and possible alterations made and coherent manner, in accordance with assurance to CCR Group shareholders and Risk management shared by the grantor authorities to the conditions the guidelines and policies established by officers that business risks are minimized, and regulations that determine the the Integrity and Compliance Program. identifying opportunities to help improve by a number of areas and performance of contracts and investments. When a consensual decision proves existing operational management practices the direct involvement impossible, the Group understands that and internal controls. CCR Group also keeps track of the the mediation of the judiciary, based on of governance in the main discussions and trends involved in the regulatory framework of the sector, is Linked to the Board of Directors, the sustainability issues, both globally and sufficient to ensure compliance with the role of the Audit Committee includes supervision of these nationally. One of the aspects on which the established rules. evaluating the Internal Audit Plan and Group focuses, for example, has been the the effectiveness of internal controls, activities allow an possible risks and opportunities of issues At the internal level, CCR Group proposing reviews and changes to control integrated vision and such as carbon pricing and the incorporation develops risk management shared processes, especially in areas with of this topic into the company’s strategy. between different areas and the high risk potential. continuous improvement 12 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Economic performance NET REVENUE (R$ million) 6,106.9 6,704.4 7,537.7 CCR Group’s growth strategy is defined by the Board of In 2017, CCR Group made investments of Directors on the basis of a long-term vision that seeks R$ 3.3 billion in works and improvements in the to combine business continuity, the creation of financial concessions under its management. Despite the EBITDA and non-financial value and diversification through recessionary economic scenario for the country new business and concessions. In order to establish that remained in place until the first half of last 3,657.5 5,371.4 5,169.0 the general guidelines for conducting business, the year, the net financial result was negative in company revisits and establishes the General Business R$ 1.2 billion, affected by the lower cost of debt 80.1% 2015 2016 2017 Plan on an annual basis. due to the reduction of the interest rate as of the second half of the year. 68.6% This document contains the General Goals and NET INCOME Guidelines (GGGs) prepared using the Strategic In comparison with the performance of 2016, 59.9% (R$ million) Objectives defined by the Board of Directors and that consolidated net revenue increased 12.4%, 874.4 1,713.9 1,797.5 cover all CCR Group units. The GGGs aim at aligning totaling R$ 7.5 billion. Net income reached the main strategic guidelines across the Group and R$ 1.8 billion, 4.9% up from the figure recorded at formalizing and implementing the governance and in the prior year. These comparisons, however, management model that enables new infrastructure do not exclude non-recurring effects that had an and service investments, guaranteeing solidity, business impact in both periods on the management of 2015 2016 2017 continuity and risk diversification, considering the CCR Group’s financial capital sale of STP in 2016 Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million)* external context and stakeholder expectations. and the acquisition of control of ViaRio Adjusted EBITDA Margin and ViaQuatro in 2017. *Calculated excluding non-cash expenses. 2015 2016 2017 GROSS DEBT INVESTMENTS (R$ million) (R$ million) 14,135.1 16,186.5 16,905.2 3,086.2 4,024.5 3,256.3 CCR Group’s General Business Plan, revisited on an annual basis, establishes the General Goals and Guidelines for all units 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 13 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Creation Fundraising of value In February 2017, CCR Group concluded the initial public offering (Follow On) and CCR GROUP’S Andrade Gutierrez CCR Group’s business model provides raised approximately R$ 4.07 billion in OWNERSHIP BREAKDOWN Includes the shares of Andrade Gutierrez the creation of value for all stakeholders. the Brazilian capital market. The funds Concessões S.A. and Shareholders, for instance, are affected by will be used to support growth and 55.23% AGC Participações Ltda., the company’s commitment to distribute The Group raised the acquisition of new infrastructure companies belonging to the Andrade Gutierrez Group. R$ 4.07 almost 100% of its net income in the business, to boost the cash flow and for Camargo Corrêa form of dividends throughout the year. asset maintenance. 14.86% Includes the shares billion In 2017, the amount distributed was of Camargo Corrêa Investimentos em R$ 1.0 billion. The capitalization initiative was possible Infra-Estrutura S.A. and VBC because of the issue of 254,412,800 Energia S.A.; companies in the initial belonging to the Camargo Municipal, state and federal governments new common shares, resulting in a Corrêa Group. are also affected by the collection of taxes, public offering capital increase to R$ 6.126 billion. Soares Penido fees and contributions, which totaled The result achieved by CCR Group which it intends 14.86% Includes the shares of Soares R$ 1.7 billion last year. Expenditures demonstrates the confidence of the Penido Obras, Construções with employee compensation and to invest in the shareholders in the qualified growth e Investimentos LTDA. and maintenance and Soares Penido Concessões benefits amounted to R$ 1.0 billion, of business, with long-term capital S.A.; companies belonging to while payments to suppliers came to growth of assets discipline and value creation. the Soares Penido Group. R$ 4.7 billion. 15.05% Novo Mercado CCR GROUP’S COMPANIES VALUE ADDED DISTRIBUTION Toll Urban Roads Mobility 23.0% CCR NovaDutra 100% ViaQuatro 75% 13.0% CCR ViaLagos 100% CCR Barcas 80% Personnel CCR RodoNorte 86% VLT Carioca 24.93% Taxes and fees CCR AutoBAn 100% CCR Metrô Bahia 100% 42.1% Lenders and lessors Shareholders CCR ViaOeste 100% Airports CCR RodoAnel 98.9% Service Companies Quito 50% 22.0% Renovias 40% CCR Actua 100% San José 48.8% CCR SPVias 100% CCR Engelog 100% Curaçao 79.8 ViaRio 66.66% CCR EngelogTec 100% BH Airport 38.25% CCR MSVia 100% SAMM 100% TAS 70% 14 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Business model Click on the caption of the infographic and understand how we generate value in each type of capital. For more information, access the online version of the CCR Group’s Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED HUMAN INTELLECTUAL SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP NATURAL Back to start MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY The performance and management of CCR Group have been recognized by different institutions and market experts. The awards received last year strengthen the company’s reputation among its stakeholders. Awards received by Voluntary commitments CCR Group made by CCR Group The Group’s adhesion to voluntary commitments, aimed at promoting sustainability and social development, • CCR Group was recognized for the • A signatory of the UN Global Compact, is a strategy that also leverages its high level of its reporting and for its which establishes ten principles for the ability to create value in non-financial leadership in the CDP 2017 Climate promotion and defense of human rights, capital. By participating in these Change Program. workers’ rights, environmental protection and forums, the company contributes to anti-corruption activities. environmental protection, the defense of human rights, anti-corruption • CCR Group was chosen, • Commitment to reducing the consumption of activities, the promotion of decent for the seventh year running, water and electricity, solid waste generation working conditions and the to join the B3 Business and emissions in its activities. construction of a fairer society. Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio. ISE is a tool for benchmarking • Partnership with the non-governmental Activities carried out and investments 2018 the performance of listed organization Childhood Brasil, which promotes made in social and environmental companies in terms of several actions in the dissemination of the programs, both by the units and by business sustainability. Na Mão Certa program to combat the sexual CCR Institute, are also in line with the exploitation of children and adolescents. guidelines of the UN (United Nations) 2030 Agenda, proposed to promote • CCR Group came 39th in the • Adhesion to the Open Letter to Brazil on sustainable development. In this ranking of the 200 largest privately Climate Change through the Climate Forum. way, CCR Group contributes to the held companies in Brazil and of achievement of the 17 Sustainable publicly traded companies in Latin • Dissemination of Anti-Corruption practices through Development Goals (SDG), America, according to the magazine the Integrity and Compliance Program, which launched in 2015. Revista Exame Melhores e establishes the basic principles, rules and guidelines Maiores 2017. of conduct in the Clean Company Policy and in the Code of Ethics, which also ensures the prevention of moral and sexual harassment. • CCR Group took first place in the Click here groups and holding companies and see all the category of the 100+ Innovators in awards received IT Use award, and third place in the by CCR Group in 2017 overall ranking of the study conducted in the Management by IT Mídia, a company specialized in information technology, and by the Report consulting firm PwC. 16 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Governance and ethical conduct Prestigious leadership The CCR Group CEO, The corporate governance model, structure and policies of In 2017, CCR Group announced significant developments in its Renato Alves Vale, received CCR Group were built to support the strategy defined by the model of governance and accountability to stakeholders. The the Executivo de Valor Board of Directors and to ensure its implementation in the company undertook to adopt the guidelines of the Brazilian Code (Valuable Executive) award controlled units with transparency, efficiency and integrity. of Corporate Governance Publicly-Held Companies by July 2018, from Jornal Valor Econômico The good practices adopted since the company was as set out in the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission in the Logistics and founded draw attention to its excellent relationship with Instruction (CVM 586). Transportation category for investors and shareholders. the fourth time in a row. The In addition, it intends to embrace all the approved amendments to executive was also named CCR Group was among the first to join Novo Mercado, a the Novo Mercado Regulation in 2017. The Group’s commitment one of Brazil’s best CEOs by B3 segment that brings together companies with superior includes adopting two practices that it voted for but that were Forbes Magazine, besides corporate governance standards in the country. Its policies and not accepted by the board: a public offering for relevant share ranking 38th on the list of practices are continuously improved to ensure optimum quality ownership and the obligatory publication of a report with the world’s top 100 CEOs in the relationship with its stakeholders. environmental, social and corporate governance information. published by the Harvard Business Review 2017. Evolutions in CCR Group governance practices CCR Group was among the best in the ranking of the Latin America Executive Team published Updating by Institutional Investor Magazine. • Of the Definition • First place in the Public Meeting with Analysts Bylaws • Of the Policy for appointing Improvements category in the area of members of the Board of transportation. • In the Compensation Policy Directors, of the Advisory Committees and of the • In the Regulations of the • Among the top three Executive Board Executive Board, the Advisory in the Best IR Site, Best Committees and the IR Teams and Best IR • Of the Risk Management Policy Supervisory Board Program categories. • In the Related Party Transactions Policy • In the Securities Trading Policy Some of the amendments are supposed to be implemented by 2021, but CCR Group will put • In the Code of Conduct them all into practice in 2018. 17 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Governance structure The governance structure of CCR Group is formed by the Board of Directors, responsible COMPOSITION OF THE for the definition of strategic guidelines and BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 31/12/2017 management supervision, by the Executive Board, which manages business and the growth Murilo Cesar Lemos dos Santos Passos Member and President of the Board of Directors strategy, and by the Advisory Committees, Ana Maria Marcondes Penido Sant‘Anna Member and Vice President of the Board of Directors which support the analysis of proposals made Ana Dolores Moura Carneiro Novaes Effective Member by the Executive Board and the evaluation Francisco Caprino Neto Effective Member of externalities to make the decision-making Henrique Sutton de Sousa Neves Effective Member process more streamlined. The description of Effective Member José Florêncio Rodrigues Neto this structure along with the responsibilities and Paulo Marcio de Oliveira Monteiro Effective Member powers of each governance body is detailed Paulo Roberto Reckziegel Guedes Effective Member in the Internal Requirement that will be made available according to the requirement included Ricardo Coutinho de Sena Effective Member in the Novo Mercado Regulation. Luiz Alberto Colonna Rosman Independent Effective Member Wilson Nélio Brumer Independent Effective Member The Board of Directors is composed of 11 full members, with terms of office expiring at the time of the Ordinary General Meeting of 2018. Directors may be re-elected by the shareholders and two members are independent. The Executive Board of CCR Group is formed by 11 members. The governing body has a two-year term of office and can be COMPOSITION OF THE re-elected. The process of election for key EXECUTIVE BOARD IN 31/12/2017 positions is a joint decision the Board of Directors proposes the appointment of the Renato Alves Vale Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, who, in turn, nominates Antônio Linhares da Cunha Business Development Officer the other company officers. Arthur Piotto Filho Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer Francisco de Assis Nunes Bulhões Communication and Sustainability Officer The compensation procedure for Executive Italo Roppa Vice President of Business Management Board members is also defined jointly and José Braz Cioffi Vice President of Business Management follows the CCR Group Compensation Leonardo Couto Vianna New Business Officer Policy. The Board of Directors defines the Marcus Rodrigo de Senna Legal Officer compensation of the CEO, who, in turn, Paulo Yukio Fukuzaki Planning and Control Officer proposes the compensation for the other Vice President of Institutional Relations Ricardo Antonio Mello Castanheira employees. This proposal is then approved by Ricardo Bisordi de Oliveira Lima Business Officer the Board of Directors. 18 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY The Advisory Committees of the Board of Directors complete the corporate Audit Committee governance structure of CCR Group and are important tools for improving the decision-making process. There are six committees, which do not have executive roles, but contribute to the in-depth analysis of the issues It aims to assist the under their responsibility, issuing a recommendation report to the Board of Board in defining the Directors, thereby ensuring that economic, social and environmental aspects standards of quality and evaluation are incorporated into the business strategy and management. of financial reports and internal controls, as well as the risks involved in the accounting principles used and the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls, proposing Human Resources changes if necessary. Strategy and Committee Sustainability Committee It comments on and proposes changes to the It assesses the General Goals and Guidelines compensation policy of CCR and subsidiaries, of CCR Group and the Business Plan, all of and to the Profit-Sharing Programs as well as which are suggested by the CEO. It is also the processes for appointing CCR officers and responsible for identifying critical issues and potential candidates nominated by the CEO, good social and environmental practices of the at the request of the Board of Directors, in Board of organization and of companies in the sector. Directors addition to other duties. New Business Finance Committee Committee It examines the company’s financial policy, analyzing its structure and It evaluates, at the request of recommending corrective actions. the Board of Directors, the development It also monitors and informs the of studies for potential acquisitions Governance Committee Board of Directors about key of stakes in new business, identifying It suggests and supervises financial issues such as loans/refinancing potential problems and approaches to be the format and constitution process of long-term debts, risk analysis, followed in negotiations. of the Board of Directors, developing, dividend policy, share and debt security reviewing and proposing improvements issues and investments. periodically. It is the Governance Committee that proposes the dynamics of the role occupied by the Board of Directors and conducts the periodic See more information on CCR Group assessment of the Board of Directors, the corporate governance: Committees, the CCR Group CEO and the Board Secretary. on the Investor or in the Relations website Reference Form 19 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Integrity and compliance Since the creation of CCR Group, business has been conducted government employees in Brazil and abroad. In addition CCR Group also structured the Integrity and Compliance ethically and with integrity, in accordance with legal parameters. to these documents, stakeholders also have Internet or Committee (ICC), which deliberates on the ICP guidelines The practices and investments made annually are intended phone access to the Linha Ética CCR (CCR Ethics Hotline), a and the actions to be taken in the event of reports of to further improve this condition, by means of the constant channel outsourced to an external company and designed wrongdoings received by the CCR Ethics Hotline. The engagement of employees and the development of tools that to receive reports of behavior considered inappropriate or in ICC is composed of three permanent members, all CCR enable an increasingly transparent relationship with all audiences. noncompliance with corporate values. Group Officers, and Legal department/Compliance area representatives participate in its meetings. The guidelines for principled business management can be In order to consolidate all the practices adopted since it was found in the CCR Group Code of Conduct and Ethics and in founded, CCR Group created its Integrity and Compliance In 2017, the development of the ICP continued with training the Clean Company Policy, in line with Law No. 12.846/13 Program (ICP) in 2015. The program is coordinated by and upskilling courses for all the CCR Group staff. The and that expounds on the approach to be taken by employees the Compliance area, which is also responsible for the workforce was impacted by onsite actions and workshops and third parties in the relationship with their stakeholders, dissemination and monitoring of its execution across all conducted by the Compliance area, as well as through including suppliers as well as municipal, state and federal business units. structured education in e-learning format. 1,671 255 + than 100% of suppliers reports 16 significant underwent due received since the thousand agreements diligence processes implementation of the Ethics hours subject to human of anti-corruption rights clauses or Hotline in 2015 analyses training in the last two years 20 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group Services 23 Development of human capital 26 Excellence in innovation and technology MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Services To support the qualified CCR GROUP’S COMPANIES growth of its business, • CCR Actua: centralizes the • CCR Engelog: concentrates the • CCR EngelogTec: CCR Group’s • SAMM: provides high CCR Group structured a financial and administrative engineering excellence of CCR Group, technology center which plays a capacity data transmission and Shared Services Center services of CCR Group. It also from the design of projects through to strategic and functional role close IP connectivity services in the (SSC) 15 years ago. This coordinates the management and the final delivery of works geared towards to the business units in information states of São Paulo, Rio de center is responsible dissemination of sustainability better results, greater comfort, seamless technology, automation and electrical/ Janeiro and Paraná. for the performance across all business units. operations, guidance and safety for users. electronic maintenance processes. of activities and transactional processes that add value by delivering differentiated solutions, maximum efficiency and value creation. HUMAN CAPITAL G The SSC is currently The SSC manages and supports the SD formed by companies professional development of the 13 thousand CCR Actua, CCR employees of CCR Group Engelog and CCR EngelogTec, which work complementarily to offer high quality services, INTELLECTUAL with efficiency and CAPITAL competitive costs for CCR Group units. Promotion of economic It seeks innovation, growth and high SAMM, which provides development of new levels of productivity, high capacity data S technologies and solutions guaranteeing workers’ SERV transmission and IP designed for greater rights and a safe ICE connectivity services, is business efficiency and user working environment also managed within satisfaction Development of this framework. The high-quality, reliable, company, whose sustainable and network covers more resilient infrastructure, than 3.5 thousand FINANCIAL contributing to kilometers of CAPITAL technological capacity underground fiber and scientific research optic cabling, is a The cutting-edge structure of the wholly-owned subsidiary SSC boosts the competitiveness of CCR Group. of CCR Group and promotes efficient cost management 22 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Development of human capital Inclusion of people with Technical knowledge, the sense of belonging to one of Focusing on leadership development, CCR Group began disabilities the largest infrastructure groups in Latin America and the implementing a new senior executive assessment program incessant quest for excellence and user satisfaction are key last year, involving about 110 people. This program Diversity and respect for elements in the development of the Group‘s business. With progresses alongside a performance appraisal model and human rights are guiding the support of the Shared Services Center, the units work competency review process. premises of employee to strengthen the development of human capital through management practices, training and upskilling courses, opportunities for professional in line with the principles 241 growth and recognition. of the Global Compact, + 209 a UN initiative of which thousand To ensure the alignment of all professionals with the CCR Group CCR Group is a signatory. employees strategy, one of the main initiatives developed in 2017 was the At CCR RodoNorte, the program for training and Planning Cycle, in which 241 employees participated directly. hours of training engaged in the qualifying individuals with Two workshops were held in the first stage – one with the for employees Strategic Planning special needs is an example of how this commitment R$ 1 billion Board of Directors and another with the Strategy Committee – to define the strategic goals. The Overarching Goals and Cycle materializes. paid in wages Guidelines (OGGs) were formalized afterwards at a meeting The unit abides by the hiring with the officers of the holding company and units. All the and benefits quota for this professional employees involved in the Planning Cycle were trained to act category established since as multipliers of these guidelines in the units, between teams 2015, driven by best and coworkers. practices in advertising available jobs, training The Annual Meeting also contributes to the dissemination of leaders with a focus on the CCR Group’s strategy, values and culture of ethics. Last year integration of these people about 350 guests attended the event, which featured external and a closer relationship and internal speakers addressing topics such as conditions of with external agents, such the macroeconomic scenario, competitiveness, professional as government job agencies. development, ethics and challenges of education in Brazil. The theme of the 13th Annual Meeting, held in 2017, was Best practices adopted by “Qualified Growth: Innovation, Creativity and Performance”. the unit include the support of the occupational health This human capital management model, adopted since team in the process of CCR Group was founded, has allowed the organizational selecting new employees restructuring resulting from the Repensar Project to be with special needs. In carried out almost exclusively with the reallocation of people the presence of the who were already working in the business units. Around 40 occupational physician, the employees, who had already been pinpointed as potential unit anticipates the need for leaders, were reallocated to new positions so as to improve workplace adaptation. management and seek new business. 23 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY WATER CONSUMPTION Sustainability (thousand m3) CCR Group promotes the exchange of best management practices in the environmental management 435.4 624.9 644.8 of its subsidiaries and monitors their The CCR Group has several mechanisms that ensure and promote the inclusion of sustainability in its business performance as a corporation strategy. The advisory bodies of the Board of Directors include the Strategy and Sustainability Committee, whose duties encompass the formulation of recommendations for the management of environmental and social risks and opportunities in the company’s growth strategy. The Sustainability Steering Committee, in turn, is responsible 2015 2016 2017 for developing guidelines to ensure the implementation of CCR Group’s sustainability strategy in the short, medium and ENERGY CONSUMPTION long term. The business units also have their Sustainability (thousand GJ) Committees, which develop targets and action plans to respond to corporate sustainability guidelines. 1,224.6 1,139.7 1,232.4 In the shared services structure, CCR Actua is responsible for the centralized management of sustainability, covering the strategy of communication and engagement of employees, relationships with external entities and consolidation of indicators related to CCR Group’s social and environmental performance. In each business unit there is an Advanced Sustainability Post, employees prepared to manage these aspects locally while taking the specific situation of each concession into consideration. 2015 2016 2017 WASTE DISPOSAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (thousand tCO2e) (thousand tons) 55.6 16.1 52.0 11.5 56.2 16.3 101.3 933.9 460.9 Scope 1 Scope 2 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 24 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Safety and quality of life Employee and contractor health CCR Group is mindful of the quality of life of employees and and safety management, contractors and of safety in the performance of activities in its based on five pillars, promotes EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH human capital management, and is committed to the well-being and health of people in all the business areas in which they are full and systemic attention to AND SAFETY INDICATORS present. The guidelines for this management are defined by the IN 2017 Occupational Health and Safety Standard, published in 2016 and the quality of life and available on the Group’s internal network. well being of professionals Rate of injuries among employees 11.48 Rate of lost days among employees 98.34 Employee absenteeism rate 1.79 The Policy covers all CCR Group units and should also be used as a premise in companies whose ownership is shared with other partners that do not have specific rules on this subject. The units, in turn, develop the programs and make investments earmarked for improving the quality of life and ensuring the occupational health and safety of employees. The management structure of this aspect is based on five pillars: People, Resources/Technology, Processes, Knowledge and Politics/ Relationship. Multidisciplinary projects are developed on the basis of these pillars, with the purpose of adapting the physical structures of facilities, ensuring alignment with rules and regulations on the subject, training and raising awareness among employees in regard to the risks associated with each type of activity, promoting a culture of safety, monitoring accident indicators, carrying out action plans and preventive measures, and others. In addition to safety, CCR Group also seeks to stimulate the improvement of employee quality of life through different actions that encourage physical activity and healthier habits.Two examples are CCR Metrô Bahia, which has a gym with fitness and bodybuilding equipment in which professionals can exercise before and after work or during work breaks, and CCR Nova Dutra, which develops the “Você em Movimento” (You in Movement) project to assess the fitness levels of employees and lead to the adoption of a healthier lifestyle. 25 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Excellence in innovation and technology The pursuit of innovation and the incorporation of new of the concessionaires in order to receive a toll charge Team readiness and investments technologies, focused on increasing efficiency, cutting costs receipt for tax purposes. The implementation of the new and enhancing user satisfaction, is a central point of attention system involved joint work undertaken by several areas in new projects generate benefits in CCR Group’s management. To this end, the performance of of the Shared Services Centers, including the Legal, the Shared Services Center units is strategically important in Communication and Planning departments of all units. for the integrity of operations, user adding innovative solutions to all businesses. As a result, CCR Group now fulfills the new requirement of comfort, and the environment Information security is of prime importance as the Group’s the Internal Revenue Service, consistent with the guidelines control systems are digital and integrated. CCR EngelogTec of Associação Brasileira de Concessionárias de Rodovias acts on this front, adopting strict security standards in order (Brazilian Association of Highway Concessionaires ABCR). to guarantee operational integrity. Moreover, employees are The service provided to users will maintain the same efficiency, continuously instructed, through training sessions and internal expeditiousness and security, allowing the substitution of the campaigns, to behave appropriately when using online toll charge receipt after the end of the trip. platforms and equipment. In the cyber-attack of May 2017, when several companies from different areas were affected The search for innovations and new constructive by the WannaCry virus, CCR EngelogTec acted promptly and methods is also a constant feature in the Group’s business managed to prevent any impact on CCR Group. development and growth. To this end, the performance of the Road Research Center (CPR) of CCR Engelog is Since January 1, users of the toll roads operated by CCR strategic and brings advantages from the point of view of Group have been receiving the Documento Fiscal Equivalente cost reduction and environmental gains, making it possible (DFE – document equivalent to a tax invoice), whereby it to incorporate new technologies into operations on an is possible to enter personal information on the website ongoing basis. Some of the main initiatives and projects carried out in 2017 are Partnership for the sake of users the use of construction and demolition waste to build pavements, the application of rejuvenating agents that allow pavement The Rodovias Conectadas (Connected Toll Roads) project, a recycling and the search for more sustainable alternative materials partnership between CCR Group and the mobility application for use in viaduct and bridge expansion joints, road signs and Waze, demonstrates the pursuit of innovation focused on repairs. Other technologies, such as rubberized asphalt and warm user satisfaction. With this tool, drivers using the app can now mix asphalt, which reduce greenhouse gas emissions, are already fully incorporated into the activities of the units. receive important information to plan their trip on the toll roads managed by the Group, such as the location of the toll plazas and CCR Engelog also worked in 2017 to implement the Vetor respective toll prices, the location of the SOS Usuário (emergency project, with the objective of improving project and investment assistance for road users) bases and emergency telephones. management processes, with a focus on improving the Started in late 2016 as a pilot project at CCR ViaOeste, Rodovias performance model and boosting innovation. Conectadas is gradually being extended to other units. 26 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group Toll roads 29 Quality of service 30 Safe operations 31 Operational eco-efficiency MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Toll roads CCR GROUP’S CONCESSIONS CCR Group manages CCR NovaDutra • 1995 – 2021 CCR ViaOeste • 1998 – 2022 CCR SPVias • 2010 – 2028 3,265 kilometers CCR ViaLagos • 1996 – 2047 CCR AutoBAn • 1998 – 2027 ViaRio • 2012 – 2047 of toll roads under CCR RodoNorte • 1997 – 2021 CCR RodoAnel • 2008 – 2038 CCR MSVia • 2013 – 2044 concession in Renovias • 1998 – 2022 SD Brazil. Through its G investments and improvements, it serves the communities of municipalities in the SOCIAL & states of Mato Grosso RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL do Sul, Paraná, São Investments in Paulo and Rio de The Estrada para a Saúde and Caminhos improvements and the Janeiro. In total, para a Cidadania programs, managed by heightening of awareness there are 10 units CCR Institute, serve communities in the to drastically reduce that continually municipalities in which CCR Group is present deaths and injuries manage and work caused by road accidents on improvements to federal and state NATURAL roads. CAPITAL With the organizational The reuse of waste in roadworks and other Infrastructure modernization with DS restructuring of CCR increased efficiency in the use of Group, the units innovative technologies for TOLL R paving and construction resources and the adoption of clean and responsible for the environmentally friendly technologies reduce the environmental OA São Paulo state toll roads respond to impacts of operations the CCR Rodovias SP business area. Federal toll roads and those of other MANUFACTURED 19,3% states, in turn, CAPITAL reduction in the number of operate under the 162 2,447 deaths on heavy coordination of CCR Investments in toll road Rodovias BR. improvements increase emergency the toll roads phones of CCR Group safety, comfort and traffic and light tow installed compared fluidity for users trucks to 2010 28 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Quality of service The improvements made and the service delivered to CNT 2017 HIGHWAY SURVEY technical criteria. The Bandeirantes Highway (SP-348), managed travelers on the toll roads managed by CCR Group aim by CCR AutoBAn, was voted the best in the country in 2017 – an to achieve maximum satisfaction among users. Therefore, award that it has received for six consecutive years. the service provided by the units is based on four pillars Comfort, Guidance, Fluidity and Safety – which are the The surveys indicate user satisfaction with the various investments cornerstones of the development of different projects and made in improvements, but indicate that the cost of toll charges BEST HIGHWAYS IN BRAZIL investments to allow a safe and comfortable journey. is a critical aspect. Therefore, users’ perception of quality of the service, through constant bulletins and improvements, is essential 1st Rodovia dos Bandeirantes (CCR AutoBAn) These projects include the highway preservation programs, to add value to the business model of CCR Group. through cleaning activities, mowing of grass on traffic islands, 4th Rodovia Anhangüera (CCR AutoBAn) maintenance of road signs and lanes, among other aspects. Award 6 th Rodovia Hélio Moreira Salles SP-215 (Renovias) The quality of service provided to users is continuously 8th Rodovia Castello Branco (CCR ViaOeste) In 2017, CCR ViaOeste won the Ouvidorias Brasil Award, monitored through different tools. With the support of 9 th Rodovia SP-255 (CCR SPVias) organized by the Associação Brasileira das Relações Instituto Datafolha, CCR Group organizes an annual Empresa-Cliente (Brazilian Association of Customer survey with car and truck drivers, carriers and opinion 19th Via Dutra (CCR NovaDutra) Relations). The unit, winner of the award for the fourth makers. Monthly surveys are also held with users who consecutive year, took advantage of the opportunity have needed road assistance, and are supported by the CCR ViaLagos had the toll road evaluated to demonstrate differentiated processes, such as the ombudsman services. as excellent in all aspects (general state, pavement, Active Ombudsman’s Service in the works carried road signs and geometry). out, implementation of the satisfaction survey on the External bodies, such as the Confederação Nacional dos concessionaire’s website, and other aspects. Transportes (National Confederation of Transport – CNT), also organize annual evaluations of the conditions of Brazilian highways and elect the best according to different Works delivered faster USERS SATISFACTION CCR AutoBAn concluded, almost three INDEX months ahead of schedule, the delivery of 77% 76% 78% the first stage of the Jundiaí Road Complex (SP), one of the main road improvement projects to ensure better traffic fluidity and safety for users of the Anhanguera Highway. The residents of the city also benefited from pedestrian tracks and approximately 1 kilometer of cycle track as well as lampposts with LED bulbs. To celebrate the delivery of the construction work, CCR AutoBAn, in partnership with the municipal authority of Jundiaí, held a foot race on the new Viário 2015 2016 2017 Municipal (municipal road) over a distance of almost 5 kilometers. 29 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Safe operations Besides enhancing user comfort and One of the major challenges of toll road satisfaction, the investments made by Accident concessions in Brazil is related to the occurrence CCR Group in the toll roads under its management increase safety for drivers, Reduction Number of of turnpike holdups. Situations involving severe violence can cause physical and psychological Plan accidents* employees and third parties working on 27,188 trauma to employees, so CCR Group provides the road, residents of the municipalities 25,383 25,810 comprehensive assistance and medical care to connected by the road, and other Since 2015, in line victims in these situations. Strengthening the parties involved. However, education with the global partnership with the government, responsible and raising of awareness for safer initiatives to reduce for citizen safety, is essential to curb criminal traffic are vital to reduce the number of traffic fatalities, CCR practices and is also being stressed by the units. accidents on Brazilian highways. Group has been consolidating the Readiness to cope To this end, CCR Group is developing Accident Reduction with emergencies the Segurança Viária (Road Safety) Plan (PRA) at the 2010 2016 2017 RATE OF INJURIES AMONG In 2017, the rescue teams Program, which promotes integration corporate level, Injured EMPLOYEES* of CCR ViaOeste and CCR between units for the sharing of helping to identify victims* 11.48 13.40 14,632 RodoAnel conducted a training best practices and exchange of opportunities and 13,209 13,347 course in Radiation, Biological knowledge on three main fronts: best practices among and Chemical Protection, education, engineering and regulation the plans developed delivered by the Brazilian and inspection. The actions involved by the concessionaires Navy. About 20 employees in the program include continuous as determined by the were trained to improve their investments in educational campaigns regulatory authorities. response to incidents involving and in the installation and maintenance This initiative is in chemical emergencies. of equipment, such as metal safety alignment with the CCR Group barriers and light-emitting panels with goals of the UN Toll roads In addition, the units also 2010 2016 2017 information for users. Decade of Action adopted a new device, for Road Safety, a Fatal called Catchbag, to expedite Training courses for teams that work proposal to reduce victims* RATE OF LOST DAYS the rescue in the case of on the highways daily are another key the number of road AMONG EMPLOYEES* overturned vehicles. It is a factor for ensuring the safe operation accident victims by 616 98.34 170.43 system with two inflatable of concessions. CCR Group employees 20% until 2020, cushions, positioned under 504 497 are coached continuously to be able to based on 2010 an overturned truck or bus, provide the best service to users, cope indicators. which raise the vehicle from with road incidents and emergencies, the side. The equipment has a and at the same time adopt safe loadbearing capacity of up to behaviors to avoid pedestrian runovers 45 tons and returns the vehicle and other types of accident. 2010 2016 2017 to its upright position within CCR Group 12 minutes. *Information only for controlled concessions. Renovias Toll roads and ViaRio are not contemplated. 30 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Operational eco-efficiency The application of CCR Group’s toll road concessions Waste management is one of the prime MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS* units permanently monitor the focal points of CCR Group. Through cutting edge technology environmental impacts of its studies and analyses, CCR Engelog seeks Water consumption Energy consumption Waste disposal (thousand and raising of awareness operations and seek, through their to progressively expand the reuse of (thousand m3) (thousand GJ) tons) own initiatives and projects, to materials left over from roadworks. One 489.8 promote improvements improve business performance. of the alternatives under analysis is the 146.5 To this end, the units’ attention is recycling of this waste through processing 133.0 136.7 419.2 438.6 in controls and in focused mainly on reducing water and in other productive chains. 927.7 electricity consumption, greenhouse environmental performance gas (GHG) emissions and waste In the roadworks of the Jundiaí Road generation. In addition to these Complex in the Bandeirantes-Anhanguera fronts, CCR Group invests in training system, new technologies were employed 453.3 and campaigns to raise employee to reuse construction and demolition awareness, focusing on the rational waste in the pavement material. The use of natural resources. solution brought about a cost reduction of 47% in comparison to the traditional 100.0 With regard to water management, method of using new materials for the the main initiatives carried out in pavement layers implemented. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 recent years and that continued in 2017 were those aimed at promoting rainwater harvesting and reuse. These actions are overseen by the Advanced Sustainability Posts allocated at each Emissions monitoring GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS of the CCR Group units. (thousand tCO2e)* The Group’s GHG emissions are recorded To reduce electricity consumption, and monitored through the emissions 56.2 23.9 16.3 3.6 796.3 67.4 CCR Group counts on the support inventory carried out annually in accordance of CCR EngelogTec to invest in with the methodology of the Brazilian GHG more efficient lighting systems at Protocol program. The data obtained are toll plazas and along the highways. published annually on the platform of the User assistance equipment, such as system, which is open to the public, and are emergency telephones installed on also audited by an external company. the toll roads, are already powered by On the toll roads, one of CCR Group’s main electricity generated by photovoltaic sources of emissions is the burning of fuels solar panels. Other alternatives for to power the fleet required for operations. generating its own electricity from The units advise employees to use ethanol Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 clean and renewable sources are being in the vehicles whenever possible. analyzed by the company. CCR Group Toll roads *Information only for controlled concessions. Renovias and ViaRio are not contemplated. 31 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group Urban mobility 34 Quality of service 35 Safe operations 36 Operational eco-efficiency MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Urban mobility CCR GROUP CONCESSIONS The work of CCR Group ViaQuatro • 2010 – 2040 in the area of urban CCR Barcas • 2012 – 2023 mobility contributes to VLT Carioca • 2013 – 2038 G the improvement of CCR Metrô Bahia • 2013 – 2043 SD public transport and Resilience and adaptability of traffic fluidity in large cities to climate change, also town or city centers. The contributing to the mitigation investments made are of greenhouse gas emissions aligned with the global INTELLECTUAL challenge of transition to CAPITAL a low-carbon economy, since they help reduce The development and the number of privatelyimplementation of technologies, owned vehicles in such as passenger train car cities and do not emit occupancy control, increase the Access to safe, affordable, greenhouse gases directly quality of the service for users sustainable transport systems for all, in their operation. reducing the negative environmental The implementation of NATURAL impact of cities a number of innovative CAPITAL technologies, such as digital signs that direct Mobility equipment TY helps improve air ILI users to the passenger cars with the most space, quality in large towns URBAN M a pioneer initiative in the or cities world, increase travel OB comfort and satisfaction. The formation of solid partnerships with the grantor authority is strategic in enabling the MANUFACTURED infrastructure of cities CAPITAL 28 830 thousand to be expanded and improved, creating value Investments in the purchase R$ 1.98 VLTs passengers for society as a whole by of rolling stock (trains and light vehicles), with cuttingbillion (light rail lines) transported, on average, providing high-quality edge technology for user invested in operation in every day (ViaQuatro public service. transportation in 2017 Rio de Janeiro and CCR Metrô Bahia) 33 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Quality of service Decommissioning of CCR Barcas CCR Group took on the Rio de Janeiro state ferry boat concession in 2012 and since then, CCR Barcas has invested R$ 933 thousand in the adaptation of embarkation points, equipment improvements and The work of CCR Group in the area of urban mobility contributes to adaptations to increase user comfort. The installation of air conditioning the improvement of traffic fluidity and transportation in large town equipment, the renovation of vessels and the purchase of other new or city centers, offering users both comfort and modernity. To provide ones, the expansion of the embarkation areas and other improvements the service with quality and innovation, investments are prioritized and have led to an 80% decrease in the number of complaints. allocated according to the needs and demands of each city. In 2017, due to imbalances in the agreement signed, a request was made to the grantor authority to return the concession, which will ViaQuatro, a CCR Group unit that operates Line 4 – Yellow of the São be transferred to another company, through a new bidding process. Paulo subway network, implemented a system that provides users The decommissioning process of CCR Barcas has been implemented with real-time information on train car occupancy. The information is with maximum transparency for employees and users. CCR Group has transmitted to colored schematic panels installed in all the stations, followed the schedule established in the project and expects the entire enabling people to enter the emptier cars and thus embark more process to be completed in 2018. quickly and comfortably. The ViaQuatro project won the Best Practices of Promotion and Communication in Urban Mobility award granted by Union Internationale des Transports Publics (UITP), in 2017. The award was received in the city of Montreal, Canada. In Salvador, CCR Metrô Bahia completed three years of operation of the mobility concession in 2017. The project in the capital city of Bahia includes the construction of new stations, besides the railroad operation. The system, integrated all the way to the airport, has helped reduce the travel time of the local population, with more speed and comfort on trips. Last year the CCR Group unit received an honorable mention in the Ouvidorias Brasil 2017 award, granted by Associação Brasileira das Relações Empresa-Cliente (Brazilian Association of Customer Relations Abrarec). One of the initiatives developed by CCR Metrô Bahia to increase users’ satisfaction with the service provided is Ouvidoria Itinerante (Touring Ombudsman Department), which provides on-site services at the stations. In Rio de Janeiro, CCR Group is one of the shareholders of VLT Carioca, a transportation mode inaugurated in 2016 and that connects the harbor area with the financial center and Santos Dummont Airport, in the state capital. Innovative right from the start, last year VLT Carioca reached the milestone of 15 million passengers transported. 34 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Safe operations User awareness User and employee safety is a priority in urban third parties complies with the provisions of the RATE OF INJURIES AMONG ViaQuatro launched a mobility equipment, and follows the guidelines set Regulatory Standards (RSs) of the Ministry of Labor, EMPLOYEES* communication campaign by CCR Group. Due to the characteristics of each as well as the prioritization of investments in facility 11.48 11.45 in 2017 to make station item of equipment, however, there are specificities improvements. users more aware of to be addressed through projects and initiatives the importance of conducted directly by the units. At CCR Barcas, activities are focused on the safety behaving more safely. The of users and employees at embarkation points concessionaire identified For example, at the subway stations of ViaQuatro where there is a higher risk of falls, sprains and an increase in incidents and CCR Metrô Bahia, work involving the accidents involving people. The vessels have all caused by apparently movement of people at high altitudes and the necessary equipment to ensure a safe journey, inoffensive habits, such as maintenance of electrical equipment is observed such as lifejackets and employees trained for any CCR Group reading or texting while with greater attention. Training for employees and emergencies that may occur in the water. Urban mobility walking along platforms and corridors. Stickers were put up RATE OF LOST DAYS on the escalators while AMONG EMPLOYEES* explanatory text panels 98.34 2.00 were installed inside the trains and audiovisual panels placed around the stations. At the Pinheiros and Luz stations, where there is a heavy flow of passengers, there was an artistic presentation on the CCR Group topic to raise awareness in Urban mobility an entertaining manner. *Information only on the controlled concessions: ViaQuatro, CCR Barcas and CCR Metrô Bahia. Critical activities for the safety of employees, contractors and users are continually improved 35 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Operational eco-efficiency The environmental benefits of the CCR Group concessions MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS* GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS for large town and city centers are significant. The São (thousand tCO2e)* Water Energy Waste Paulo and Salvador subway systems and the VLT in Rio de consumption consumption disposal 56.2 31.5 16.3 10.6 796.3 8.8 Janeiro, for example, are powered by electricity and help (thousand m3) (thousand GJ) (thousand tons) reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, insofar as they 261.0 705.1 promote the replacement of fossil-fuel based vehicles. To encourage users to use the subway as their main 665.5 660.1 Moving on rails, means of transport, CCR Metrô Bahia launched the “Bora 180.8 de Metrô!” (Let’s Take the Subway!) campaign in 2017 5.2 VLT Carioca with advertisement films shown on television and the 4.3 dissemination of information relevant to passengers. CCR 100.9 reduces its Group is also discussing adaptations to the city’s bus lines with the municipal authorities, in order to ensure better Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 impact on natural 1.2 integration with the subway and to produce more benefits CCR Group Urban mobility resources and for the local communities. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 *Information only on the controlled concessions: ViaQuatro, CCR Barcas and CCR Metrô Bahia. the urban The new stations of CCR Metrô Bahia were also built with the environment as a distinguishing feature of their landscape projects. The architecture prioritized the use of natural Specialized displays showed visitors simple ideas such as costresources, such as natural lighting and ventilation, to efficient solar heaters and a home-based waste management ensure optimum temperatures for users and to reduce the system. Another highlight was the 30th anniversary need for electricity consumption to cool the air. celebration of the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty for the protection of the ozone layer. The campaign involved These new facilities received an honorable mention putting stickers up around the stations, with videos on train in the ninth edition of Prêmio Bienal de Arquitetura monitors and platforms and an invitation for users to interact (Biennial Prize for Architecture) of Associação Brasileira through social media. dos Escritórios de Arquitetura (Brazilian Association of Architecture Firms AsBEA). The project was also the only In the context of operational improvements, actions focused Latin American representatives among the finalists of the on reducing waste generation. ViaQuatro was the first in the international WAF World Architecture Festival 2017 award industry to form a partnership to recycle uniforms discarded ceremony. by its employees. Since the beginning of the project, in June 2016, the company has collected 6.6 thousand uniforms, At ViaQuatro, the concern for the environment also thereby avoiding the use of 16 cubic meters in landfills and unfolds in user engagement and awareness initiatives. the emission of 32 tCO2e. In an initiative that combined Last year one of the initiatives was Casa Sustentável passenger comfort, operational safety and reduction of (Sustainable Home), a touring facility that is self-sufficient environmental impact, the company installed 2,200 devices in energy. This initiative impressed passengers with made of 100% recyclable material to reduce the gap solutions for more environmentally-friendly homes. between platforms and trains. 36 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group Airports 39 Quality of service 40 Safe operations 41 Operational eco-efficiency MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Airports G CCR GROUP’S CONCESSIONS AND COMPANIES Access to safe, SD Since 2012, CCR International Airport of San José • 2012 – 2026 accessible and Group has applied its International Airport of Curaçao • 2012 – 2033 sustainable transport management capacity BH Airport • 2014 – 2044 systems for all, and technical knowledge International Airport of Quito • 2015 – 2041 strengthening cultural to improve airports, an Total Airport Service (TAS) heritage and local essential infrastructure for the economic growth development and development of countries. Through its units, it operates in FINANCIAL Brazil, Ecuador, Costa CAPITAL Rica and Curaçao. The airport infrastructure is In the United States instrumental in increasing it controls TAS Total productive activities and Airport Services, a generating income in the Infrastructure modernization with provider of airport municipalities improved efficiency in the use of services, and operates resources and the adoption of CCR USA, a structure SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL clean and environmentally friendly aimed at promoting technologies the development and management of airports Improvements and in that country. S investments increase user The investment in the AIRPO satisfaction and bring about RT recognition for CCR Group in airport segment is one international awards of the Group’s main levers for promoting its internationalization and portfolio diversification. Quito Airport Following the strategic guidelines, qualified HUMAN CAPITAL Flights to 49 R$ 131 named growth in this business Expansion of the Groups’ domestic and million the best area is based on the business, including invested in in South America identification of new overseas transactions, international construction for the fourth opportunities and creates new opportunities destinations works and consecutive year concessions of the for employees and departing from improvements by by World Travel secondary market. requires professional Belo Horizonte BH Airport in 2017 Awards qualification 38 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Quality of service Connectivity in Minas Gerais Belo Horizonte International Airport, run by BH Airport, has the potential to become one of the country’s largest flight distribution Quality of service is at the heart of the management The Quality of Service Plan combines the initiatives and passenger integration centers due to its privileged location. model of CCR Group’s airport concession units. Both in this sphere planned for the year and the Accordingly, the concession is expected to become a growth and in Brazil and abroad, investments are made with a controls to be applied. BH Airport monitors 34 development vector for the state. focus on increasing comfort for passengers, improving indicators defined by Anac on a monthly basis. To realize this potential, the terminal depends on the maintenance the working conditions of airlines and seeking These range from airport cleaning services to of plans to close Pampulha Airport to domestic flights. This integration with other terminals, providing more flight check-in queuing times (hand luggage check) restriction is being discussed by the grantor authority and, and destination options for users. and passengers’ perception of quality and the if withdrawn, makes it more difficult for airlines to organize cost of services. Parallel to these processes, the connecting flights and integration of passengers flying in from One of the prime examples of how this approach Secretaria da Aviação Civil (Office of the Secretary other locations. materializes is the Quito International Airport, for Civil Aviation – SAC) conducts a quarterly BH Airport has sought to involve society as a whole and managed by Quiport. The airport was chosen for passenger satisfaction survey covering 38 items to raise public awareness of the importance of the airport the second consecutive year as the best in South of infrastructure, customer service, services and to the residents of Minas Gerais, to the development of America in the World Airport award, produced by management of the country’s top 15 airports. the state, and to the achievement of goals set out in British consulting firm Skytrax and based on a global the concession agreement. satisfaction survey with customers of airports all over The airport expansion and adaptation works are the world. Quiport also received a four-star rating among the factors with the greatest impact on (there is just one other on the continent) and was passenger and visitor satisfaction. In this context, elected the company with the best employees. the delivery of the new passenger terminal in December 2016 had a positive impact on last In Brazil, BH Airport manages the Belo Horizonte year’s quality of service indicators, with the International Airport in Minas Gerais. Since it was expansion of the arrivals and departures halls awarded the concession in 2014, the unit has taken and of the shopping and baggage reclaim areas, on the mission of providing an excellent service to new boarding gates and more parking spaces. passengers and visitors, with a structure specially Accessibility aspects are also continually improved dedicated to the monitoring of satisfaction and quality by works and expansions. About R$ 150 million indicators. These indicators are in fact one of the have already been invested in this type of requirements of the agreement with Agência Nacional adaptation, guaranteeing accessible toilets, tactile de Aviação Civil (National Civil Aviation Agency – Anac). paving and elevators. Click here to find out more about the expansion of BH Airport 39 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Safe operations Integrated parameters In 2017, BH Airport, together with the other companies operating inside the airport, defined minimum standards of occupational safety for all the professionals working on its premises. CCR Group’s airport safety/security Any professionals who fail these The decision was made by consensus in Cipa management is structured on three fronts: assessments lose the right to access Integrada, a safety forum made up of more than occupational safety, operational safety controlled areas and undergo a 100 members, including safety technicians and and airport security. follow-up program to improve their representatives of the entire airport community. health and quality of life. Reflected in an internal standard, the new In Brazil, for instance, BH Airport already parameters contribute to the safety of the entire has accident frequency and severity airport, surpassing the regulatory requirements rates that are considered low, and established on this topic. constantly strives to achieve the target of zero accidents. The specialized team works continuously on awareness raising RATE OF INJURIES AMONG campaigns, improvement of management EMPLOYEES mechanisms and onsite inspections to 11.48 6.90 verify potential workers’ safety hazards. Operational safety, on the other hand, is not always seen by passengers and visitors and covers the runway areas, buildings and land adjacent to the terminals. Hazards represented by the movement of aircraft and vehicles and by runway CCR Group maintenance are managed in this context. BH Airport Airport security involves terminal surveillance, control over access to RATE OF LOST DAYS the various airport areas, inspection AMONG EMPLOYEES of passengers and hand luggage, and 98.34 2.07 security of cargo and baggage dispatched, among others. In 2017, BH Airport implemented Programa de Prevenção de Substâncias Psicoativas (Program for Prevention of Psychoactive Substances – PPSP), in which all employees with access to restricted areas of the airport undergo periodic assessments to identify CCR Group alcohol consumption or drug use. BH Airport 40 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Operational eco-efficiency To carry out the management BH AIRPORT’S MAIN of environmental aspects on the ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Environmental premises of BH Airport, CCR Group uses the Integrated Management management Water Energy Waste System (IMS). The various areas consumption (thousand m3) consumption (thousand GJ) disposal (thousand tons) priorities at BH Airport are responsible for ensuring the fulfillment of environmental licensing 295.0 include aspects such conditions and for reporting 2.3 control indicators to the corporate 244.3 82.5 as water, electricity 74.7 1.9 environmental team. 199.4 63.6 and greenhouse gas The company currently monitors emissions about 280 conditioning factors, whose timely reporting to the supervisory bodies is followed to the letter in order to guarantee the continuity of operations at the airport. All environmental aspects are continuously managed with this legal 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2016 2017 compliance in mind. In addition, water and electricity consumption issues also have a significant impact on operating costs. The definition of targets for GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (thousand tCO2e) resource consumption or impact generation reduction is being 56.2 0.8 16.3 2.1 796.3 719.3 assessed by BH Airport. One of the medium-term objectives is to pursue Airport Carbon Accreditation, an international initiative that sets voluntary levels for accredited airports to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This must be achieved in combination with IMS certification in ISO 9000 and Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 14000, OHSAS 18000 and the RBACs (Brazilian Civil Aviation Regulations). CCR Group BH Airport 41 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group MESSAGES ABOUT THE THE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS SERVICES TOLL ROADS URBAN AIRPORTS OUTLOOK REPORT CCR GROUP OPPORTUNITIES MODEL MOBILITY Outlook CCR Group also The recovery of Brazil’s economic toll road concession programs, the Another challenge is the maintenance growth may occur more rapidly in 2018, function of the control bodies, the role of investments by CCR MSVia, which supported the “Em according to productivity and population of the Judiciary in the development of partially resumed the twinning of BR-163, Movimento” (In employability indicators at the end of jurisprudence involving the sector, and in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, last Movement) project, last year, but there will still be major the work of Brazilian Congress and year. Approximately R$ 143 million will be a series of six films challenges to the development of new control bodies in relation to the topic. invested in 12.5 kilometers of twinning and showing how business and infrastructure investments 84 kilometers of pavement restoration on transport, sanitation, in the country. The political scenario The most recent edition of the various segments of the road. The restoration urban mobility and is still uncertain and federal and state global competitiveness report, released of balance in the agreement for this other infrastructure government elections, scheduled for the by the World Economic Forum, puts concession is due to a combination of delays contribute to economic last quarter of the period, will come first Brazil in 80th place on a list with 137 in the issuance of the Environmental License growth and have a in the institutional debate, sharing the nations. In this survey, infrastructure (resulting in only partial release of segments positive impact on spotlight with the need to improve the is the second most important pillar for for twinning roadworks) with the change society. With this conditions of national assets. leveraging a country’s ability to of bases for funding by Banco Nacional de compete in the global market, only Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (Brazilian initiative, the company Besides focusing on excellence in the ranking below the solidity of institutions. National Bank for Economic and Social seeks to mobilize management of its portfolio, CCR Group Likewise, a study by the National Development BNDES) and Caixa Econômica society in response to will also heed the opportunities that will Transportation Confederation shows Federal (Federal Savings and Loans Bank). the discussion about arise in Brazil and abroad, either for the that, in 2016 alone, private investment the growth of private acquisition of new concessions or for in Brazilian highways was more than In the international scenario, CCR Group is sector participation in secondary market projects. Moreover, double the sum invested by the structured to identify opportunities for business national development. the company is prepared to further federal government. expansion in South American nations and in the discussion on the importance of the United States, where there is a growing infrastructure investments at the In its current business operations, CCR demand for investments in the airport sector. Click here to watch national level. Group will continue to look out for the films of the “Em existing opportunities in the concessions The organizational restructuring completed Movimento” series. Some initiatives in this area have already it already operates, maintaining capital in 2017, a result of the Repensar project, and started in 2017. Last September CCR discipline which distinguishes its its financial solidity place CCR Group on a Group was one of the participants business management. In the scope of favorable footing for a new cycle of growth. of the tenth edition of the Brazilian São Paulo state toll roads, it will follow The new business areas, which are more Congress of Toll Roads and Concessions, the evolution of the agreement riders dedicated and closer to the units, are poised held in Brasilia. The event’s panels signed in 2006 to ensure the economic to assess risks and opportunities, identifying addressed matters such as effectiveness and financial balance of agreements new avenues for company-wide qualified and of infrastructure planning, funding of managed by CCR SPVias and Renovias. sustainable growth. 42 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 • CCR Group The CCR Group Annual Sustainability Report is in accordance with the reporting framework proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council and the information presented in this document was collected from technical and administrative employees and validated by the Executive Board. With this publication we aim to provide our stakeholders, especially financial capital providers, with access to accurate, objective information on how CCR Group manages risk and assesses opportunities for integrated value creation and the strengthening of the positive impacts of its business model. We are grateful to all those who helped make the Annual Sustainability Report available to all interested parties. Sincerely, CCR Group Executive Board Credits General Coordination | CCR Group’s Sustainability and Communication Team Content, design and inphographic | usina82 Photos | CCR collection
