Nigeria LNG Limited SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT & UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 This document draws on relevant sections of the company's latest edition of Business Principles, Our Code of Conduct and Facts and Figures on NLNG 2018, as published on the company website, h p://www.nigerialng.com SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT This publication is produced by the Corporate Communication and Public Affairs Department of Nigeria LNG Limited. More information on the company's operations can be found at www.nigerialng.com or www.nlng.com. All correspondence to: Nigeria LNG Limited, Intels Aba Road Estate, KM 16, Port Harcourt Aba Expressway, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria. Phones: +234 (0) 803 907 4000, 802 473 4000, (0) 84 28 4000 E-mail: info@nigerialng.com facebook.com/nigerialnglimited youtube.com/NgLNG linkedin.com/company/nigeria-lng-limited twitter.com/nigeriaLNG SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS BACKGROUND.............................................................................................................7 NLNG: PROFILE............................................................................................................9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES.......................................................................................12 LABOUR PRINCIPLES...................................................................................................23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES.....................................................................................30 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES..................................................................................38 Images from NLNG’s Bonny Plant Complex LNG Abuja II SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 BACKGROUND In December 2015, Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) became a Our UNGC membership is a public declaration of our continued signatory to United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world's commitment to incorporating environmental, social and largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative with business governance standards in our strategies, policies and procedures, and non-business participants from 160 countries. as well as embedding a culture of integrity, all of which are underscored in our Statement of Business Principles and Our Code The UNGC supports companies to: of Conduct. ▪ Do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and Through our UNGC membership and the annual Communication operations with the UNGC's Ten Principles anchored on on Progress (COP), we will transparently inform the public on how four global areas of human rights, labour, environment we continue to align our practices with the universal principles of and anti-corruption. responsible behaviour through support to host communities as well as engage customers, suppliers and service providers on the need for responsible business practices. ▪ Take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an Contents of this report can be veried in our published Facts and emphasis on collaboration and innovation. Figures on NLNG 2017, Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy, Statement of Business Principles, and Code of Conduct. Administration Building, NLNG Bonny Plant Complex SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 NLNG: PROFILE Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) was incorporated as a limited liability renowned for its operational excellence, cost leadership, high company on May 17, 1989 to harness Nigeria's vast natural gas HSE standards, honesty and integrity. We help to build a better resources and produce Liqueed Natural Gas (LNG) and Natural Nigeria by processing, shipping and marketing efciently and Gas Liquids (NGLs) for export. protably, the country's gas resources and by putting out the ares, thus diversifying the economy and minimising the It is owned by four shareholders, namely, the Federal Government environmental impact of our activities and products. of Nigeria, represented by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (49%), Shell Gas B.V. (25.6%), Total Gas Electricite We will set the standards in community relations and technology Holdings France (15%) and Eni (10.4%). The company has two transfer, and actively promote the sustainable development of subsidiaries: Bonny Gas Transport (BGT) Limited and NLNG Ship Nigerian businesses. We will provide to our shareholders a good Management Limited (NSML). return on their investment. We will provide an exciting and fullling place to work and the opportunity for staff to develop Our Vision their potential. … A global LNG company helping to build a better Nigeria. Finally, we will execute and operate our business in Nigeria with an international outlook and mind-set. Nigeria LNG Limited will continue to be a global LNG company NLNG signed HSE Leadership Charter with its contractors wherein both parties committed to zero incidents in company operations NLNG NLNGBonny BonnyComplex at nightat night Plant Complex SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally NLNG's human rights objectives proclaimed human rights; and practices are in full and alignment with UNGC principles on Human Rights. We strive to conduct our activities in a manner Principle 2: that respects the rights and Make sure that they are dignity of all people. This is a not complicit in human business imperative for NLNG. rights abuses. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS NLNG's commitment to employees in our Statement of Business performance plan and address the social impacts of our Principles and Ethics is “to respect the human rights of our operations on local communities. employees and to provide them with good and safe working conditions, and competitive terms and conditions of employment.” Security: companywide security requirements help keep staff, contractors and facilities safe in a way that respects human rights, Also, in Principle 5 (Human Rights) of the NLNG Code of Conduct, and the security of our host communities. we commit to comply with applicable laws and regulations including the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Contracting and Procurement: we seek to work with contractors Rights and the core conventions of International Labour and suppliers who contribute to sustainable development and are Organisation. economically, environmentally and socially responsible. Human rights requirements are embedded in Our Code of Principles on harassment Conduct manual and other policies, to make our position clear for all our customers, suppliers, employees and partners. They In furtherance of our support for Human Rights principles of the include: UNGC, NLNG has also committed to addressing issues of harassment in the workplace through Principle 4 of Our Code of Social Performance: all major projects must have a social Conduct policy by stating thus: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 “NLNG will not tolerate harassment. We will not tolerate any action, conduct or behaviour which is humiliating, intimidating or hostile. Treat others with respect and avoid situations Complaints hotline and supporting resources Our commitment to human rights is further entrenched with the that may be perceived as inappropriate. introduction of the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and the Feedback, criticism and challenge must Ethics Line (Whistleblower) platform where parties come forward with complaints of abuses, unethical business practices, injustice always be delivered in an appropriate and and suspicious behaviours capable of compromising human respectful manner. In particular, be aware of rights standards in the organisation. cultural sensitivities what is acceptable in one culture may not be in another. It is important to be aware of, and understand, these differences.” Staff members in a Stand-Down-for-Safety session NLNG Deputy Managing Director, Sadeeq Mai-Bornu (middle), addressing participants at the 2018 NLNG Contractor CEO Safety Leadership Conference SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 IMPLEMENTATION We regularly engage with our external stakeholders and always our commitments to best practices in Principle 3.1 of Our Code of strive to contribute, both directly and indirectly, to the general wellConduct (HSSE and Social Performance). being of our host communities. Our Social Performance principles are specically designed to Principle 3.3 (Human Rights) of Our Code of Conduct document ensure compliance with the law and to achieve continuous equally highlights the following expectation from all our performance improvement, while promoting a culture in which all stakeholders: NLNG staff and contractors share this commitment. ▪ You must ensure that your work complies with NLNG's In 2017, NLNG's focus on promoting Human Rights was further commitments to human rights in Social Performance, reiterated in (1) its review of the company's core values to Security, Human Resources and Contracting and understand the causes of fear in the organisation and (2) renewed Procurement. commitment to set targets for HSSE&SP improvement, and measure, appraise and report performance levels towards ▪ If you know of or suspect any potential human rights achieving Goal Zero on all safety indicators. violations relating to our business, it is your duty to speak up. Relying on existing NLNG HSSE&SP Control Framework that Our social performance commitments are further entrenched by supports effective and efcient implementation of our policy, the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 following commitments were extracted from our stakeholders: This also included renewing the following expectations from all our stakeholders: ▪ Comply with the law, standards and procedures ▪ Intervene in unsafe or non-compliant situations ▪ You must treat others with respect ▪ Respect our neighbours ▪ You must not physically or verbally intimidate or humiliate ▪ Compliance with the HSSE&SP policies and procedures others ▪ Adherence to the 12 Life-Saving Rules ▪ You must avoid situations that may be perceived as ▪ Report and act on a HSSE&SP incident, potential incident or inappropriate near-miss as soon as you become aware of it. ▪ You must not make inappropriate jokes or comments. If you are unsure whether something is inappropriate, The Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and Ethics Line assume that it is. platforms were sustained throughout 2017 and adequately ▪ You must not display offensive or disrespectful material supervised by experienced professionals within the Human ▪ Challenge someone if you nd their behaviour hostile, Resources and Corporate Governance (GRC) business functions intimidating, humiliating or disrespectful respectively, to further give impetus to the implementation plan. ▪ You may always contact your line manager, the GRC ofce or Human Resources Production personnel in a tool box meeting SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES In 2017, NLNG made signicant progress in promoting Human immediately followed up with a campaign focused on Rights in line with its earlier commitments and diligent discussing the various dimensions of respect and what implementation of the 2017 plans. In particular, the company constitutes disrespectful behaviour in the organisation, including recorded the following key outcomes in promoting Human Rights a survey on harassment, fear and other dimensions of respect in the organisation and among its stakeholders: in the organisation. Respect as a human right HSSE and Social Performance and Contracting/Procurement ▪ Introduced and accentuated RESPECT as a critical element of ▪ In 2017, NLNG launched a campaign entitled “Reset the our core values in NLNG in addition to the existing core values baseline and take back control on Safety” where the entire of Integrity, Teamwork, Excellence and Caring, and as part of leadership team committed to reviving the safety journey. This the company's efforts to promote The Universal Declaration of led to over 200% increase, compared to 2016, in leadership Human Rights. involvement in safety and security especially, Emergency Response. Campaign on harassment ▪ Intensied efforts on safety campaigns and awareness, ▪ The introduction of Respect as a core value in NLNG was reaching out to our contractors' personnel especially. In SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 addition, the maiden Contractor CEO Safety Conference was organized, after which a follow-up workshop was held to build a solid partnership with our contractors on our safety leadership journey. ▪ Intensied the all-year-round HSE and Security campaigns in the last quarter of the year with the theme; Safety in the Festive Season aimed at keeping staff, contractors and facilities safe in a way that respects human rights and the security of our host communities. Details of some of these activities can be found in our Facts and Figures on NLNG 2017 and in relevant sections of our website, h p://www.nigerialng.com Some Plant personnel Mechanical workshop staff in a Stop-For-Safety brieng SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Principle 4: Businesses should uphold The elimination of all the freedom of forms of forced and association and the compulsory labour effective recognition of NLNG'S labour practices, evident the right to collective in Our Code of Conduct and bargaining Business Principles, fully align with UNGC Labour principles. Principle 5: Principle 6: The effective abolition of The elimination of child labour discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Staff celebrating 2018 HSE Day SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our commitment to employees in our Business Principles ▪ To encourage the involvement of employees in the planning adequately supports the promotion of Principles 3 and 4 of the and direction of their work; to provide them with channels to UNGC by providing for a system: report concerns. ▪ To respect the human rights of our employees and to Equally, our Labour principles and practices on Equal Opportunity provide them with good and safe working conditions, as clearly stated in Principle 3 of Our Code of Conduct are very and competitive terms and conditions of employment. well aligned with Principle 6 of the UNGC. ▪ To promote the development and best use of the At NLNG, we offer equal opportunities to everyone. This helps us talents of our employees; to create an inclusive work ensure that we always draw on the widest possible talent pool and environment where every employee has an equal attract the very best people. We rely on everyone at NLNG to opportunity to develop his or her skills and talents. adhere to our principles on equal opportunity. ▪ We recognise that commercial success depends on In 2017, NLNG's labour practices were further enhanced with a the full commitment of all employees. focus on eliminating all forms of unhealthy working conditions through improved Work-Life Balance practices. Cross section of participants at the 2017 NLNG Contractor CEO Safety Leadership Conference SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 IMPLEMENTATION In our support of UNGC Labour principles, we expect similar commitment to Equal Opportunity by our stakeholders as stated in our Business Principles and in Principle 3.5 of Our Code of Conduct Behaviours, namely: ▪ When making employment decisions, including hiring, evaluation, promotion, training, development, discipline, compensation and termination, you must base them solely on objective factors, including merit, qualications, performance and business considerations. ▪ You should understand the value of diversity and must not discriminate in any way based on race, colour, religion, age, gender, disability, ethnic origin or nationality. The 2018 Drive Safe Campaign was a very interactive affair with recognitions and celebrations of deserving participants. The 2018 Drive Safe Campaign kicked off in NLNG ofces in Nigeria with Learn & Share sessions which were engaging with rich conversations around Fatigue, Driver Distractions and In-Vehicle Monitoring System, (IVMS). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES In 2017, NLNG's progress in promoting Labour practices can be Equal opportunity employment measured by the following key positive outcomes that support all the UNGC principles on labour: ▪ NLNG's commitment to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation as well as promotion Work-Life Balance of equal opportunity was sustained in 2017 with the recruitment of young graduate trainees and technicians ▪ In 2017, the atmosphere of healthy collective bargaining from across the country in company's effort at replenishing between the company and labour unions resulted in the the talent pipeline while reecting Nigeria's diversity. introduction of the following work-life balance provisions in our Conditions of Service: Details of some of these activities can be found in our Facts and Figures on NLNG 2017 and in relevant sections of our website, i. Working from alternate locations http://www.nigerialng.com ii. Flexible working terms iii. Compressed working hours SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Principle 8: Businesses should support Undertake initiatives to a precautionary approach promote greater to environmental environmental NLNG has aligned itself with challenges responsibility; and Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the UNGC challenges on the Environment through its policies and practices as evident in Our Code of Conduct and the Principle 9: Business Principles: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Finima Nature Park, approximately 1000 hectares, has been set aside by NLNG for conservation, recreation, and research on the fauna, ora and cultural heritage of its primary host community, Bonny Kingdom. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS As part of NLNG Statement of Business Principles, we commit to improvement, and measures, appraises and reports performance the tenets of sustainable development. This requires balancing externally. short and long-term interests, integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into business decisionIn our environmental practices, Nigeria LNG Limited ensures making. continuous compliance with applicable legislations as stipulated by the various regulatory bodies in Nigeria: Federal Ministry of Specically, Principle 3.1 of NLNG Code of Conduct on Health, Environment (FME), Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Safety, Security and the Environment states that NLNG has a Rivers State Ministry of Environment (RSME), etc., that issue permits systematic approach to health, safety, security and environmental for her various operations. We carry out regular reviews and management in order to achieve continuous performance evaluation of existing and proposed environmental laws and management. To this end, NLNG manages these matters as regulations that impact or have potential impact on NLNG critical business activities, sets standards and targets for Business. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 IMPLEMENTATION With regard to the environment, NLNG has a sound Health, Safety NLNG being the rst major multinational company in Nigeria to and Environment (HSE) policy anchored on the need to take proper complete full EIA process for all of its Trains 1-6 before care of its assets, the health and safety of its employees and commencement of business, regularly interfaces with the Federal stakeholders, and to give proper regard to the sustainable Ministry of Environment (FME) and other relevant stakeholders, management of the environment. locally, nationally and internationally on environmental issues. In line with this and in alignment with relevant Principles, NLNG An important element of the EIA process is to identify and plans its work to: mitigate potential adverse impacts of NLNG's operations. For NLNG's existing projects, a number of potential impacts (positive ▪ Prevent injuries and ill-health to workers and and negative) were identied and mitigation measures taken for surrounding communities; the adverse impacts. ▪ Prevent damage to assets and minimise any negative impact on the environment; As a key stakeholder on issues that concern the environment, FME ▪ Avoid or eliminate future liabilities; regularly carries out annual mitigation and compliance ▪ Meet requirements for demonstrable due diligence. monitoring exercises of NLNG Projects. NLNG/FRSC Child Safety Campaign, 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 In addition, NLNG submits itself to external audits from Nigeria, and other interesting and unique ora and fauna independent auditors, e.g., British Standards Institution (BSI). prevalent on Bonny Island. NLNG is ISO14001:2004 certied as well as conducts regular monitoring of its own HSE performance, in pursuance of The park was established in recognition of the importance of continuous improvement and to foster a positive HSE culture preserving the ecosystem of Bonny Island, and as a commitment to within the organisation. keeping a permanent record of the sacrices of Bonny people, their aspirations and their natural heritage and culture. It is also part of On biodiversity and nature conservation, Nigeria LNG Limited has NLNG's contribution to national and global conservation, in line established a Nature Park on Bonny Island to preserve the natural environment of its host communities. The site of the nature park is with Rio Agenda 21, the Ramsar Convention and Convention on the natural habitat of the Salt Water Hippopotamus, now rare in Biological Diversity. NLNG’s 100 per cent Nigerian Senior Management Team is proudly supported by efcient and happy professionals. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 MEASURES OF OUTCOMES In promoting the UNGC goals on Environment, NLNG has The company partners with community-based organisations such reported in its published Facts and Figures on NLNG 2017 how it as the Bonny Environmental Consultants' Committee (BECC) and recorded signicant progress in the following areas: Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in outreach programs i. Discharges to water to schools, organisations and settlements within Bonny Kingdom ii. Sewage treatment and disposals with the objective of establishing conservation clubs in primary and post primary schools and entrenching a culture of iii. Solid waste management conservation early in the youth. In 2017 over 7000 visits to the iv. Hazardous and Non-hazardous waste nature park were recorded, an over 100% increase in the total v. Air emission numbers of 2016. vi. Environmental noise measurement and performance Further details of our role in this aspect can be found in our Facts In pursuing its environmental objectives, the company considers and Figures on NLNG 2017 under “Biodiversity and Nature public consultation and enlightenment fundamental to fostering Conservation”. This is also available on NLNG website, good relationships with its neighbours, hence it has initiated forest h p://www.nigerialng.com. protection and biodiversity conservation enlightenment campaigns in accordance with recommended EIA mitigation measures. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: NLNG's two major policies: Our Businesses should work Code of Conduct and Antiagainst corruption in all Bribery and Corruption (ABC) its forms, including Policy are well aligned with extortion and bribery. UNGC's Principle 10 on antibribery and corruption. MD Division celebrating their victory for best presentation, HSE Day, 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS NLNG is committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics NLNG insists on honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of our in our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business and expect the same in our relationships with all those shareholders, regulators and our host communities. This with whom we do business. The direct or indirect offer, payment, commitment is ensured through policies which guide the business soliciting or acceptance of bribes in any form including facilitation in its relationship with stakeholders. Two of the key policies are: payments is unacceptable. Employees must avoid conicts of Our Code of Conduct, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) interest between their private activities and their part in the conduct Policy. of company business. Employees must also declare to NLNG potential conicts of interest. All business transactions on behalf of Integrity is a core value in NLNG and our strong commitment to NLNG must be reected fairly and accurately in the accounts of Integrity is reinforced in our Statement of Business Principles that the company in accordance with established procedures and are applies to all transactions, large or small, and drive the behaviour subject to audit and disclosure. expected of every employee and director of NLNG in the conduct of its business at all times. The 'tone at the top' towards Bribery and Corruption in NLNG is simple: it is one of zero tolerance. In order to drive this down the entire organization, the Anti-Bribery and Corruption effort of Specically, Principle 3 of the General Business Principles states: NLNG is multi-faceted, to assist employees and stakeholders to manage the inherent risks. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 IMPLEMENTATION In line with Principle 5.1 of Our Code of Conduct (on Anti-Bribery ▪ You must not offer, pay, make, seek or accept a personal and Corruption), we build relationships based on trust, and we are payment, gift or favour in return for favourable treatment or determined to maintain and enhance that trust, thereby protecting to gain a business advantage. You must not allow anybody our reputation. As such, we never accept or pay bribes, including else to do so, on your behalf. facilitation payments. Even unsubstantiated claims of bribery and corruption may damage NLNG's reputation. ▪ You must not make facilitation payment or other such payments. If a facilitation payment has been requested or Everyone involved with NLNG's business must comply with the made, you must immediately report it to your line manager. anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) laws of Nigeria and of the countries in which we operate and do business. Involvement in ▪ Know who you are doing business with by conducting bribery and corruption will attract disciplinary action, dismissal, appropriate due diligence as set out in the ABC Manual. legal proceedings and, possibly, imprisonment. ▪ Dealing with government ofcials poses a greater bribery Specically, we expect the following commitments from our risk so you must follow the mandatory requirements in the stakeholders: ABC Manual. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 ▪ You must comply with all anti-bribery and corruption laws of Business Principles. Nigeria and those of other countries we have dealings with. To further emphasise our commitment to ghting corruption, ▪ You must report corrupt behaviour. Turning a blind eye to NLNG Ethics Line was set up in 2012 and, since then, has been suspicions of bribery and corruption can result in liability providing a platform that allows for condential, anonymous for NLNG and for individuals. submission of information on unethical business practices, potential violation of laws, rules, regulations or any policies. NLNG requires all staff members to declare any perceived or actual conict situations that exist during the course of their NLNG Ethics Line is a toll free resource managed by an external engagement with the company. Declared conicts are reviewed party. No call tracing or recording devices are ever used, and and resolved by company management. callers may remain completely anonymous, if they so wish. Callers are given a number and call back date at the end of their Employees are also required to declare any gifts and hospitality calls. Should they desire to follow up on the status of their report, given/received from the company's business partners/associates. or want to provide additional information, they simply call back The annual conict of interest declaration also provides a medium and reference this information. for staff members to attest to the NLNG Code of Conduct & The Deputy Managing Director, Sadeeq Mai-Bornu (third left), and other staff on Management Facility Inspection during Train 3 Shutdown activities, 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 MEASURES OF OUTCOME Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training and Awareness Integrity Barometer Journey In 2017, NLNG set out to consolidate on and sustain the gains of From 2013 to 2014, NLNG undertook a baseline Integrity the previous years in embedding the ABC principles. This was Barometer assessment to provide a simple exposition of the achieved by addressing the gaps identied in 2016 which effectiveness of its policy and actions on anti-corruption included, amongst other things, improving record keeping in Gifts governance in relation to the company's operations across all key and Hospitality to Government Ofcials, and revising NLNG ABC sectors and divisions. foundation documents, namely: the Code of Conduct and NLNG Standard on Company Sponsored Travel for Government Subsequently, a review was carried out every year up to 2017 to Ofcials. All these activities are aimed at raising awareness on ascertain the progress made on agreed key focus areas of the current developments and the required ethical considerations in Transparency Index, for company to track and monitor its the company's supply chain. business landscape for compliance with national and international standards on ABC. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2017 Going forward, company will continue with both the annual selfEthics Line (the “whistleblower”) assessment of identied parameters and stakeholder survey to continuously monitor its performance around this very important In 2017, the ethics line platform continuously provided company business integrity index. with additional windows of proactively managing potential and actual risks associated with unethical behaviour in the Conflict of Interest (CoI) organisation. In 2017, CoI declaration recorded signicant improvement in Further details of our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) program compliance due to increased awareness via the Code of Conduct and the Whistleblower platform can be found in our published Facts roadshow, continuous engagement of staff in closing out declared and Figures on NLNG 2017 and under the “Anti-Bribery and conicts as well as introduction of additional CoI declaration Corruption (ABC)” and “Whistleblower” sections of the NLNG platforms for personnel in recruitment functions. website, http://www.nigerialng.com NLNG MD/CEO, Tony Attah, addressing contracting companies’ chief executives during the 2018 NLNG Contractor CEO Safety Leadership Conference ...helping to build a better Nigeria www.nigerialng.com
