GLOBAL COMPACT/COP/2018 Content/ 04 About us 06 Statement of support/ Partner Group 08 The Global Compact/ Principles 09 We support 10 Principles/ Human Rights 13 Principles/ Labour Standards 20 Principles/ Environment 29 Principles/ Anti-corruption 33 Selected Architecture 56 Imprint DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark We aspire to the highest standard in everything we do. Driven by the vocation that great architecture generates lasting and positive change, we combine intelligent solutions with exceptional experiences that appeal to senses and mind. 3 About us/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, now part of global architecture and design firm Perkins+Will, is one of Scandinavia’s most recognized and award-winning architectural practices. The company was founded in Aarhus, Denmark in 1986 by Morten Schmidt, Bjarne Hammer, and John F. Lassen, and is led today by all three founding partners along with fellow partners Kim Holst Jensen, Kristian Lars Ahlmark, Chris Hardie, Rong Lu, Mads Kaltoft, Kasper Frandsen, Nathan Smith, Tiago Pereira and Rasmus Kierkegaard. Working out of studios located in Copenhagen, Aarhus, and Shanghai, the firm provides skilled architectural services all over the world, with a distinguished track record as designers of international, high-profile architecture. Cultural and educational buildings, offices, commercial, retail, and residential buildings, often in mixed-use developments and complex urban contexts, are cornerstones of the firm’s output. The practice has extensive global experience in the design of libraries and other public and cultural landmark buildings, and its innovative, sustainable, and democratic approach to architecture has attracted global attention, winning more than 100 national and international awards. Schmidt Hammer Lassen have supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and are member of the newly established Global Compact Network Denmark. We submit COP #9 in December 2018. The COP will be available on the UN Global Compact website and on our website www.shl.dk. 4 4 Company Profile 2018/ Founded in 1986 3 offices 200+ co-workers 30 nationalities International projects on 4 continents 5 Statement of Support/ SHL SUMMER SOCIAL SUMMIT 2018/ Copenhagen/ Denmark/ For more than 30 years, Schmidt Hammer Lassen have continuing professional development to all staff members. essential policy frame of our CSR approach. We are members provided excellent architectural services all over the world. In our COP/2018, we take the opportunity to report on of the new Global Compact Network Denmark and part Today we work on four continents with the overall goal initiatives taken and achievements attained and we present of the important agenda of working together on “making to optimize and improve existing standards for building selected architectural projects that add documented value global goals local business”. design and construction. and positive change to people, places, and communities. The Partner Group/ We believe that architecture solutions increasingly can In acknowledgement of the substantial influence and Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects and will drive positive change in our world. To accomplish responsibility of the building industry, Schmidt Hammer December 2018 this, we continuously seek to get smarter through new Lassen have signed the Nordic Built Charter as well as knowledge and methodology. The Charter of the Danish Association for Responsible Construction. We engage in innovative research projects, establish collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher Since 2008, we have supported the Global Compact education institutions, and we provide targeted internal initiative and the principles continuously constitute an 6 The UN Global Compact/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects joined the UN Global to improve the major social, economic and environmental Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact is the world‘s challenges that follow globalization. Global Compact has largest voluntary CSR initiative and initiates and supports today grown to be an extensive international network of corporate operational and strategic focus on social more than 12,000 signatories from over 170 countries. responsibility. This important initiative was started in 2000 Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles constitute the under the leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. core of the stated objectives and cover four key focus areas: The overall goal is to actively commit companies to work human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption. 7 The Royal Libray/ Copenhagen/ Denmark 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS/ LABOUR STANDARDS/ ENVIRONMENT/ ANTI-CORRUPTION/ Principle 1/ Businesses should Principle 3 / Businesses should Principle 7/ Businesses should Principle 10/ Businesses support and respect the uphold the freedom of association support a precautionary should work against corruption protection of internationally and the effective recognition of approach to environmental in all its forms, including proclaimed human rights; and challenges; extortion and bribery. the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2/ make sure that Principle 4/ the elimination of all Principle 8/ undertake they are not complicit in human forms of forced and compulsory initiatives to promote greater labour; environmental responsibility; rights abuses. and Principle 5/ the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 9/ encourage the development and diffusion Principle 6/ the elimination of environmentally friendly of discrimination in respect of technologies. employment and occupation. We support/ The UN Sustainable Development Goals Debate on the UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, leaders from 193 countries came together to In June 2018, Schmidt Hammer Lassen opened its doors commit to ending poverty, combating climate change, for the event “View on the 17”, a conversation about and fighting injustice by adopting a new global set of architecture’s role in supporting the United Nations’ 17 measurable Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Compact is committed to be a leading Though the UN’s global objectives are high on the political catalyst of this agenda – based on the sound values and agenda, they require greater attention from the architectural principles that the UN Global Compact is built upon. Schmidt industry. In the form of a dynamic dialogue meeting, we Hammer Lassen are member of the recently established fostered a discussion focused on the industry’s role in Global Compact Network Denmark devoted to “making facing the sustainability challenges of the future. global goals local business”. Charlotte Algreen, who is a leading voice in architectural sustainability, led a panel discussion attended by Kristian consensus that working in silos leads to stagnation, and Ahlmark, Partner and Design Director at Schmidt Hammer that cooperation and communication between different Lassen; Martin Lidegaard, member of Parliament and disciplines and actors is the way forward. The panellists former Foreign Minister and Climate and Energy Minister, and guests also discussed rewriting the rules of global as well as co-founder of Concito; Steen Hildebrandt, Ph.D., architecture, and touched on how architectural companies Professor Emeritus at Aarhus University, Adj. Professor can contribute to a more sustainable future by adding the at CBS and Aalborg University, author; Hans-Bo Hyldig, UN’s Sustainable Development Goals to their strategy. Director of the FB-gruppen; and Jakob Brandtberg Knudsen, Head of the School of Architecture at KADK. At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, the culture of conversation is part of our design philosophy. Our belief that the The dynamic group sparked a wider discussion about best architecture is a result of collaboration and shared the responsibility of every player in the industry to create knowledge was realized with the full house of industry change, from politicians, to developers, to architects, to professionals engaged in the compelling discussion and the demands of everyday people. There was common the lively networking that followed. 9 PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1/ Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2/ make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 10 The Spinning Mills/ Vejle/ Denmark Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects support the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the UN Global Development Goals. We work in compliance with Danish legislation which meets international conventions on human rights/ 11 The International Criminal Court/The Hauge/The Netherlands Danish Charter supports CSR in the construction sector/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen joined the Danish Association for Responsible Construction in 2014. The objective of the association is to develop and promote social responsibility in the Danish property and construction sector based on a charter of six principles. 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders 4. We work for sustainable solutions 5. We have sound employment and working conditions 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices By signing the charter, Schmidt Hammer Lassen declare our support to the six principles. We believe that cross-disciplinary collaboration will only contribute to strengthen social responsibility within the building sector and will support and inspire good practice. Malmö Live/Malmö/Denmark 12 PRINCIPLES ON LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3/ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4/ the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5/ the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6/ the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 13 People & Organisation/ SHL DAYS 2016/Shanghai/China/ Labour standards/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we are exclusively dependent on staff members’ concerning employee safeguarding. Additionally, Schmidt Hammer Lassen engage in performance to continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic, and several specifically selected and designed activities to uphold and extend these rights sustainable architectural solutions for a diverse and international group of private and and continuously improve conditions for all staff members. public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of the staff members is therefore important to the organizational development and a top priority In Denmark, a collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the organiin the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the visions of our practice. sation’s staff members. Minor project offices are not covered by the Danish collective The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and conditions agreement, but the organization has made significant efforts to create comparable conditions. of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed regulations National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office sites are followed with rigor. 14 A democratic work place/ The well-being of staff members is highly valued by the organisation. Three dedicated committees are in place to support, that we act in compliance with the defined goals and that procedures are followed. The strategic management participates actively and cooperatively in this work alongside staff elected representatives. The Health & Safety Committee takes precautionary measures against any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representatives about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention. The Continuing Education Committee organises and administers the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. We communicate on general work conditions, benefits, rules, and regulations in the SHL Staff Handbook, which we hand out when welcoming a new colleague – alongside a well-planned on-boarding program. DOKK1/Aarhus/Denmark 15 Work environment/ In Individual development/ A mandatory and well planned Employee Development Dialogue / EDD is held annually for all staff members together with their manager. This valuable session is focusing on motivation, job satisfaction, continuing professional development, and career development. The outcome of the EDD and goals for future development is implemented in our system for professional development in collaboration with the manager. Additionally, an annual salary negation is held with every employee together with a status EDD and check-ins when needed. At all locations, Schmidt Hammer Lassen encourage the employees to participate in a wide range of social and professional development activities. We love to celebrate won competitions, birthdays and anniversaries by inviting to informal gatherings. The SHL Intranet monthly presents a variety of activities to ensure a spirited culture, including knowledge-sharing sessions, lectures, courses, site visits, and inspiring study trips. CPD Plan/ To ensure assisted learning activities and ongoing professional and personal development for all employees, the Continuing Professional Development Committee annually compile a CPD Plan covering the majority of the assisted learning activities open for everyone. Our knowledge groups GREEN/ BIM/ BUILD arrange a variety of educational activities and additionally, we support educational activities within leadership and management. In addition to the CPD plan, many different individual learning activities take place, also funded by company means. 16 Work Place Assessment/ The organisation administers a detailed employee survey, the Workplace Assessment/ WPA. The WPA is conducted once every third year and supports us in monitoring organisational development on physical working conditions as well as psychological working environment. Some important questions in the WPA related to job-satisfaction has recurred in the last three surveys, showing a positive steady increase in the categories covering reputation and general well-being. The Management Board in collaboration with Health & Safety/ Collaboration Committee / Managers / HR identify the key focus areas to be handled and prioritized in continuation of the employee feedback. Hereafter, action is taken on different organizational levels. Non-discrimination/ n-discrimination/ Members of staff are the most valuable resource at Schmidt Hammer Lassen. We believe that diversity supports an innovative work environment with excellent architecture as a result. The staff of employees today counts around 30 different nationalities with an almost equal gender distribution. We focus on competencies and skills at any recruitment Schmidt Hammer Lassen/Office/ Copenhagen/Denmark and internal promotion within the organisation. 17 Collective Agreement/ In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights. We include additional activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment, where work life and family life is well balanced. The Danish Labour Law and Collective Agreement for architects in Denmark provides the following benefits to safeguard employee interests. / Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority + individually salary negotiations / Pension scheme / Working hours regulation and overtime compensation / Favourable maternity and paternity leave / Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) / Continuing Professional Development (CPD) funding and shared learning activities / Employee representation on several organisational boards (Health & Safety Committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Professional Development Committee) / Free union representative elections without management intervention Additionally, the organisation offers extra healthcare insurances for a majority of staff members. Responsible behaviour/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, responsible behaviour is integrated both in our professional work and in our everyday work life. Standards covering responsible behaviour are thoroughly described in the SHL Staff Handbook. A lunch scheme is in place at the Danish offices, allowing staff members to enjoy healthy, fresh and well-prepared lunch meals. We avoid waste of food by offering a take-away solution. The supplier is certified with the Organic Trademark verified by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration. 18 SHL DAYS/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we and other wonderful locations. In general, the have proud traditions when it comes to our majority of the company (above 90 percent) grand gatherings; the SHL Days. participates in these events. Every second year, all staff members are In 2018, the SHL Summer. Social. Summit. invited to come together to be inspired, to took place in Copenhagen. Almost 200 staff experience excellent architecture and to enjoy members came together for an adventurous the company of good colleagues. The SHL day of lectures and workshops – the event was Days have previously taken place in Venice, completed by a lively evening summer party. Stockholm, Shanghai, Copenhagen, Ebeltoft BLOX is one of Copenhagen’s major urban development projects and a new destination in the city. Designed by the internationally renowned architects OMA. Built and funded by the philanthropic association Realdania. 19 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ON ENVIRONMENT Principle 7/ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8/ undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9/ encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Ningbo Home of Staff/Ningbo/China 20 Exchanging knowledge/ Guiding the future/ Founding partner Morten Schmidt is a member of Van Alen Institute’s International Council – a platform for exchange among leading architects, designers, developers, and planners, representing practices across more than 26 cities and 15 countries. Council members meet twice annually to identify and investigate issues facing cities around the world, and to guide the impact of the Institute’s public programming, About the Van Alen Institiute/ research, and design competitions. The members also The Van Alen Institute is a 124-year-old not-forconvene with local policymakers, developers, researchers, profit that uses design to catalyze positive change in cities. and designers, identifying topics with the potential for deeper exploration with Van Alen’s international audience. By collaborating with communities, scholars, policymakers, and professionals on local and global In November 2018, the International Council met in Mumbai initiatives, the Institute will continue to inspire fresh thinking about the most pressing social, cultural, to discuss solutions to future urban challenges,“at Schmidt and ecological challenges of tomorrow and help Hammer Lassen we strongly believe in the power of sharing people visualize a different future. knowledge and experience,” said Founding Partner Morten The belief of Van Alen Institute is that design Schmidt, “from our long-time architectural project work, we can transform cities, landscapes, and regions know the value of collaborating in cross-disciplinary teams, to improve people’s lives and work to develop and it is a privilege to be part of the Van Alen Institute’s cross-disciplinary research, provocative public International Council, where dedicated professionals programs and inventive design competitions. exchange knowledge and seek to contribute with real Read more about Van Alen Institute here/ solutions to the extensive global challenges.” https://www.vanalen.org/ 21 As architects we have not only the opportunity but also the responsibility to design a better world. GREEN MANIFESTO/ by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects 2007 22 A GREEN agenda/ The new Sports and Administrations Centre Certified knowledge/ and Town Hall in Skanderborg is the first Danish public building to reach the DGNB Platinum Standard/ At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we commit to develop projects and realise buildings based on a holistic concept of sustainability. We work in multidisciplinary teams with innovative solutions in integrated design processes. We do this in frameworks of various certification systems as well as project specific goal setting, working closely together with our clients’ organisation. Our architectural staff counts in-house experts in the most important building certification systems, BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professionals, DGNB International and DGNB Denmark Consultants and Cradle to Cradle trained professionals, offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. This enables us to evaluate the “green performance” of a building and give a profound understanding of the interaction of different sustainable parameters. The evaluations are used to seek for optimized green solutions during the design process and better building performances without compromising the ambition for high quality architecture. Knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and in the CPD strategy. The CPD strategy aids to raise the common level and understanding of holistic sustainability throughout the organisation. An important knowledge sharing platform is our GREENgroup, where passionate employees exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and green ideas. In close collaboration with the architecture schools and university colleges we engage with students in different ways as mentors and external examiners in mutual inspiration. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green value management, sustainable reuse of existing building mass and sustainable city development. The specialized staff members of our studio provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work. We engage in strategic partnerships in pursuit of working with the UN Sustainable Development Goals – like the Active House Alliance, where we are a supporting member and represented in the Advisory Board. 23 Selected certified projects/ Sir Duncan Rice Library/Aberdeen/Scotland/ Office Building Buddinge/Copenhagen/Denmark/ BREEAM excellent Halifax Central Library/Halifax/Canada/ LEED Gold Certified DGNB Silver Certified Dokk1/Aarhus/Denmark/ Meets Danish class 2015 low Amazon Court Building/Prague/the Czech Republic/ The Crystal/Copenhagen/Denmark/Energy-consumption energy requirements DGNB Gold Certified reduction and best practice PV integrated facade design Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway/Refurbishment project Green Valley/Shanghai/China/Office facilities with a high Skanderborg Administrations and Sports Centre/ employing Cradle to Cradle principles and targeting a level of flexibility and low operating costs DGNB Platinum BREEAM Outstanding certification BIM/ State Library Re-development Victoria/Melbourne/Australia 25 Building Information Modelling/BIM Sustainability and Building Information Modelling/ BIM go hand in hand. At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, we have been working with BIM for many years, and today we execute all major projects with the use of BIM. Internally, BIM is used to develop and validate the designs of our buildings with the use of sustainable analysis and simulations, which allows us to optimize documentation of the project for construction. Externally, BIM is used on all project organization levels to communicate the design – enabling a smoother decision making process. The result is an optimally coordinated process and collaboration and minimisation of errors. We facilitate the dialogue with clients and related stakeholders to clarify and define the scope of information and data, which need to be successfully handed over on delivery of the project, for better and lower cost facility management. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of a design process, projects can be designed to benefit from local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as support selection of the used materials. For the client, future user and the community, this means a more sustainable, enduring and energy efficient building. 26 Building new knowledge/ Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore, the BIM management group engages in BIM Networks, BIM standard organisations and conferences, and also lectures at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build and share new knowledge – internally as well as externally. Schmidt Hammer Lassen is co-founder and member of the BIM7AA, a voluntary collaboration between seven Danish architectural practices in collaboration with Aarhus School of Architecture. The purpose of BIM7AA is to develop and continuously optimise commonly developed BIM tools, methods and processes focusing on interdisciplinary cooperation. Knowledge Centre/ Molio Schmidt Hammer Lassen is also member of Molio, a construction knowledge centre focusing on digital solutions and new technology. Molio is taking over the role as the buildingSMART network in Denmark and will also be the new buildingSMART Nordic Chapter partner and coordinator of activities in Denmark. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additionally, the internal BIM taskforce research and develop professional network and education. Running evaluations of the BIM projects is part of the knowledge sharing initiatives. More info/ University of Aberdeen Library/Aberdeen/UK www.molio.dk HU University of Applied Sciences/Utrecht/ The Netherlands Quality Assurance/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen have wide-ranging experience in high-level quality management to meet both client demands and regulatory requirements throughout the entire project life cycle; from the very beginning of a project until final handover. Working internationally, the applied Quality Assurance standards are applicable to the multitude of projects, that we work on all over the world, as well as support the development of architectural quality. The quality assurance policy of the practice is described in detail in the SHL Quality Assurance Manual, and it has been prepared in accordance with the following guidelines and standards: / Quality Control in Architectural Practices published by The Danish Association of Architectural Firms / The DS/ISO 9001 standard The SHL Quality Assurance Manual is a process tool that includes guidelines and standards for planning, implementation and quality control. The Handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis. 28 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ON ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10/ Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 29 ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark Business Ethics/ We hold a reputation as a responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption or bribery and formulated policy guidelines are in place and carefully described in the SHL Staff Handbook that is handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state: „Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing – their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ The independent NGO, Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. 30 National Archive/Viborg/Denmark In 2015 Nordic Innovation published the book ”30 Sustainable Nordic Buildings” featuring best practice examples based on the Nordic Built Charter principles. Schmidt Hammer Lassen’s highrise winning project in central Oslo, the Urban Mountain, will become another icon of the Norwegian capital and sets new standards for sustainability. 31 The Nordic Built Charter/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have signed The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic the Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas the development of sustainable building concepts for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic In 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge – a high profiled building sector. It describes a holistic approach to the international architectural competition – was built environment – taking energy, climate, economy organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition were and people into account. to create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic region, one in each country, demonstrating the The intention is that relevant actors from across solutions for sustainable refurbishment of the Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of existing building stock, which the Nordic building the building sector will commit to its ten principles. industry is able to deliver. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building sector a platform for cooperation and provides a With the Urban Mountain refurbishment project common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainable Schmidt Hammer Lassen and team won 1st prize values, promoting a balanced and integrated societal for the innovative and sustainable new landmark development based on environmental, economic for the city of Oslo. and social sustainability. More information/ www.nordicinnovation.org/nordicbuilt/ the-challenge/ 32 Urban Mountain/Oslo/Norway SELECTED ARCHITECTURE/ SOCIAL/SUSTAINABLE/IMPACT/ 33 Tjuvholmen Apartments House/ Oslo/ Norway/ Christchurch Central Library/Christchurch/New Zealand Hope, unity and rebirth – redevelopment of an earthquake-damaged city Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size/ 9,500 m² m²/ Competition/ Winner of contract in an international competition, 2013/ Status/ Completed, 2018/ Client/ Christchurch City Council/ Lead Design Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Principal Collaborating Architect/ Architectus 34 “Turanga is the kind of multi-faceted project that layers architectural interest with significant cultural relevance. It has been a privilege to design a project that not only fulfils the need for a new central library, but also one whose mission of restoring the soul of the city includes the deep cultural heritage of Ngai Tuahuriri, the local Maori people.” Morten Schmidt, Founding partner Christchurch Central Library/Christchurch/New Zealand Over the course of 15 months in 2010 and 2011, Christchurch, earthquakes of the magnitude that destroyed so many of the largest city of New Zealand’s South Island, was devastated Christchurch’s buildings in 2011. Turanga was constructed by four major earthquakes that toppled a city known for to very stringent performance criteria, and is designed to its arts, culture, and surrounding natural beauty. Schmidt sustain minimal structural damage during a large earthquake Hammer Lassen Architects, designed Turanga, a new central thanks to an integrated, self-centering mechanism that allows library project that is one of nine anchor projects identified the building to sway and then return to its original position. as vital to the redevelopment of the city. Part of the innovative set up is a seismic force-resisting The new central library is a visually stunning symbol of system made up of a series of large-scale concrete walls hope, unity, and rebirth that will fundamentally change that can rock and shift to isolate the building from peak the way residents and visitors experience Christchurch’s earthquake accelerations during a significant seismic event. city centre. The design of Christchurch New Central Library Each wall has high tensile, pre-tensioned steel cables that is a graceful amalgamation of resilience, functionality clamp the wall to the foundations with approximately 1,000 and cultural awareness at the center of the earthquaketonnes of force per wall. damaged city’s redevelopment. The stretch of these cables return the building to its original Lewis Bradford Consulting Engineers, the structural position after an earthquake, ensuring the library will stand engineering firm on the project, was instrumental in as a unifying landmark in Christchurch for generations Picture of the site after the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes struck a developing a structure that could withstand future potential to come. community with deep ties to the land, the environment and each other. The design of the five-storey, 9,500 m2 library in Christchurch’s historic Cathedral Square supports the city’s desire for a public space that strengthens the community, advances literacy and lifetime learning, celebrates diversity of culture and heritage, draws people back to the city centre, and fosters innovation. A tapestry of ancestry, tradition and culture Early in the design process, the architects collaborated with Matapopore Charitable Trust, an organization whose objective is to ensure the values, aspirations and narratives of the local Ngui Tuahuriri people are realised throughout the recovery of Christchurch. Their influence on the design of the building is substantial—from building materials to physical orientation, there is a rich tapestry of ancestry, traditional knowledge, and culture woven throughout Turanga. As library-goers approach the building, they are drawn into the informal, welcoming entrance that connects the library with Cathedral Square and surrounding buildings. The ground floor is a continuation of the public realm of the square, which is one of Christchurch’s key urban spaces for public gatherings, events, markets and performances. In an effort to enhance the civic activities of Cathedral Square, the second level houses a Community Arena—a space for the people of Christchurch to discuss, debate, share, and celebrate. The Community Arena is expressed as a distinct volume within the form of the library, and is positioned to maximise its visual connection to the square. The second level of the library is also home to Ngu Purapura, a children’s area named for Ngui Tahu ancestral traditions. Ngu Purapura includes a children’s reading cave and an activity room. The building’s five levels are connected by a grand, staggered atrium featuring a social staircase for gathering, reading, and resting. Several points in the Canterbury landscape, including the Southern Alps and the Banks Peninsula, are visible from the upper levels of the library and drove the placement and orientation of the roof terraces. 36 Studio Malmö/Malmö/Sweden A unifying element in the harbour area Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size/ 22,000 m²/ Competition/ 2007, 1st prize in international competition/ Status/ Completed in 2016/ Client/ Skanska Öresund/ Contractor/ Skanska Öresund/ Partner Architect/ Temagruppen/ Landscape Architect/ Tema Landskab/ Engineers/ Tyréns/ Skanska Stormsystem/ Skanska Teknik/ Sustainability/ Pre-certified LEED Platinum/ Awards/ 2018, Nomination for Building of the Year Award (Årets Bygge)/ LEED Building of the Year Award 2018 37 Studio Malmö/Malmö/Sweden Studio Malmö is a 22,000 m² mixed-use harbour developStudio Malmö wins LEED Building of the Year Award example of collaborative sustainability work. ment located in central Malmö, a vibrant city in southern In October, Studio Malmö was named the 2018 LEED Building The Swedish Green Building Awards recognize, celebrate Sweden. The 14-storey building is designed to be an energyof the Year by the Swedish Green Building Council (SGBC) and promote positive contribution to sustainable efficient building with a Pre-certified LEED Platinum, and at the Building Sustainability Conference. building and property development, and it has become accommodates an eclectic mix of offices, conference and one of the leading sustainability design awards in event spaces, restaurants, cafés and retail outlets, in addition The SGBC selected Studio Malmö, a 22,000m² mixed-use Scandinavia, awarding and promoting entrepreneurs, to a hotel and sky bar. harbourside development located in southern Sweden, for developers and architectural projects each year. its high design standards, elaborate design, and pleasant Studio Malmö represents the completion of the island of indoor environment that contributes positively to the urban More information/ Universitetsholmen. Located at the entrance to Malmö’s environment. SGBC also cited Studio Malmö as an excellent www.kungsleden.se inner harbour, it acts as a unifying element for the area. As a catalyst for the ongoing regeneration of the Malmö harbour area, the building will become a dynamic focal point and new landmark buzzing with activity day and night, enriching the life of Sweden’s third largest city. The architectural expression is a clear geometric building designed to fit in alongside its contemporary and historic neighbours, and includes a new public square facing the harbour and city centre. The café, retail shops and event and exhibition spaces on the ground floor are accessible from both the shore side and street side of the building, and open up to the public square atrium in the building’s heart. 38 Skanderborg Fælled/Sports and Administration Centre/Town Hall/Skanderborg/ Denmark First DGNB Platinum certification to Danish public building Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Size/ 18,424 m²/Competition/ 2013, 1st prize in PPP competition/ Client/ Skanderborg Municipality/ Contractor/ KPC A/S/ Sustainability/DGNB Platinum 39 The Green Tower/ sharing/ social/ living/ urban/ interaction/ community/ flexible/ green/ Skanderborg Fælled/ Sports and Administration Centre/ Town Hall Skanderborg/ Denmark The new Sports and Administrations Centre and Town Hall in Skanderborg is the first Danish public building to reach the DGNB Platinum Standard, the highest certification under the Danish DGNB sustainability standard. In 2017, the Green Building Council Denmark completed a thorough certification process of the completed project, which included 182 different parameter in terms of environmental, financial and technical quality. The project scored high on all parameters, and especially the building’s overall economy performance as an energy-efficient building of high quality for a low overall economy was emphasised. The new 18,000 m2 Sports and Administration Centre offers multiple administrative facilities for the municipality of Skanderborg in combination with new sports facilities for the use of the entire community. The aim is a complex, which sets new standards, supporting an innovative and multi-disciplinary work culture as well as being a vibrant gathering point for citizens of Skanderborg. The project appears informal, open, and accessible and in close contact with the unique surroundings of the recently established natural resort, Anebjergskov. Several sustainable measures are integrated in the design of the building, such as optimized use of daylight, natural ventilation and an efficient building envelope. Green plants grow on selected facades as solar screening whilst increasing local biodiversity, as well as indoor green walls contribute to a good indoor climate. More infomation/ www.skanderborgfælled.dk Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant/ Shenzhen/ China The world’s largest waste-to-energy plant Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Size/ 112,645 m²/ Competition/ 2016, 1st prize, international competition/ Client/ Shenzhen Energy Environmental Engineering Ltd./ Partner architect/ Gottlieb Paludan Architects Structural Engineer/ Schlaich Bergermann Partners Visuals/ Beauty & the Bit 41 Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant/ Shenzhen/ China In 2016, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects in collaboration with Gottlieb Paludan Architects won the international competition to design the world’s largest waste to energy power plant in Shenzhen, China. Located on the outskirts of Shenzhen, the Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant will incinerate 5,000 tonnes of waste per day, generating 550 million kWh every year. With a population of 20 million, Shenzhen produces 15,000 tonnes of waste a day, a number that is increasing approximately 7% per year. To counteract this, Shenzhen Energy wishes to build a new plant that not only uses the most advanced technological processes in waste incineration but also act as a source of education for the citizens of the city. The proposal organizes the entire plant, including auxiliary buildings, into one circular building breaking the traditional rectangular layout of an industrial power plant. By proposing a clean circular form, the footprint of the plant reduces the amount of excavation required to build on the site. Public visitors are invited into the plant through a landscaped park, via an entrance bridge that rises between the stacks to an entrance lobby and visitor centre overlooking the plant machinery. An internal circular path and walkway circle the plant explaining each process, before leading up to a 1.5 km panoramic public walkway on the roof overlooking the surrounding landscape and back towards the city. The roof is designed to be covered by up to 44,000 m2 of photovoltaic panels, providing the opportunity for the plant to not only provide a cleaner way to deal with the city’s waste but also contribute to the renewable energy provision for the city. The plant is intended to showcase the Waste to Energy production as an important technical process that is geared to deal with both the issues of growing waste, but also the issue of finding new more environmentally friendly ways of generating electricity. At the same time, visitors can become informed on the challenge of the growing waste we produce every day and be educated on initiatives on how we can reduce our own amount of daily waste. Schmidt Hammer Lassen has built a reputation for bringing a strong Scandinavian design approach to large complex public projects in China. Detailed design work began in 2016, and the plant is scheduled to go live in 2020. 42 The Green Tower/ High-rise build as a sustainable community With this project we wanted to explore, how high-rise build in timber can be organized as a sustainable community. Morten Schmidt, Founding Partner 43 The Green Tower/ A new typology Schmidt Hammer Lassen have developed a new high-rise concept proposing a new typology. As oppose to the common method of designating fixed units for sale, this project proposes to design a structural framework for housing units, community facilities, and vegetation to be infilled at later stages. This approach creates the flexibility for a high-rise to serve multiple purpose through time. It is adaptable spatially, socially and economically. This type of building may serve as a green wall in the dense urban area at one point and then infilled by modular housings at a later stage. Modularity is a key factor in this typology. Prefabricated units can simplify the construction and allow units to be expanded or reduced upon demand. Yet, the types of modules can be variable to create different spatial and social opportunities over time. Sustainable Housing Development of contemporary cities and urban environments is often operating on traditional and even outdated approaches for residential high-rise, designing towers that only address the demand for housing and utilizing obsoleted techniques, that organize family units into compact and isolated order. Over time, this type of housing can be prone to become a burden to our cities – both environmentally and socially and may effect degrading of market value. It is crucial to develop a new housing typology that considers the whole environment for a sustainable lifestyle, Sustainable Housing solutions. The total environment for sustainable housing converges three key aspects: environment, community and building construction. 44 International Criminal Court/ The Hague/ Netherlands/ A landmark for peace and justice Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Client/The International Criminal Court (ICC)/ Area/ 54,000 m² / 1,200 workplaces/ Competition/ 2008-2010, first prize in restricted international competition Engineer/ Royal Haskoning Nederland B.V. and Esbensen Consulting Engineers AS/ Landscaping/ SLA/ Project management/ Brink Group/ Interior & Art/ Bosch & Fjord/ Contractor/ Courtys 45 International Criminal Court/The Hague/ Netherlands In 2010, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects won the prestigious architectural design competition for the new permanent premises of the ICC with an experienced interdisciplinary team of consultants. The design was selected for its understanding of the concept of transparency. The design also shows how democratic values upon which the Danish tradition for architecture rests, reflected in an international institution that is subject to some of the strictest security requirements in the world. Safety and openness In the design approach it has been paramount that the security measures, as much as possible, are an integrated part of the design. The public has easy and open access to the main entrance and the design of the landscape surrounding the building achieves a highly secure environment without the appearance of barbwire and high fences. The landscape The new ICC headquarters is located between the edge of the Hague city and the Meijendel Dune Landscape, which is a protected Natura 2000 area. One of the primary and most important aims of landscape architects SLA’s concept is to ‘reunite’ the site with this dune landscape. The primary idea has been to locate the complex as a cut in the landscape, establishing an interior that relates to the international collectivity of the ICC, and an exterior that entrenches the ICC to the local Dutch landscape and opens it to the public. Sustainability The new headquarters for the ICC is targeting a BREEAM Excellent ”In our design, we are aware of how important it certification. The complex is part of the local water-win area. Therefore is for this building to express the values of the ICC. strict local regulations applied for materials, their possible leaching and work during the construction period. Several environmental sustainability To the victims, to their families and to the world, measurements have been implemented into the design such as: a heatthe ICC premises must communicate and cold storage, which is the largest of its kind in the Netherlands, green respect, trust and hope.” roofs, water-saving taps and toilets, automatic daylight control of luminaires for all lighting in offices and biological cleaning of the mirror pond. Bjarne Hammer, Founding Partner 46 Dokk1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ Space for change DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ Space for change/ New public library/ Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client/ Aarhus Municipality Client Partner/ Realdania Area/ 35,600 m² Competition/ 2009, first prize in an international competition Engineer/ Alectia Rådgivende Ingeniører Landscaping/ Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client Consultant/ Rambøll Danmark Other consultants/ Bahn arkitekter (accessibility) 47 The new library has already become a new vibrant hub and a connecting “hinge” that opens up to new experiences in the city of Aarhus. The two open levels of the library are connected by the media ramp, which “Dokk1 is not simply a building. It is a place consists of five platforms dedicated to numerous activities: exhibitions, for exchanging knowledge and opportunities gaming, interactive workshops, reading and events. Combined with the literature and media sections, the media ramp offers a meandering path and a multicultural meeting point that will of activity through the building leading up to the children’s area on the change people’s perception of the entire city.“ top floor. Kim Holst Jensen, senior partner A covered urban space The principal idea behind Dokk1 is a transparent covered urban space, designed as a polygonal slice that hovers above a glazed building resting on a podium with large sculptural stairs. The stairs fan out to street level and the new harbour promenade surrounding the building. The glass building is designed as an open urban space with 360-degree views of the water, harbour, forest and city. The building has no clear front or back, which is emphasised by the multiedged top slice that creates the impression of rotation and movement. The facade is made of expanded metal, the scale of the city and harbour is reflected in the design, which twists, breaks and turns. The concept of the façade design is an interaction with the height of the surrounding Dokk1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ buildings and the scale of the port with reference to large elements, such as cranes and ships. Dokk1 opened its doors to the public in 2015. Situated by the historic harbour front of Aarhus the largest public library in Scandinavia today represents a new generation of modern, hybrid Sustainability libraries. From the earliest stage, sustainability has been an important integrated part of developing the project, and the building meets the requirements Democratic, open and diverse of the Danish 2015 energy classification. Elements such as seawater The 30,000 square metre building is part of the Urban Mediaspace project, and houses the new library, a cooling, effective shielding effects and the 3,000 m2 integrated roof solar citizen service centre, automatic parking for 1,000 cars and new harbour-side public squares. New cycle cells reduces energy consumption considerably. Also, light fittings, LED paths run through the scheme that includes over 450 bicycle parking spaces, and the new light railway lamps, motion and daylight sensors as well as solar panel arrays reduces will run with a station at Dokk1. dependency on conventional energy sources. 48 Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have extensive The Libary/ Driver of social cohesion experience with library design. The most renowned In social sciences, public spaces such as libraries, city halls and culture of these being the extension to the Royal Library centres are defined to be cornerstones of the democratic society. in Copenhagen, Denmark, the RIBA award-winning These places enable encounters and active citizenship of society. This University of Aberdeen New Library in Scotland and makes the public building an important facilitator for social cohesion of society, and architecture is a driving part of this. Dokk1 in Aarhus, Denmark. In 2018, the new central library in Christchurch, New Zealand, opened. User involvement/ In 2020 the new Central Library in Shanghai, China Schmidt Hammer Lassen and the City of Aarhus received a Best Collabowill open. ration Award in 2012 for the extensive cooperation in creating the largest public library in Scandinavia, Dokk1. The Best Collaboration Award awards the best examples of collaboration between partners from the creative industries sector and local governments in the North Sea Region of the European Union. The jury selected the Dokk1 project team due to the broad and intensive collaboration process between the municipality, the architects, the citizens and future users. The philosophy behind the user involvement is that an active library will only come to life by actively involving the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens of Aarhus and the future staff of the library has been engaged in the design process throughout the whole process. Halifax Central Library awarded/ The 14,500 m2 Halifax Central Library is the most significant public building to be built in Halifax in a generation, and represents the diverse communities, talents, and creativity of the residents of Halifax throughout the municipality and present this to the world. The library is sited in a prominent position in downtown Halifax. I n 2016, The Halifax Central Library was awarded a Governor General’s Medal for its outstanding new civic building design, created by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects and local studio Fowler Bauld & Mitchell. The Governor General’s Medal in Architecture awarded by the Royal Architectural Halifax New Public Library/ Halifax/ Canada Institute of Canada (RAIC) and the Canada Council for the Arts celebrates outstanding architectural design in Canada. 49 The library/ A new generation of public buildings Public Library of the Year Award/ 2016 In 2016, the visionary hybrid library project, Dokk1 in Aarhus, Denmark, was announced winner of the Public Library of the Year Award at a prestigious ceremony during the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) congress in Columbus, Ohio. The international panel of judges recognised Dokk1 as a true library of the future, that embraces new digital developments, user demands, local culture, and a desire to accommodate diverse population groups within an open and functional architectural expression. The Dokk1 project also scooped an A+ Popular Choice Award in 2016 in the Library category. The event organized by Architizer brought together an eclectic mix of architects and designers from around the globe. 50 Malmö Live/ Malmö/ Sweden/ A city in the city Architect/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Client/Skanska Sverige AB/ Area/54,000 m2 concert, congress and hotel/ Competition/2010, international property development competition construction 2010 2015/ Landscape architect/ SLA/ Contractor/ Skanska Sverige AB/ Other collaborators/ Akustikon 51 The Malmö Live complex in Southern Sweden, was awarded a prestigious 1st prize in the Mixeduse Completed Buildings category at a ceremony during the World Architectural Festival 2016 in Berlin. The Jury praised the project as a public building in the best sense of the word: open to everyone, inclusive and very democratic: “It’s a real piece of the city and an important catalyst of urban regeneration.” Malmö Live/Malmö/ Sweden/ A city in the city The ground floor is open to the public. The main entrance is found at the northern part of In 2015 the new 54,000 square metres large concert, congress and hotel complex the building, with a classic loggia-motif facing the plaza in front. The different functions situated on Universitetsholmen in Malmö was completed. The building consists of a in the building are organised like separate elements – like a small town. Here, the lobby composition of cubic volumes that are mutually twisted and given different sizes to meet becomes the street that runs through the whole ground floor plan and ties everything the directions and building heights of the surrounding city. The facades are designed together. Like the medieval cities, with curved and narrow streets organised around with a homogeneous expression to make the composition appear as one architectonic plazas and squares, the lobby is designed to form small gathering places and recesses sculpture. where it is possible to stop, sit and enjoy the view to the canal and the park. 52 “The main idea of Malmö Live has been to create ‘a city in the city’. An example is the part of the building that faces the park and the canal that is shaped more openly and organic, and gives the people from Open and accessible the city the possibility to stroll through the building The new cultural centre becomes an open, expressive and dynamic if they are going to a concert, a conference, to the building that is manifold in both its activities and its architecture. The café or just want to make a shortcut. We wanted point of departure for the building design is the modern Scandinavian architectural tradition with the clear functional organisation and the the place to be vibrant, accessible, and inviting – accessible and open ground floor lay-out. The building becomes no doubt this approach will have great impact on the focal point and a landmark for Malmö – a place where the spirit the future life to be unfolded around and inside the of the city, the diversity and the intimacy is given an architectonic expression. buildings.” Kristian Ahlmark, Senior Partner Sustainability profile Malmö Live is a sustainable, green project. The intention is to develop the area with as little environmental impact as possible, for example by reducing energy consumption and using local energy sources such as geothermal heating, solar energy and wind power. Close proximity to City Tunnel and Central Station makes taking public transport easy. Green roofs absorb water, slow up runoff and promote biodiversity. Solar cells meet some of the building’s energy requirements. Food waste is collected and turned into biogas, and there are nesting boxes for kestrels on the roofs to help this bird of prey to live in a city environment. Malmö Live will be certified according to the international Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard – aiming for the highest level, platinum, in the assessment, which looks at factors like materials, indoor environment, design, and water use. The building also meets the category A standard of the Miljöbyggprogram Syd Green Construction Programme. 53 Green Valley/ Shanghai/ China/ Transformation as driver Lead design architect/Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects/ Local architect/ECADI /East China Architecture and Design Institute/ Client/Shanghai EXPO Construction Development Co. Ltd./ Area/50,000 m²/ Competition/2012, 1st prize in invited international competition/ Status/Construction period 2013 – 2015 54 Green Valley/Shanghai/China The Green Valley project is located on the former 2010 Shanghai World Expo site immediately next to the iconic Chinese pavilion. The Green Valley development is part of the new central urban development of Shanghai, integrating new sustainable solutions in both the urban design and the individual buildings on the site. Green Valley is just one of several major projects along Shanghai‘s historical Huangpu River waterfront being designed by Schmidt Hammer Lassen. All the projects relate to the redevelopment of the former industrial areas along the riverfront, and build on the studio’s track record in regenerating a number of prominent waterfront sites in major cities throughout Scandinavia. Besides Green Valley, our studio is involved in the Shanghai Dream Center development, a former cement factory being converted into Shanghai‘s new waterfront cultural and creative hub. ”Despite the monumental scale of the site, the project relates to the human scale in the public Schmidt Hammer Lassen also won the prestigous competition to design the new 125,000 m2 city Library of Shanghai. The main library volume spaces, giving a diverse, vibrant and inclusive floats above two pavilions that will house a 1200-seat performance community.” venue, exhibition and event space and a dedicated children’s library. They will all open up towards a series of landscaped courtyards and gardens. Chris Hardie, Partner 55 All rights in this COP is reserved by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Contact/ Njalsgade 17A Pakhus 2 2300 Copenhagen S. Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Photos/ Hufton + Crow Thomas Damgaard Jensen Adam Mørk Anders Back Daniel Greniman Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Rozbeh Zavari Global Compact/CSR/contact point/ Trine Steffenauer/trs@shl.dk We support/ Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. ARoS/Aarhus/Denmark This COP reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. 56
