To Our Stakeholders, SMS firmly believes that the best way to conduct business is by catering to the needs of our clients while maintaining a rigorous standard of corporate social responsibility and sustainability. From here, SMS continues to reaffirm its commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we outline the actions taken by SMS to continually enhance the incorporation of the Global Compact and its standards into our business strategy, culture, and daily services. We likewise focus on imparting this data to our partners by our primary channels of correspondence. Please find below the descriptions of the policies and actions we have taken to implement the Ten Principles in the four areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. We then conclude by measuring the outcomes of these actions and policies, in order to demonstrate their effectiveness and stimulate dialogue on possibilities for future improvement and innovation. CONTINUED ON THE NEXT PAGE Actions Taken to Implement the Ten Principles in four areas Human Rights SMS embraces human rights values by treating its employees with standards that are above the current living standards. In particular, SMS prides itself on providing all staff with competitive and highly advantageous work conditions and standards which reflect our desire to treat all employees with fairness and dignity. These wages have already increased exponentially from what we previously offered, as we believe the work our employees undertake needed to be compensated even further. Our employees earn salaries which are notably higher than local average wages and receive annual raises of at least 10%. All guards are paid for any overtime they work and receive twice their normal wage for work conducted on public holidays. SMS also provides guards with social insurance contributions, government sponsored healthcare at the beginning of their employment, and private and health and life insurance after one year of work. SMS also adheres to fair and impartial policies of staff evaluation, and institutes reasonable corrective measures only as a measure of last resort when working with staff to improve performance and behavior. SMS has also put in place clear policies and procedures aimed at preventing and tackling all forms of workplace abuse and harassment, which include disciplinary or legal action against perpetrators and support mechanisms for victims. However, we are happy to report that we have yet to have the need to use these measures. Given the nature of SMS’ work in the field of security, our employees are extensively trained to avoid using force unless absolutely necessary, and even then, to use the absolute minimum amount of force needed to securely deescalate any hostile situation, these conditions are also mentioned in our policies and rules of engagement aimed at guiding employees. Our commitment to human rights and adherence to international law can be observed by our ongoing membership to the International Code of Conduct Association (ICoCA), an international regulatory body which ensures that security service providers conduct business in a manner which is fully compliant with international human rights. In its own words, “the ICoCA endeavors to prevent excessive use of force; to prevent torture and other degrading treatments or punishments; to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse, and gender-based violence; to prevent human trafficking, slavery and forced labour; to protect the rights of children; and to prevent discrimination.” CONTINUED ON THE NEXT PAGE Labour SMS firmly upholds the Global Compact Principles against forced labour and child labour by strictly employing adults in exchange for fair and competitive wages and benefits and by providing its employees with safe, secure, and fair working conditions. SMS’ commitment not to engage in any form of slavery, forced labour, or child labour is also demonstrated by its ongoing membership in the International Code of Conduct Association, which explicitly forbids such abuses from its members. Moreover, SMS is devoted to its status as an equal opportunity employer, which provides employment without regard to race, citizenship, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability. Employment decisions at SMS, subject to the legitimate business requirements of the company, are based solely on the individual’s qualifications, merit, behavior, and performance. Within the functioning of SMS, it is clearly maintained in the company’s written policies and standards of work that “that nobody may be harmed, discriminated or provoked in their personal dignity.” Discrimination of any form is therefore strictly forbidden within SMS and is regarded in a deeply grave manner. Moreover, SMS is also committed to hiring more women, and will soon be implementing a formal gender equality hiring policy, to encourage more women to enter into the workforce, and especially to work for and with SMS. Environment SMS believes that protecting the environment is equivalent to protecting our future, and thus has worked to increase its commitment to protecting the environment by increasing our use of recyclable materials in all every day work activities, and by recycling all necessary materials when possible. Moreover, SMS has promoted a culture within its offices of using digital, cloud-based formats for documents when at all possible to decrease paper consumption. Employees are encouraged to use their phones, tablets, and laptops during meetings instead of paper materials. SMS also uses transportation and mobile-based vehicles that are newer and more recent models in an effort to reduce emissions. Due to the nature of our business, SMS does not produce any air, water, or ground based-pollutants or toxins. Additionally, SMS tries to be environmentally conscious in all aspects of its business, and thus it undertakes an environmentally friendly attitude to energy consumption by having offices with access to plenty of natural sunlight and using electricity when necessary. In addition to this, we enforce a policy of turning off all lights and electronics when they are not in use or when office space is not occupied. Internal memos about the subject are circulated often and through email. SMS is also taking steps to improve its environmental practices by beginning the process of adopting ISO 14001, the world’s landmark international standard of corporate environmental management. SMS aims to commit itself to international standards of environmental practice to continuously improve its environmental footprint. SMS has begun creating an Environmental Management System, or EMS, in order to closely monitor and reduce the environmental impact of every aspect of its business activities. Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption is at the forefront of our business practices. SMS adheres to strict financial and accounting principles and practices that ensure consistent oversight of all money which comes into or goes out of the company, or changes hands, or possession within it. Salaries are paid to employees by an accountant within an accounting office, in full view of several other employees; all information regarding salaries is tracked and recorded to ensure fair and compliant financial practices. Similar policy and practice is used for other financial transactions within the company; all bill payments, invoices, reimbursements, and refunds to employees, contractors, and other individuals or entities are made at a cashier window in full public view and all records of such transactions are kept and stored for future review and accounting purposes. Externally speaking, SMS engages in free, fair, and competitive business practices by bidding for contracts and business opportunities as per international standards and local law. Measurement of Outcomes SMS has been able to make significant improvements to the outcomes of its social responsibility commitments while continuing an already strong tradition of respect for human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, by taking actions and adopting business practices which are guided by the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Firstly, it's a significant accomplishment worth mentioning that SMS has not recorded any violent altercations faced by its staff members over the last 5 years of operation. It is true to say that, this is due to the intense training received by our staff to avoid and prevent any type of violent behavior or action. Secondly, SMS has not experienced any significant worksite accidents in its business history, due to out strong commitment to safety and security of staff. The only recorded incident we've had was a single road traffic accident that involved one of SMS’ company vehicles several years ago, however this is not an uncommon incident considering Egypt's contentious road situation. Thirdly, SMS has a high rate of employee retention and a low rate of turnaround, a reflection of the excellent treatment and favorable work conditions with which the company provides its staff. Our employees tend to stay for several years because they are provided with competitive wages, frequent pay raises, flexible working conditions, and considerable company benefits. Additionally, we work hard to accommodate any difficulties faced by our employees, offering them solutions to any problems they may be facing inside or outside of the work sphere. Lastly, we are proud to announce that all our clients and subcontractors would happily comply with the fact that SMS fully applies all relevant regulations, and that we haven’t had any formal legal actions taken against us. Sincerely yours, General Mohamed El Tarabishi CEO, SMS – Security & Monitoring Services Co.
