2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report About this Report KB Financial Group has been publishing Standards its annual Sustainability Report since We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards: 2011, building on KB Kookmin Bank’s Core Option. We focused on material issues, identified through a materiality test, that Sustainability Report published in 2009 matter to both internal and external stakeholders. and 2010. With this report, we wish to share with all of our stakeholders our Reporting Period commitment to sustainability in financial, This year’s Sustainability Report presents our activities and performance made from social and environmental areas and our January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. Some quantitative data include those of journey going forward. the latest three years (2015-2017) to demonstrate year-on-year trends. For some important sustainability activities, we also provide 2014 data and performance made in the first half of 2018. Scope Our 2017 Sustainability Report provides performance and progresses achieved in financial, environmental, and social areas by KB Financial Group and its 12 subsidiaries that include KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Capital, KB Savings Bank, KB Real Estate Trust, KB Investment, KB Credit Information, and KB Data Systems, and covers head offices and all of its business locations in Korea, unless otherwise stated. Assurance For the reliability and quality of the information presented, external assurance was performed and the results can be found in the Third Party’s Assurance Statement starting on page 78-79 of this report. KB Financial Group was included in Dow Jones Sustainability World Index member for two consecutive years and named banking leader in Korea in 2017. Table of Contents 2017 Highlights 04 CEO’s Message 06 Company Profile 08 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test 12 Customers 14 Innovation 20 Sustainable Finance 28 Community 32 Employees 44 Fundamentals Corporate Governance 52 Ethical Management 54 Integrated Risk Management 56 Human Rights Management 58 Performance Data Customers 62 Community 63 Environment 66 Employees 71 Financials 73 Appendix GRI Index 76 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 78 UN SDGs 80 Associations and Principles 81 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights Customers 33.63 million Customized products and services Customers in total Community KRW 55.2 billion Community contribution building Donated for Philanthropic Causes on our financial services capacity Employees 28,487 Fostering employee development Employees Environment KRW 1.4 trillion Expanding green investment and in Green Loans green finance Financial Performance KRW 3.3 trillion Focusing on sustainable financial in Net Income performance 04 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix 1st place for 11 times 36.2% in the National Customer Satisfaction Index Active Users of Online Banking Services KRW 139.4 billion 7,092 of New Employment Created KB Miso Microfinance Supported (cumulative) through KB GoodJob Programs (cumulative) 154 hours 84.5 points of Average Training Hours per Employee in Employee Satisfaction 544.8 billion Named Sector Honors Investment in New and Renewable Energy at CDP Climate Change 2017 KRW 766.7 billion KRW 795 billion in Dividend Payment in Tax Payment 05 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report CEO’s Message The year 2017 was indeed a meaningful year for KB Financial Group as we have achieved solid financial performance results, realigned a stable and stronger business portfolio, and regained our position as a leading financial group in Korea. This remarkable achievements were possible thanks to the unwavering support from our customers, shareholders and stakeholders in the community as well as the strong commitment of our employees. I wish to extend my sincere and heartfelt appreciation to you. Based on digital technology innovation, global ICT companies in non-banking sectors like telecom, distribution, or IT have become ever more aggressive in entering the market and new players of internet-only banks are vying for market shares, throwing the financial industry into an unprecedented paradigm shift. In addition, growing volatility in the global financial market and swelling household debts are some examples of many issues found in the current financial environment. Undeterred by these uncertainties home and abroad, KB Financial Group honors the value of responsible finance, continues to work for shared growth and strives to become a life-time financial partner for good, hard-working people. 06 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix Putting the Customers First Our customers’ success and financial prosperity is our priority as we strive to offer customized products and services to better suit their needs in a timely manner. We will adjust any process in our organization that may stand in the way of our customers’ interests to build a process that puts our customers first. At the core of our commitment to digital innovation and execution-focused agile organization lies this value of putting the customers first. At KB, we have combined our business capabilities for one-stop service platform for our customers. We will never stop trying new ideas and a better approach to put ourselves ahead of the competition. Taking a Greater Responsibility in our Community We want to grow together with our customers and the community where we operate by taking a greater corporate social responsibility. We believe that is how we can give back the support we have received. We will make our financial system more open to the working class by offering mid-range interest rate loans for people with mid-tolow credit standing and various financial products and services for financially excluded low-income families and small businesses. In addition, we will expand credit and investment assistance for SMEs and startups to create an ecosystem where innovative startups thrive. This will help create more jobs, and lead to a virtuous cycle of job creation. We will continue to seek various ways, at the group level, to provide effective support for the working class and SMEs. Nurturing Talents and Creating a Culture that Values Challenges and Ingenuity A business enjoys sustainable growth when there exist heavy investment in talents and expertise, and a corporate culture that values challenges and ingenuity. In this respect, we will work to create a culture where those striving to upgrade themselves will be supported and provided with an opportunity to grow and those with innovative thinking and leadership will have a place where they can challenge new ideas. With our 7th Sustainability Report, we proudly present a variety of activities and progress that we have engaged and achieved to grow and prosper together with our community. We will continue to generate positive impacts on our society, economy and environment for a better life for all. I ask for your continued support and encouragement in this journey. Thank you. Jong Kyoo Yoon Chairman & CEO KB Financial Group Inc. 07 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Company Profile As the leading financial group with the country’s biggest customer base and branch networks, we provides various financial services of retail, corporate financing, financial investment, insurance, credit card, asset management, etc. We have twelve subsidiaries and 1,689 branches in Korea and 38 offices in 13 countries including China, US, Japan and Vietnam. KB Financial Group strives to become a life-time financial partner for people delivering success and financial prosperity to our customers. With innovation in business model in line with the 4th industrial revolution and customer-centered one-stop financial services, we have solidified our position in domestic market and continue to grow into a leading financial services provider in Asia. KRW 436.8 trillion KRW 39.2 trillion KRW 3.3 trillion 28,487 33.63 million in total assets in operating revenue in net income employees customers * Based on net income in controlling interest on a consolidated basis Our Businesses Strives to become a bank that always puts customers first, delivering the very best customer value and leading Banking KB Kookmin Bank digital innovation. KB Securities Offers the finest financial solutions to our customers through competitive business portfolio in all business areas. Provides quality investment products of equity, bonds, offshore property, real estate, infrastructure, PE, and hedge Financial KB Asset Management fund. Investment KB Real Estate Trust Is a real estate trust specialist dealing with real estate development, financing, asset management, and REITs. KB Investment Makes equity investment in SMEs and startups, offering them comprehensive business management services. KB Insurance Delivers security and stability to people’s lives and businesses with products and services that suit their needs. Insurance KB Life Insurance Serves customers with easy-to-understand, value-added products and advanced insurance services. Has built itself as Korea’s No.1 lifestyle solution provider with customer-value products, strong marketing strategy KB Kookmin Card and competitiveness in the FinTech market. Credit As a specialized auto financing company, offers auto financing with asset portfolios for all types of vehicles, and KB Capital personal financing. Small Loan Continues to build customer trust and enhance value for ordinary citizens and SMEs with a priority given to KB Savings Bank Finance customer value creation. KB Credit Information Is committed to building a sound credit society with excellent professionals and top-notch system. Others Delivers optimal IT services from consulting to system implementation and operations by effectively responding to KB Data Systems an ever-changing financial market. 08 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix KB Kookmin Bank KB Kookmin Card KB Securities KB Asset Management KB Insurance KB Capital U.K. U.S. C​hina Japan India Hong Kong Myanmar Laos Vietnam Cambodia New Zealand Singapore Indonesia Domestic Branch Global Network KB Financial Group 1 KB Capital 27 KB Kookmin Bank 21 KB Kookmin Bank 1,062 KB Savings Bank 8 KB Securities 4 KB Securities 120 KB Real Estate Trust 3 KB Insurance 10 KB Insurance 344 KB Investment 1 KB Kookmin Card 1 KB Kookmin Card 70 KB Credit Information 16 KB Asset Management 1 KB Life Insurance 35 KB Data Systems 1 KB Capital 1 KB Asset Management 1 Total 1,689 Total 38 * As of Dec. 31, 2017 * As of Dec. 31, 2017 * A head office is counted as one branch. 09 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix Material Issues We identify material issues annually by reviewing any concerns that stakeholders, both internal and external, may have and progresses we made in sustainability. We make a thorough report on these findings to share with KB’s stakeholders, so that we stand on the same ground and work together for further development. Stakeholder Engagement and 12 Materiality Test Customers 14 Innovation 20 Sustainable Finance 28 Community 32 Employees 44 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Communication with Stakeholders KB Financial Group defines customers, employees, shareholders/investors, suppliers, local communities, and the government and regulatory bodies as our key stakeholders. Further, we identified individual areas of concern for each stakeholder group to recognize their opinions and reflect those elements in our decision-making and business strategy. To that end, we gathered stakeholders’ opinions through a variety of channels. We remain committed to sustainability based on this dialogue with our stakeholders and going forward we will respond to changes in their needs and requirements. Customers Employees Shareholders & Investors Suppliers Community Regulators Main Concerns ∙ ‌Quality of products ∙ ‌Fair assessment ∙ ‌Improve corporate value ∙ ‌Fair trade ∙ ‌Community service ∙ ‌Compliance and services ∙ ‌Strengthening ∙ ‌Sound governance ∙ ‌Shared growth and donation ∙ Public ‌ policy ∙ ‌Financial capabilities ∙ ‌Risk management ∙ ‌Transparent ∙ ‌Investment in local implementation accessibility ∙ ‌Work and life balance ∙ ‌Transparent disclosure communication community ∙ ‌Customer ∙ ‌Industrial relations for ∙ ‌Job creation satisfaction rate win-win for employees ∙ ‌Assistance for those ∙ ‌Personal Information and management financially underserved Security Communication ∙ Branches ∙ ‌Grievance settlement ∙ ‌Shareholders’ meeting ∙ ‌Meeting with ∙ ‌Community-oriented ∙ ‌Policy gathering Channels ∙ Website ‌ center ∙ ‌Earnings release suppliers social contributions ∙ ‌Public hearings ∙ ‌Call center ∙ ‌Labor-management presentation ∙ ‌Supplier ∙ ‌KB GoodJob ∙ ‌Customer panels council ∙ ‌IR road show satisfaction ∙ ‌KB Miso microfinance ∙ ‌Customer ∙ ‌Employee meetings ∙ ‌Investor relations survey satisfaction survey Materiality Test Process For the materiality test based on these stakeholders concerns and impact on the business, we first launched an array of activities including international standard analysis, global benchmarking, media research, and stakeholder survey. Having identified key sustainability issues relevant to us from internal and external stakeholders perspectives, we conducted the materiality test closely following the guidelines of GRI Standards. This process of prioritization enabled us to select a set of issues to report and these issues were incorporated into our report. Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Analyze issues Conduct stakeholder survey Prioritize Determine material issues to report ∙ Analysis ‌ of international ∙ ‌The internal and external stakeholder ∙ ‌Analysis of stakeholder ∙ ‌Selection of 10 priority issues standards on sustainability survey was conducted. interests ∙ ‌Determination of 5 main (GRI Standards, DJSI, ‌Period: February 2 to 22, 2018. ∙ ‌Analysis of business topics to report ISO 26000, UN SDGs, ‌Respondents: 4,528 in total impacts Customers SASB, etc.) (1,700 internal stakeholders and Innovation ∙ Media ‌ Research 2,828 external stakeholders) Sustainable Finance ∙ Global ‌ leaders and peer ∙ ‌Evaluation of sustainability issues and Community group issues their characteristic. Employees ∙ ‌36 issues were identified. 12 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Stakeholders’ concerns Stakeholders’ Concerns Financial digitization and innovation 3 Develop environment-friendly products and services Develop employee capacity and financial experts 5 8 Great workplace Enhance customer information security 9 4 2 Focus on ethical management 1 Invest in the community Greater customer accessibility 7 10 6 Drive financial results Greater environment-friendly investment Impact on KBFG Issues and Impact Analysis To whom impacts are made Impact of issues No. Topic Stakeholders material issues Shareholders Improving Increasing Improving Employees Customers Suppliers Community & Investors management market share corporate image 1 Customers Greater customer accessibility ● ● ○ Enhance customer information 2 Customers ● ● ○ security 3 Innovation Financial digitization and innovation ● ● ● ○ 4 Employees Great workplace ● ○ Sustainable Develop environment-friendly 5 ● ● ● ○ Finance products and services Sustainable Greater environment-friendly 6 ● ● ○ Finance investment 7 Community Invest in the community ● ● ○ Develop employee capacity and 8 Employees ● ○ financial experts Human Rights 9 Focus on ethical management ● ● ● ● ○ Management Financial 10 Drive financial results ● ● ● ● ○ Performance 13 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Customers Materiality Trends Our Response The saturated financial market and Risks We offer products and services that concerns from long-term economic The financial market seems to have meet our customers’ requirements by projections of slower growth trend reached a saturation point and, with identifying their needs more accurately. in Korea require players to launch exponential growth of FinTech, virtual In addition, “one stop service” is of key new products that reflect customers’ banking services, peer-to-peer lending, importance at KB, where the business needs and the market trends. In this mobile payments and money transfers capabilities of our subsidiaries are unprecedented era of low growth and are quickly replacing services traditionally combined and offered to our customers. low interest rates, customers request offered by mainstream financial services Our customers value us for continuing financial products that suit their specific companies and weakening their hold on to stay innovative for maintaining needs and show a special interest in the customers. competitiveness. issues of retirement planning and money management for their longer life and life Opportunities after retirement. Such being the case, we KB’s high market share in the domestic need to analyze customers’ needs and market and superior IT capabilities the market trend from a more integrated will aid our competitive advantage in perspective, meet and exceed customers’ the fast-changing financial market by needs and commit ourselves to activities enabling us to deploy customer-focused that empower our customers in order to business activities. secure our sustainability. 14 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Greater Customer Accessibility Greater Accessibility for Different Seniors Customer Groups Since May 2017, KB Kookmin Bank has operated a new telephone service dedicated We are reaching out to underserved to senior customers (1644-3308) where they are directly connected to staff without groups of customers such as seniors, having to selecting any ARS menu. Beginning in September 2017, voice announcements customers with disabilities, expats and are delivered at a slower pace and in more easy-to-understand terms for seniors who office workers so that they have greater choose “Easy Guide Service” for phone banking ARS. KB Securities now serves seniors and more convenient accessibility to through a dedicated counter at branches and KB Insurance introduced a guideline for financial services. senior customers to promote their rights and benefits. People with Disabilities In December 2017, KB Kookim Bank introduced “Visual ARS” to provide visual images together with voice ARS for the hearing impaired. “Liiv Talk Talk Voice Recognition Service” was launched for the people with visual impairment so they can make money transfers or check their account details through voice verification. The Bank also improved non face-to-face real name verification services through biometric verification or video conferencing to mitigate inconvenience for those unable to make branch visits. More ATMs will be equipped with zoom-in screen features, braille dots, and voice guidance as well as universal counters designed for better wheelchair access to increase accessibility to banking services to those with disabilities. Also, KB Kookmin Card is providing braille handbooks to customers with visual impairment. Expats KB Kookmin Bank provides multi language services through virtual and telephonic channels and actively seeks to enhance accessibility for expat customers. We launched multi-language service for our banking platform “KB Star Banking”. The service started with English, Chinese and Japanese in November 2016 with Cambodian added in December 2017 and Vietnamese in February 2018. In March 2017, a call back process for foreign language speakers was implemented for a total of six languages (English, Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese, Russian and Cambodian). Now the Bank not only assists foreign language speakers through a call center but also places callbacks so those customers do not have to wait on hold. In addition, the Bank operates five branches that are open on weekends for some expat workers who can not visit branches during weekdays and continues to hire foreign staff to reduce language barriers. KB Kookmin Card has prepared English and Chinese brochures for expatriates so they may access financial services with no language barriers. Office Workers KB Kookmin Bank expanded branches with flexible working hours for office workers: 14 KB Wise operations (open from 9am to 7pm) and 24 After Banks (open from 10am to 5pm, from 11am to 6pm or from noon to 7pm). KB Kookmin Card has improved customer access by implementing a system where a new credit card may be approved or credit line increased by phone call on a 24/7 basis. 15 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Financial Consumer Protection Financial Consumer Protection Framework We have strong commitment to protecting the rights of financial customers. We prioritize and value our customers, so we are improving our process by reflecting Voice of Customer. KB Kookmin Bank delivers Voice of Customers, captured through various channels, to the relevant divisions for timely improvements and tracks such improvements through an Integrated Tracking System for Consumer Protection process. In 2017, a total of 94 cases of process improvements were requested based on analysis on repeat complaints. In addition, a user-oriented information service channel, Consumer Information Portal appears in the first page of the company’s website to protect financial consumers’ right to know. A customer may opt to raise an issue through an electronic complaints channel in the Consumer Information Portal or through the Bank’s mobile app. Complaints so received are handled within a designated period of time and reported back to the original customer. Furthermore, KB Kookmin Bank has a dedicated window to handle complaints at each local branch and a managerial-level staff is designated as customer protection manager to ensure timely and fair resolution of customer complaints. Issues relating to consumer protection are discussed and closely followed by the Financial Consumer Protection Council and claims for compensation above a stipulated amount are forwarded to the Consumer Compensation Committee for fair resolution and reasonable compensation. The Consumer Protection Team at KB Kookmin Card is contacted and consulted prior to launch of new financial products or marketing programs. In addition, a monthly Financial Consumer Protection Council is convened to discuss issues and concerns relevant to financial consumer protection. Improving Employee Awareness of Consumer Protection Concerns At KB Financial Group, we are committed to raising employees’ awareness of consumer protection concerns. KB Kookmin Bank offers cyber training courses and new recruit’s training sessions on consumer protection to raise employee awareness on this issue. In addition, the Consumer Protection Mileage program offers a solid framework for the Bank to evaluate employee performance based on their consumer protection efforts. These efforts were recognized when KB Kookmin Bank obtained “Good” for two consecutive years in all qualitative items in the Financial Supervisory Service’s evaluation on Financial Consumer Protection. KB Kookmin Card and KB Life Insurance observe a monthly Financial Consumer Day to raise consumer protection awareness among employees. KB Life Insurance, publishes a monthly webzine Financial Consumer Protection Report to monitor the current status of complaints and examine issues related to consumer protection on a regular basis. 16 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Customer Information Security Strengthening Customer Information Security We remain committed to improving our overall information security standards by adhering to the Group-wide information security guidelines and thereby maintaining consistent control of all our subsidiaries. KB Financial Group and its subsidiaries, including KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, and KB Kookmin Card, all have separate CISO (Chief Information Security Officer) and CIO (Chief Information Officer) to ensure the complete independence of units in charge of information security. KB Kookmin Bank is equipped with an integrated monitoring system designed to promptly respond to fraud attempts and to prevent data breaches. The Integrated Personal Information Management System is a GRC (Governance, Risk, and Compliance)-based personal information protection system that monitors and tracks any fraudulent activities in compliance with pertinent laws and regulations. The Bank continues to advance its systems to prevent the misuse of customer information by KB Financial Group’s employees as well as employees of its business partners to ensure customer information security. KB Securities obtained ISO27001, an international information security standard, and received certification for Korea Internet & Security’s ISMS (Information Security Management System) in 2017. KB Kookmin Card introduced PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security System) and successfully reinforced customers’ trust in information security. KB Financial Group designated every third Wednesday as e-Cleansing Day to help raise employees’ awareness on the protection of customer information and designated every first Wednesday as Information Security Review Day to conduct regular inspections and ensure the protection against malicious codes. KB Financial Group also offers cyber security education and training for all employees twice a year in association with Financial Security Institute. In 2017, we organized a Group-wide contest for ideas and short videos on ways to reinforce information security and awarded outstanding entries to help our employees take this issue more seriously. Enabling Safe Financial Transactions We remain prepared for cyber security risks at all times through our integrated security control center. KB Kookmin Bank developed FDS (Fraud Detection System) using deep learning technology to strengthen its capabilities to detect unusual activities, better prevent ever-evolving crimes such as voice phishing, and thereby create an environment for safe and secure financial transactions. The Bank’s operators are available all year round to protect customers’ financial assets. Group Security Control Center 17 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Communication with customers Enhancing Communication with Customers We strive to achieve customer-centric management by identifying customers’ needs through various channels (the operation of the Customer Advisory Panel, surveys, etc.) and reflecting the findings on all aspects of our business activities from product development to marketing. KB Kookmin Bank operates various programs such as the KB Customer Advisory Panel and KB Tribunus Plebis to expand participation of and communication with customers. In 2017, the Bank launched KB Expat Customer Advisory Panel for the first time in the industry to collect opinions of international customers and reflect them on product development. As a result, KB WELCOME PLUS Installment Savings was released and the Bank’s overseas remittance services were improved. KB Securities and KB Insurance operate a customer panel to identify customers’ needs and fully take advantage of them as they develop products and services. KB Kookmin Card regularly conducts surveys on consumer spending patterns to better cater to customers’ needs regarding credit cards across all sectors of its business operation Our Customer Engagement Programs Activities KB Wise Working, a flexible work arrangement Each task is conducted based on the KB Tribunus Plebis system, was further expanded at the suggestion of opinions of the ten members on the panel. KB Tribunus Plebis in 2017. A total of six surveys were conducted with the sixth KB Customer Advisory Improvements were made to production leaflets KB Customer Advisory Panel Panel consisting of 4,787 customers based on survey results in July, 2017. recruited online. KB Kookmin Bank KB Golden Life Customer Opinions and suggestions of the panel are gathered to reinforce products and services Advisory Panel targeting senior customers. KB Expat Customer Advisory Ideas of expat customers are gathered via KB WELCOME PLUS Installment Savings exclusive Panel surveys and offline channels. for expat customers was launched in 2017. KB Digital Customer Advisory The panel seeks to achieve customer-oriented digital innovation by keeping abreast of the Panel latest digital developments. KB Campus Star College students suggest innovative ideas and promote new products and services. Customers’ opinions are collected and KB-able Account-Asset Allocation was upgraded KB Star Messenger reflected in the product and service based on customers’ opinions and released. planning and development stages. KB Securities Customers identify improvement points regarding new online services and content and KB Customer Evaluation Group enhance the quality of services accordingly. KB Insurance KB Hope Supporters Services are reviewed and improvement ideas are proposed by customers. 18 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Customer Satisfaction Our Efforts for Greater Customer Satisfaction We strive to create greater value for our customers by conducting customer satisfaction surveys on a regular basis and offering tailored customer-centered services. KB Kookmin Bank has scored an average of 95 or above (96.25 in 2017) on customer satisfaction index surveys for branches after improvements were made based on standardized guidelines and in-depth analyses of survey results by gender, age, visiting hour, and product type. In addition, the Bank has sought to achieve fullscale improvement across all areas from face-to-face and voice-to-voice services to products, systems, digital channels, and business processes by conducting in-depth BANK CSI involving all branches. KB Kookmin Bank has also operated an optimized customer service education system, through which CS managers of the highest caliber provide tailored CS education to all employees as well as KB Financial Group’s subsidiaries and pertinent organizations. Powered by such continued efforts for customer satisfaction management, KB Financial Group has received high evaluations from diverse external evaluation organizations. KB Kookmin Bank ranked first in the banking sector of the National Customer Satisfaction Index for eleven times for the first time in the industry. KB Insurance won the Korea Service Grand Prix hosted by Korea Standards Association for three consecutive years as a result of its continued efforts to improve the quality of its services mainly by reinforcing its mobile services and conducting real-time mobile customer satisfaction KB Kookmin Bank surveys. KB Kookmin Card ranked first in the check card sector of Korean Standard Ranked 1st Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) and Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) in 2017 in NCSI for 11 times for three consecutive years in recognition of its efforts to improve services at points of customer contact and a wide range of activities to bolster customer satisfaction. KB Life Insurance’s call center was also selected as the outstanding call center in the life insurance industry sector of KS-SQI in 2017 for 12 consecutive years. 19 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Innovation Materiality Trends Our Response As the financial industry faces fast Risks We continue to enhance our digital changes with new digital technology We are facing a rapidly changing finance capabilities by developing driving advances in financial environment: the advent of internet customer lifestyle friendly platforms, infrastructure and more customers only banks; entry into the financial developing infrastructure for technology having mobile experiences, digital services market by distributors and ICT innovation, and establishing an innovation has gained momentum across companies; the resulting paradigm shift ecosystem for win-win with FinTech all financial sectors and processes. In this in the industry; and FinTech’s growing firms. We are also focused on expanding environment, leading digital capabilities influence on financial services. customized services based on big data are required to maintain our competitive analysis and, simultaneously developing position as a global financial group and Opportunities data analysis professionals. continue to grow. We can enhance customer satisfaction with digital friendly product development and process innovation to embrace the changing financial market and diversifying customer needs. 20 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Digital Finance Innovation Innovative Digital Products and Platforms KB Kookmin Bank launched Liiv Tong, the industry’s first IoT (Internet of Things)-based digital money box, in February 2017. It is a digital money box themed after Liiv, the Bank’s mascot, and connected with the Liiv Tong app to offer a wide range of deposit services. In 2017, KB Kookmin Bank newly launched digital platforms to provide the latest information and innovative customer experience. KB Real Estate Liiv ON, a real estate transaction platform, allows customers to preset conditions and search property put on the market accordingly. Our platform is also filled with a variety of contents drawn from KB Financial Group’s expertise and knowledge in real estate and sets itself apart from other real estate transaction programs. Liiv Talk Talk is a conversational banking platform that allows customers to access and use various services (product browsing, money transfers, loan extension, etc.) of different subsidiaries through dialogue with Talk Talk, a digital assistant. Liiv Talk Talk is equipped with a highly secure messenger service. KB Insurance rolled out KB Diabetes Care, a diabetes-specific health insurance plan in collaboration with Seoul St. Mary’s Hospital and provides healthcare related services through wearable devices allowing patients with diabetes to manage their condition more easily. In 2017, KB Capital launched KB Cha Easy, the industry’s first online credit inquiry and contract platform, to increase customer convenience. KB Capital has also joined hands with KAIST to upgrade KB ChaChaCha, the company’s online used car marketplace to provide accurate market prices by utilizing deep learning. “KB Real Estate “Liiv Talk Talk” Liiv ON” application application Digital Money Box “Liiv Tong” 21 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Digital Innovation for Simplified Transactions and Greater Convenience We are adopting digital innovation to simplify financial transaction process and provide greater convenience and a faster transaction for customers. In 2017, KB Kookmin Bank upgraded KB Star Banking and added new service features such as Account View where users can access their account without having to log in and Fast Transfer that enables wire transfers to a pre-designated account within a matter of five seconds. “KB Star Shot” makes tax or bill payments easier and faster as a quick snapshot from your mobile device will instantly direct to the relevant payment page. In addition, a biometric authentication service is offered for the convenience of customers, replacing certificates and long passwords by simplifying the authentication process. The Bank started with fingerprint scanning in November 2016 and has implemented a wider variety of biometric authentication such as iris scanning, voice recognition, and palm print scanning. In 2017, a biometric authentication system based on palm vein recognition was implemented. Customers only have to register the vascular patterns on their palms at the Bank to be able to access services at an ATM or at a branch. The introduction of the Digital Counter allowed customers to complete and submit documents electronically, thereby making the entire process of financial transactions much simpler. Also, the electronic signature system was simplified to require customers to sign only once making the process more convenient. KB Kookmin Bank plans to adopt Digital Counter at all branches across the nation for better customer convenience and satisfaction. Digital Counter at KB Kookmin Bank 22 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees KB Innovation Hub KB Starters Supporting FinTech Companies KB Financial Group has been providing a variety of programs to achieve close cooperation and co-prosperity with FinTech companies and plans to further the parameters of such programs in the future. In 2017, we expanded and reorganized the KB FinTech Hub Center, originally opened as the industry’s first incubator for FinTech companies in March 2015, into the KB Innovation Hub. KB Innovation Hub serves as the link between KB Financial Group and the FinTech companies through collaboration with startups for research on FinTech and open source technology. In addition, KB Innovation Hub is focusing on finding FinTech partners capable of resolving KB’s technological challenges and providing these partners with financing and mentoring services for overseas expansion, mobile apps, and IT. As of March 2018, we have partnered with 36 startups (KB Starters). The amount of investments that has been made since 2015 reached KRW 10 billion. We have also come up with a total of 55 solutions and services for our subsidiaries such as voice authentication and a chatbot based on continued investment and cooperation with FinTech companies. In 2017, KB Kookmin Card started Future 9, a support program for startups equipped with innovative technologies and ideas, after identifying the nine areas for innovation that are most closely interconnected with everyday life, from shopping to dining, fashion, and payment. KB Kookmin Card invested KRW 170 million in eight startups and jointly conducted diverse projects with them to expand the spectrum of services. 23 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Creating Right Environment for Digital Finance Nurturing Experts of Digital Finance We are dedicated to nurturing experts in digital finance for the future of the financial industry. Starting in August 2017, Al intensive courses were offered to employees of all subsidiaries and a wide range of support programs are in place to enhance the understanding of and interests in digital finance. The Data Analysis Academy has also been opened to expand the Group’s pool of data analysis specialists and enhance their competence. A total of 116 employees completed this program in 2017. KB Kookmin Bank initiated a new program entitled KB Digital A.C.E Academy to cultivate digital experts in the areas of artificial intelligence, data analysis, and other digital technologies and have strived to reinforce competence of its employees through tailored courses. In 2017, KB Insurance has focused on training in data analysis. A total of 17 employees have obtained certificates in relevant fields following education in data analytics, machine learning solution, and statistical analysis tool such as SAS. In the same year, KB Kookmin Card opened the Digital Core Talent Academy to build company-wide digital capabilities and core talent. The training consisted of four-level courses from Digital 101 to Advanced Theory. 1,459 staff members took the Level 1 course and 25 employees finished Level 2. Agile Unit For digital innovation and digitization at the Group level, we introduced a new type of * ‌Agile is a term referring to a type of an “Agile”* unit named ACE which is capable of rapidly responding to market changes. organization or an approach that brings KB Kookmin Bank identified and successfully performed ten tasks for digital down barriers among divisions and improvement through ACE throughout 2017. As a result, Liiv Talk Talk (a conversational deals with given tasks with flexibility. banking platform) was launched, and KB Star Banking was upgraded with innovative features such as account viewing and fast-track transfers. In 2018, KB Kookmin Bank is seeking to adopt ACE units not only in specific tasks but also in projects requiring company-wide innovation and collaboration. We will continue to seek innovative ideas in the field of digital technology and lay a solid foundation for cutting-edge customer-centric service by further promoting and spreading our agile corporate culture. 24 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Building Infrastructure for Technological Innovation We focus on introducing the latest technologies to provide innovative services that ensure customers’ convenience. Open API platform is now in place at KB with the participation of KB’s seven subsidiaries, helping them to provide their core services. We continue to seek ways to actively utilize API platform which include enabling customers to track transactions of their securities or insurance account through our bank’s mobile banking app, expanding customer contact channels by partnering with external API-based service providers, and extending to a wider range of partnership/convergence services. Robotics Process Automation was adopted to implement business process automation of simple and repetitive tasks. In 2017, the first year of its deployment, 46 tasks from KB subsidiaries were defined for business automation and we are continuing to drive standardization for automation of that tasks. KB Kookmin improved the previous CRM System into “CRM Campaign System 2.0” which features with optimal financial service for individual customers based on Big data analytics. KB Life Insurance is implementing a project of converting audio recordings into text data and digitizing them for an analysis purpose to understand customer behaviors. In addition, with its attempt to realign Voice of Customer program to be more customercentered, it will be able to pinpoint what shapes and triggers certain customer behaviors, drive service innovation, improve business process. KB Financial Group opened the KB-KAIST Financial AI Research Center in cooperation with KAIST in June 2017. The Center researches ways to better utilize digital technologies such as AI and data analysis to offer differentiated customer value and products. 25 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Creating Sustainable Values Pursuing Sustainable Growth We are committed to sustainable growth through a variety of activities for improvement and innovation. In order to respond to the fast-changing financial market and cater to the individual needs of customers, we are coming up with packaged financial products and improving processes, leading to sustainable growth of the Group. For better customer experience with our financial products and services, we continue to improve our process by working closely together with our subsidiaries. An Integrated Process for Loan Product Inquiry and Application is now in place offering one-stop services to customers for inquiring their credit limit and interest rates applied to products offered by four KB subsidiaries that make loan services. This resulted in 1,510 loan applications worth KRW 24. 8 billion by the end of December 2017. The One-Click Loan Product was launched through “Liiv Mate”, the Group-wide financial platform, enabling customers to view their loan limits and interest rates online offered by the four subsidiaries (KB Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, KB Capital, and KB Savings Bank) and to choose the one most suitable to them. In addition, to respond to the changing environment of the financial services market and reflect the diversifying needs of customers, KB Financial Group has introduced packaged financial products. Launched in May, the “KB 1conomy* Youth Package”, which consists of savings, loans, card, insurance, fund, and ELS offers integrated financial solutions tailored to the rapidly growing number of single-person households. Also, the KB * ‌“1conomy” is a term newly coined by Petconomy* Package was launched in July for a growing number of pet owners. combining “single-person household” and KB Financial Group has upgraded its KB Star Club so that a customer, once selected as “economy” and refers to the economic a loyal customer, enjoys more benefits. With these improvements in the loyal customer activities of the rapidly growing number of incentive system at the Group level, we witnessed a growth in the number of total single-person households. customers at KB Financial Group to 33,630,000. Customers making transactions with more than one subsidiary of KB Financial Group also increased by 426,000 from the end * ‌“Petconomy” is a term newly coined by of last year to 9,516,000, a substantial growth in our customer base. combining “pet” with “economy”. The KB Petconomy Package is a financial product KB Kookmin Card is working hard to increase its valued customer base and establish tailored for 5.9 million pet owners. life-long brand loyalty. It offers a wide range of card products from which customers can choose based on their specific needs and preferences. By encouraging customers to make an automatic bill payment plan with KB Kookmin Card for their monthly apartment or telecommunication bills, KB Kookmin Card continues to work to expand its base of lifelong customers. It also focuses on managing customer contact points such as call centers to minimize customer churns. Pursuing Global Expansion KB Financial Group is seeking global market expansion into Asia and beyond to overcome the limitations of the domestic financial services market and to secure further growth and value creation potential. The accelerated pace of digital technology development has opened up new possibilities for businesses as barriers to market entry and national boundaries are rendered obsolete in the digital world. Businesses can find a new mode of market entry and investors can go abroad for a better return on investment. 26 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees We always have these new possibilities and developments in mind while operating our global businesses based on the competitive advantage of our strategic businesses that include CIB, consumer finance, digital banking and asset management. In 2016, KB Kookmin Bank successfully launched its global digital banking model “Liiv KB Cambodia” to capture new growth opportunities. In 2018, it continues to sophisticate Liiv KB Cambodia and expands its digital banking model to other Southeast Asian markets. KB Kookmin Bank opened “KB Microfinance Myanmar” in March 2017 in Myanmar where entry barrier is low and demand for financing is strong. We now have a total of 4 branches in operation. We are now offering micro loans and housing loans and seeking to enter banking and non-banking market where the financial market opens up in the future. KB Insurance runs its overseas operations based on its global network in the US, China, Indonesia and Vietnam, and continues to identify new market opportunities in emerging markets for new growth engine for the company. KB Securities, after the acquisition of Vietnam’s Maritime Securities in 2017, renamed the operations KB Securities Vietnam in January 2018. It offers brokerage and IB services to local companies, discovers investment opportunities in the local market and brings structured products to investors in Korea. It is planning to operate M&A arm providing consulting services to those planning to acquire local businesses. KB Kookmin Card, upon obtaining a permission to establish a local office from the Central Bank of Myanmar in September 2017, has elevated its endeavor to enter the market. It is mostly likely to do so as a specialized credit financial company that can operate installment financing and credit card business. It also has set a goal to operate credit loan and credit card business by entering the consumer finance market in Vietnam by the end of this year. Also, KB Kookmin Card took over specialized Cambodian credit financial company “Tomato Specialized Bank” in February 2018 in an attempt to phase in the credit card business from installment financing and credit loans. KB KOLAO Leasing Launched in Laos KB KOLAO Leasing is a joint venture between KB Capital, KB Kookmin Card and KOLAO Group of Lao PDR. KB KOLAO Leasing is a prime example where KB’s subsidiaries joined together to enter the overseas market, and is expected to stabilize its operations at an early stage as it is poised to make the most of the sound business network of KOLAO Group, No.1 in car sales in Laos. KB KOLAO Leasing plans to offer installment financing products for new vehicles, and later expand to used vehicles. It plans to enter the installment financing market in Indonesia, Vietnam and Cambodia. 27 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Sustainable Finance Materiality Trends Our Response In accordance with the Paris Agreement Risks With our newly launched green finance on Climate Change adopted by UN Products in environment-friendly green products in banking and investment, in 2015, the Korean government finance and responsible finance tend we are engaging with our customers to announced a policy roadmap of cutting to have higher operating costs as well make the environment better. KB will greenhouse gas emission by 37% by as limited sales and profit creation continue to be at the forefront of taking 2030. KB Financial Group will actively opportunities. Firm commitment of the social responsibility of the financial join the global and national efforts management and long-term strategic sector regarding environmental issues by against climate change. We will set clear direction is required. expanding green investment and setting targets for green finance, and plan to standards for the market. transparently disclose our progress. Opportunities Green finance products are clearly different from other regular deposit and loan products. As they are designed with a specific purpose, there exist challenges in finding consumer bases to offer and retain them. However, such offerings, because they are difficult to implement and maintain in the profit-seeking financial services market, testify to our strong commitment to environmental issues and show our progress we have made embracing social responsibility and leadership. 28 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Environment-Friendly Green Finance Expanding Investment in New & Renewable Energy Sector Since 2007, KB Kookmin Bank has provided financial advices and arranged syndicated loans for a wide range of new and renewable energy projects including solar power, wind power and solid refuse fuel. In 2017, we arranged syndicated loans for a district energy project at Seokmun National Industrial Complex located in Dangjin, Chungnam (KRW 195.1 billion), Shinkwang Wind Mills located in Pohang, Gyeongbuk (KRW 50.8 billion) and Baeksu Wind Mills in Yeonggwang, Jeonnam (KRW 85.3 billion) and extended foreign currency loans of USD 20 million for SBL Holdings which has a photovoltaic power plant portfolio. Also, we signed an agreement with Korea Energy Agency and Korea Credit Guarantee Fund to offer financial support for businesses that * ‌ESS (Energy Storage System) refers to either supply or demand ESS (Energy Storage System)* to put ESS in greater use. a system or an apparatus that stores KB Kookmin Bank will be at the forefront in assisting the new and renewable energy electricity generated in a storage device industry by offering special funding at more affordable interest rates. (or battery) and supplies on demand In January 2018, KB Asset Management signed a financing agreement with Korea to enhance efficiency in electric power Southern Power and S-Energy for a photovoltaic power generation business in Chile. usage. The business operates five small scale power plants with less than 9 MW capacity and will receive a total of USD 52.5 million or KRW 60 billion in financing. One of the plant began its commercial operations in August 2017 and the rest will be constructed throughout 2018. KB Financial Group will expand investment and make our strong commitment to the field of new and renewable energy. Green Financial Products Bearing in mind the impact that finance has on the environment, KB Financial Group has developed and released a variety of environmentally friendly green financial products. Along with offerings of green loan products of Energy Usage Rationalization Loan and Environmental Industry Growth Fund Loan, KB Kookmin Bank is providing KB Green Growth Loan which offers preferential interest rates for businesses that pursue green growth and contributes a certain percentage of profit generated to relevant green growth associations. In 2017, KB Kookmin Bank released the KB Solar Power Generator Loan designed to offer preferential interest rates for solar power generation businesses. The Bank also released the Green Remodeling Agreement Loan as an extension of the Green Remodeling Interest Support Project Agreement concluded with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, and provided support for interest for those businesses that upgraded their facilities. KB Asset Management launched a number of fund products that support the growth of the new and renewable energy industry, both at home and abroad, and offers environmentally friendly funds that invest in private sewage rehabilitation projects, as well as environmental plants and assets. 29 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report KB Kookmin Bank offers deposit and savings products that promote use of public transportation, as well as KB Magic Car Loans at preferential interest rates for those purchasing electric vehicles, small vehicles or hybrid vehicles. KB Insurance also encourages use of public transportation and green vehicle usage with its Electric Vehicle Insurance, weekly no-driving day rider, public transportation use discount rider, green parts use rider and KB Citizen Bicycle Insurance. Our Endeavor to Fight Climate Change We are devoted to our fight against climate change by reducing carbon emission generated from our business activities and enhancing energy efficiency. KB Kookmin Bank has implemented environmental management systems (international Sector Honors in CDP* standard certification of ISO 14001) at six buildings including Yeouido Head Office, KB Financial Group was named for Myeongdong Head Office, and the IT Center. This systematically manages elements carbon management sector honors of environmental impact such as waste generation and greenhouse gas emission by at the 2017 CDP Awards for Climate tracking an environmental scorecard for each building. KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Change. Kookmin Card, and KB Capital also obtained ISO 14001 and adopted internal policies * ‌CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and guidelines on environmental management, embodying the CEO’s leadership and Global disclosure system that measures listed commitment. companies’ environmental impacts. KB Kookmin Bank celebrates Energy Savings Day every month and promotes energy efficiency by participating in a Smart Energy Analyzing Campaign by Korea Energy Agency. We have annually replaced approximately 100 light bulbs at branches to LED lights and improved heating efficiency for buildings we own. Our integrated IT center and new office building to be built by 2019 and 2020 respectively are expected to cut down carbon emissions greatly as they are environmentally friendly buildings that use new and renewable energy. As part of Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation’s green initiatives to promote reuse of auto parts, KB Capital made strategic investment into Recycle Park, an auto parts distributor, in an effort to expand green automotive financing. In addition, KB Kookmin Bank and KB Securities continue to plant trees at Seoul Grand Park and Noeul Park respectively to reduce carbon emission through forestation and raise environmental awareness among employees. 30 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Responsible Finance Responsible Investment and Lending We at KB Financial Group have incorporated environment, social and governance factors into our lending and investment approval process. Based on our Principle Code of Loan and Standards of Loan Practice reflecting EGS factors, strict internal restrictions are placed on credit offering for and investing in illegal activities like drugs and armaments as well as enterprises that go against public interests or sound economic development. In addition, when making a financing decision, we also look at the progress a company has made in social responsibility. For large-scale financing projects with huge environmental and social impact, in particular, we perform onsite review with internal assessment officers, risk experts and independent specialists to conduct an environmental and social impact assessment before making the final determination. KB Asset Management’s KBSTAR ESG Socially Responsible Investment Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) reflects a company’s performance in social responsibility in investment decisions and invests in businesses that score highly on ESG factors including workers’ basic rights, fair trade among partners and competitors, consumer rights protection, and community contribution. The ESG Fund creates a positive environment for sustainability and provides the right vehicle for investors to act on their beliefs in social responsibility. Introduction of Stewardship Code In September 2017, KB Financial Group decided to incorporate a stewardship code into the businesses of all subsidiaries that manage customer assets and consulted with independent specialists and conducted internal review. As of March 2018, the introduction was completed at six subsidiaries. (KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, KB Insurance, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management and KB Investment) With a stewardship code in place at the Group level, we aim to strengthen institutional investors’ role in protecting and growing customers’ assets by promoting mid-to-long term growth of investee companies. The stewardship code was set forth to lay out a clear framework for us as institutional investors as we manage assets of customers or beneficiaries and by adhering to the code, we fulfill our fiduciary responsibilities. We should aim to identify long-term and responsible investment opportunities through in-depth analysis by reviewing a company’s financial performance and non-financial aspects of the environment, as well as social and governance issues as important factors that drive mid-to-long term value. Fulfilling our fiduciary responsibilities is expected to help us have a voice in the managerial matters as shareholders, take business decisions in the best interests of shareholders, ensure that market surveillance works soundly, bring out positive changes in corporate governance, and eventually promote the rights and interests of customers. The principles of Stewardship Code and related performance are transparently disclosed on the websites of our subsidiaries. 31 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Community Materiality Trends Our Response With the intensifying economic Risks We are committed to our duty as a polarization, the buzzword among Apart from government-driven financial financial services provider and place global financial leaders and international support for the underserved, more value on customer focus and a culture organizations is financial inclusion. programs and services are required to of sharing, as well as on playing a bigger Financial companies of Korea are being assist the financially excluded. role in assisting the working class, required to faithfully perform their social The absence of affordable financial venture companies, SMEs and midsize responsibility in accordance with the services for the underserved may pose businesses. We emphasize our social government’s policy to focus on financial risks to those prospective financial responsibilities as befitting a leading inclusion. In addition, companies need consumers as it deprives them of financial services group as our 12 to pursue balanced and inclusive growth opportunities to help themselves out of subsidiaries work together by designing by embracing various stakeholders to poverty. Microfinance programs, if scaled various programs and services to support secure their own sustainability. down, or implemented superficially, the financially excluded. fail to reflect the diversity of financial consumers and may stop prospective financial consumers from entering the mainstream financial market. It is time to make a sustainable plan, implementing long-term, realistic and effective measures rather than one-off community contribution activities and financial support for the underprivileged. Opportunities We can realize financial inclusion by expanding a range of financial services for financially excluded low income families. These efforts may include: extension of products with policy financial assistance, development of mid-range interest rate loans and development of loan products exclusively for microbusinesses. Consistent social contribution activities will help a company to build a positive corporate image devoted to the local community, and activities focusing on the community’s needs and solving problems together can make social impact. 32 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Financial Inclusion We strive to provide financial services Assistance for the Working Class and the Financially Excluded closely to the working class and to foster KB Kookmin Bank offers affordable loan to the working class with low income or low a culture of sharing. We believe that, credit who previously borrowed from non-banking financial institutions at usurious by doing so, we are expanding financial interest rates. We also make credit available to those generally rejected by banks due inclusion and building a people-centric to low income or low credit, by operating separate guideline for the underprivileged economy. We also support SMEs and people. In addition, under an agreement with the Health and Welfare Ministry, we offer startups, creating productive financial household stabilization loans at a low interest rate to persons with disabilities who infrastructure. have come of age and are referred by a chief of a district office of their residence. KB Kookmin Bank, through KB Miso Financial Foundation, is running microcredit business where small credits are is granted without collateral or guarantee to the financially excluded who are generally rejected or underserved by formal financial outlets due to low income or credit, in order to help them stand on their feet. The Bank also enables them to have easier and more access to financial services by providing comprehensive advice on microfinance products at KB Hope Finance Plaza. In addition, KB Kookmin Bank is planting seeds of hope by expanding financial assistance to long-term delinquent debtors. Those eligible for assistance are National Basic Livelihood Security beneficiaries, people with severe disabilities, elderly people over 70, unemployed under 34, and business owners who failed within the first seven years. Those suffering financial hardship due to joint guarantee, in particular, may get reduction of up to 95% of their debt obligations, which gives them a chance to get their life back on track. KB Savings Bank’s Sunshine Loan Sunshine Loan Support Center at KB Savings Bank Sunshine Loan was launched exclusively for people with low income and credit who have limited access to bank credit. This product is guaranteed by Korea Inclusive Finance Agency and Federation of Credit Guarantee to support the underprivileged people. KB Savings Bank launched online Sunshine Loan for the first time in February 2018 providing better access and lower interest rates. KB Savings Bank is also running Sunshine Loan Support Center to provide various services for Sunshine Loan from consultation to underwriting, lending and follow-up management. 33 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Support for SMEs and Small Businesses Support for SMEs and Venture Businesses KB Financial Group is creating a proper ecosystem for startup businesses by offering practical support for startup businesses and SMEs that find it challenging to obtain proper financing despite their innovative technology or growth potential in new growth areas of the fourth industrial revolution. KB Kookmin Bank, through special funding to the local Credit Guarantee Foundation, makes community contributions and helps to build a stronger local economy. In 2017, the Bank funded KRW 16 billion for 16 local Credit Guarantee Foundations and their umbrella organization of Korea Federation of Credit Guarantee Foundations, awarding loans worth KRW 181.3 billion to microbusinesses and SMEs. With the launch of KB Preferential Credit Loans for Startups and KB Preferential Loans for Innovative Venture Businesses targeting for startup businesses with good growth prospects and excellent technology, KB Kookmin Bank is creating the right climate where funds are put to productive use to foster SMEs and startups at affordable costs. In addition, we will work together with our subsidiaries to combine our strengths, like KB Investment creating venture investment funds and KB Securities helping startups in the process of M&A or IPO or offering equity investment incubation for startups, to deliver financial support for innovative venture businesses. Moreover, KB Kookmin Bank offers KB Wise Consulting, an advisory service tailored to the needs of SMEs. A group of professionals, such as certified public accountants, tax accountants, and patent attorneys present optimal solutions catering to the varying concerns of each business and help SMEs in their journey to growth and development. A total of 783 cases of consulting services have been offered since 2013. Support for Small Businesses In 2016, KB Kookmin Bank opened KB SOHO Business Center, the first ever program by a financial services provider, to offer free business consulting services to startups and small business owners facing challenges. Five startup centers located in Seoul have offered a total of 760 cases of consulting through 2017. The Bank plans to open more startup centers in the five cities of Gwangju, Daegu, Daejeon, Busan and Incheon to serve more small businesses and startups. In addition, the Bank, in cooperation with Seoul Credit Guarantee Foundation, held “Small Business Start-up Academy Seminar” and offered free lectures by investment specialists, legal advice from lawyers, and one-on-one consulting services from specialists working at KB Start SOHO Business Start-up Academy of Small Business Center. 34 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Support for Social Enterprises KB Kookmin Bank assists social enterprises through its Social Innovation Projects aiming to foster social economy. Applicants who registered a call for assistance will be screened by KB Kookmin Bank in partnership with Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency and KNSEC. Enterprises selected for the assistance in 2016 have yielded solid results in product development and research, creating good jobs and hiring marginalized people. The Bank has funneled a total of KRW 100 million in aid into five social enterprises and KNSEC, contributing to the development of social enterprises. Providing Financial Aid to Disaster Victims 2017 was a devastating year with disasters and accidents such as wildfires in Gangneung and Samcheok area, floods in Cheongju, massive fires in the Sorae fish market and Yeosu fish market, and earthquakes in Pohang affecting many people across Korea. KB Financial Group has arranged various financial aids for those affected by disasters, including financial relief for interest burden, to relieve their pain and help them get life back to normal. KB Kookmin Bank immediately offered Emergency Livelihood Stabilization Fund loans to disaster victims, extended the maturity of debts without further principal repayment, and provided option for fee waiver. KB Kookmin Card offered special financial aid to flood victims by granting a grace period for payment or allowing payment in installments of their credit card balance or card loans. Other benefits, like discounts on financial commissions or late fee waivers, were extended. A Fund-raising System for Natural Disaster Relief Donations through ATMs KB Kookmin Bank, partnering with National Disaster Relief Association, has established a fund-raising system using non face-to-face channels. Anyone holding a KB Kookmin Bank account can make donations through ATM, internet banking or smartphone banking. The system makes it easier to track donations as a customer’s withdrawal account is connected to the virtual account of the relevant organization. For two weeks in December 2017, about 1,000 customers participated in the fundraising for earthquake victims in Pohang donating KRW 220 million. This fund will be funneled through National Disaster Relief Association to support recovery efforts. 35 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Co-Prosperity with Suppliers Fair Trade and Shared Growth KB Financial Group is taking a company-wide multipronged approach for fair and equitable trade. We are implementing integrity pacts to enhance integrity in all activities related to contracts. Conflicts of interest in connection with a contract will be disclosed in advance of procurement of goods and services and a provision on integrity pacts will be incorporated into contracts for greater transparency. Meanwhile, we are committed to fair trade with all companies in business relationships with us. Limiting a bid or discriminating in assessment based on the size of a company is banned, and transparent transactions are encouraged by disclosing clear guidelines on contracting method for all prospective suppliers. KB Kookmin Bank has built a monitoring system into the Fair Trade Compliance Program Manual, specifying sanctions against employees who breach applicable laws and regulations. The Bank implements rigorous controls and supervision over compliance of fair trade through internal and external audits on a periodic basis and voluntary special inspections by the relevant department. We have Duties Management Guidance in place for sanctions against and discipline of those in breach. We also maintain internal fair trade principles by adhering to implementation of a memorandum of integrity agreement and fair assessment pledge when entering into contracts. In addition, satisfaction surveys conducted on partner businesses incorporate an item assessing the Bank’s employees. KB Kookmin Bank is committed to growing together with its suppliers. In all contracts with partners, a provision clearly states that partnership should be built and flourish based on mutual respect. We actively communicate with our suppliers about their concerns and areas of improvement through regular communication channels that include periodic seminars and satisfaction surveys. Meanwhile, we have performed assessments of approximately 200 ICT partners in terms of business deals made and status in new or strategic business deals to seek new models for shared growth and provide support for coprosperity. Supplier Code of Conduct To abide by the principle of socially responsible management, KB Financial Group has developed Supplier Code of Conduct and encourages them to voluntarily implement the standards in their own business. The standards comprise five sections: Workers’ Basic Rights and Compliance, Safety and Welfare, Environmental Protection, Fair Competition and Market Order and Co-prosperity with Business Partners, and Ethics for Partners. More detailed information is available at KB Financial Group’s website. Supplier Code of Conduct (https://www.kbfg.com/Eng/about/ethics.htm) 36 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Community Contribution Our Approach We aim to exert a positive impact on society, achieve shared growth with local communities, and spread a culture of sharing and compassion through our community outreach programs. We strive to reciprocate what we have received as a respected corporate citizen and build a brighter future for all through support for youth and multicultural community, economic and financial education, and job creation. We work to realize both our corporate vision and common global goals by keeping our * UN SDGs community outreach programs in line with UN SDGs (United Nations Sustainable UN SDGs (United Nations Sustainable Development Goals)*. Development Goals) is global agenda for sustainable development formally adopted by KB Star Dream Volunteer Corps UN General Assembly in September 2015. We operate KB Star Dream Volunteer Corps with all employees. Our employees take part in Theme Volunteer Corps (supporting youth, multi-cultural families, etc.), Talent Dream Volunteer Corps (pro bono service), and Speed Dream Volunteer Corps (relief aid for damage from natural disasters), instilling hope in different corners of society. As many as 80,235 employees participated in volunteering activities for 296,824 hours in 2017 alone on a cumulative basis. The average hours of volunteering per employee on a yearly basis is 10.6 hours, setting an example for other local companies. We have also designated May and December as periods of focused social contributions to further promote Group-wide philanthropic activities. May is “the month of social contributions” and December is “the month of winter relief for the underserved”. Powered by these initiatives, KB Financial Group employees touch many lives in a proactive and meaningful way. KB Financial Group’s CSR Strategy Goal The Most Respected Corporate Citizen, KB Financial Group Direction Taking social responsibility Win-win growth with local communities Spreading a culture of sharing Public interest-focused social contributions Strategic social contributions Priority Youths support Multi-cultural community support Financial education and job creation 4. ‌To ensure quality 17. To ‌ strengthen and 8. To ‌ promote sustainable education and promote revitalize the global economic growth, full and SDGs lifelong learning partnership for productive employment, opportunities for all sustainable development and decent work for all Volunteer work Encouraging employees’ participation in volunteer work in cooperation with the communities we serve 37 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Youths Support KB Hope Camp Children and teenagers are future leaders We help young people with disability accomplish their dreams through the KB Hope who will drive the advancement of our Camp. Each teenager mentee is paired with a college student mentor and offered the society. As such, we focus our resources chance to seek diverse job opportunities, gain hands-on experience, and consult with on laying the foundation, upon which experts. Over 600 students took part in this program since 2014 and were inspired to they can build their dreams and share design their future. hopes. KB Youth Music College We have conducted KB Youth Music College program since 2013 to nurture the musical talents of underprivileged youth. Every year, we provide quality education in music to underprivileged young people who have passion and talent in music through one-on-one tutoring with college professors in cooperation with 6 music colleges. As a result of these efforts, many of the program’s participants succeeded in obtaining admission to art high schools and colleges of music, and won awards in national music competitions. As such, we have contributed to developing the artistic potential of youth and provided them with opportunity for self-development. About 600 teenagers were given the chance to nurture their musical talent through this project until 2017. KB Youth Music College Concert 38 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 is KB Kookmin Bank’s community outreach program newly launched in 2018. Based on this program, the Bank has conducted systematic mentoring projects for children and teenagers to provide multifaceted, well-organized support for youth of disadvantaged families and help them better respond to changes in the educational environment, such as the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Projects Details Mentoring for Learning Mentoring for Career Planning Mentoring for Digital Inclusion Supporting education for students from Reinforcing the competence of teenagers Nurturing Creative Talents low-income households for career development ∙ ‌Coding education for marginalized youth ∙ ‌English camp for elementary school ∙ ‌Dreams Coming True – a “talk concert” for with poor access to technologies students career planning ∙ ‌Software competition ∙ ‌Mentoring for junior high school students ∙ ‌Job Experience Camp ∙ ‌Digital Mentoring Coding Camp through the operation of a college student ∙ Visiting universities and research institutes volunteer group ∙ ‌Scholarships for junior high and high school students 2 1 3 1. Dreams Coming True – a “talk concert” for career planning 2. Mentoring for Learning 3. Digital Mentoring Coding Camp 39 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Multi-Cultural Community Support We exert our best efforts to help youth of multicultural families grow into confident members of our society. We are also expanding investment and support for projects designed to aid developing nations in Asia. RaonAtti in Myanmar RaonAtti – Overseas College Student Volunteer Corps RaonAtti, an overseas college student volunteer corps formed by KB Kookmin Bank in association with YMCA Korea in 2008, has dispatched 505 volunteers to 11 Asian countries, including Myanmar, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, and the Philippines. College student volunteers are trained for one month to learn the language and culture of the destination country, receive additional training to adapt to communities on site, and engage in various volunteer activities, including education for youth of low-income households and support for the development of local communities, for five months in the destination country. KB Hope Star School Donated to Vietnam KB Kookmin Bank built and donated the KB Hope Star School in Binh Yen, Son Duong District, Tuyen Quang Province in Vietnam. The Bank plans to continue its community outreach activities in Vietnam and provide better education environment to youth of underserved communities. Supporting Heart Surgery for Cambodian Children Since 2012, KB Kookmin Bank invited Cambodian children suffering from congenital heart disease to Korea and provided full support for their surgery in association with Financial Supervisory Service. As many as 66 Cambodian children regained their health through this program. The Bank also opened the “KB Kookmin Bank Hebron Heart Center” in Cambodia in 2014 and provided financial aid for surgery on site. 40 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Supporting Heart Surgery for Cambodian Children Supporting Migrant Workers in Korea KB Kookmin Bank has engaged in volunteer projects to provide free medical services to migrant workers in Korea with poor access to healthcare in collaboration with Korean Open Doctors Society. The Bank also provides free legal consultations to contribute to the wellbeing of migrant workers. KB Insurance has provided support for homeland visits of migrant workers in Korea since August 2016. This program targets migrant workers from countries in which KB Insurance has presence, who have been unable to visit their homes for an extended period of time due to financial difficulties. Publication of Legal Advice Handbook for Migrant Workers Legal Advice Handbook for Migrant Workers KB Kookmin Bank published Legal Advice Handbooks for Migrant Workers as an extension of the Bank’s activities to protect the rights of migrant workers residing in Korea. This handbook contains legal advice and basic solutions for problems that migrant workers may face throughout their stay in Korea. It is available in the four languages of Cambodian, Burmese, Vietnamese, and Mongolian. A total of 1,000 copies were printed for each language version and distributed at KB Kookmin Bank’s Foreign Exchange and Remittance Center for free. It is also available in electronic form. 41 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Financial Education & Job Creation KB Star Economy Class We carry out financial education and We have focused on financial education as the Group’s major CSR program since 2012 job creation projects by utilizing our and operated KB Star Economy Class led by the KB Foundation. We provide financial capabilities as a leading financial education across various sectors to help people develop financial knowledge and institution to promote sustainable prudent financial habits. Through this program, as many as 203,629 students, soldiers, economic growth. newcomers in the job market, and those with limited access to financial information such as the elderly, housewives, North Korean defectors, marriage migrant women received education in 2017 alone via online and offline channels. KB Star Economy Class Mobile Web KB Foundation launched KB Star Economy Class mobile web (www.kbstarschool.or.kr) to better reach out to young generations adept at mobile devices. This application is designed to provide tailored education to meet the individual needs of people of all ages and genders, from elementary school students to retirees. It contains digital content grafted with AR and VR technologies to make learning easy and fun. KB Star Economy Class mobile web 42 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees KB GoodJob Fair KB GoodJob, Job Placement for All KB Kookmin Bank contributes to resolving the issue of youth unemployment and the creation of jobs through KB GoodJob. Since its launch in 2011, KB GoodJob has offered a wide range of employment information via its website (https://kbgoodjob.kbstar.com) as well as tips for writing resumes and job interviews. KB GoodJob achieved the feat of having more than 53,000 job vacancies posted and matching over 14,000 job seekers with employers as of late March 2018. We staged the KB GoodJob Fair, the nation’s largest job fair, as many as 12 times since 2011, bringing job seekers together with competent SMEs. Hiring subsidiaries are provided to participating companies that recruit job seekers who apply for the job at the fair. Until 2017, 4,501 companies have participated in the KB GoodJob Fair and recruited 7,092 job seekers. In addition, the Bank held the KB GoodJob Employment Academy seven times from 2013 to 2017, targeting students from specialized and meister high schools, college students, and military personnel about to be discharged from service. Over 1,500 job seekers participated and received education. The KB GoodJob Employment School, a six-month-long training and employer-employee matching program targeting students from specialized and meister high schools, has also been times since 2016, providing training to 400 students. 43 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Employees Materiality Trends Our Response With the advent of the Fourth Industrial Risks We strive to create a horizontal Revolution, the competence of each The emergence of the Fourth Industrial organizational structure and provide individual, has emerged as a decisive Revolution and changes in digital full support for our employees to reach factor in company’s competitiveness. financial services have highlighted the new heights and improve customer We fully recognize the need to foster importance of experts who are wellvalue through creativity. Furthermore, a corporate culture that encourages versed in new technologies such as block we aim to nurture a corporate culture our employees to freely show their chain. Companies are required to invest centered on a healthy work-life balance capabilities and promotes diversity in cultivating and retaining such experts to improve Group-wide efficiency and and the cultivation of high-caliber to survive in today’s fiercely competitive lay the foundation for tapping each professionals to thrive as a global financial world. employee’s growth potential and company. fostering expertise. Opportunities We aim to nurture and support professionals of diverse sectors of digital finance, such as FinTech and block chain, to meet today’s challenges and make leaps forward. We will remain at the forefront of talent management to better brace for the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on our knowhow and close cooperation with our subsidiaries. 44 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Talent Development Developing Employee Competencies KB Financial Group continues to expand employee exchanges among its subsidiaries to nurture experts with collaborative or cross-functional knowledge across diverse sectors of the financial industry. About 200 employees were screened through the Group’s internal contest and given the chance to work at another subsidiary since 2015. Also, we are encouraging our employees to engage in self-led learning by supporting the operation of CoP (Community of Practice) at a Group level. We exert our efforts to foster our employee’s expertise through various development programs. We have been operating “KB WM Academy”, the integrated employee training program of KB Kookmin Bank and KB Securities for wealth management (WM) since April 2017. Through the specialized and systematic courses of this program, as many as 1,800 employees improved their expertise and professional skills in WM. KB Kookmin Bank requires new employees to take comprehensive KB Kookmin Bank business courses for five years to improve their core competencies and skills. In addition, the Bank has identified eight key areas (wealth management, corporate financing, capital market, data analysis, digital finance, global presence, risk management, and IB) and cultivates high-caliber professionals for these areas. The Bank operates KB HRD Cloud to promote micro-learning and is supporting diverse self-led training and learning programs. KB Insurance establishes a competence development plan for all employees at the beginning of each year and provides support for various forms of self-led learning. To foster financial experts, KB Insurance runs weekend courses to help employees attain certificates and licenses. KB Kookmin Card established Training Road Map (TRM) aimed at reinforcing core competencies of its employees in a systematic manner. The company initiated a permanent support system for small learning groups in February 2018 to promptly respond to diverse learning needs that may arise on the business frontier. This system allows employees to explore areas of interests and plan training program, and the company provides support for the program. Group CoP Activity 45 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Graduation Ceremony of KB Insurance’s KB Dream Campus Cultivation of Female Leaders We strive to foster and help female professionals thrive in the workplace and promote gender diversity. As of the end of 2017, the percentage of our female employees stands at 45.2% at KB Kookmin Bank. Women account for 28.8% of management positions, 42.4% of junior management positions, and 15% of top management positions. In addition, women account for 32% of management positions in revenuegenerating departments such Sales department. Since 2015, KB Kookmin Bank has focused on creating part-time jobs for mothers on career breaks to help them successfully re-enter the job market while managing family life. KB Insurance established a mid-to-long term road map to nurture female professionals and leaders and aims to create a culture that inspires female employees to push forward towards their visions and goals. KB Insurance’s KB Dream Campus, first launched in September 2016 to cultivate high-caliber female managers, provides training for female employees under section chief level. A total of 40 employees completed this program in September 2017, and 34 are currently taking part in the 2018 session. Lifetime Planning for Employees KB Kookmin Bank helps its employees plan for life after retirement by operating a lifetime planning program and career transition school targeting those in the 50s. In addition, since November 2016, the Bank provided education and consulting services to help employees prepare for life after retirement and career transition through KB Career Consulting Center for all soon-to-retire employees. KB Insurance’s lifetime planning program Happiness Plus is also designed to help employees 50 and older better prepare for a life after retirement. 46 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Great Workplace Work-Life Balance We fully recognize that sufficient breaks lead to an engaged, committed workforce and ultimately to better business performance. Thus, we focus on helping our employees maintain a healthy balance between work and family life. KB Kookmin Bank introduced, a flexible work program named Wise Shift Program that allows its employees to choose flexible working hour arrangements, while KB Kookmin Card has also put the flextime into operation to give greater scheduling freedom to employees. KB Financial Group celebrates Family Care Day on a certain day of the week. to encourage all employees to leave work on time and spend more quality time with family. Many of our subsidiaries, such as KB Kookmin Bank, KB Securities, and KB Insurance, have implemented PC Off program. This program shuts down employees’ computers automatically at the preset time to make them leave work on time. KB Kookmin Card includes the PC OFF time in Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of departments to minimize overtime. In addition, KB Financial Group actively encourages employees to take leave for selfdevelopment and annual paid holidays to refresh and relax. KB Insurance strives to achieve improved productivity by encouraging employees to take breaks and adopted the “extended leave for self-development” program in 2018. Employees are given 10 additional paid holidays when spending 10 annual paid holidays and can take one month off in total along with weekends. Bring Your Kids to Training “With Kids” Program Our employees are encouraged to bring their kids to work when taking part in weekend training. Kids can participate in our program designed to inspire them through play, while parents receive training in diverse areas from investment cases, certification, to taxation. It is an extension of our endeavor to promote an enjoyable work-life balance. 47 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Family-Friendly Workplace We are striving to cultivate a family-friendly workplace by offering diverse benefits in child birth and child caring. We provide various programs for new and expectant mothers. We guarantee 110 business days of maternity leave, which is longer than the legally required 90 days, and 2 years of childcare leave per child for both male and female employees. New mothers are allowed to take maternity leave as soon as pregnancy is confirmed to ensure maternal and fetal wellbeing. The reduced working hour system during pregnancy and for childcare also helps working parents balance work and family. We guarantee also support childcare by operating childcare centers and lactation rooms in the workplace and by supporting educational expenses of preschool children and living expense for children with disability. KB Securities is striving to build a culture that ensures the right balance between work and family. It expanded the length of maternity leave and childcare leave and made improvements to provide financial assistance for childcare for up to 2 years. It also continues to improve maternity protection program by introducing “leave for the reproductively challenged” and an increase in the cash gift for child birth. One of KB Insurance’s supportive perks for female employees returning to work after maternity leave is to assign them to offices closer to their homes to help them balance work and family. Childcare in the Workplace KB Kookmin Bank’s Gangseo Childcare Center We run on-site childcare centers to offer wider childcare options for our employees. KB Kookmin Bank operates KB Gangseo Childcare Center and KB Daejeon Childcare Center, and KB Kookmin Card operates the I-nuri Childcare Center. In March 2018, KB Insurance opened an childcare center near its office building in Hapjeong-dong. It is open to children of employees of not only KB Insurance but also other subsidiaries and affiliated companies of KB Financial Group to provide reliable childcare service. 48 Material Issues Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test Customers Innovation Sustainable Finance Community Employees Safe Working Environment We focus on creating a safe and comfortable working environment. In order to protect employees from serious safety accidents, earthquake, fire, terror and contagion, a quarterly safety and fire inspection is conducted in all departments. Emergency evacuation drills including fire drills and civil defense drills are conducted regularly to improve crisis management capability. First aid training such as CPR is provided to employees. In addition, we established BCP (Business Continuity Planning) and emergency plans to ensure business continuity and protect our people from disasters, and make sure that major businesses can be resumed in case of crisis. Also, employees are required to carry out disaster recovery drills based on the results or risk assessments to remain prepared for crises and to protect our people and customers’ assets. Healthcare and Stress Management We conduct annual medical check-ups to prevent disease at an early stage and indepth check-ups for those diagnosed with specific signs to ensure the wellness of our employees. We also operate healthcare programs, such as blood pressure management, blood sugar management, obesity management, and smoking cessation. We have infirmary and dental clinics in our office, and run physical wellness programs and on-site fitness facilities. We hire professional catering companies to provide healthy and balanced meals to our employees at in-house cafeterias. We provide diverse stress management programs to help our employees better manage mental health. KB Kookmin Bank runs Healing Cafe, an employee counseling program, in association with counseling centers to help relieve stress and assist counseling expenses. KB Kookmin Card provides Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a support program for employees’ mental health, through which each employee can receive counseling up to six times a year. Employee Communication We strive to foster flexible and open organizational culture and by keeping diverse communication channels open. Our intranet features “Talk with Group CEO”, through which our employees can directly communicate with CEO and reinforce their bond with the company. One-Firm Communication Relay is another program designed to improve communication with our employees on the business frontier. We also have diverse channels aimed at achieving harmony and co-prosperity between labor and management, from Labor-Management Council, Industrial Safety and Healthcare Committee, Equal Employment Opportunity Committee, to Grievance Committee. Talk with Group CEO 49 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix Fundamentals We believe that our efforts to ensure transparency in corporate governance, integrity, and preemptive risk management help sustainability take firm root and that such efforts lay a solid foundation to reinforce our global competitiveness. We strive to fulfill our corporate social responsibility by protecting human rights of stakeholders across all business areas in which we operate. Corporate Governance 52 Ethical Management 54 Integrated Risk Management 56 Human Rights Management 58 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors The Board of Directors is KB Financial Group’s supreme decision-making body that determines matters prescribed in laws and the Articles of as well as important matters in business management. It oversees the management and focuses on maximizing the company’s value and earning stakeholders’ trust. The Board consists of 1 executive director, 1 non-standing director, and 7 nonexecutive (independent) directors as of March 31, 2018. Non-executive directors hold a majority of the board and the chairperson of the Board is selected among non-executive directors to ensure the independence of the Board and help it faithfully performs its checks and balances. As of March 31, 2018 Name Gender Career Background Role ∙ Chairman of the Board of Directors ∙ ‌Member of the Non-Executive Director Chairman of Credit ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Candidate Nominating Committee Suk Ryul Yoo Male Finance Association ∙ ‌Member of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ ‌Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee Committee ∙ ‌Member of the Risk Management Committee Stuart B. Solomon Male Chairman, MetLife ∙ ‌Member of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Committee Visiting Professor, ∙ ‌Member of the Non-Executive Director College of Business ∙ ‌Chairman of the Risk Management Committee Suk Ho Sonu Male Candidate Nominating Committee Administration, Seoul ∙ ‌Member of the Audit Committee ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee National University Non-executive Vice President, Korea ∙ ‌Chairman of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ ‌Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating directors Myung Hee Choi Female Internal Control Committee Committee (Independent) Assessment ∙ ‌Member of the Risk Management Committee ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Principal Attorney, ∙ ‌Member of the Audit Committee Kouwhan Jeong Male Nambujeil Law and ∙ ‌Member of the Evaluation and Compensation ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Notary Office Committee Senior Researcher, ∙ ‌Chairman of the Non-Executive Director ∙ ‌Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Jae Ha Park Male Korea Institute of Nominating Committee Committee Finance ∙ ‌Member of the Audit Committee ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Professor, Department ∙ ‌Member of the Non-Executive Director of Business ∙ ‌Chairman of the Audit Committee Jong Soo Han Male Candidate Nominating Committee Administration, Ewha ∙ ‌Member of the Risk Management Committee ∙ ‌Member of the CEO Nominating Committee Womans University Executive Jong Kyoo Yoon Male CEO, KB Financial Group ∙ ‌Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee director Non-standing Yin Hur Male CEO, KB Kookmin Bank ∙ ‌Member of the Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee director Board Sub-Committees To comply with pertinent laws, such as the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, and to ensure the efficiency of operating the board, we are running 7 sub-committees (Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Evaluation and Compensation Committee, CEO Nominating Committee, Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee, Non-Executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee, and Audit Committee Member Nominating Committee) as of March 31, 2018. Each committee is comprised of directors equipped with expertise in the area concerned. 52 Fundamentals Corporate Governance Ethical Management Integrated Risk Management Human Rights Management Board Sub-Committees and Their Functions As of March 31, 2018 Members Function Audit Committee 4 non-executive directors Supervision of overall auditing tasks Risk Management Committee 4 non-executive directors Establishment of risk management policies and systems and pertinent decision-making Establishment of evaluation and compensation policies and systems and pertinent Evaluation and Compensation Committee 4 non-executive directors decision-making CEO Nominating Committee All non-executive directors Establishment of a plan for CEO succession and execution of succession procedures Non-Executive Director Candidate Nominating Management of the pool of non-executive director candidates and nomination of 4 non-executive directors Committee candidates for non-executive directors 3 non-executive directors, Establishment of a plan for CEO seccession in subsidiaries and execution of succession Subsidiaries’ CEO Nominating Committee 1 executive director, procedures 1 non-standing director Audit Committee Member Nominating Committee All non-executive directors Nomination of candidates for Audit Committee members Appointment of Non-Executive Directors We nominate non-executive directors based on three core principles: shareholder representativeness, expertise, and diversity. As such, the Board maintains a pool of non-executive director candidates with different areas of expertise from financial business management to accounting, finance, laws and regulations, risk management, HR, IT, and consumer protection. Also, to ensure diversity in the composition of the Board, we take into consideration factors such as gender, race, ethnicity, nationality and country of origin in nominating candidates. Non-executive directors are recommended by the Non-Executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee and appointed at the general meeting of shareholders. Pertinent laws and the Articles of Incorporation mandate that non-executive directors must be nominated among those who are equipped with expertise in the areas involved, who are able to perform given duties fair-mindedly, and who have both ethics and a sense of responsibility. Board Operation and Evaluation The Board holds regular and ad-hoc meetings convened by the chairperson. Regular meetings are held on a quarterly basis, while ad-hoc meetings take place when the chairperson acknowledge that it is needed and when any director or subcommittee requests it. In 2017, a total of 15 Board meetings took place to discuss and vote on items such as the acquisition of shares for the full privatization of KB Insurance and KB Capital, midto-long term management strategies of KB Financial Group, and the convocation of the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in 2017. The Board meeting attendance rate of non-executive directors (excluding internal directors) in 2017 stands at 96%. We disclose details about decisions made by the Board and its subcommittees each quarter through our quarterly report. The Board’s activities, management succession, and compensation system are transparently disclosed in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance and Compensation released every March. Meetings attended only by non-executive directors can be held to help them more efficiently perform their duties, and support and advice from our employees and outside experts are also provided if deemed necessary. We provide education and training for non-executive directors to assist them in decision-making. The Board is evaluated across four areas: the composition and efficiency of the Board, roles and functions of the Board, responsibilities of the Board, and protection of shareholders’ rights and investor relations. Internal evaluations and peer evaluations are conducted for non-executive directors with commitment, expertise, leadership, and contributions as indicators. The results of evaluations are delivered to the Non-Executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee to be referred to when deciding on their re-appointment. In addition, the performance of the Board is independently evaluated by Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS)* every year. As a result of 2017 assessments, KB received an overall grade of “A” for governance sector. Remuneration and severance pay for non-executive directors are decided at the general meeting of shareholders and detailed information is shared via the website of KB Financial Group. * KCGS Korea Corporate Governance Service is an independent non-profit organization established to improve corporate governance of Korean companies by promoting best practices and evaluating corporate governance of listed companies in Korea. 53 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Ethical Management Ethical Management System The KB Financial Group’s Charter of Ethics was established and declared in January 2010 as a Group-wide credo. In January 2016, the KB Financial Group’s Code of Conduct reflecting the key ethical values and standards of the Charter was established and applied to all subsidiaries to help our employees retain integrity and ethics across all business operations. Also, each subsidiary adopted Code of Practice, a set of ethical standards reflecting business-specific characteristics of each subsidiary, upon which each company can seek solutions for ethical conflicts that may arise from their business activities. We have Internal Control Committee, a consultative body for the operation of our internal control system; Compliance Council consisting of compliance officers of the holding company and all subsidiaries; and the Working-Level Compliance Council consisting of compliance managers to promptly track and address key issues regarding ethical management and internal control. We will continuously strive to nurture sound and ethical management practices by upgrading relevant systems and proactively monitoring any updates in pertinent laws and regulations. Internal Control System We have diverse compliance programs such as preliminary review of compliance in important tasks, activities to prevent suspicious transactions, reinforcement of management and monitoring of each department’s “Compliance Checklist,” education for compliance staff of each department, etc. aimed at promoting ethical management practices and preventing legal sanctions, financial losses, and reputational damage due to the violation of laws. The operation of such compliance monitoring programs significantly contributes to helping employees take precautions and improve their awareness on the importance of ethical management practices and sound internal control. We have reported the results of yearly inspections on each subsidiary’s internal control to the Board of Directors since 2016 pursuant to the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies. Furthermore, we hold Internal Control Committee, Compliance Council, and Legal Affairs Council meetings on a regular basis to readily share and address the Group’s compliance and legal affairs issues. We updated our internal policies to ensure the independence of compliance officers and set detailed standards for mandatory leave and the internal reporting system as specified in pertinent laws such as the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies and have put them into operation. 54 Fundamentals Corporate Governance Ethical Management Integrated Risk Management Human Rights Management Whistleblowing System KB Financial Group has in place a whistleblowing system to prevent the possibility of violation of internal control standards and prevent accidents from further spreading. In 2015, an independent whistleblowing channel was set up enabling internal reporting through our website and mobile apps with ease. Furthermore, we have established a hot line for employees to directly contact Group’s Compliance Officer through his personal contact number, Viber, and Telegram to protect whistleblower’s confidentiality. KB Kookmin Bank Ranking 1st in the Comprehensive Anti-Money Laundering Anti-Money Laundering Performance Many countries have stepped up their management and monitoring for compliance Evaluation for Seven Consecutive with their money laundering prevention requirements. As such, we established a Years. Group-wide consultative body to discuss material issues on anti-money laundering KB Kookmin Bank was recognized for and conducted on-site inspections on overseas branches of KB Kookmin Bank, KB its efforts to reinforce awareness on Securities, and KB Insurance. In order to determine whether the identification of UBOs anti-money laundering and improve (ultimate beneficial owners) is being carried out faithfully pursuant to pertinent laws, its capabilities to implement necessary an all-out inspection was conducted on all subsidiaries and deficiencies were corrected measures and ranked 1st for seven accordingly. We reflect the outcome of the anti-money laundering performance consecutive years among local financial evaluation by the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit as an indicator in the assessment of institutions in the Comprehensive compliance officers of our subsidiaries to ensure the effectiveness of our anti-money Anti-Money Laundering Performance laundering activities. Evaluation. KB Kookmin Bank established a unit dedicated to money laundering prevention (AntiMoney Laundering Office) in 2017 for the first time in the industry and launched various programs to take a a Risk-Based Approach (RBA) and ensure an independent and thorough anti-monetary laundering activities. The Bank has successfully mitigated the risks of money laundering by reporting issues to the Board of Directors and management in a prompt manner, regularly conducting RBA-applied money 2017 Prime Minister’s Commendation laundering risk evaluations, and executing on-site inspections of its overseas branches. Awarded to KB Securities and KB The Bank has actively engaged in RBA-applied monitoring and management activities Insurance such as conducting regular inspection on Suspicious Transaction Report and have Prime Minister’s commendation improved our employees’ awareness of and abilities to perform anti-money laundering was awarded to KB Insurance for practices through systematic and differentiated education. KB Insurance upgraded the establishment of anti-money its anti-money laundering mechanism and established a new RBA-based money laundering system and KB Securities laundering prevention system. KB Insurance also conducted an inspection of internal for the reinforcement of its anti-money control and anti-money laundering on overseas departments in 2017 and reported the laundering and management system for outcome and improvement points to the management. Countermeasures have been overseas branches. implemented and are monitored regularly. 55 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Integrated Risk Management Risk Management Function and Process The Risk Management Committee under the Board of Directors develops risk management policies, determines risk-taking levels, sets risk limits, and monitors the effectiveness of risk management policies and systems. The Risk Management Council, consisting of risk management officers from the holding company and its subsidiaries, discusses details of risk management policies and their implementation. In 2016, pursuant to the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, the Board appointed qualified risk managers with a guaranteed term of office of two years at minimum to improve risk governance. Integrated Risk Management System A Group-wide integrated risk management system is critically needed to preemptively respond to diverse risk factors stemming from the rapidly changing business environment and efficiently manage capital. In 2017, we reinforced our risk management system to better deal with domestic and international risk factors such as soaring household debt and North Korea’s nuclear provocations and to promote a balanced growth of the Group’s portfolio. In addition, we designated reinforced management of heavy debtors to prevent household insolvency, the reinforced management of issues regarding corporate restructuring and marginal firms in advance, and improvement of the bond portfolio management system as the key risk management tasks and took measures accordingly. As KB Financial Group, which originally centered on the banking and credit card businesses, has evolved into a comprehensive financial group encompassing the securities and insurance businesses as well, we have focused on developing an integrated, Group-wide risk management system to deal with the latest changes in a preemptive manner and to keep pace with our rapidly diversifying business portfolio. Advancement of Risk Management System We adopted KB Kookmin Bank’s corporate credit rating model as the Group-wide corporate credit rating model to meet the government’s requirements and improve the credit rating system of the Group’s eight non-banking subsidiaries. Through this move, our ability to screen good assets has been improved and our ability to manage loans has also evolved based on our systematic prior/ex post facto management. KB Securities improved its market risk management system to reinforce its advance risk management following of the launch of various products and strengthened its OTC derivative risk analysis and risk control for new products. KB Insurance improved its market risk measuring system to prepare for the introduction of Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) in 2018 and expects it to lead to the expansion of risk measuring targets and the enhancement of the internal model and exchange risk management. 56 Fundamentals Corporate Governance Ethical Management Integrated Risk Management Human Rights Management Major Areas of Risk Management We have defined different types of risks we are managing at the Group level and conducted Group-wide risk management activities based on our risk policies and exposure limits, pertinent systems and processes, asset quality management system, and responses to regulations. In 2017, we focused on managing heavy debtors to prevent household insolvency, reinforcing preemptive management of issues regarding corporate restructuring and marginal firms, and establishing and implementing the Group-wide real estate financing risk management system. Risk of loss incurred in an asset portfolio due to the counterparty’s failure to perform obligations or fulfill a contract or due to a Credit risk downgraded credit rating Market risk Risk of loss from trading positions mainly due to fluctuating market drivers such as interest rates, exchange rates and stock prices Interest rate risk Risk of a decrease in the net asset value or net interest income (NII) caused by adverse fluctuations in market interest rates Risk of loss arising from the discrepancy between available cash and debt obligations, unexpected cash outflows, etc. and from funding at Liquidity risk high interest rates and unfavorable disposal of assets to overcome the shortage of funds Operational risk Risk of loss incurred by inappropriate or defective internal procedures, staff, and systems or by external factors Sustainability risk Risk incurred due to climate change, environmental, social issues, and other ESG issues Emerging Risk Management We have defined emerging risk as risk that arises from economic, environmental, and social changes and that can significantly impact our business activities in the long term. We take various preemptive measures to mitigate and manage emerging risks. We have identified “demographic shifts caused by the declining birth rate and aging population” and “changes in business practices brought forth by digital finance innovation” as material emerging risks. Emerging Risk Description Impact on Business Mitigating Activities Demographic shifts Demographic shifts due to an aging Analysis of the asset quality Debtors in our loan portfolio are expected to enter the due to the declining population, etc. is expected to lead to a of debtors of household credit age groups that are highly likely to experience a decline birth rate and aging decrease in savings rates and household loans shows that asset quality is in income, which could ultimately lead to a deterioration population income, especially as aging debtors stop in inverse proportion to age. in asset quality. As such, we are focusing on enhancing engaging in economic activities and thereby our risk management process in a preemptive cause a deterioration in asset quality. manner by upgrading our credit requirements to take into consideration debtors' income level and debt repayment ability by life stage. Changes in The innovation of digital finance provides The innovation of digital finance We are proactively analyzing potential risks that may business practices financial institutions with new growth and new technologies are stem from digital finance innovation and developing brought forth by opportunities. However, failure to keep affecting the entire value chain of countermeasures for those identified risks to reinforce digital finance abreast with new technologies and the traditional financial industry. preemptive risk management. Simultaneously, we are innovation financial innovation could compromise Digital finance is fundamentally taking full advantage of new technologies such as Big competitiveness, while new technologies and changing how we operate and is Data and machine learning. innovations are expected to create risk risks in creating new business models, terms of information technology, information products, and services. leakage, financial fraud, etc. 57 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Human Rights Management Our Commitment to Human Rights KB Financial Group supports universal values of human rights beyond ideologies, political, religious, and cultural backgrounds presented in the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights” and “UN Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights” and actively taking into account such human rights principles when serving customers, making investments, managing human resources, building business relations with suppliers and partner companies in all of our business activities. To that end, we have declared KB Financial Group Statement on Human Rights. Following our statement on Human Rights, we are prohibiting any discrimination against gender, age, race, disability, religion, political orientation, and place of origin throughout our human resources management process including recruiting, evaluation, compensation, and training, and we respect diversity of employees. We also prohibit child labor and forced labor, and complies with the labor standards on healthcare, safety, and working hours recommended by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and ratified by the Korean government. The principles and policies on human rights are applied to all stakeholders that KB can exert its influence on including employees and business partners. The principles and policies are applied across the Group in a consistent manner while specific human rights situations pursuant to individual subsidiaries are addressed by the respective subsidiaries. KB Financial Group Statement on Human Rights At KB Financial Group we seek to grow together with our stakeholders through ethical management and meet social expectation and demand; and believe that such effort will contribute to improving its corporate image which, in turn, will lead to stronger customer loyalty, help create intangible asset value, and ultimately transform into a cornerstone of business competitiveness. Accordingly, we are committed to coexist with our customers, employees, shareholders and investors, business partners and local communities and respect the basic rights of all stakeholders. We support the human rights principles proclaimed by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Right and considers such human rights principles in all of our business activities including serving customers, making investment, managing human resources, building business partnerships. KB Financial Group: ∙ ‌Prohibits discrimination based on gender, age, race, disability, religion, political orientation, or place of origin in hiring, performance evaluation, compensation, education of employees and other human resources management areas; and respects diversity. ∙ ‌Bans child labor or forced labor and complies with all labor rules related to health, work safety, work hours, recommended by the International Labor Organization and ratified by the Korean government. ∙ ‌Recognizes customer satisfaction as the first and foremost of value to us and forbids discrimination of any form based on gender, age, religion, disability, religion, political orientation or place of origin. ∙ ‌Keeps personal information to a minimum level required by law and makes sure to have in place necessary systems and procedures to protect customer information. ∙ ‌Respects human rights in all business activities including provision of financial products and services, and deciding investment and transaction deals. 58 Fundamentals Corporate Governance Ethical Management Integrated Risk Management Human Rights Management Our Salient Human Rights Issues Prohibition of Discrimination against Customers According to the UN Guiding Principles We ban any discrimination against customers on the basis of gender, age, ethnicity, Framework, salient human rights issues disability, religion, political orientation, and place of origin. Based on Best Practices refer to those human rights that are in Loan Management, we strive to eliminate discrimination against customers in the at risk of the most severe negative course of recommending and providing loan products and services and do our best impact through a company’s activities or to readily rectify and relieve damage if any discriminatory act is deemed to have been business relationships. We have identified committed. We also adhere to legitimate procedures for credit collection for default the following three topics as our salient loans. human rights issues. We continuously strive to improve the reach and accessibility of financial services for marginalized groups, such as people with disabilities and migrant workers. We provide 1. ‌Prohibition of Discrimination against microfinance and loan products with low interest rates for those who have limited Customers access to the services of mainstream financial institutions due to low income and poor 2. ‌Human Rights Protection for credit. Employees 3. ‌Human Rights Protection for Human Rights Protection for our Employees Employees of Our Partners We recognize that our employees are our greatest asset and focus on creating a healthy working environment to ensure their work-life balance, dignity, and safety. We run diverse grievance settlement programs, such as the offline Grievance Center and e-Shinmungo (online grievance reporting system) and counseling center for sexual harassment, to help our employees report grievances easily and to promptly respond to their grievances. Human Rights Protection for Employees of our Partners We make sure that the rights of all employees of our suppliers, including call center employees and security guards, are protected and respected. As call center employees are often exposed to verbal abuse and sexual harassment, we developed an employees’ guide to help them address these issues and safeguard themselves against abusive consumers. We also aggressively take legal action on any human rights violations detected. To relieve call center employees’ emotional stress, we provide counseling, operate morale-boosting programs, and take measures to create a safer working environment. We recognize the need to create a respectful working environment for our security guards. To this end, we inspect their working conditions on a regular basis, identify their difficulties, and take actions to remedy problems and boost their morale. 59 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix Performance Data We respect various stakeholders such as customers, employees, and communities and strive to reflect their opinion. Our efforts to establish a foundation for mutual growth with stakeholders are presented in the form of performance data. We will continue to expand our corporate responsibility as financial companies and contribute to the wellbeing of humanity by fulfilling our social responsibility as a global corporate citizen. Customers 62 Community 63 Environment 66 Employees 71 Financials 73 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Customers Customer Satisfaction 2015 2016 2017 KB Kookmin Bank NCSI1 Rank 1 1 1 KB Insurance NCSI1 Rank 2 2 2 NCSI1 Rank 3 3 5 KCSI (Credit Card)2 Rank 3 3 3 2 KB Kookmin Card KCSI (Debit Card) Rank 1 1 1 KS-SQI (Credit Card)3 Rank 3 3 3 KS-SQI (Debit Card)3 Rank 1 1 1 1. NCSI refers to National Customer satisfaction Index by Korea Productivity Center 2. KCSI refers to Korean Customer Satisfaction Index by Korea Management Registration Consulting 3. KS-SQI refers to Korean Standard Service Quality Index by Korean Standards Association Customers Using Online Banking Services 2015 2016 2017 Customers subscribing for online banking services (%) 68.5 70.1 72.6 Active users of online banking services (%) 34.7 35.3 36.2 Customer Accessibility 2015 2016 2017 Universal counters (#) 587 666 682 ATMs with zoom-in screen features for visually impaired1 (#) 9,079 8,479 7,988 Braille and audio guidance ATMs (#) 6,353 7,679 7,915 Wheelchair accessible ATMs (#) 3,479 5,035 5,742 1. All ATMs have zoom-in screen features. 62 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Community Charitable Contributions and Volunteering Hours 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Charitable contributions (￦100m) 479 398 552 2,000 Total employee volunteering hours 383,780 372,860 296,824 Average volunteering activity hours per employee 14.1 12.4 10.6 11 Monetary value of employee volunteering during daily working hours1 (￦100m) 40 40 1 Management overhead (￦100m) 22.9 28.3 Political contributions2 1. Calculated from 2016 2. ‌In Korea, businesses are prohibited from making political contributions by the Political Funds Act. KB Financial Group prohibits political contributions to organizations based on our internal policy on charitable contributions. Community Contributions for Youth 2015 2016 2017 1 Recipients of 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 scholarship 400 500 「Youth Mentor, KB!」 scholarship amount1 (￦100m) 8 10 Recipients of KB Foundation scholarship 274 265 260 KB Foundations scholarship amount (￦100m) 5 5 5 KB Hope Camp participants 120 120 100 KB Youth Music College beneficiaries 113 114 114 1. Started from 2016 Community Contributions for Multicultural Community 2015 2016 2017 Beneficiaries of KB Korean Language Class in Myanmar 215 397 514 Beneficiaries of medical support for migrant workers 1,028 2,059 1,734 RaonAtti Volunteers 40 20 20 Financial Education 2015 2016 2017 Recipients of Financial education (offline) 147,413 262,842 178,480 Recipients of Financial education (online) 45,136 12,372 12,207 Recipients of Financial education (mobile web)1 12,942 Total 192,549 275,214 203,629 1. Mobile web launched in 2017 63 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Job Creation through KB GoodJob 2015 2016 2017 Individual members of KB GoodJob website (cumulative) 47,975 50,997 52,127 KB GoodJob Academy participants 455 257 380 KB GoodJob School participants1 192 195 People employed through KB GoodJob Fair (cumulative) 6,008 6,555 7,092 1. KB GoodJob School was launched in 2016 Financial Support for SMEs and Small Businesses 2016 2017 Contributions to local credit guarantee foundations1 (￦100m) 150 160 Amount of loan guaranteed and specially financed by local guarantee 1,889 1,813 foundations2 (￦100m) 1. Includes contribution to Korea Federation of Credit Guarantee Foundations 2. As of the end of 2017 Consulting Assistance for SMEs and Small Businesses 2015 2016 2017 KB Wise Consulting services offered (#) 184 177 240 KB SoHo Business Incubating Consulting services offered1 (#) 169 591 1. Started in 2016 Supply Chain 2015 2016 2017 Business partners self-assessed for supply chain sustainability 153 179 148 Business partner satisfaction level1 99.2 98.4 1. Satisfaction survey not conducted in 2017 64 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Loans for the Underprivileged (￦100m) 2015 2016 2017 KB Miso Microfinance 1,035 1,212 1,394 KB New Hope Spore II 6,727 8,112 9,620 KB Happy Dream Loan II 5 5 4 KB Change Dream Loan 801 567 399 KB College Student and Youth Sunshine Loan 230 301 361 KB Stepping Stone Loan 1 1 2 Assistance for People with Disabilities Loan 157 130 101 KB Sunshine Loan 535 854 1,586 KB “Sah-it-dol” Middle Interest Rate Loan1 463 796 KB “Sah-it-dol” 2 Loan1 64 263 Total 9,491 11,709 14,526 1. Launched in 2016 Deposits for the Underprivileged (￦100m) 2015 2016 2017 KB National Pension Assurance Bank Account 83 138 225 KB Kookmin Hope Keeper Bank Account 43 58 60 KB Happiness Keeper Bank Account 34 51 70 KB Teachers Pension Lifetime Assurance Bank Account 7 12 15 KB Kookmin Happiness Installment Savings Plan 656 741 783 KB Love Sharing Installment Savings Plan 1,215 2,092 1,999 KB Patriotic War Veterans Keeper Assurance Bank Account 7 16 KB Kookmin Government Employee Pension Lifetime Assurance Bank 8 16 Account KB Junior Life Installment Savings Plan 6,540 6,881 6,807 KB Miso Dream Installment Savings Plan 1 7 13 KB Kookmin Property Formation Savings1 13,564 20,635 26,750 KB Kookmin Fixed Rate Property Formation Savings1 459 1,069 1,634 Family Love Freedom Installment Savings Plan1 3,313 736 220 Total 25,915 32,435 38,608 1. Sales discontinued 65 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Environment EMS Certification KB Financial Group collects and manages the environmental data of all subsidiaries, and achieved the ISO14001 certification to promote systematic environmental management according to international standards. The certified subsidiaries, including KB Kookmin Bank, KB Insurance, KB Kookmin Card, and KB Capital, have a huge environmental impact in terms of the number of employees and of branches, and account for 95% of the Group. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target EMS Certification(ISO14001) coverage 83.2 70.5 95.1 95.1 98 Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG Emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Scope 1 emissions 18,617 20,806 21,513 19,179 18,800 GHG emissions (tCO2e) Scope 2 emissions 110,080 116,908 122,536 112,322 106,200 Total GHG emission 128,697 137,714 144,050 131,501 125,000 Energy Consumption 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Energy consumption (MWh) 238,312 253,030 262,839 240,932 230,000 New and renewable energy consumption (kWh) 217,097 190,060 165,133 174,338 198,160 Water Consumption 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Water consumption (m3) 260,211 290,118 299,777 277,454 265,000 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 172 191 198 183 175 Paper Consumption 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Paper consumption (ton) 1,854 2,080 2,213 2,033 1,800 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 2,706 2,329 2,478 2,277 2,016 Waste 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Waste to landfill (ton) 1,904 2,059 2,194 1,930 1,900 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 647 700 746 656 646 66 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Business Travel 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target Air 9,181,589 9,707,570 11,380,566 10,549,840 10,242,510 Train 3,295,183 4,052,696 3,510,106 3,044,580 2,950,000 Business Travel1 (km) Bus 387,401 720,660 583,933 447,632 430,000 Total travel distance 12,864,173 14,480,926 15,474,605 14,042,053 13,622,510 Air 1,377 1,456 1,707 1,582 1,536 Train 99 122 105 91 89 GHG Emissions (tCO2e) Bus 11 20 16 12 12 Total GHG emissions 1,487 1,598 1,829 1,686 1,637 1. When calculating the total distance of business travel, motor vehicle is excluded since it is reflected in the Scope 1 mobile combustion. Capital Goods and Purchased Goods Usage and Disposal of Goods Sold 2017 2017 Ea 613 Usage of Goods GHG emissions Desktop e-banking 5,058 Sold (tCO2e) tCO2e 20 Kg 81,909 Ea 332 Accounts Laptop GHG emissions tCO2e 6 terminated 10 Capital goods Disposal of Goods (tCO2e) Ea 345 Sold Monitor Kg 60,141 tCO2e 5 Cards terminated GHG emissions 141 Multifunction Ea 1,284 (tCO2e) Printer tCO2e 509 Kg 302,341 Bankbook tCO2e 339 Purchased goods Kg 72,027 Credit Card tCO2e 97 67 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Green Loans (￦100m) 2016 2017 KB Green Growth Loan 8,674 9,090 KB Solar Biz Loan1 1,091 1,053 KB Green Eco Loan1 5 4 Preferential Loans for Photovoltaic Power Plant Businesses2 8 Green Remodeling Agreement Loan2 Energy Usage Rationalization Fund Loan 3,777 3,667 Recycle Industry Growth Fund/Natural Gas Supply Facility Installation Fund 349 404 Specific Material Usage Rationalization Fund 7 6 Environmental Industry Growth Fund/Environmental Improvement Fund 241 255 Total3 14,144 14,486 1. Sales discontinued 2. Launched in 2017 3. The sum may not equal the total due to rounding. Green Funds (￦100m) 2016 2017 KB Japan Photovoltaic PE Special Assets Investment Trust 1,069 917 KB Mission Solar PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.11 639 KB Europe New and Renewable Energy Customized Investment PE Special Assets Investing in overseas new 46 73 Investment Trust and renewable companies or funds KB Global New and Renewable Energy Customized Investment PE Special Assets 140 86 Investment Trust KB Saudi SEPCO II Customized Investment PE Special Assets Trust 74 Sub-total 1,894 1,151 KB New and Renewable Energy PE Special Assets Investment Trust 539 473 KB RPS Focus PE Special Assets Investment Trust 1,705 1,439 KB RPS Focus PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.2 313 304 KB Solar Energy PE Special Assets Investment Trust 367 212 Investing in local new and KB Solar Energy PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.2 1,027 563 renewable companies or KB Solar Energy Customized Investment PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.3 197 369 funds KB Seoul Sunshine Power Plant PE Special Assets Fund 83 83 KB Renewable Customized Investment PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.1 45 259 KB RPS Focus PE Special Assets Investment Trust No.3 316 KB Gunsan Floating PV Customized Investment PE Special Assets Trust 57 Sub-total 4,276 4,075 KB Korean Peninsula BTL PE Special Assets Trust No. 1 2,510 2,378 KB National Land Love PE Special Assets Trust No. 1 2,382 2,279 Investing in sewer KB Hope Sharing PE Special Assets Trust 433 419 rehabilitation BTL projects KB Yeongnam Area Love PE Special Assets Trust 24 39 KB Gangneung Sewer Rehabilitation PE Special Assets Trust 175 163 Sub-total 5,524 5,278 KB Pohang Wastewater Reuse Plant PE Special Assets Trust 625 613 Investing in environmental KB Agricultural Wastewater Treatment Plant PE Special Assets Trust 403 403 facility enterprises or KB Green Infrastructure PE Special Assets Trust 343 338 assets KB Gwangju SRF PE Special Assets Trust 267 261 Sub-total 1,638 1,615 Total2 13,332 12,119 1. Redemption of the fund made in 2017 2. The sum may not equal the total due to rounding. 68 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Other Green products (￦100m) 2016 2017 Deposit offering benefits to green enterprises Special Installment Savings Plan for Business Clients 3,771 2,984 KB My Way Installment Savings Plan 5,311 10,093 KB My Way Freelancer Bank Account 8 35 Savings and deposit bank accounts promoting KB Military Hope Preparation Installment Savings Plan 983 1,804 the use of public transportation Luxury Women Total Bank Account1 11,490 12,036 KB 1 conomy Smart Installment Savings Plan2 1,212 KB 1 conomy Officetel Rental Deposits Loan2 160 Mileage Discount Rider3 2,382 3,840 Public Transportation Discount Rider3 44 151 Insurance policies promoting the use of public 3 Weekly No-Driving Day Rider 0.2 0.1 transportation and green vehicles Electric Vehicle Insurance 5 12 KB Citizen Bicycle Insurance 90 117 KB Magic Car Loan (Second hand car) 87 502 Preferential rate applied for electronic, KB Magic Car Loan (Second hand car refinancing) 3 190 compact or hybrid motor vehicle purchases KB Magic Car Loan (New car) 422 1,331 KB Magic Car Loan (New car refinancing) 8 944 Natural disaster compensation insurance policy Storm and Flood Insurance 118 164 Total4 24,722 35,576 1. Sales discontinued 2. Launched in 2017 3. Riders of KB Insurance’s Auto Insurance Products 4. The sum may not equal the total due to rounding. Green Card (#) 2016 2017 KB Kookmin Green Card1 128,182 139,767 KB Kookmin Green Company Card1 4,492 1,794 Total 132,674 141,561 1. Valid debit and credit cards at the end of the year 69 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Investments in New and Renewable Energy Sector (￦100m) 2016 2017 Hanwha Solar PV Generation No.3 Fund 400 400 KIAMCO Japan Solar PV Fund 500 500 Samsung OCI Solar PV Project Fund1 500 Heungkuk Solar PV ESS Project Fund1 300 Solar Power 1 Samsung America Solar PV Project Fund 170 Kyobo Axa Solar PV ESS Project Fund1 300 Hana America Solar PV Project Fund1 183.5 Sub-total 900 2,353.5 Yeongam Wind Power Generation Project 271 253.1 Geochang Wind Power Generation Project Refinancing 98.3 98.3 Shinkwang Wind Power Generation Project PF 100 (Pohang Shinkwang Wind Power Generation Project)1 1 Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Generation PF 272.7 North Gyeongsang Province Yeongyang Wind Power Generation 250 250 Wind Power Hyundai Peru Wind Power Generation Fund 220 220 JB Yeongyang Wind Power Generation Fund 317 317 GS Yeongyang Wind Power Generation linked ESS Project 50 50 Gyeongju Wind Power Generation Refinancing 156 156 KIAMCO Uljin Wind Power Generation Fund 300 300 Sub-total 1,662.3 2,017.1 Gyeongju Environmental Energy Center Private Investment Project 134.5 123.7 Busan Metropolitan City Waste Treatment & Power Generation Facility 45.5 36 Daegu Metropolitan City Waste-to-Energy Plant (SRF) Private Investment Project 226.2 226.2 Daejeon Metropolitan City Environmental Energy Complex Town Construction 90.8 Others Private Investment Project1 1 Seokmun National Industrial Complex Collective Energy Project Refinancing 351 JB Clean Energy PE Special Assets Trust No. 1 69.9 Busan Fuel Cell Generation 250 250 Sub-total 726.3 1,077.7 Total2 3,288.6 5,448.3 1. Started investing from 2017 2. The sum may not equal the total due to rounding. 70 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Employees Employees by Gender 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Total employees 15,158 13,594 28,752 16,530 14,226 30,756 15,620 12,867 28,487 Employees by Status and Rank 2015 2016 2017 Executives 149 192 208 Status Full time1 26,265 27,545 25,508 Temporary 2,338 3,019 2,771 Section Chief-General Manager 14,248 15,503 14,840 Rank2 (L2 and above) Associate-Assistant 14,355 15,061 13,439 1. Unlimited contract is included in full time worker 2. Including both full time temporary employees Diversity (Social minorities) 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Children of veterans 501 152 653 532 181 713 493 182 675 Employees with disabilities 273 56 329 285 80 365 279 100 379 Expats 38 41 79 46 47 93 74 87 161 High school graduates1 9 61 70 11 59 70 3 45 48 1 Career-interrupted women 300 300 146 146 218 218 1. Based on KB Kookmin Bank data Childcare Leave 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Employees accessing childcare leave 73 1,250 1,323 68 1,238 1,306 62 769 831 Returnees from childcare leave 56 952 1,008 43 780 823 28 400 428 71 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Labor Practices 2015 2016 2017 Employees covered under labor union1 (%) 79.1 75.8 79.2 Employee grievances resolved (#) 553 480 596 Employee satisfaction level2 71.0 71.5 84.5 1. Based on KB Kookmin Bank data 2. Changed survey methodology from 2017 Absenteeism 2016 2017 Work-related injuries 8 7 Absentee days 53 115 Absentee rate1 0.0007 0.0016 1. 2016 absentee rate is restated due to error in absentee days Training 2015 2016 2017 Average training hours per employee 152 154 167 Average training expense per employee (￦10,000) 119 124 142 Ethical Management 2015 2016 2017 Average ethics education hours per employee 7.5 8.5 8.5 Whistle blowing (#) 7 5 2 Graft 0 0 0 Breaches of Code of Violation of internal control measures 47 29 59 Conduct and Code of Ethics1 (#) Violation of privacy and human rights 0 0 0 Sub-total 47 29 59 Salary reduction 0 14 4 Follow-up measures taken1 Reprimand 0 0 15 (#) Others 33 23 40 Sub-total 33 37 59 1. The ‌ number of the breaches and the follow-up measures do not correspond for the following reasons: some of the reports were made anonymously presumably by the same person; the alleged report target was unspecified and no specific violation was found; or follow-up measures were taken on the year following the year of report or violation. 72 Performance Data Customers Community Environment Employees Financials Financials Financial Performance (￦trillion) 2015 2016 2017 Total assets 329 376 437 Operating revenue 22.2 25.4 39.2 Net income 1.7 2.1 3.3 Moody’s A1 A1 A1 Credit Rating1 Standard & Poor’s A A+ A+ 1. ‌The credit rating is based on KB Kookmin Bank’s long-term credit rating, and other financial information is consolidated data of the Group Economic Value Distribution (￦100m) 2015 2016 2017 Customers Interest on deposit 30,354 24,766 23,459 Shareholders and investors Dividend 3,786 4,980 7,667 Employees Pay and benefits 31,263 37,756 37,686 Community Charitable contribution 479 398 552 Government Corporate tax 4,374 4,385 7,950 Total 70,256 72,284 77,314 * Consolidated data of the Group Taxation (￦100m) Since most of KB Financial Group’s revenue is generated in Korea, most of our taxes and dues occur domestically with a minimal amount paid outside Korea including China and the U.S. 2017 Total taxes Tax and dues Operating Operating Taxes Corporate and dues by region (%) 0.46% 0.01% revenue income taxation2 tax2 Korea 388,220 39,318 1,726 7,883 9,609 99.1 0.43% China 1,543 347 7 9 16 0.17 U.S. 1,469 42 5 18 23 0.24 99.1% Indonesia 193 11 1 2 3 0.03 Luxembourg 176 145 1 0.9 0.01 Other nations1 162 -3 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.01 U.K. 159 72 1 7 8 0.08 Korea New Zealand 134 59 0 10 11 0.10 Cambodia 83 70 5 8 13 0.13 Asia Pacific Vietnam 77 55 1 10 11 0.11 U.S & Europe Japan 76 44 1 0.7 2 0.02 Other Nations Total 392,292 40,160 1,747 7,950 9,697 100 1. Panama, Singapore, etc. 2. K-IFRS accrual basis 73 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights CEO’s Message Company Profile Material Issues Fundamentals Performance Data Appendix Appendix GRI Index 76 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 78 UN SDGs 80 Associations and Principles 81 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report GRI Index Universal Standards (GRI 100) Indicator Description Page SDGs 102-1 Organization name 8 102-2 Activities, primary brands, products and services 8 102-3 Headquarters location Back cover 102-4 Region of operation 8, 9 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 102-6 Markets served 8 Organizational 102-7 Scale of organization 8, 71 Profile 102-8 Information on employees and workers 71 102-9 Organization’s supply chain 36, 64 102-10 Significant changes regarding the organization and its supply chain N/A 102-11 Precautionary approach and principle 56 102-12 External initiative 80, 81 17 102-13 Membership of associations 81 17 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 6, 7 Strategy 102-15 Major impacts, risks, and opportunities 56, 57 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and codes of conduct 54 Integrity 102-17 Advice and complaints handling mechanism related to ethics 54 102-18 Governance structure 52, 53 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 52, 53 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 52 Governance 102-24 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body 52, 53 102-25 Conflicts of interest 53 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 53 102-35 Remuneration policies 53 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 102-41 Collective agreement 72 Stakeholder 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 12 Engagement 102-43 Stakeholder engagement method 12 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 12, 13 List of all entities (affiliated companies and joint ventures) included in the organization’s 102-45 8 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining the report content and the topic boundaries 13 102-47 List of Material Topics 13 102-48 Restatements of information 72, 81 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A Report Profile 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent previous report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 102-54 Reporting in accordance with GRI Standards About this report 102-55 GRI Index 76, 77 102-56 External assurance 78, 79 Management 103-1 Material topic and its boundary description About this report, 12 Approach 103-2 Management approach and its elements 14, 20, 28, 32, 44 76 Appendix GRI Index Third Party’s Assurance Statement UN SDGs Associations and Principles Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance (GRI 200) Indicator Description Page SDGs Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 73 8 Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 30, 66~70 13 Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 32~43, 63~65 9 Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 37~43 9 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 54, 55 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 72 Environmental Performance (GRI 300) Indicator Description Page SDGs Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 66 7, 13 Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 66 7, 13 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 66 7, 13 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 66 7, 13 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 66, 67 7, 13 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 66, 67 7, 13 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 66, 67 7, 13 Social Performance (GRI 400) Indicator Description Page SDGs 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 71 8 Employment 401-3 Childcare leave 71 Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 403-2 72 and Safety number of work-related fatalities Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 72 4 Education 404-2 Programs implemented to upgrade employee skills and assist transition 45~46 4 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Governance bodies and employee 52, 71 5 Opportunity 412-2 Employee training regarding operations related human rights policies or procedures 58, 72 4 Human Rights Assessment Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 412-3 58, 59 12 underwent human rights screening Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 63, 64 Marketing and 417-3 Non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications N/A Labeling Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Customer Privacy 418-1 N/A customer data Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with social and economic laws and regulations N/A Product Responsibility (FSS, Financial Service Sector Supplement) Indicator Description Page SDGs MA Policy for fair design and sales on financial product and service 18 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7 64, 65 12 Product Portfolio business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for FS8 68~70 12, 13 each business line broken down by purpose Local Communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 15, 62 9, 10 77 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by KB Financial Group to verify the contents of its 2017 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”). KB Financial Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and Standard KB Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. ∙ GRI Reporting Principles ∙ Universal Standards ∙ Topic Specific Standards Management Approach Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-2 Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-1, 203-2 Anti-Corruption: 205-2, 205-3 Energy: 302-1 Water: 303-1 Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 Effluents and Waste: 306-2 Employment: 401-1, 401-3 Occupational Health and Safety: 403-2 Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1 Human Rights Assessment: 412-2, 412-3 Local Communities: 413-1 Marketing and Labeling: 417-3 Customer Privacy: 418-1 Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 ∙ Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Portfolio: MA, FS7, FS8 Local Communities: FS14 This Report excludes a data sand information of suppliers, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. KB Financial Group, in reporting boundaries. Also, we conducted additional reliability review of specific performance data (water usage, waste discharge, business travel distance, industrial accident data). Data of KB Financial Group and its twelve subsidiaries were examined. The review team had interviews with relevant staff and found evidentiary data to check achievements. 78 Appendix GRI Index Third Party’s Assurance Statement UN SDGs Associations and Principles Our Approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: ∙ Reviewed overall report ∙ Reviewed materiality test process and methodology ∙ Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets ∙ Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities ∙ Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Our Conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KB Financial Group on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. ∙ Inclusivity Inclusivity ‌ is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability ‌KB Financial Group is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder KB Financial Group left out during this procedure. ∙ Materiality ‌Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. ‌KB Financial Group is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. ∙ Responsiveness Responsiveness ‌ is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. ‌The assurance team could not find any evidence that KB Financial Group’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Recommendation for improvement We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. ∙ ‌KB Financial Group has been actively using the report as a main tool to communicate with and deliver sustainability achievements to stakeholders. KB’s initiatives to internalize sustainability by ensuring transparency in corporate governance, ethical management and preemptive risk management were particularly notable in the report. The financial organization can consider sharing sustainability strategies with various stakeholders and reflecting this into the performance evaluation of internal stakeholders to lay a foundation for reinforcing global competitiveness. Our Independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other KB Financial Group’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. May 25th, 2018 000-129 Eun Ju Hwang CEO of Korea Management Registrar Inc. 79 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report UN SDGs SDGs Link UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) were signed by 193 heads of state in September 2015 and came into effect in order to address universal challenges facing mankind, protect the planet’s environment and resolve socio-economic problems. SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets that the international society as a whole must achieve for 15 years from 2016 to 2030. KB Financial Group actively supports the SDGs and applies them as top priority when it comes to managerial decision making activities. Correlation Analysis regarding the 17 SDGs KB Financial Group reviews possible ways to link the SDGs with the Group’s strategy and reflects them in the mid-to-long term business activities prior to implementing the Group’s overall sustainability strategy. We also establish mid-to-long term roadmaps to actively identify and invest in fields directly impacting the society with positive improvement potentials, following a comprehensive analysis on social changes led by subsidiaries’ and group-wide management activities. Active Contribution ◀ Limited Impact Business Impact Direct Impact ▶ Improve Engagement Goal Definition 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries 2. ‌End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote 11. ‌Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, and sustainable sustainable agriculture 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 4. ‌Ensure quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 14. ‌Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls resources 6. Ensure sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 15. ‌Protect ecosystems and halt biodiversity loss 7. Ensure access to sustainable energy for all (forests, desertification, land etc.) 8. ‌Promote sustainable economic growth, full employment and decent work 16. Provide access to justice for all for all 17. ‌Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 9. Build resilient infrastructure, sustainable industrialization partnership 80 Appendix GRI Index Third Party’s Assurance Statement UN SDGs Associations and Principles Associations and Principles Associations Korea Financial Investment Association Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Life Insurance Association General Insurance Association of Korea The Credit Finance Association Korea Federation of Savings Banks The Federation of Korean Industries Korea Federation of Banks Korea Federation of SMEs Korea Employers Federation Korea Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts Korea International Trade Association Korean Venture Capital Association International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc * Contributions to trade associations: KRW 7.1 bil. in 2014, KRW 8.4 bil. in 2015, KRW 9.7 bil. in 2016, KRW 10.6 bil. in 2017 (Restatements made to data from 2014 to 2016) * ‌Largest contribution in 2017: Korea Financial Investment Association (KRW 3 bil.), General Insurance Association of Korea (KRW 2.7 bil.), Korea Federation of Bank(KRW 2.6 bil.), Credit Finance Association (KRW 1.2 bil.), Korea Life Insurance Association (KRW 0.2 bil.) UN Global Compact We joined the UN Global Compact, a UN initiative aimed at encouraging businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, in 2009 and pledged to faithfully comply with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact across the four focus areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Principle 1 Human Rights human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Principle 3 of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Anti-Corruption Principle 10 bribery. 81 2017 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report You can download the PDF version of the Report from the KB Financial Group website. www.kbfg.com 26, Gukjegeumyungro8-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea T. +82-2-2073-7822
