H.E. Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Gorinchem,9 February 2018 Subject: Communication on Progress 2018, The Medical Export Group BV Dear Mr. Secretary-General, am pleased to confirm that The Medical Export Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. We are committed to continuously engage the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to participate in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since we support public accountability and transparency, we also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincere y yours, The ~j~~,~Ca'~x ,~OJ~ 4~0 ~ Mr. a~ ~Bolsche~ep~°n : +~o~~ ~ e0~ sgsr0up BV rNC 1VJ Chi Executive Officer '` ~'~d ~ oQ THE MEDICAL EXPORT GROUP BV T. +31 (0)183 356 100 Chamber of Commerce: 23044580 Papland 16, 4206 CL F. +31 (0)183 356 122 VAT Registration: NL005351261 B01 Q~ Zf\ MGMt SYS flvA C 011 P.O. Box 598, 4200 AN E. together@meg.nl IBAN (EUR): NL26 ABNA 0587 6662 50 Gorinchem, The Netherlands W. www.meg.nl IBAN (USD): NL27 ABNA 0587 6748 65 BIC/SWIFT: ABNA NL2A COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS(COP) The Medical Export Group BV Papland 16 4206 CL, Gorinchem The Netherlands Period covered by your Communication on Progress(COP) From: 12 October 2016 To: February 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER(OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company's chief executive Please find enclosed our officially signed statement. 9 February, 2018 To our stakeholders: 1 am pleased to confirm that The Medical Export Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas ofHuman Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are committed to continuously engage the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations ofour company, and to participate in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Since we support public accountability and transparency, we also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Martin Bolscher Chief Executive Officer THE MEDICAL EXPORT GROUP BV T. +31 (0)183 356 100 Chamber of Commerce: 2304458Q a~ Z~f\ Papland 16, 4206 CL VAT Registration: NL005351261 B01 I~GMI SYS F. +31 (0)183 356 122 Rvp C 010 P.O. Box 598, 4200 AN E. togetherQmeg.nl IBAN (EUR): NL26 ABNA 0587 6662 50 Gorinchem, The Netherlands W. www.meg.nl IBAN (USD): NL27 ABNA 0587 6748 65 BIC/SWIFT: ABNA NL2A 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights PIE ase use me pox oeiow to aescnne actions our com an Has taKen in the area or Human n nts. txam yes mc~ude: • Since October 2017 we have expanded our HR team to a team of 3. This results in more accessibility of the HR department for all staff. All 3 HR colleagues are trained confidential counsellors to provide employees the opportunity to share their possible concerns. • During the course of 2017, we have employed 23 new staff members, which has contributed to the increase of local employment opportunities. • In our recruitment process, there is no prejudice in age, gender, race or religion. • Each quarter of the year, the board of MEG organizes a company presentation open for all staff to attend. In this presentation the employees are updated on the current developments and their implications within the company. • To ensure a two-way communication between board and staff, each quarter of the year the board initiates a Q&A session open for all staff to attend. Each employee is encouraged to pose any question they might have regarding MEG, developments, processes, etc. • Instead of being destructed, where possible, goods with still approximately one year remaining shelf life are offered for donation to charities that require emergency medication. ', • In MEG warehouses safety garment and safety shoes are obligatory and MEG ensures availability forthose employed in the warehouse. Also, neon-coloured vests and safety shoes are made available (and obliged) to wear by other employees and external guests entering the warehouse. • During the course of 2017, offices are equipped with air humidifiers, to improve the quality of the office air climate. • In 2017, MEG has started the construction of a new state-of-the-art company estate and warehouse. By the end of 2018, MEG will have moved into this new property. This new estate will provide more average work space per employee which enhances focus and the sense of autonomy. • Since MEG is aware that employees are the most important asset of a company,the new estate will be located in the vicinity of the current property, the distance not exceeding 10km. This allows all employees to make this move together with the company. • Each vendor has to represent and guarantee that neither it nor its affiliates are engaged in any practice inconsistent with the rights set forth in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. • MEG has worked out a solid plan how to handle in case of emergency. Among all employees a number of 7 persons have completed a specialized training so they can guide the company through emergency situation. Twice a year, a safety work shop is organized for new and other interested staff members covering the safety procedure and a guided tour through the premises pointing out emergency exits, flight routes, fire extinguishers and gathering location incase of emergency. • Since we value our staff's health and well-being, MEG has created an ergonomically and user-friendly work space for each employee. • Where applicable and needed, MEG makes use of internal and external professionals to guide our employees. MEG Together for global health ,~ ~ \ ~ more information at www.meg.nl ~~~(,) `~[ i~~ NGNi SYS e~acaio ~~ Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: • MEG contributes an impressive 70% of the pension contributions for each employee, which is well above the national norm. • Since personal development is considered to bean important value, not only does MEG make training and education available, MEG also organizes in-company training courses to develop the skills and competences of all employees. • In order to monitor this development, each employee is encouraged to formulate personal goals, that will be discussed and tracked in a'performance cycle' with his or her manager. A new and improved performance model has just been introduced. • In 2018 all department managers are following an intensive training course on excellent operational leadership. The main objective is to train the managers to effectively and positively guide and coach employees enabling them to excel. • MEG recognizes the importance of a good balance between the employee's work and private life and is willing to contribute to that. Therefore several existing employees were granted the opportunity to work part-time. Also, each year, the number of newly attracted part-time staff grows. This year, 30% of all employees work part-time, leaving them more time to spend with their loved ones. • In order to create a more flexible and autonomic environment, more and more office staff is provided with a laptop instead of a desktop. By the end of 2018, MEG aims to have replaced all desktops by laptops. This enables the employee to choose their own work space within the office building allowing ad hoc project teams to temporarily work closer together. Furthermore makes it easier to work from home. • In that respect, MEG has made the company network accessibly online, so office staff can work from each (external or internal) location where there is an Internet connection. • MEG has granted each employee 2 extra days of leave, to be planned freely at will of the employee, to compensate for the occasional moments staff feels it is required to work more than the contractual hours. • In the occasional event an employee works extra hours, a healthy and nutritious meal is offered by the employer. • A healthy and nutritious lunch including fresh fruit, is offered by the employer from Monday to Friday,for every employee. Staff is encouraged to take an outside walk during their lunch break to take some mental and physical distance from the screen or manual labour and to re-energize for the afternoon. MEG Together for global health ~n'~' `~~~ more information at www.meg.nl 6~[R_ q~p~C o,o ~h Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: • Each office work station is equipped with two widescreens to be able to compare data digitally to minimize the printing of paper. • Paper and plastic waste is collected separately in order to be able to recycle these materials. • Cartridges are collected separately and donated to'Clini Clowns', a charity that provides a moment of laughter to children bound to home or hospital due to illness. Clini Clowns receives a small fee for each recyclable cartridge. • Batteries and other chemical waste is collected separately to process this in at environmentally cautious way, which prevents the chemicals from leaking into the environment. • MEG has placed a solid bicycle shed to encourage employees to get to work by bicycle instead of by car. This shed makes sure the employee's property is stored safely and protected from weather influences. • Local legislation in the past allowed employers toadopt afiscal-friendly plan to promote the use of bicycles. MEG has been active in stimulating employees to make use of this opportunity reducing the number of people commuting by car. • With the new company estate expected to be in operational by the end of 2018, MEG will become far more energy neutral which minimizes the company's emission. • The new company estate will enable MEG to execute all business under one roof, instead of on various locations. This eliminates transportation between the different locations, which minimizes MEG's carbon footprint. • In order to reduce emissions, MEG always strives to ship fully loaded containers. • Before the end of 2018, a new ERP system will be implemented that will reduce the use of paper order files. • Also, the expected introduction of G51 barcoding in our new estate, will reduce the use of paper order files. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: • Each (permanent or temporary) employee, and every partner MEG collaborates with, has undersigned antibriberyand anti-corruption clause in which they personally declare not to get involved in such actions. Employees that observe a breach of contract are incited to report. • The warehouse and the offices can only be entered by using a personalized digital key. • All staff that has access to goods packed for air shipment have completed a 'Security Awareness'training course. This enables us to be constantly aware and to check each other for our own mutual safety. If a person has not completed this training, the warehouse can only be accessed under supervision. • Before the'Security Awareness' training can be attended, each staff member needs to submit a 'Certificate of Good Conduct' officially handed out and signed by the municipality of habitation. • Each external guest that enters our premises needs to identify and register hisor herself, and wear a visitor's batch at all times during the duration of the visit. • MEG boasts 3 fully trained Security Advisors Airfreight in their team that monitor and develop the safety and security procedures. MEG Together for global health .+ ~' ~ €~ ~f~\ more information at www.meg.ni Mcui srs I ^^ AvA C 010 Ulf ~.,~ 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • The male/female ratio within our organization is exactly 50/50. • 90% of all paper waste is collected separately and offered for recycling. • 95% of all empty cartridges can be re-used and is therefore donated to Clini Clowns for recycling. • The number of employees has grown approximately 18%over the last year. • The percentage of part-time employees compared to the total number of staff members is 30%. • 4 Company presentations and 4 Q&A sessions have been initiated in 2017 by the board of MEG. • MEG contributes 70% of the pension contributions for each employee, which is well above the national norm. • Each employee will have a minimum of 3 meetings with their manager to discuss personal development, during the course of 2018. • On December 31, MEG will be moved to the new company estate and therefore consolidate all business operations on one location. MEG Together for global health I v~ Z ~~~ more information at www.meg.nl ue~i sys n~4~~ RvAC~10
