FRIGOKEN LIMITED UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTENT A. About This Document B. Content Information C. Statement Of Support D. About Us E. Frigoken’s Commitment to the Sustainability Development Goals F. Meeting the UNGC Principles: Human Rights Labour Rights Environment Anti-Corruption ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT CONTACT INFORMATION In January 2016, Frigoken Limited (FKL) Company name: Frigoken Limited committed to the UN Global ComSector: Agribusiness pact. This commitment supports the Number of employees: 3000 ten principles as defined by the four key tenets of human rights, labour, enUNGC signatory since: 2016 vironment and anti-corruption as well Contact Person: Nushin Ghassmi; nushas providing annual communication on in.ghassmi@ipskenya.com progress emphasising on the imPhysical Location: Baba Dogo along Baba portance of public accountability and Dogo Road. transparency. Email: frigoken@frigoken.com STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Frigoken Limited is committed to supporting the 10 principles of the UN Global compact: human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anticorruption. This annual COP reflects the Company’s commitment to supporting the UNGC and highlights the actions that Frigoken undertakes to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into the business. This report also shows our actions and initiatives in accordance with the Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs), where Frigoken is actively addressing 11 of the 16 SDGs. Frigoken commits to sharing this information with its stakeholders. This communication progress report covers the period of the year 2017. Mr. Karim Dostmohamed General Manager Frigoken Limited ABOUT US: FRIGOKEN Established in 1989, Frigoken Limited (FKL) is one of the largest vertically integrated export oriented horticultural processors in East Africa. Frigoken aims to be a global leader of choice for the supply of premium horticultural produce, specializing in value added and niche market products while forging a better future for local small scale farmers. Frigoken is a part of the agro and food processing sector of IPS, which is the industrial and infrastructure development arm of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) a group of private, international, non-denominational development organization that works towards improving the welfare and prospects of people living in the developing world. Frigoken’s commitment to the Sustainability Development Goals: Actively addressing 11 of the 16 goals. Frigoken has a strict no child labour policy, it was the first company in Kenya to be certified as child labour free by the Federation of Kenyan Employers. The policy states that in the unlikely case of a child being found working in the company, FKL will ensure the child is enrolled in school and assist with school fees for the child. FKL also promotes lifelong learning for employees through skill enhancing trainings throughout their employment. Employees who are due for retirement also participate in retirement trainings. Additionally, the company has an onsite crèche facility for children aged 6 months to 3 years, that is focused around the principles of Early Childhood Development (ECD), recognizing the gap of quality childcare and ECD services within the community. Since 2012, about 100 children have graduated from the ECD program. Over 90% of Frigoken’s employees at the processing plant are women, most of whom reside in the surrounding community, providing a supplementary income for households. Frigoken recognizes the challenges working women face, child care being a major one and thus, established an onsite child care facility; a unique service in the region. With a large workforce, and a limited capacity at the crèche, FKL partnered with the Aga Khan Foundation and Daraja to enhance local child care facilities to improve the quality of care for the children. Furthermore, approximately 50% of the farmers engaged in Frigoken’s value chain are women. Frigoken has a strict no discrimination policy, promoting gender equality in the workplace and supply chain. Frigoken’s drive to reduce poverty is evident in it’s value chain. The company has engaged over 70,000 small-scale farmers to supply the FKL with raw material, and employs over 3000 people. Improving quality of life is a key objective for the company and creating economic opportunities enables self-reliance, which is fundamental to reducing poverty. While contracting small-scale farmers, Frigoken ensures farmer do not use their entire land to farm product for the company but encourages subsistence farming and other cash crops, promoting self-reliance. Additionally, Frigoken supplements feeding programmes of local schools and homes with horticultural produce. Creating a safe workplace is paramount and a comprehensive Health and Safety Programme is in place, guided by local and international standards. KPIs on health and safety incidents are regularly monitored and staff are continuously trained on health and safety. Any visitors or contractors to the facility are also provided with a health and safety induction. Furthermore, the Workplace Wellness Programme promotes the health and wellbeing of employees in three areas: physical, psychosocial & financial. The programme is run by peereducators, employees who are trained and passionate about wellness. Through the programme, wellness information sessions are conducted as well as onsite health camps for employees, through partnerships with local health care providers. FKL is committed to increasing resource efficiency in its operations, water being a primary concern. Local regulations regarding water usage and water waste are strictly adhered to. The company conducts frequent testing of effluents, ensuring that they are within the stipulated requirements. Additionally, the companies internal water reuse system uses waste water from processing for the washroom facilities. Through the extension provided to farmers, field staff promote and train farmers on the sustainable use of water for irrigation Frigoken operates in both rural and urban environments and promotes employment for the local community. Creating quality employment is a key objective for Frigoken and adheres to the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). BSCI is guided by the principles from the Internal Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). These principles include: the rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining, no discrimination, fair remuneration, decent working hours, occupational health and safety, no child labour, special protection for young workers, no precarious employment, no bonded labour, protection of the environment and ethical business behavior. Through the comprehensive Waste Management System (WMS), FKL is committed to ensuring wastes are disposed of properly, creating no negative impacts to the community and reducing negative impacts to the environment. The company complies with ISO14001:2004. The WMS ensures separation of waste and as much as possible, reusing and recycle wastes to reduce the amount of solid waste going to landfills; currently 84% of the companies waste is diverted from landfills. The company is continuously and actively looking at ways to reduce this further. Additionally, FKL is committed to resource and energy efficiency and adheres to all regulations stipulating energy and resource usage. In 2015, FKL had its first energy audit and has since implemented several initiatives to reduce and optimize energy usage. The impact of climate change have severely affected the small-scale farmers that FKL engages and the company has several initiatives in place to assist them in addressing them. Small-scale farmers depend heavily on rain-fed agriculture and with infrequent rains and extreme weather conditions, yields have decreased. In collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, FKL implements a Water Pan project entailing an affordable and accessible solution for farmers, where a rain harvesting and water storage unit is created using UV-treated polythene liners. Additionally, extension provided to farmers promotes the sustainable and efficient use of water for crops. These practices assist farmers beyond the produce they grow for the company. Frigoken is conscious of its operations and practices and the impacts they could have on the environment and has in place an Environmental Management System that is guided by local regulation and ISO 14001:2004. Additionally, FKL actively engages in tree growing, particularly in areas of operation and in the communities of the out growers engaged. To date, over 3.5 million trees have been planted. Land degradation is also of concern for small-scale farmers and initiatives are in place to help farmers improve soil fertility from training farmers on composting and using manure. Operating in an ethical and accountable manner is a core value for Frigoken Limited and hence subscribes to the principles of BSCI. Additionally, FKL has become a voluntary member of The Blue Company Project. This project is an initiative of volunteer corporations and institutions who have the public interest at heart with the objective of encouraging companies to fight corruption in all its forms. MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Frigoken is committed to meeting the 10 principles set out by the United Global Compact. Below is an overview of our initiatives that address the 10 principles. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE POLICY & GOALS IMPLEMENTATION & OUTGOING FORWARD COMES Principle 1: 1)Social Accountability 1)Maintained compliance 1)Continue to comply Businesses should supPolicy that ensures huwith BSCI with human rights poliport and respect the man rights are protectcies and practices, with protection of internaed, including women’s 2)No human rights violaguidance from BSCI tionally proclaimed hurights and children’s tions identified or brought man rights; and rights to the company’s attention 2)Continue to engage from any stakeholder employees in discusPrinciple 2: sion on human rights 3)Engaged the Federation issues Make sure that they are of Kenyan Employers to not complicit in human conduct a talk to employrights abuses ees on the laws and rights of employees in terms of Refer to SDGs 1,4,5,8, HIV/AIDS 16 LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLE POLICY & GOALS IMPLEMENTATION & GOING FORWARD OUTCOMES Principle 3: 1) Strict compliance to BSCI 1)No employee can be hired 1)Continue to comply Businesses should uphold principles (refer to section 8 without a government issued with Labour regulations the freedom of association for more details) ID card, ensuring no one beand BSCI principles and the effective recognilow the age of 18 works for tion of the right of collective 2) Equal opportunity emthe company – no cases 2)Monitor employment bargaining; ployer with distinct procefound of any one without an to ensure all employees dures to ensure effective ID card have a government issued Principle 4: communication between ID card and other reThe elimination of all forms management and the union 2)No violations of Freedom of quired documents of forced labour and comAssociations, Collective Barpulsory labour 3) Strict No Child Labour gaining, Child Labour Free, 3)Maintain effective relaand No Forced Labour PoliForced Labour or Discriminationship with Principle 5: cy tion policies reported. Union and continue The effective abolition of meetings every two years child labour 4) Comprehensive Safety, 3)Monthly health information Health, Environmental and sessions held and two onsite 4)Continue to engage Principle 6: Quality (SHEQ) system and health camps for employees counselor for staff and The elimination of discrimiEnvironmental, Health and expand workplace wellnation in respect of employSafety Policy 4) Addressed psychosocial ness programme to field ment and occupation. wellbeing by introducing a staff. counselling service for emRefer to SDGs 3,4,5,8,16 ployees weekly. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE POLICY & GOALS IMPLEMENTATION & GOING FORWARD OUTCOMES Principle 7: 1.Comprehensive Environ1.Increased voltage optimi1.Continue and increase Businesses should support ment Management System zation, which showed an tree planting efforts a precautionary approach (EMS) ensuring strict comimprovement in electricity to environment challenges; pliance to local regulation KPI 2.Increase energy and resource efficiency Principle 8: 2.Comprehensive Waste 2.Planted 2,315 trees in a Business should undertake Management System community school 3.Continue to divert waste initiative to promote great(WMS) ensuring proper from land fills 4.Continue er environmental responsimanagement of waste 3.Diverted 84% of waste water pan issuance to bility; from landfills farmers, trainings on water 3.Commitment to reducing efficiency and research for Principle 9: energy and resource usage 4.1,394 water pans issued solutions and technologies Business should encourage to farmers that farmers could adopt. the development and dis4.Commitment and efforts cussion of environmentally to assisting small-scale friendly technologies farmers face challenges brought about by climate Refer to SDGs 6, 12,13 change and 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE POLICY & GOALS IMPLEMENTATION & GOING FORWARD OUTCOMES Principle 10: 1.Frigoken is committed to 1.FKL joined the Blue 1.Maintain membership to Business should work operating in accordance Company Project the Blue Company Project against corruption in all its with all applicable laws and forms, including extortion in an ethical manner 2.FKL’s anti-corruption pol2.Ensure there are no inciand bribery icy was communicated to dents of corruption 2.The company has a all staff via notices Refer to SDG 16 strong zero tolerance atti3.Maintain an effective tude to any bribery and whistle blowing mechanism corruption to ensure that any incidents are known of
