Creating a Sustainable Future. Opening Statement Contents Meeting global challenges 03 Opening statement 03 A year of solutions 04 CEO statement 04 Meeting global challenges Our framework for sustainability 06 Our framework for sustainability 07 Sustainability in LR, at a glance 08 People Key facts & 12 Governance figures 14 Environment 17 Community Three key 19 Technology & innovation sustainability themes 21 Our approach to reporting 22 17/18 plans – progress update 25 Reporting Commitment People 26 UNGC Compliance index Governance Environment Community Technology & innovation Our approach 2 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents www.lr.org to reporting Opening Statement The challenges of sustainable oceans, Meeting global low carbon and resource efficiency are challenges significant and require global action. Our framework A year of solutions. for sustainability Our purpose remains resolute in leadership is driven by our belief also provided services to the first our changing world – working that the long-term health of the large-scale energy storage project Key facts & figures together for a safer world. LR’s ocean is vital to ensuring societal in Australia that will accelerate expertise across safety, security safety and well-being. the maturity of energy storage and sustainability, combined with technologies across the world. the work of the Lloyd’s Register The challenges of sustainable oceans, low carbon and resource Safety and Culture Foundation, are leveraged to efficiency are significant and require Safety underpins all that we do and Three key make a positive impact to society remains a priority for the Board, global action. They also represent sustainability within a business model for the the three areas of sustainability executive team and colleagues. 21st century. themes where LR can make the greatest We are pleased to report another contribution and form the three year of improvement in our health This year we launched a joint themes of our programme. and safety record, including a initiative, the Lloyd’s Register further reduction in the number of Safety Accelerator, bringing Technology is an enabler of a lost time incidents. Every incident People together start-ups and industry cleaner, more sustainable world is, however, a reminder of the to work together, to test and I am proud of how LR is challenges we face to achieve our innovative digital solutions for deploying its professional expertise aspiration of Zero Harm. Progress to help address these challenges this year is testament to our focus the world’s toughest safety and and help us transition to a more on high-risk activities such as shiprisk challenges. Governance sustainable world. Our Technology to-ship transfers, the introduction Radar report highlighted growing of our LifeSavers programme and Sustainability optimism about moving to a low intuitive safety behaviours. In July 2017, LR became a signatory to the United Nations Global carbon world. The Board is increasing its focus Compact; the guardian of the The environmental impact of upon diversity and inclusion to UN Sustainable Development fulfil our purpose and enable our Environment Goals and the world’s largest shipping and greenhouse gas emissions continues to raise customers to do great things. We corporate responsibility initiative. know we need to nurture a diverse As part of our commitment to the its profile aligned with the and inclusive workforce, where achievement of the Sustainable publication of the International everyone has the chance to thrive. Development Goals, LR became Maritime Organisation’s (IMO) a founding member of the United decarbonisation strategy. We Thomas Thune Andersen Community Nations Global Compact Action continue to support the sector in Platform for Sustainable Ocean understanding what low and zeroChairman, Lloyd’s Register Business, which launched on World carbon options are available to help Group Limited Oceans Day in June 2018. Our enable the IMO strategy. We have Sustainable oceans Low carbon futures Resource Efficiency The oceans are Low carbon energy Our growing essential to human plays a critical role populations need Technology & life and industry, in the goal to reduce food and resources and it is crucial that greenhouse gas more quickly and innovation we maintain and emissions. for less cost than protect them. ever before. Our approach 3 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents www.lr.org to reporting Opening Statement This is LR’s second sustainability Meeting global report and I am proud of the progress challenges that we are making in meeting global sustainability challenges. Our framework for sustainability Meeting global challenges. Key facts & This is LR’s second sustainability safety reports, and training 7,200 as supporting best practice in figures report following the GRI standards, colleagues on LR’s new LifeSavers decommissioning old oil and and I am proud of the progress behaviours. Our Lost Time Incidents gas assets. that we are making in meeting (LTIs) rate has reduced by 60% over global sustainability challenges. the past 5 years and the number Technology We are a signatory of the United of High Potential Incidents has We recognise that technology can Nations Global Compact on human declined by 36%. be used to solve many sustainability People rights, labour, environment and issues. The applications of data and anti-corruption, and have made We have also taken more than half of digital services can also be used good progress against the UNGC our colleagues through our “Be the to mitigate risk and enhance the principles over the last 12 months. Change” programme, intended to performance of assets employed in A clear example of LR’s commitment create a greater sense of ownership, critical infrastructure. Governance to improvement has been our role accountability and confidence as a founding member of the UN’s amongst our people, coupled with We have been working in close focus on sustainable oceans. strengthening the capabilities of our collaboration with our clients, leaders. The first phase is reaching subject matter experts, digital Strategy conclusion with deployment to all innovation and products team and We are in the second year of our colleagues globally. an increasing number of technology Environment business strategy that is enabling partners to solve these issues. This us to fulfil our purpose working Sustainability in our sectors approach has led us to initiate a together for a safer world – for our We continue to support our clients in number of exciting new initiatives clients and also for our colleagues. our traditional sectors of maritime, such as: In this way we are able to make oil and gas and business assurance our commitment to a sustainable sectors, whilst also investing in • The launch of our new software global economy. adjacent markets that underpin a product suite, LR AllAssets, Community more sustainable future. which is serving a cross industry People and culture need for more advanced Safety remains our number one Notably, we’ve done this with our asset management solutions priority and we continue to make customised assurance programme increasing reliability and good progress on our Zero Harm in the food sector, building upon the availability aspiration. Having simplified our acquisition of the food and drink • The development of new risk Technology & processes, strengthened the way we supply-chain specialists Acoura last insight tools such as Lloyd’s learn from incidents, and introduced year, and in cyber security, following Register’s Safety Scanner; the a new set of behaviours for our the acquisition of Nettitude in early demonstration of Human innovation safety critical tasks called ‘Life March 2018a leading cyber security Analytics as a further step in Savers’ we are pleased to see that assurance, risk management and improving human related risk these measures are contributing managed detection and response factors to a reduction in the number and services business. severity of incidents. Our approach Alastair Marsh to reporting In the energy sector we continue Chief Executive Officer Colleague engagement continues to to develop our portfolio of rise, as evidenced by 7,400 colleague renewables services as well 4 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges Sustainable decommissioning Food Whether in oil and gas, nuclear With the global population estimated to reach 8.6bn by 2030, Our framework for sustainability or other heavy industries, all there is a growing challenge to feed everyone. Globalisation assets eventually reach the end leads to increasingly complex supply chains and distribution of commercial operations. With networks. Food safety and sustainability is of increasing that, a series of difficult decisions concern to the public, primary producers, processors and need to be made. These decisions retailers. Food fraud is a real risk to staple food items, whilst Key facts & have social, economic and there is growing pressure on supply and demand. environmental impacts. figures Product safety, traceability, resilience, social impact and quality By using a sustainable are becoming increasingly important to our clients in the food decommissioning approach, industry. Our adoption of the Greenfence remote auditing we help our clients shed light platform, and recent acquisition of Acoura, are helping us to on a site’s assets. This increases strengthen our position in the food and beverage sector and People potential for re-use and, in turn, offer solutions to new markets. potential for greatly reducing waste volumes and risk. Governance Low carbon power Digital innovation Cyber security There is an urgent need to reduce By 2020, it is estimated that over As assets and supply chains Environment greenhouse gas emissions. 80% of the Fortune 500 companies become increasingly connected to Renewable power generation is the will be digital service suppliers. maximise the potential of digital fastest growing source of electricity transformation, so their vulnerability and by 2020, 26% of global power Technologies such as Blockchain to cyber-attacks increases. For high will be generated by renewables. will make supply chains more risk assets and supply networks, the energy efficient while also providing implications of a cyber-attack have Community Our independent verification and high levels of transparency. significant impact on their reliability, technical advice will provide the Similarly, the deployment of data safety and efficiency. trust and assurance that operators, science and artificial intelligence societies and regulators demand. will provide much deeper insights Through our cyber security expertise into the risks, control measures we assess the technology, decide At LR, we have a focus on nuclear and enable evidence-based on the level of digitisation that’s Technology & and renewables and we’re already interventions. right, then deploy data streaming demonstrating thought leadership and other cyber systems safely, in this space. Our verification Our digital products and services effectively and profitably. innovation and technical expertise will also will enable the safety risks of new be called upon to help clients technologies and materials to be LR’s recent acquisition of Nettitude address the safety challenges understood and verified, and the brings proven technical expertise of developing low carbon assets deployment of artificial intelligence in advising, testing and verifying and infrastructure. and data science to make more cyber vulnerabilities, and providing Our approach informed risk-based decisions. practical solutions that ensures our provision remains consistently to reporting relevant, robust and up to date. 5 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges Our framework for sustainability Key facts & figures Our framework for People sustainability. Governance We deliver our sustainability aspirations through five These pillars are outlined below and throughout the pillars that are central to our purpose of providing following pages of this report you can find out about benefits to clients and communities, and operating a performance, progress and plans in each area. responsible business that is supported by a productive, diverse and healthy workforce. Environment Community Technology & People Governance Environment Community Innovation We value our We are committed We will run efficient We will maximise Technology is people and are to observing both and low impact our social an enabler of a committed to help the spirit and the operations that impacts across cleaner, more Technology & innovation everyone achieve letter of the laws of consume less the communities sustainable world, their potential. all jurisdictions in energy, emit less, wherever in the both as a trend, and which we operate, produce less waste, world we operate. a solution to other We understand, to comply with our and reduce any challenges. respect and value Code of Conduct negative effect personal and and extend our of our business Our approach cultural differences standards to the activities on the and promote supply-chain. environment. to reporting diversity. 6 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Sustainability in LR, at a glance Meeting global 80 Operating Countries 6745 people 97 nationalities challenges Our framework for sustainability Key facts & figures 7997 Ethics training Supported 600 projects generating 34GW of completions renewable energy People Governance 2.2m ltrs water predicted to 1141 LTI 0.13/200,000 Environment trained in CPR hours a be saved at HQ 58% decrease in 5 years Community 29,900 t 3000 Technology & greenhouse – reached milestone of 3000 RNLI innovation volunteers trained in sea survival gases Our approach to reporting 7 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement People Meeting global Exceptional people living LR values in challenges safe, fair and supportive workplaces 7,200 Our biggest asset are our people. Through Our framework them, we provide independent assurance and expert technical advice. Our global reach and for sustainability influence also positively affects many people in people trained in industry, governments and the communities in LifeSavers which we work. Key facts & figures People Governance Delivering our Zero Harm World Safety Day An Army of Life Savers Aspiration Environment To mark the International Labour Organisations (ILO) The focal point of everything we do is safety, and World Safety Day 2018, we focused our activities everyday around the world, our employees are applying on improving knowledge of CPR (Cardiopulmonary their technical expertise to shape a safer world. resuscitation). Every year sudden cardiac arrest strikes thousands of people and tragically many do not survive At LR, we believe that incidents are preventable and because of delays in receiving treatment. We set a that is why we have a commitment to Zero Harm. We challenging target to train 1,000 colleagues on CPR Community achieve this by delivering professional engineering and technology services, and also by influencing customers which we exceeded. during our work, highlighting safety concerns and sharing our experience. We measure this informal CPR training sessions were held in 78 of our offices engagement, and last year our employees provided around the world, and a training video developed to over 7,200 safety observations and near miss reports allow anyone at LR to understand the basics of CPR and during their customer visits. how to react to a cardiac arrest. Technology & innovation One of the foundations of our safety culture is employee LR LifeSavers empowerment everyone at LR is authorised to challenge unsafe actions and stop work when a situation The LR LifeSavers were developed to improve the is unsafe. Last year our employees stopped work over management of high risks that our personnel face. They 2,400 times when a situation was unsafe and requested simplify the essential safety requirements into a series Our approach changes to make a situation safer. These incidents of memorable behaviours and actions everyone must are reported and where appropriate, investigated and demonstrate, to keep themselves safe. communicated Group-wide. As part of our annual to reporting improvements measures, we have established local safety recognition schemes to promote and celebrate colleagues’ personal safety actions. 8 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global Encouraging challenges careers in STEM Because of our history, global reach Our framework and charitable status, we are in a unique position to encourage more for sustainability uptake of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) related education. Specifically, we actively encourage Key facts & more women to consider a career figures in engineering and science and represent as much diversity as possible through the promotion of our roles. We’re pleased that women accounted for 20% of graduate positions between 2012People 2016, significantly above the number of women graduating in engineering. Creating a workplace 20% Female graduates where everyone can thrive Different perspectives shape our Like many other technology and Governance thinking and help us deliver better engineering organisations, we do and more sustainable results. have a gender pay gap and there is Diversity is about more than just more that we could do to nurture gender. We want LR to be an diversity across our business. The Environment The Lloyd’s Register Foundation inclusive place to work where gap is influenced by more men also gives us a unique opportunity everyone can make a difference, choosing STEM related degree to inspire the next generation of give their best and succeed. courses and a greater number engineers by encouraging young of men at senior levels in the people into STEM subjects. The organisation. Foundation has a specific focus on STEM education for disadvantaged We always aim Community or under-represented communities to provide To address our gender pay gap, reported for the first time in the outside the UK. colleagues at LR UK at 28.9% (mean hourly pay There is much more to do in the with fulfilling and gap across the UK workforce), we operate a number of campaigns diversity and inclusion of our own staff, and we won’t address the rewarding careers. that support STEM, including International Women in Engineering balance overnight. and the newly formed Women in Technology & We always aim to provide innovation Maritime Task Force. We understand that we need colleagues at LR with fulfilling and to ensure that all colleagues, rewarding careers, and to make regardless of gender, background sure we find the right person for or beliefs, can develop rewarding the right skills for the job. We also Our approach careers at LR, and we are absolutely appreciate the benefits of a diverse committed to taking action that workforce, at all levels of the to reporting drives continuous improvement in organisation, right across the globe. diversity and inclusion within LR, across the world. 9 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges Our framework for sustainability Key facts & figures People Fifth consecutive year of safety improvements Governance The Group’s year-end Lost Incident Rate was 0.13 lost time incidents per 200,000 hours and the Total Recordable Incident Rate was 0.33. Both represent a reduction on last year and was the fifth consecutive year of improvement in recordable health and safety incident rates. Environment While this is encouraging, our long-term aim is to achieve performance levels comparable with the major oil & gas operators. We will achieve this by continuing to focus on the high potential incidents, and fostering the actions and behaviours that lead to a strong safety culture. LR Group incident Community frequency rates 0.8 Technology & innovation 0.6 0.4 The total number of Recordable Incidents 0.2 per 200k hours Our approach The total number of to reporting 0.72 0.31 0.64 0.24 0.5 0.18 0.48 0.26 0.41 0.16 0.33 0.13 0 Lost Time Incidents 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 per 200k hours 10 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global Listening to our people Be The change challenges and taking action culture shaping at LR During 2017/18 we have continued our culture It is our colleagues around the world who underpin our Our framework change programme ‘Be The Change’ with over reputation for excellence and integrity, and therefore 140 workshops delivered to approximately it’s vital that we listen and act on what they have to say. 3,500 colleagues. for sustainability We do this through our Employee Opinion Survey (EOS). The aim of the workshops, continuing Our current focus is on strengthening internal coaching, reinforcement and recognition, connections, improving the ways we work together and is to develop and sustain a healthy, highhow we manage change. We also continue to harness performance culture. Key facts & our strengths, such as our strong Zero Harm safety culture, our trusted local line manager relationships figures Feedback from attendees has been and our colleagues’ pride in working for LR. overwhelmingly positive with many commenting on how it has enabled Listening to the feedback is only the start though; the personal and professional growth, along value comes from what we do differently as a result. People with equipping them with new tools to be Every people manager from the CEO down has an successful in the modern workplace. The action plan covering a range of improvement actions, programme will be completed during 2018/19. and we use a range of ways to share progress. 84% 55% EOS response rate colleagues participated in Governance ‘Be The Change’ workshops Environment 2018/19 plans Community Zero Harm Diversity & inclusion Culture • Roll out LifeSaver practical We will launch our plan to • Complete the roll out of the training for 1,900 of our field improve diversity and inclusion Be The Change workshops Technology & based staff, focusing on across LR to support all our (continuation from 2017/18). Working over Water, Confined colleagues in achieving their • Launch of new behavioural innovation Space Entry and Working at potential. competencies and Height by June 2020. embedding into the • Enhance our use of digital performance review process. analytics to improve insights • Launch a Leadership and trending of HSES Curriculum to provide a information. range of new programmes. Our approach • Revise Crisis Management Plans (continuation from to reporting 2017/18). 11 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Governance Meeting global Ethical operations and strong governance challenges Committed to the LR values Tackling modern slavery Our framework At the heart of LR are our values: we care, we share Any human trafficking or modern slavery exploitation for sustainability our expertise, and we do the right thing. These values is completely incompatible with our values and LR are evident in every interaction that we have with our accordingly supports the elimination of all forms of employees, customers, suppliers and stakeholders. forced labour. They are the thread that ties together everything we do. In addition to our Code of Ethics LR is also a signatory Key facts & Our Code of Ethics sets the expectations of all our to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles on figures people, including contractors, at all levels of our human rights, labour standards, environment and antibusiness. It declares our zero-tolerance approach corruption. We are committed to ensuring that these to corruption, bribery and fraud, and it seeks to principles are reflected in all elements of our business. ensure impartiality in all that we do. We place huge importance in doing all of this because LR’s reputation The group’s Ethics & Compliance Committee for independence, impartiality and trust is critical to receives all reports submitted through the dedicated People the way that we work, and who we work with. Our whistleblowing channel and investigates all cases. clients expect and rely on our responsible, transparent We continue to actively encourage openness and will and ethical operations, and we demand it of ourselves. support anyone who raises genuine concerns on good faith, even where they turn out to be mistaken. We actively contribute to raising the global standard Governance of responsible governance by demonstrating best practice, and challenging our supply-chain partners to meet high standard of ethical, environmental and social responsibility. Environment Community 2018/19 plans Procurement Technology & innovation • Responsible Sourcing Policy communication and assessment – ongoing. • 90% compliance of >£100k contracts. Our approach to reporting 12 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement We are proud to be a founding member of UN Meeting global Global Compact’s sustainable ocean efforts. challenges We will use our unique position within the marine sector to set high standards and ensure the aims of the Compact are achieved. Our framework for sustainability Suzanne Johnson Corporate and External Affairs Key facts & Sustainable Oceans – three figures ways LR has influence. People sector for over 250 years, LR has an Sustainable fisheries important role to play in ensuring – MSC and RFS the programme is realised. Through Acoura, the Seafish Governance Zero emission vessels 2030 – how Responsible Fishing Scheme (RFS) do we get there? reached its 100th accredited vessel at the end of 2017. This scheme In 2018 the International Maritime aims to supply safe, high quality Organisation (IMO) established a food which has been responsibly target to reduce greenhouse gas sourced and is traceable from the Environment (GHG) emissions by at least 50% by moment of the catch until the 2050. This is a clear signal to the moment it reaches consumers, while industry to eliminate fossil fuels. In maintaining high standards of crew order to achieve this, zero emission safety, wellbeing and development. Contributing to sustainable oceans vessels need to be entering service by 2030 and therefore anyone Acoura is also the largest global In 2018 LR became a founding planning to finance, design or build provider of Marine Stewardship Community member of the United Nations a ship in the 2020s will need to Council (MSC) Sustainability Global Compact Action Platform consider how it can switch to a nonFishing Assessments, commonly for Sustainable Ocean Business. fossil fuel later in its operational life. known as the blue label. This The programme recognises that designation allows sustainable the long-term well-being of our In partnership with the University fishing to be recognised. oceans is critical to ensuring Maritime Advisory Services, LR Technology & societal well-being. released the ‘Zero Emission Vessels 2030’ report which assessed innovation The three-year programme different decarbonisation options convenes leaders in ocean for various vessels to show the industry along with the UN, world opportunity for a successful and governments, academia and civil low-cost decarbonisation pathway society. As an organisation involved for shipping. in setting standards for the shipping Our approach to reporting 13 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Environment Meeting global Operating responsibly and minimising challenges our environmental impacts With over 150 offices globally, it is important we Our framework manage the environmental impacts of our corporate operations. The direct impacts include energy for sustainability consumption from the heating, cooling and operation of our offices, and the generation of waste. We are also a global business which often requires our people to travel to conduct their work resulting in emissions from air and road travel. Key facts & Of equal importance to the direct impacts of our offices, figures are the environmental impacts that result from the location, layout and use of the offices. These indirect factors are best addressed when we select and design an office. In 2018 the Group Estates team commenced a strategic review of LR’s real estate portfolio, and People this provides an ideal opportunity to incorporate environmental improvements in our future planning. Green IT: Partnering with Dell Governance As part of a programme to modernise our IT systems, we are planning to replace 6,500 laptops over the next 18 months. Sustainability has been Environment fully incorporated throughout the project, including the design, replacement and re-use of the old laptops through partnership with Dell. As a result Green Shares: Making environmental personal of LR’s agreement with Dell, a closed-loop recycling project will be established ensuring that 90% of This year we increased our participation in World the old equipment will be recycled, any functional Community Environment Day, an annual event sponsored products will be resold or donated to charity, and by the United Nations designed to promote traceability of recycled products will be assured. environmental protection awareness and action. The theme for World Environment Day 2018 was LR has also procured laptops that will reduce the plastic pollution, and we picked up this theme total power consumption per charge cycle by by introducing ‘Green Shares’ simple actions 120kWh, saving the equivalent of 7 tonnes of CO2 per annum once the project is finalised. Technology & and behaviours that we can all take, at work and home, to be more sustainable. Our first focus innovation area was waste and the actions we can take to 90% 7 reduce consumption of single use plastics, recycle effectively and reduce the amount of resources used in our offices. Subsequent themes within the Green Shares project will include reducing energy consumption, water conservation and low of the old IT equipment Tonnes CO2 saved Our approach carbon travel. will be recycled per annum to reporting 14 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges Our framework for sustainability Key facts & figures We are on target to save over 2,200 m3 in 2018 that’s enough People Taking energy & water conservation to the next level water to last the As part of our efforts to reduce our internal environmental impacts, we have completed several projects to reduce energy, waste and average person in the water at our headquarters in London. UK for 40 years. Governance The largest use of water in the building is the cooling system, and modifications were made to reduce consumption by 85%. We are on target to save over 2,200 m3 in 2018 that’s enough water to last the average person in the UK for 40 years. As part of our plans to conserve energy and reduce waste, we Environment have also installed advanced air filters across the building. These reduce energy consumed by the fan by 33% while also reducing the replacement cycle of the filters, reducing waste by 75%. GHG Emissions GHG GHG Change Community 2016-17 2017-18 Energy efficiency (MWh / £m turnover) 32.8 28.3 14% Scope 1 Natural gas consumption 1,780 1,275 28% GHG (tCO2e) 32% Technology & Scope 2 Purchased energy 9,320 7,007 innovation GHG (tCO2e) Scope 3 Employee business travel – air 13,825 16,013 16% GHG (tCO2e) Employee business travel – car 5,160 4,731 8% Our approach 4% to reporting Total tCO2e 30,085 29,027 Our Scope 2 emissions have reduced 32%, partly due to a reduction in the grid emission factor in the UK. 15 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges Our framework for sustainability Key facts & Ship recycling: Enabling figures responsible decommissioning LR’s work in supporting ship recycling, demonstrates pollution. With thousands of vessels destined for where we bring technical expertise to a complex decommissioning over the coming decade, there is a People area of sustainability. In theory, ship recycling is the pressing need to ensure that ship recycling takes place embodiment of the circular economy. The ship disposal in a safe, ethical and environmentally sound manner. industry in South Asia employs hundreds of thousands of workers that bring much needed employment and To help clients meet this challenge, LR has worked foreign investment to developing nations. with a number of major vessel owners to develop a responsible recycling service. This involves working With over 95% of the materials being recovered such with them to plan for the recycling and select a Governance as the steel which is reprocessed into local construction responsible yard, including investigating the facility’s and machinery equipment, and the oils which are health, safety and environmental operational re-used the process is inherently sustainable. The standards. These assessments provide invaluable alternative would probably be abandonment or sinking information when clients are selecting a facility to at sea with all the consequential marine pollution. dispose of the ship. Environment There are, however, significant concerns about the LR also supports owners throughout the recycling conditions in which ship recycling is conducted. There process, undertaking independent safety and is often little regard for health or safety resulting in environmental audits and verifying the end-of-life frequent fatalities, and the standards of environmental disposal was conducted in accordance with the protection are poor with a high incidence of regulatory requirements. Community 2018/19 plans Travel Environmental behaviours Low carbon Technology & innovation Aim to manage and reduce Continue to promote practical Increase LR’s participation in the emissions from travel and personal environmental low carbon projects. by continuing to focus on actions, focusing on energy Our approach alternatives to air travel, efficiency, water conservation, measuring our car travel waste reduction and low and promoting low carbon carbon travel. to reporting commuting. 16 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Community Meeting global Making a difference within the challenges communities which we operate Creating shared value Run almost entirely by volunteers, Mercy Ships provide Our framework Many of our employees are actively engaged in for sustainability projects within their communities where they apply free medical care to some of the the energy and the skills learnt at LR to issues and good causes that they care about. We want to ensure world’s poorest people. that all our people are given the opportunity to make a difference to the issues and communities that are Key facts & figures important to them. For example, in the Americas we have established a CSR committee to formalise our efforts to give back to the community and support various voluntary efforts. Each employee is allocated a paid day to participate People in local good causes that interests them. This support strengthens our relationships within the communities which we operate and provides our colleagues with the discretion to select good causes that they are passionate about. In 2018/19 We will review this programme and explore ways that this could be Governance LR Surveyors Ian White from Glasgow office and Nima Moin from adopted in other countries. Rotterdam visit Mercy Ships in 2018 Supporting educational Mercy Ships: Providing expertise development in our communities to support healthcare in Africa Our core competencies are technical expertise and Mercy Ships is an international healthcare charity Environment professional services and it is important that we which operates the world’s largest charitable floating continue to promote the development of science and hospital. Run almost entirely by volunteers, Mercy engineering education. Ships provide free medical care to some of the world’s poorest people. In Turkey, funding from the LR Foundation has established a mobile learning unit called ‘Science Colleagues from LR became involved with Mercy Community Firefly’ that provides science and technical education to Ships when undertaking technical inspections of disadvantaged regions. The unit specialises in teaching the organisation’s hospital ship, the Africa Mercy. As STEM (Science, Technical, Engineering and Mathematics) part of the celebrations of LR’s 150 years working subjects in an engaging and inspiring way, thus in the Netherlands, colleagues are continuing their increasing interest amongst children who may not have relationship with Mercy Ships, this time as part of a previously considered a career in these disciplines. charity challenge, donating the financial equivalent of Technology & their annual leave. More than 40 engineers have offered In Malta, LR funds professionals from developing their time and expertise during the vessels annual innovation countries to attend the International Maritime Law maintenance and repair cycles, including LR Surveyors Institute. This improves their understanding of maritime Nima Moin and Ian White. law, and enables them to contribute to the development of policy and decision-making in their home countries. The LR Foundation has also funded an apprenticeship Our approach scheme with the Worshipful Company of Shipwrights that provides young people with the opportunity to to reporting build skills in the marine industry and develop a career in shipbuilding. 17 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Meeting global challenges The Lloyd’s Register Foundation has been Our framework fantastic, enabling the training of 3000 for sustainability RNLI crew members in essential sea Key facts & survival skills. figures Hurricane Harvey colleagues live the LR values People Hurricane Harvey had a devastating To support their colleagues LR impact across the southern states of employees established an online the US. Many of the 200 employees fundraising platform and donated who work at our Houston office their time to help colleagues fix and were directly impacted by the rebuild their homes. Governance storm, including some who were evacuated from their homes, or Employees donated over $10,000 whose homes were badly damaged. to assist colleagues, with all LR Foundation proceeds going directly to those in support for RNLI need. LR matched the colleague Employee fundraising donations and established grants to The LR Foundation continues Environment donations exceeded employees affected, to cover their to provide essential support to $10,000 immediate expenses. the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) by funding sea survival training. Since our partnership began Community 11 years ago, 3000 volunteer RNLI lifeboat crew members have been trained in such things as abandon ship procedures, team survival 2018/19 plans swimming and coping in a life raft in simulated darkness. Community engagement Paul Boissier, Chief Executive of Technology & innovation the RNLI said, “We are delighted • Develop framework for to be meeting this special increased community milestone in our relationship with engagement around our the Lloyd’s Register Foundation. 3 priority themes. Their support has been fantastic • Increase participation in and with it 3,000 crew members Our approach employee matching scheme have the skills they need for their to maximise value of own survival.” to reporting employee contributions. 18 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Technology & Innovation Meeting global Innovation for a cleaner, more sustainable world challenges Research, development and application Our framework Technology is an enabler of a cleaner, more sustainable world. Through for sustainability research, development and deployment, we assess the risk of new technology before it is applied, helping to optimise efficiency, safety and performance. 9 out of 10 people LR is a recognised worldwide leader in the development of innovative globally live where Key facts & technology. From the first iron ships in the 19th century to the emergence air quality guidelines figures of nanotechnology today, LR has provided the expertise to help make important ideas become a reality. are exceeded Research: As a global supporter People of research and education, the LR Foundation promotes scientific excellence and acts as a catalyst, working with other organisations to achieve maximum impact. Many of Governance the projects funded have significant benefits to environmental and public heath, such as the partnership with the Alan Turing Institute to improve how air quality is modelled in London. Environment 15-20% Photo credit: Tuukka Ervasti Development: At our Global Application: Through our Higher mortality rate due Technology Centres in innovative use of technologies, Southampton and Singapore, we are helping clients use to poor air quality we undertake projects that resources more efficiently such Community result in significant safety and as LR’s work with Viking Lines’ The project aims to create environmental improvements. revolutionary LNG-fuelled a transformation in the passenger vessel, the Viking Grace. understanding and management of Our recent collaboration with This ship is the first of its kind to air quality in cities. Damen Shipyards Group, for be equipped with a rotor sail for example, involved the design of a the utilisation of wind power. Technology & Once finalised, the outputs of this next generation aggregate dredger 900 research can be applied globally for CEMEX UK. The vessel was innovation to mega-cities such as Delhi, designed for zero ballast operations, Shanghai, Lagos and São Paulo helping to deal with increasing where the human impact of poor environmental and biosecurity Tonnes of CO2 cut per annum air quality is estimated by the World concerns. The vessel also met Health Organisation (WHO) to result LR’s ECO Class Rules, the Group in a 15-20% higher mortality rate. standards for environmental ship The rotor sail is expected to cut Our approach design, construction and operation. to reporting emissions from the vessel by up to 900 tonnes of CO2 annually and it is already operating on voyages between Finland and Sweden. 19 | Lloyd’s Register SustainabilityReport 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Powering the growth Helping create Meeting global of low carbon energy ‘the world’s biggest battery’ challenges There is no single answer to our LR worked with Neoen, an independent producer of renewable energy, to global energy, efficiency and develop and deploy ground-breaking technology that will accelerate the environmental needs. But what is maturity of energy storage technologies. Our framework indisputable is the urgent need to accelerate our transition into a low Energy storage technologies are widely considered to be the most carbon world. important growth driver and enabler for renewable energy. This technology is critically important because until the power produced by renewable for sustainability We advise clients across the energy sources can be reliably stored and effectively distributed to the grid, renewables sector on projects, we will not be able to reduce our reliance on hydrocarbons. including optimum site selection, energy yield maximisation, grid Key facts & connectivity and the safety and At peak output, the battery provides figures efficiency of an asset throughout enough electricity to power the equivalent its lifecycle. of 30,000 homes. 34GW renewable generating The Hornsdale Power Reserve in Southern Australia is home to the largest lithium-ion battery in the world. The project deploys battery storage to stabilise the South Australian electricity grid, facilitate integration of People capacity renewable energy in the State and assist in preventing load-shedding events. At peak output, the battery provides enough electricity to power the equivalent of 30,000 homes. This capacity will be used to store power Governance Through our work with clients, we when demand is low, and dispatch it when demand is high, reducing the have supported over 600 renewables need for gas power generation. projects which represents 34 GW of renewable energy capacity Not only was this the first large-scale energy storage project in Australia, globally. These renewables facilities it was also the first use of Tesla equipment on the Australian electrical potentially avoid the emission of network. LR’s work included complex model development, technical between 44 and 80 million tonnes simulation, negotiation with national power network providers and Environment of greenhouse gases per year. Over operators, and working closely with the equipment supplier to ensure an expected 25 year operating life of effective and timely project delivery. The project demonstrates how LR’s these assets, this means 1.1 to 2bn greatest contribution to sustainability is through our engineering and tonnes in total. technology services. Community Technology & innovation Our approach to reporting 20 | Lloyd’s Register SustainabilityReport 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Our approach to reporting. Lloyd’s Register is a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact and this report constitutes our annual Communication on Progress. The UNGC Compliance Meeting global Index found in this section is a summary of our performance and commitments that are described throughout this report. challenges Materiality and the Sustainable Development Goals Our framework Material Internal External Management SDG for sustainability topic materiality materiality of the topic Health & safety Zero Harm. Safety is at Our customers expect • Zero Harm strategy. the heart of our purpose, LR to demonstrate best • Behavioural safety values and service offering. practices and a high safety framework. Our people have passion performance. • LR LifeSaver – safety Key facts & for safety. critical behaviour training. • Stop Work Authority. figures • HSES management system. Development A diverse range of The technical expertise of our • LR Academy learning & diversity perspectives, experiences, people is vital for delivering platform. cultures, genders, and our client services and local • Career development tool. age enables LR to better employment is an important • ‘Be The Change’ culture People innovate and adapt in a contribution to local workshops. fast-changing environment. development. AntiTrust, integrity and As a provider of technical • Anti-Bribery and corruption and responsibility are at the advice and assurance our Anti-Corruption (ABC) anti-bribery heart of who we are, what customers expect us to training updated. Governance we do and why we do it. operate ethically wherever we are in the world. Procurement We wish to partner with We seek to ensure indirect • Responsible Sourcing suppliers that operate impacts of our supply-chain Policy. responsibly and ethically, are managed and we work • Standard terms and and who share our values. with suppliers to mutually conditions in our contracts. improve performance. • Training suppliers and Environment contractors. Operational We aim to operate Recent global agreements • Zero Harm strategy. environmental responsibly by reducing our have made explicit • HSES management system. impacts environmental footprint and commitments to the • LR Greening Area Plans. being more efficient with the reduction of greenhouse • Efficient operation and resources we use. gases, with businesses rationalisation of real playing a leading role estate and infrastructure. Community in responding to global sustainability, climate change and resource scarcity issues. Community Many of our employees We seek positive and • Local engagement with VARIOUS engagement are actively engaged in constructive relations with community projects community activities. We all the communities we worldwide. Technology & need to enable, support and interact with. promote our employees to innovation participate. Technology We are improving internal Technology and innovation • Focus on our strategic and innovation systems and ways of underpins our work. Through growth areas. working to more efficiently research, development and serve our clients and deployment, we can assess Our approach support our service the risk of new technology delivery. We are always before it is applied to to reporting exploring new technologies solutions, helping to to improve the safety and optimise efficiency, safety well-being of our people. and performance. 21 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement 17/18 plans – progress update Indication of progress Meeting global Not started Behind People In progress challenges Exceptional people living LR values in safe, Achieved fair and supportive workplaces Commitment Progress Comments Our framework for sustainability Establish a more inclusive, agile and Ongoing 176 workshops have been run which entrepreneurial organisational culture by have been attended by 3,735 colleagues, training 7,000 colleagues globally in ‘Be The including our executive leadership team. Change’ workshops during 2017-2019. Key facts & Expand diversity and equal opportunities Reported UK Gender Pay Gap May 2018. reporting to provide greater understanding figures and inclusive decision-making within the organisation. Improve employee satisfaction and motivation EOS Action Plans implemented across the by addressing the findings of the Employee organisation containing a series of local Opinion Survey. training, communication and engagement People initiatives. Improve business efficiency through the The deployment of Success Factors and deployment of Enterprise Resource Planning Business by Design SAP systems is on-track. system globally between 2017-2019. Governance Enhance career opportunities to high Barriers to learning have been identified and performing employees through access addressed, including shortening training to managerial programmes and talent courses and conducting workshops at more development. global locations. Improve the provision of management Awaiting Data on training hours and reasons information from HR systems to improve for leave. Environment absence management and learning and development. Train all 7,000 personnel on the LifeSavers, All field-based personnel were trained by critical safe behaviours, by June 2018. December 2017 and 98% of office-based personnel were trained by June 2018. Community Replace the existing safety management Implementation complete. system with an integrated management system. To improve managers’ engagement with safety, Review complete and new process revising the safety tours process. implemented. Improve how we investigate and learn from A new methodology to investigate and Technology & HSES incidents. learn from incidents introduced, and over 150 people trained. innovation Revise our Group Crisis Management Plans. A new process has been introduced and training is planned. Our approach to reporting 22 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Indication of progress Meeting global Not started Behind People In progress challenges Exceptional people living LR values in safe, Achieved fair and supportive workplaces Our framework Commitment Progress Comments Measure how our people feel and perceive Six Area HSES improvement plans have been for sustainability safety at LR in the EOS. developed and implemented. Introduce localised initiatives for health, Training on stress resilience has been piloted wellbeing and stress resilience within our in Germany and the UK, along with a global Key facts & large offices. fitness challenge. These measures will be figures developed further in 2018/19. Governance People Ethical operations and strong governance Commitment Progress Comments LR’s standard terms of business will include The policy has been communicated to all high Governance suppliers’ commitment to the responsible value suppliers and 53% have agreed to our sourcing policy. policy or have their own equivalent. Standard terms are yet to be fully updated. Measures will be implemented to capture any Mechanism to categorise and capture high risk significant and high-risk supplier. suppliers – travel, fleet and consumables. Ensure all colleagues complete the updated 95% staff have completed the revised training. Environment mandatory ABC training. Re-communication of the ABC procedures Internal communications programme and ABC policy, Code of Ethics and Speaking Out training is automatically assigned through new (whistleblowing) policy/mechanism. learning programme to new hires. Community Technology & innovation Our approach to reporting 23 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Indication of progress Meeting global Not started Behind Environment In progress challenges Operating responsibly and minimising Achieved our environmental impacts Commitment Progress Comments Our framework for sustainability Explore ways to further minimise emissions from New and improved communication technologies business travel and improve measurement. implemented to reduce the need to travel, including teleand videoconferencing software. Strengthen measurement and objectives for Area Greening Plans agreed and implemented Key facts & energy, waste, water and travel. for large offices. figures Apply standards for our large premises LR’s minimum requirements for health, safety, (owned and leased). environment and security are now applied as standard when conducting property searches and prior to refurbishments. Identification of refrigerants on premises under Refrigerants that are under LR control are People our control. managed by the facilities and estates team. Create a Green IT framework and architecture Our current technology portfolio continues to sustainably manage our enabling to drive our Green IT Framework and we have technologies. started multiple projects to reduce our IT footprint, reduce our supply chain purchase Governance cycle and avoid unnecessary hardware reinvestment. Enlarge the proportion of countries covered by Through our travel partner, LR is currently able our travel provider to improve travel data and to obtain travel data for 90% of air travel. introduce a consistent policy Group-wide. Environment Further rationalisation of LR’s global property Continued rationalisation and improved portfolio resulting in more efficient building efficiency of our estates is a principle of our use. Group Estates team and an ongoing process. Community Community Adding value to society and working together for a safer world Technology & innovation Commitment Progress Comments Consider options to formalise LR’s approach to Proposal in development for a Group-wide community engagement. approach based on relevant themes, employeematching and volunteerism. Our approach to reporting 24 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Reporting Commitment Human rights # UN Global LR commitment Implementation Progress Sustainability Meeting global challenges Compact report reference principle 1 Businesses should • Code of Ethics. 1. Ethics & Compliance 1. Ethics & Compliance • Governance. support and respect • Anti-Bribery & AntiCommittee chaired by the Committee sits the protection of Corruption and Group General Counsel quarterly and is Our framework internationally Fraud (ABC) policy. and Company Secretary. chaired by member proclaimed human 2. Mandatory ABC of the Executive for sustainability rights. training for all staff and Leadership Team. contractors. 2. 95% completion rate. 3. ‘Speaking Out’ – 3. The Ethics & whistleblowing Compliance mechanism. Committee receives Key facts & 4. Conflict of interest and reviews all reports. management. 4. Conflict of interest, independence, figures impartiality and integrity policy implemented. 2 Businesses should • Code of Ethics. 1. Anti-slavery and human 1. Published statement • Governance. People make sure that they are • Responsible trafficking statement. available on www. not complicit in human Sourcing Policy. 2. Responsible Sourcing lr.org. rights abuses. Policy (RSP) 9 principles 2. RSP applies to of environmental, ethical suppliers >£100k and social responsibility spend. 56% standards extended to completion rate. our suppliers. Labour Governance # UN Global LR commitment Implementation Progress Sustainability Compact report reference principle Environment 3 Businesses should • Code of Ethics. 1. Equal opportunities and 1. Managed by local HR • Sustainability in uphold the freedom • Employee relations diversity procedures. teams. LR, at a glance. of association and the policy. • People. effective recognition of • HSEQ policy. • Governance. the right to collective bargaining. 4 Businesses should 1. Equal opportunities and 1. Managed by local HR • Governance. Community uphold the effective • Code of Ethics. diversity procedures. teams. abolition of child • HSEQ policy. 2. Responsible Sourcing 2. RSP applies to labour. Policy (RSP) 9 principles suppliers >£100k of environmental, ethical spend. 5 Businesses should and social responsibility uphold the elimination standards extended to our of discrimination in suppliers. respect of employment Technology & and occupation. innovation 6 Businesses should • Code of Ethics. 1. Group-wide requirements 1. Fully implemented. • People. uphold the elimination • Employee relations for local HR policy content 2. Managed by local HR of discrimination in policy. currently cover employee teams. respect of employment • Diversity & contracts, discipline, 3. LR Academy online and occupation. Inclusion grievances, harassment learning and programme. and workplace bullying, development tool Our approach • HSEQ policy. equal opportunities and implemented. diversity and working to reporting hours. 2. E.g. Equal opportunities and diversity policy (UK). 3. Access to development and learning opportunities. 25 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement UNGC Compliance index Reporting Commitment Meeting global Environment challenges # UN Global LR commitment Implementation Progress Sustainability Compact report reference Our framework principle 7 Businesses • HSEQ Policy. 1. ISO14001:2015 1. ISO14001 • Environment. for sustainability should support • Area HSES certified environmental certification up to • Our Approach to a precautionary objectives. management system. date and verified. Reporting. approach to environmental challenges. Key facts & 8 Businesses should • HSEQ Policy. 1. ISO14001:2015 • ISO14001 • Environment. undertake initiatives • Area HSES certified environmental certification up to figures to promote greater objectives. management system. date and verified. environmental 2. HSES management responsibility. system. 3. HSES Representatives. 9 Businesses should • Strategic growth 1. Low carbon Ppower. • Annual targets set in • Technology & People encourage the initiatives. 2. Sustainable business plans. Innovation. development decommissioning. • Annual Review. and diffusion of 3. Food security. environmentally 4. Data & digital. friendly technologies. Governance Anti-corruption # UN Global LR commitment Implementation Progress Sustainability Compact report reference principle 10 Businesses should work • Anti-bribery, 1. ABC training – mandatory 1. Fully implemented. • Governance. Environment against corruption in corruption and for all employees and 2. RSP applies to all its forms, including fraud policy. contractors. suppliers >£100k extortion and bribery. • Gifts & hospitality 2. Responsible Sourcing spend. register and portal. Policy (RSP) and supplier assessment. Community Technology & innovation Corporate Citizenship undertook a review of a sample of quantitative data and Our approach qualitative statements published in this report. The review focused on verifying how aggregate figures were derived from internal data management systems; to reporting reviewing the methodologies for calculating various figures included in the report, such as carbon emission conversion factors and health & safety statistics calculation methods; and verifying that a sample of qualitative statements were backed up by evidence and records of this evidence were kept. 26 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Opening Statement Sustainability Insights Meeting global challenges Here are some more sustainability thoughts, reports and opinions from our domain experts and industry commentators that you may find interesting. You can find these and more at www.lr.org/en/insights/ Our framework Zero-Emission Vessels 2030 is a new study that for sustainability aims to demonstrate the viability of zero-emission vessels (ZEVs) – identifying the drivers that need to be in place to make them a competitive solution for decarbonisation, produced by LR and University Maritime Advisory Services (UMAS). Key facts & figures > Read more People Technology radar – renewable energy The fourth edition of the Lloyd’s Register Technology Radar, and the second in the series to be dedicated exclusively to low carbon power. Governance This edition asks the question: when will renewable energy become the dominant source of energy? Furthermore, the study examines which technologies are likely to have the greatest impact in different countries, and what are the key drivers and inhibitors for success. > Read more Environment Community Foresight review of energy storage (Lloyd’s Register Foundation) This review explores the role of energy storage and how it can impact the safety of life and property around the world. Energy storage does not stand alone: it is part of energy systems which are integral to the infrastructures Technology & that ensure our individual and communal safety. > Read more innovation Our approach to reporting 27 | Lloyd’s Register Sustainability Report 2017/18 > Contents UNGC Compliance index www.lr.org Get in touch Please visit www.lr.org for more information or call +44 (0) 20 7709 9166 Lloyd’s Register and variants of it are trading names of Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Group Services Limited, 2017. A member of the Lloyd’s Register group. Produced by Lloyd’s Register Group Communications.
