FY18 Sustainability Report FY18 About this report Sustainability Report Transurban Transurban is committed to sustainability and this is our 13th report to date. This year we’ve strived to prepare a more concise and useful report by focussing on the areas that matter most to our key stakeholders. At the same time, we’ve ensured consistency with the Global Reporting Initiative and detailed our contribution to relevant United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. The report showcases the wide range of tangible outcomes that have been realised across a range of areas throughout Financial Year 2017/2018 (FY18). The report covers all of our operations and geographic markets as at the end of FY18. Detailed FY18 environmental and social performance data are available separately on our website. The report has undergone limited assurance by KPMG. There are nine key sustainable development goals that are particularly relevant to our business. We also contribute to most of the remaining eight. FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 01 Contents Message from the CEO 02 Energy and climate change 28 About our business 03 Energy performance 29 FY18 progress and performance Climate change management 31 towards the SDGs 04 Sustainable procurement 32 Customer and community 06 Aiming for supply chain excellence 33 Stakeholder engagement 07 Customer service 08 Innovation 36 Customer hardship 10 Materials 37 Making tolling processes simpler 11 Innovation grants 39 Strengthening communities 12 Creating future-ready infrastructure 40 Safer roads 16 Health, safety and Road safety performance 17 environment 42 Road safety strategic framework 18 Our approach 43 Environmental leadership 45 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing 22 Governance and Gender diversity 23 benchmarking 48 Cultural diversity 25 Governance 49 Wellbeing 26 Ratings and benchmarking 50 Appendices 51 About this report 52 FY18 community grant recipients 53 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 02 Message from the CEO As we were preparing this year’s • continuing to prepare for the arrival of Sustainability Report, the NSW Government connected and automated vehicles, and chose a Transurban-led consortium as its in particular, testing how these vehicles partner to deliver the new 33 kilometres interact with our existing infrastructure WestConnex motorway. (SDG 9) With the acquisition of WestConnex • extending and enhancing our gender in September 2018, we now operate diversity and inclusion initiatives, 17 motorways across five geographical including a pay equity review (SDG 5) markets and have nine development • launching a carpooling challenge in projects under way. partnership with the Banksia Foundation Image: (SDG 11) Scott Charlton As a world-leading toll-road operator, we must set the highest standards in • achieving Infrastructure Sustainability Chief Executive Officer everything we do—and particularly in how ratings for two major Australian projects we are contributing to a more sustainable (SDG 11) future for people and our planet. • leading an industry push towards sustainable construction materials Everything we do from our multi-billion (SDG 12). dollar development projects to our grants programs for grassroots community groups This work is helping to provide more considers the lasting benefits that we can equitable access to mobility and deliver to make our cities better places in employment across communities, and which to live and to work. minimising the impact our motorways and projects have on the environment. In this, our approach is aligned with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Looking ahead to the 2018–19 financial year, Goals (SDGs), and we remain committed to we are refreshing our sustainability strategy the United Nations Global Compact. These to more clearly align our activities with the two global initiatives aim to address the SDGs and create new momentum for our world’s pressing social, environmental and own ambitious sustainability goals. We are economic challenges. Of the 17 SDGs, we also setting new performance targets to have identified nine that are particularly report on over time. Importantly, we are relevant to us—and we’ve been working looking to build and grow partnerships in to bring our operations further in line with our sector, both nationally and globally, these goals. to drive and accelerate progress towards achieving these goals. Some of our key sustainability achievements for FY18 include: • implementing a major program to meet the needs of customers experiencing financial hardship (SDG 11) Scott Charlton • making considerable progress towards Chief Executive Officer sustainable procurement processes, including considering modern slavery (SDG 8) FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 03 About our business Image (below): As cities in Australia and around the world A25 in Montreal, Canada grow, we give them room to move. Image (far right): By partnering with government, we provide Mini Tunnel Boring effective toll roads that help solve transport Machine (TBM) for the Roads Projects sewer diversion on the challenges. Giving people back valuable time they'd otherwise spend in traffic, AUSTRALIA West Gate Tunnel Project while easing demand on national budgets Victoria (we have invested or committed more than CityLink West Gate Tunnel $18 billion since 2012). CityLink Tulla Widening* Monash Freeway Upgrade* In business since 1996, we are now a New South Wales top 15 listed company on the Australian Securities Exchange with 14 roads in Cross City Tunnel NorthConnex Eastern Distributor WestConnex† Australia and three in North America. Hills M2 Lane Cove Tunnel Major changes in FY18 M5 South West Westlink M7 We acquired the A25 in Montreal, Canada, M4† a 7.2km toll road and bridge connecting Queensland Northern Montreal across the Rivière des Gateway Motorway Gateway Upgrade North Prairies to commercial and residential areas. Logan Motorway Logan Enhancement AirportlinkM7 Project We began construction on the West Gate Clem7 Inner City Bypass Tunnel Project in Melbourne, to provide a Legacy Way Go Between Bridge vital alternative to the West Gate Bridge and reduce peak travel time by up to 20 minutes. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Virginia 495 Express Lanes 395 Express Lanes 95 Express Lanes I-95 Fredericksburg Extension‡ CANADA Montreal A25 – * Project completed during FY18 † Acquired in FY19 ‡ In procurement FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 04 FY18 progress and performance towards the SDGs SDG 3 SDG 7 SDG 9 Good health Clean and Industry, innovation and wellbeing affordable energy and infrastructure • Transurban Road Safety Centre • 568,370 GJ energy consumption • two new Infrastructure partnership with NeuRA • 140 kW of renewable energy Sustainability ratings certified • 4.82 injury crashes per 100 million capacity on Transurban buildings Excellent kilometres travelled • registered for our first SDG 8 • 5.03 contractor injuries per Infrastructure Sustainability million hours Operations rating • 19,018 proactive health, safety • four automated vehicle trials and environment observations Decent work and underway or completed by employees economic growth • one innovation grant completed • 95 employees trained as Mental • over $1.6 billion in supply and two approaching completion Health First Aid Officers chain spend • 100 volunteers participated in • no significant pay gap between a tunnel evacuation exercise at SDG 5 male and female employees Eastern Distributor • 6,000 jobs created through Gender equality • 44 per cent female employees • major projects over $800 million of contracts with DBE/SWaM businesses in SDG 11 across the business Sustainable cities the USA • 45 per cent females in senior and communities • $123,000 committed to executive positions Aboriginal partnerships • 328,000 hours average workday travel time savings • 48 female students participated in our FEET mentoring program • $1.3 million in community investment • WGEA Employer of Choice for gender equality • 6,026 hours of employee volunteering • demand notice aggregation initiative will save our customers $36.5 million per year in fees • launched ‘Banksia Ignite’ carpooling innovation challenge FY18 2 Sustainability Report Transurban 05 new projects West Gate Tunnel in Victoria and A25 in Montreal SDG 12 2 Responsible consumption and production • 220,000 tonnes of EME2 used on the Logan Enhancement Project • began low carbon cement research partnership with completed projects Beyond Zero Emissions and Boral • hosted a sustainable materials CityLink Tulla Widening and forum in Queensland Monash Freeway Upgrade SDG 13 5 Climate action • targeting a 52 per cent reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 (compared with 2016) • risk reviews completed on all star GRESB rating Australian assets • on track to respond to the highest rated transport Task Force on Climate related infrastructure company Financial Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations by end of FY19 Here are a few things we are planning for FY19: • a revised sustainability strategy aligned more closely with the UN Sustainable Development Goals • a waste and materials strategy with targets and metrics • a published revised Climate Change strategy implementing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • a new Customer Investment framework • finishing our first Infrastructure Sustainability Operations rating for the Cross City Tunnel • integrating our new assets into our overall sustainability strategy. A report showing detailed progress against the UN Sustainable Development Goals is available to download here. 1 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 06 Customer and community FINISH More than five million customers use our roads and services each year and we’re striving to make sure these experiences are easy, safe and efficient. We’ve been streamlining our services and creating apps and using new technology to ensure our customers get the best value at every point in their journey. Building strong relationships with communities through anticipating, listening and responding to their needs, is an essential part of delivering benefits and managing some of the more challenging impacts associated with our business. $1.3M in community investment 6,026 hours of employee volunteering 328,000 hours average workday travel time savings FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 07 Stakeholder engagement We are focused on continually improving the ways we acknowledge, understand and respond to stakeholder areas of interest or concern. Key improvements in FY18: We work with six key stakeholder groups • empowering customer choice that are interested in and affected by through improving accessibility and different aspects of our business. transparency of information on travel options and costs We engage each of these stakeholder • exploring further ways to support groups through a variety of means those experiencing or vulnerable to confirm our understanding of key to hardship issues and opportunities and introduce • working with our government practical responses. partners to achieve better outcomes for all road users from infringement processes, particularly for those financially or socially vulnerable • simplifying information to help customers manage accounts and payments and minimise avoidable fees • continuing to enhance Transurban’s approach to engaging communities around our assets and projects. Community Customers Employees Government Investors Business partners Material and other relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals for this chapter FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 08 Customer service 5M With more than eight-and-a-half million people using our roads, an ongoing focus Australian customers and commitment to customer experience is now together on Linkt critical to our business. We continually look to improve our customers’ experience on 4.4/5 and off the road. Following the successful introduction of average customer the new Linkt retail brand in New South service rating Wales, this year we extended the Linkt brand and tools into Queensland and 94% Victoria—creating Australia's first national tolling brand. In FY18, our team resolved 94 per cent of customer queries during the first customer queries resolved during the first contact contact, which contributed to our achieving an average customer service rating of 4.4 out of five. Last year, we launched new toll payment management tools into our New South Wales market, along with the new Linkt brand. Our new Linkt-branded • ability to add and remove vehicles and tools include a mobile app and a usermake updates to personal details experience-enhanced website, along with improved fee structures, improved • major incident notification customer-focused communications and a • visual trip history display GPS-tolling experience app, LinktGO. We've • ability to view and export statements. also made significant improvements to our customer hardship program. The design of the app has been shaped by extensive research into customer needs and preferences, and we will continue to Linkt mobile app enhance it based on customer feedback. The Linkt mobile app now services all of our Response to the app has been positive with Australian customers. It's the first of its kind more than 400,000 downloads since it was in Queensland and has been well received launched. by customers who increasingly want to manage their toll-road travel through digital channels. In Victoria, the app replaced LinktGO mobile tolling the CityLink app and offered increased Launched in FY18, LinktGO is a worldfunctionality and improved experience. leading GPS-enabled tolling app for Key features of the new mobile app include: infrequent toll-road users. Our research found infrequent toll-road users are • simple login—supported by fingerprint often unfamiliar with toll road travel and and passcode options payments, and LinktGO was designed to • quick payments—with a swipe option for make it easier for these users to travel manual payments seamlessly on our roads. FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 09 LinktGO allows drivers to view stay up to date and avoid toll notices their toll travel at the end of their or fines. All data and information is Key fee changes journey and to pay trip-by-trip via stored securely. QUEENSLAND their smartphone, with no ongoing commitment. To use the app, LinktGO’s innovative and customer• removed the $1.19 retail customers register their vehicle centric approach has been service fee and provide their credit card details recognised with multiple design and • removed the $1.19 manual directly into the app. Using the app industry awards. top-up fee requires no paperwork, start-up • reduced the $47.78 tag nonFee changes costs or an e-Tag. And importantly, return fee to $15 the app does not require any user The FY18 transition to the Linkt brand • reduced the $3.59 fee for outinteraction while driving. in Queensland and Victoria came of-cycle statements to $2.75. with customer-friendly improvements LinktGO can also give users safety to our fees and charges. Customers warnings and includes built-in safety have shared feedback on our VICTORIA features that temporarily freeze the fees—and we’ve responded with a app—and delay trip completion • removed the $27.50 minimum clearer and easier to understand notifications—until the phone’s GPS annual payment fee fee structure. indicates the customer is no longer • removed the $3.50 additional moving at speed. As part of the changes, a cardtag holder fee payment surcharge was introduced. • reduced the 75c vehicle With LinktGO, customers are The surcharge is a straight passmatching fee to 55c covered to drive on toll roads across through of costs from our financial Australia. Even if their phone’s GPS • reduced the $55 tag non-return institution for payments by credit fee to $15 isn’t detected, or they forget their and debit cards. We have promoted phone or run out of battery, the app • reduced the $50 account startfee-free options (such as direct debit will record their trip details. Payment up credit requirement to $25. payments from their nominated bank reminder notifications help customers accounts) to our customers. Case study Voice of Customer program We expanded our Voice of Customer (VoC) program during FY18. This program uses a systematic and quantitative approach to better understand customer feedback, delivering unbiased insights into our customers’ experiences and their expectations of our services, products and processes. In FY18, we have included an online customer panel that provides feedback on various topics throughout the year, and customer immersion sessions where we invite customers into our control rooms for a tour and focus group sessions. VoC enables a greater focus on data-driven decision making, supported by deeper insights into customer sentiment. Insights from this program help ensure investments in customer experience are made in areas that will deliver the greatest value. Through VoC, we received around 250,000 pieces of individual feedback from customers during FY18. FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 10 Customer hardship Image (right): Helping customers who Workshop discussions to improve support for are experiencing payment customers experiencing difficulties hardship Customers are at the heart of our business and we continually strive to improve the way we serve and support them. We recognise that sometimes customers need additional support with payment difficulties. Transurban’s hardship policy is designed to help customers in financial difficulty due to special circumstances like homelessness, • a streamlined eligibility process where sudden or prolonged illness, chronic we can receive advice from community unemployment, caring responsibilities or organisations about their clients family violence. experiencing hardship • new information materials, designed Our policy is to help customers in financial to aid with understanding the support difficulty, including offering flexible options and payment options we offer to people to help them manage their payment experiencing financial hardship. obligations. We encourage customers experiencing payment difficulties to ask In FY19 we will continue with this work and for help as soon as possible. start implementing recommendations. Working with community Thriving Communities practitioners Partnership In FY18, we worked to enhance the In June 2018, we joined the Thriving way we detect and respond to financial Communities Partnership (TCP) as a vulnerability in the community, starting founding partner. This partnership with hosting workshops with communitycomprises utilities, financial services, based organisations that are already telecommunications and transport helping people in hardship. We met with organisations who are working together 50 community organisations across to build more resilient communities and Australia including community legal stronger businesses. services, financial counselling, emergency relief, and local and state government. Tolling debt is often just one of multiple debt obligations that burden vulnerable Following these workshops, we tested a people, and the TCP encourages a holistic range of options for reducing tolling debt, approach to helping customers in hardship including: circumstances. • employee training to enhance detection and response to customers in likely distress • a dedicated community practitioner line FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 11 Making tolling processes simpler Tolling legislation varies in each region and Our goal is to resolve all unpaid toll issues we work with governments to improve before they escalate to enforcement. In and simplify customer options. Following Victoria, as part of the proposed West Gate changes in New South Wales in FY17 when Tunnel Project legislation, we are advocating Linkt was first launched, this year we positive changes, including: simplified payments and notifications in • doubling the amount of time we have Queensland and Victoria. to identify and contact customers who have unpaid tolls Demand notice • ensuring only one infringement is issued aggregation process over a seven day period per license plate number Transurban Queensland launched a joint initiative with the Queensland Government • not referring unpaid tolls to infringement and Brisbane City Council to aggregate if a person has submitted a valid demand notices and the amount of fees that hardship application can rapidly increase for some motorists. • asking the state enforcement agency to discontinue or suspend infringement or Historically, Queensland legislation required court proceedings if a person applies a demand notice to be issued for each and is eligible for hardship. unpaid toll. The introduction of Demand Notice Aggregation (where one demand These changes will enable us to better help notice is issued for up to three days of people with toll payment difficulties and consecutive travel) in the last financial year avoid further issues. will result in an estimated 1.7 million fewer demand notices being issued to customers and a reduction of up to $36.5 million per year in fees. Changing toll enforcement processes In 2018 we worked with the Victorian State Government to change tolling enforcement processes to make it easier for people having difficulty paying their tolls to get help and avoid being fined. When tolls remain unpaid, we follow the processes agreed by the relevant regional authorities. This action may eventually lead to enforcement processes (such as infringement notices) managed by those authorities. FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 12 Strengthening communities Image (below): With 16 assets across three countries, The 21st Bridge-to-Brisbane charity fun Bridge to Brisbane and nine projects underway during run took 30,000 participants over our Video (below right): FY18, building strong relationships with Go Between Bridge. To help keep traffic Tiny Tunnellers school the communities around our assets is moving, despite major road closures, we holiday program at important so we can help cities thrive. waived tolls on our Clem7 tunnel. NorthConnex We build and support these relationships We donate 1c from every toll on the through partnerships, investment, Legacy Way tunnel in Brisbane to Legacy community grants, and engagement Australia with a minimum commitment of activities. Many of our initiatives are $100,000 for each financial year. This year featured in our In the Community website. we donated $100,000 to Legacy Australia’s Youth Development Program that helps $1.4M young people develop strong leadership Supporting communities skills and overcome personal career and through our road network educational challenges. raised on the Herald Sun/ CityLink Run for the Kids Every year, we use our roads to host and Celebrating the five year anniversary support causes close to the hearts of of the 495 Express Lanes, we awarded $100,000 communities. a US$10,000 anniversary grant to the The Herald Sun/CityLink Run for the Kids Emergency Medical Services Bike Team donated to fun run, is an annual event that raises from the Fairfax County Fire and Rescue Legacy Australia money for the Royal Children’s Hospital Department and the Vienna Volunteer Good Friday Appeal. This year the event Fire Department, to support their ongoing raised $1.4 million, bringing the total amount emergency response to citizens throughout raised for the appeal since the event began Fairfax County, Virginia. to more than $17 million. The fun run course We regularly light up our bridges in includes a section of our CityLink motorway Queensland and Victoria to support many in Melbourne. As well as making our road causes and awareness campaigns across available to the event, we also contributed the community. $60,000 to the appeal. FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 13 Community partnerships In FY18 we partnered with a number of organisations that deliver real benefits to communities, including: • NeuRA (Australia)—We partner with NeuRA and fund research into road safety and practical injury prevention via the Transurban Road Safety Centre. • Ronald McDonald House (Queensland)—Along with our corporate partners, we raised $175,000 for this charity at our annual Transurban Queensland Charity Day. • Australia’s CEO Challenge (Queensland)—We sponsored and participated in the 110km ‘Darkness to Daylight’ event in Brisbane, to raise awareness for those affected by domestic violence. • Orange Sky Showers (New South Wales)—We helped fund mobile shower facilities for people who are homeless in Sydney. • Indigenous Australian Engineering Summer School (New South Wales)—We sponsored this annual event, with several Transurban engineers also attending to provide Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students with the opportunity to experience engineering studies and understand what's involved in a career in this area. • Ryde Hunters Hill Community Transport Association (New South Wales)—We contributed to community vehicle and transportation costs to provide transport to people with specific transport needs due to their frailty, location, or disability. • Drive Link (Victoria)—This Moonee Valley City Council program gives migrants and refugees supervised driving experience to help them gain their licence. Transurban has sponsored DriveLink for several years. • Northern Virginia Family Service (USA)—We support this long-term community partner through sponsorship and staff volunteering. Video (top): Ronald McDonald House charity day Image (centre): Volunteering at the Darkness to Daylight event in Brisbane Video (right): Orange Sky showers FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 14 Image (right): Community grants Lending a hand near Moonee Ponds Creek (VIC) Every year, we give grants to Image (below): community organisations located Mural created with Berwick near our roads. Grants are awarded Lodge Primary School during to organisations working with the delivery of the Monash community in areas such as transport Freeway Upgrade project (VIC) and mobility, health, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage, 56 national parks, and education. The 395 Express Lanes Community community grants Grant Program is designed to awarded support organisations that sustain, enhance or protect the people, local environment and neighbourhoods in For another major, Melbourne-based the I-395 corridor. Among this year’s project, the CityLink Tulla Widening grant awardees was a student health Project, we provided a total of program at Mount Eagle Elementary $30,000 to six community groups in School in Alexandria, Virginia. The Melbourne’s north-west. All groups program empowers students to learn are working on sustainability-focused skills to live a healthy lifestyle with projects. a focus on mental health, nutrition, physical health and preventive care. Lending a hand In FY18 we awarded 56 community grants totalling over $200,000 across Transurban employees are supported Australia and the USA. to take one day of paid volunteering leave each year to contribute to a cause of their choice. In FY18, Community engagement Transurban employees volunteered Our West Gate Tunnel Project in 6,026 hours through this program. Melbourne is a major undertaking, We also partnered with Landcare encompassing a diverse range of Australia during employee communities. volunteering days to transform two As part of our community reserves along the Moonee Ponds engagement approach, we are Creek, a creek running alongside (and supporting Western Chances, a at some points, beneath) the CityLink non-profit organisation that offers motorway. scholarships to students aged 12 to 25 living in Melbourne's western suburbs. Western Chances scholarships help students buy laptops, Myki travel cards and textbooks to use in their studies, easing the financial burden of education and allowing them to complete their studies. FY18 Customer and community Sustainability Report Transurban 15 Case study Banksia Ignite Enabler challenge Every day we hear about—or experience first-hand—the pressures of living with traffic congestion. More people are driving, and many of our cities roads are choking as a result. With significant population growth and urbanisation across all of Australia's major cities, more and more people need to get around. This means we need to work out new ways to get the most out of our existing transport infrastructure. Carpooling is a solution that will simply get more people into less cars and this was an idea that we wanted to explore through the 2018 Banksia Ignite Enabler Challenge. We are specifically looking for solutions that address: • fair cost-sharing between drivers and passengers • safety concerns • flexible pick-up and drop-off arrangements • participation by different vehicle types • scalability to meet future demand. The competition runs until November 2018 and the best solution will be awarded a $15,000 prize. Transurban will work with one or more of the winners to develop their idea with the view to potentially piloting and implementing it. About the Banksia Ignite Enabler We were excited to partner with Transurban for the inaugural Banksia The Banksia Foundation is a non-profit that works with Ignite challenge which promises to industry and the community to promote excellence in deliver on SDG 11–Sustainable Cities sustainability. Banksia Ignite Enabler is the Foundation’s and Communities—helping make cities platform to generate creative crowd-based solutions more inclusive, resilient and sustainable for corporate Australia to help address the Sustainable by significantly increasing car-pooling Development Goals. on Australian toll-roads.” Through the Banksia Ignite Enabler program, participating Graz van Egmond corporate organisations partner with industry and CEO Banksia Foundation the community to solve some of their most pressing sustainability issues. 2 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 16 Safer roads We’re striving for injury-free roads and we design, build, maintain and manage our roads with this intent in mind. Our roads are among Australia’s safest, but we have a lot of work ahead of us in this challenging area. We have brought the globally recognised Safe System approach to road safety into our own thinking and, as well as investing in safer infrastructure, we also invest in public education and behaviour-change campaigns to promote safer driving behaviours. 6.4B More than 50–80% 4.82 lower rate of injury crashes crashes on our roads per 100 million compared to other kilometres travelled kilometres travelled on similar alternatives our roads FY18 Safer roads Sustainability Report Transurban 17 Road safety performance In FY18, the Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) across all Transurban assets was 4.82 injury crashes per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled, or 312 injury crashes in more than 6.4 billion vehicle kilometres travelled. Injury crashes were slightly lower in FY18 than FY17 (see table below), but were higher than our FY18 RICI target of 4.04. This result is lower than the peak in 2015, indicating the effectiveness of our continued road safety efforts despite increased travel by our customers. Three fatal road accidents occurred on our roads in FY18; two accidents involving passenger vehicles and one involving a motorcycle. To analyse injury crashes on our In line with the safe systemAustralian network and compare based strategies across outcomes with other similar roads, we Australia and around the engaged the Monash University Accident world, we recognise that Research Centre (MUARC). The project found that Transurban’s roads have road safety is a shared significantly fewer crashes than similar responsibility and we roads with New South Wales being proactively engage with our 80 percent lower, Victoria 81 per cent customers, partners and the lower and Queensland 53 per cent lower. community to make every journey a safe one. We continue to strive for fatality and injury free roads, using data and research to inform our road safety activities and action plans, and to improve the safety and performance of our networks. Historical and current road safety performance on Transurban assets is shown below. MEASURE FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY18 TARGET FY19 TARGET Material and other RICI 4.56 5.52 4.58 4.85 4.82 4.04 3.92 relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals A serious road injury crash is where any number of persons need treatment for a serious injury following a crash on for this chapter our roads. This entails any person taken to hospital in an ambulance following a crash. Incidents where individuals are assessed and released from medical care at the crash scene are not classified as serious injury crashes. Crashes are counted as single incidents even when involving multiple people. The Road Injury Crash Index (RICI) measures how many serious road injury crashes occur per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled. FY18 Safer roads Sustainability Report Transurban 18 Road safety strategic framework Transurban is focused on being a leader in road safety. We have a range of During FY18 we: measures in place to support the safety of • completed the Regional Road Safety our employees, contractors and customers Action Plans on our road networks. We’ve adopted • analysed of injury crashes on the Safe System approach to underpin Transurban’s Australian network our Road Safety Strategic Framework by Monash University Accident and the road safety action plans in each Research Centre of our operating regions. Our plans set • made a submission to the NSW out our goals and objectives, actions, and Staysafe Committee’s inquiry into performance measures. The Safe System heavy vehicle safety is about recognising human vulnerability, • made a submission to the sharing responsibility for road safety and Commonwealth’s inquiry into the creating a forgiving road system through National Road Safety Strategy. safe roads, safe vehicles, safe speed and safe people. Image (right): Road Safety Strategic Framework NT • COLLABORATIO GEME N • NGA • E AC CO ITY UN EGR TA T BI IN LI TY • IP • LE AD N ER IO SH AT OV N People in Acknowledge IN • ACCOUNTABILITY • IN safer vehicles human fallibility • INTEGRITY • ENGAG NITIES TH MMU ION Through safety features CO RO People make mistakes. UG HIP reduce the risk of crashing G They shouldn’t be IN H NO RAT EME and severity of injury seriously injured or lose • STREN ERS when a crash happens. RTtheir life because of this. GT SPO VAT HE AN NT TR O EAD N B ION LA RT • STREN • • L AN L H S PO GT CO TR IN • EN G H CO UG MM RO UNITIES TH Create a forgiving system Work together CO LL • AB Through safe design, build and Road safety is a shared O T RA MEN operate roads that help reduce responsibility—everyone has TI GE the risk of crashing and a role to play to keep our O protect road users when customers, community N ON • LEADER NOVATI crashes do happen. SHIP and employees safe. • • IN • ITY INT BIL EG TA RIT UN Y CO • AC EN GA FY18 Safer roads Sustainability Report Transurban 19 Trucks and vulnerable road users Transurban partnered with VicRoads, the Level Crossing Removal Authority and Rail Projects Victoria to take a proactive step towards eliminating serious injuries for vulnerable road users around major projects in Melbourne from increased construction truck movements. Forums with industry and peak groups identified four key safety issues on which to focus (truck standards, public engagement, route selection and traffic management). Initiatives in each of these areas have Case study delivered practical outcomes and this issue is now included in the updated Tunnel evacuation simulation National Road Safety Action Plan. at Eastern Distributor In March 2018, Transurban conducted a full-scale emergency simulation Road safety awareness exercise within the Eastern Distributor in NSW. To deliver on road safety initiatives The purpose of this exercise was to test the coordinated response and and improve incident response evacuation procedures for the motorway. Transurban arranged for key times, operating procedures and agencies including Police NSW, State Emergency Services, St John Ambulance, community awareness, we recognise Fire and Rescue NSW, Roads and Maritime Services, Transport Management partnerships with local governments, Centre and industry representatives to come together to conduct the exercise. emergency services and our The scenario, which involved more than 100 volunteers, plus almost the same operating partners are essential. number of logistics and support personnel, simulated a realistic significant incident within the tunnel, resulting in a mock fire and multiple accidents and We also work with the media to injuries, in turn leading to the scenario of significant major congestion on the educate the public about the safe broader road network. use of our roads. Encouraging safe behaviour, including proactive With over 125,000 motorists on average each day relying on the Eastern engagement with our customers, Distributor to get to where they need to go, regular testing and maintenance of partners and the community, is this critical infrastructure is important to ensure the safety of Sydney motorists. part of Transurban’s approach to During the exercise, Transurban also trialled new technology with the aim of road safety. ensuring motorists can evacuate as safely and efficiently as possible, including: • SMS broadcast messaging to communicate information to those within the tunnel • additional digital CCTV cameras in the emergency egresses • directional illuminated exit signs to better guide evacuees on foot to safety • LED strip lighting around the egress doors to improve visibility of the safe egress route. This exercise is part of a series of activities conducted by Transurban across its assets to demonstrate a world’s best practice approach to emergency response procedures and road safety. FY18 Safer roads Sustainability Report Transurban 20 Case study Orange Cones. No Phones Transurban, the Virginia Department of Transportation, Virginia State Police and AAA Mid-Atlantic, launched the “Orange Cones. No Phones.” campaign to reduce distracted driving within the 395 Express Lanes work zone. Orange cones A Transurban-led survey of more than 1,000 Washington D.C. area drivers who travel the I-395 corridor shows they self-report engaging in a number of distractions while behind the wheel. The top three mobile phone distractions reported among D.C. area drivers were using a phone to talk, checking GPS or travel planning, and reading a text message. More than half of the area's drivers report feeling unconcerned about using their phones to talk while behind the wheel, despite growing research that finds talking on a mobile phone is still dangerously distracting. The “Orange Cones. No Phones.” campaign aims to improve safety by reducing distracted driving within the 395 Express Lanes work zone. During FY18, we participated in, or • Queensland Road Safety Week supported, the following awareness with a key theme of speaking up campaigns: for road safety and focusing on • Yellow Ribbon National Road a different road safety issue daily. Safety Week where we promoted • Re:act Project an initiative of the key message, Drive so others Hard Edge in collaboration with survive . Swinburne University, providing • People Behind the Roads final year design students with campaign, showcasing the work industry experience to develop of Transurban’s people and a behaviour change campaign their expertise in keeping the targeting a road safety issue. network safe. • Phone Down, Chin Up , a • Orange cones. No phones Queensland Government co-lab campaign targeting distracted initiative targeting safe road use driving through a work zone on with young people. our USA network. Image (right): Re:act Project design students from Swinburne University FY18 Safer roads Sustainability Report Transurban 21 Case study Educating motorists about safe driving in tunnels To educate motorists about safe driving in tunnels, Transurban Queensland commenced a program of proactive media in FY18 with television and newspaper outlets in Brisbane. Some key themes that have been presented in the media stories include: • what to do in the unlikely event that you are involved in an incident in a tunnel • the role of incident response officers • the existence of tunnel control centres and their role in managing tunnels • CCTV footage of unsafe driving behaviour in tunnels to educate motorists of what ‘not to do’ • the technology in tunnels that helps drivers have a safe, efficient journey. NeuRA Partnership Transurban, in partnership with Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA), established the Transurban Road Safety Centre during FY17. NeuRA is one of the world’s leading centres of neuroscience research. The Transurban Road Safety Centre is equipped with a state-of-the-art crash sled that enables test speeds of up to 64 km/h, replicating real-world crash conditions. The Transurban Road Safety Centre seeks to alleviate the significant impact of lives lost and serious injury on our roads. The new state of the art facilities provide researchers the opportunity to undertake critical research in emerging issues and to address road trauma both in Australia and internationally. A new research program started in FY18 with initial results due by the end of 2018. 3 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 22 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Every member of our workforce, whether that’s our employees or parts of our supply chain, brings individual skills, perspectives, backgrounds and experiences to work every day. Our diversity strategy is about creating a work environment that respects, supports and values difference. We aim to have a lively, inspiring and safe workplace where everyone can perform at their best. 44% of our total workforce 95 employees qualified as Mental Health First Aid Officers $123,000 of funding committed to support Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander organisations are women FY18 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Sustainability Report Transurban 23 Gender diversity Transurban employs around 2,000 people of Choice for Gender Equality. We have also across Australia and North America, and recently been ranked by Equileap in the top our major construction projects provide 200 companies globally for gender balance employment to over 6,000 contractors. and gender equality. The proportion of women and men across our permanent workforce are 44 per cent versus 56 per cent; within our senior executive the split is 45 per cent versus 55 per cent and our Company Board Permanent workforce 56% 44% 30 per cent versus 70 per cent. Our gender equity policies and programs are ensuring everyone has opportunities for career development. Transurban’s diversity objectives include the Senior Executive goal of achieving gender equity throughout the organisation, from senior executives to our overall workforce and to ensure our 55% 45% processes support this ambition. Our efforts are proving effective. For Board the past four years, the Australian Government’s Women’s Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) has named us an Employer 70% 30% Case study Emma-Lee Wood Engineer, Project Delivery Transurban Queensland “I joined Transurban through the Graduate Development Program in 2016. Transurban has tailored my early-career experience by allowing me to Material and other follow my interests and develop practical skills. relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals I developed business skills by working on Transurban for this chapter Queensland’s Business Plan. I then spent the following six months on the Gateway Upgrade North project, learning about construction and site safety. I’m now managing maintenance projects on the fire suppression systems in Brisbane’s tunnels. It’s exciting to be building diverse engineering knowledge.” FY18 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Sustainability Report Transurban 24 Equal pay reviews Every 12 months we review our performance on gender-pay equity. Women in leadership Our 2018 review identified no significant pay gap between male Launched in 2014, more than 50 female Transurban employees have and female employees across the completed our Women in Leadership training program. A further 15 employees organisation. participated in the program this year. Inspiring a new generation of female engineers FEET mentorship program the Lane Cove Tunnel and Hills M2 Asset Manager to see what it takes We’re passionate about creating Transurban opened its doors to to manage and maintain busy pathways to support women entering 48 female students from across motorways. and excelling in engineering and Australia through the 2018 technology. summer and winter intakes of our “I’m trying to find more handsFemales Excelling in Engineering on experience before I finish my We’re doing this by: and Technology (FEET) mentoring degree and this program is perfect,” • providing the Females Excelling program. Chantelle said. in Engineering and Technology (FEET) mentoring program. The program offers students 35 hours In Queensland, students were (Read more about FEET in the of one-on-one mentoring, as well as a placed across multiple assets and in next section) tour of an asset in each state and the Queensland Business Operations. • hosting tunnel tours for groups of opportunity to meet with our Group Civil Engineering student Amelia female secondary school students Executives. Tenaglia completed her mentoring during Careers Week, sharing In New South Wales nine students with the National Business Advisor insights on motorway operation were placed with mentors from for Operational Excellence. and highlighting the rewarding various divisions including Risk career opportunities that are “I’m really enjoying meeting such Management, Project Delivery, available to engineers a broad range of people. It’s great Technology and Asset Management. to see how everyone collaborates • awarding Transurban Women in Fourth year Engineering and from all areas of the business to Engineering Scholarships through Construction student Chantelle manage such massive roads and universities in both Sydney and Yousif and first year Civil Engineering infrastructure,” Amelia said. Melbourne student Sue Lay Yoong worked with • supporting Power of Engineering, a non-profit organisation focused on showcasing the diverse career opportunities available to engineers. The program targets female urban, regional and Aboriginal students. FY18 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Sustainability Report Transurban 25 Cultural diversity 70 We acknowledge Traditional Owners of Country throughout Australia and recognise the continuing connection to lands, waters employees completed Cultural Awareness and communities. We pay our respect to Training Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures; and to Elders both past and present. $123,000 The acknowledgement, respect and proud celebration of Aboriginal and Torres committed to Aboriginal Strait Islander cultures is a key focus of and Torres Strait Islander Transurban’s Reconciliation Action Plan Organisations National reconciliation week —we want to see these qualities demonstrated at all times by both our Each year, Transurban hosts events across 4 employees and our business partners. We also want to see equitable standards of its Australian offices. In FY18 these events included: interns hosted as living and social mobility for Aboriginal and • a panel discussion on the theme ‘Don’t part of the non-profit Torres Strait Islander peoples. Keep History a Mystery’, hosted in CareerTrackers indigenous Launched in 2014, our Australian partnership with AECOM and KPMG internship program Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) uses a • a didgeridoo performance and a market holistic approach to create meaningful stall run by the Indigenous-owned relationships, enhance respect and promote Kakadu Plum, selling indigenous foods opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres • screening The Apology short film for Strait Islander peoples. The plan guides the New South Wales employees development of opportunities and advance reconciliation. • a Welcome to Country and dance performance by the Aboriginal Centre for Performing Arts. Partnerships Case study To support local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Genesys Works, changing Islander organisations, we have committed the lives of under-represented a minimum of $123,000 in funding minority youths in Virginia (arrangements will be finalised in FY19) to be provided over the next three years. We are proud to partner with Genesys Works, a not-for-profit social enterprise So far, we have signed commitment letters focused on changing the lives of underwith three individual organisations: represented minority high school students • The Aboriginal Centre for the through providing meaningful work Performance Arts (ACPA) in Queensland experience. • The Clontarf Foundation—exists Every August we welcome a high school to improve opportunity for young student to join our business for a year Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander men via a part-time internship, and we also to participate meaningfully in society provide ongoing mentoring. • Bubup Wilam—an Aboriginal Child and Family Centre in Melbourne’s north. FY18 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Sustainability Report Transurban 26 Wellbeing 84% Mental health resilience and support Flexible working Just as our wellbeing program supports of our people said that they have the flexibility All our employees are encouraged to take the health of our employees, our flexible to manage their working opportunities to improve their mental ways of working help employees balance responsibilities and resilience. As well as working to remove the their work and home lives. People’s maintain a healthy stigma around mental health issues, we circumstances, priorities and flexibility balance also offer: needs are ever-changing, and offering flexibility in how our employees work • counselling via our free employee makes a balanced life easier to achieve. assist program • training in mental health first aid, now A pulse survey (April 2018) indicated completed by 95 employees across more than 84 per cent of our people have our offices. the flexibility to manage their working responsibilities in a way that allows them to During FY18 we also: maintain a healthy balance between their • supported World Mental Health Day work and personal life. and RUOK? Day by hosting events and Our employees use flexible working for a encouraging employees to talk about range of purposes including: their overall wellbeing or mental health with their colleagues • attending courses and training • hosted mindfulness workshops to • improving their mental wellbeing help employees manage stress and • recovering from injuries build resilience through relaxation and • looking after and picking up children mindfulness techniques • caring for and supporting elderly parents • ran strengthening resilient mindset training to arm employees with practical • attending university studies, to enhance skills to manage stress and improve their knowledge and advance career emotional resilience progression. • ran Leader Wellbeing at Work Training Flexible Work Day to help our people leaders recognise mental health issues in the workplace During FY18 we hosted a Flexible Work Day, and refer employees to appropriate an event promoting our flexible working support. options, including part-time work, flexible hours, working from home, job sharing and lifestyle leave, and the various technology available to support our workforce. Transurban’s Mind Wellbeing Image (right): Program was a finalist in the Chathurika, Graduate 2017 Allan Fels AO Mental Project Engineer, works part time while studying a Health in the Workplace combined civil engineering Award. and law degree FY18 Diversity, inclusion and wellbeing Sustainability Report Transurban 27 Domestic violence awareness Transurban’s Domestic Violence Support Policy gives affected employees access to: • domestic violence leave entitlements • counselling services • flexible working options to give the employee time to manage legal matters, make alternate housing arrangements, arrange childcare and attend relevant appointments. As well as providing formal support for employees experiencing domestic violence, our policy also advocates for a working environment modelling non-violent and respectful working relationships. The lights on Brisbane's Sir Leo Hielscher Bridges and Melbourne’s Domestic violence Bolte Bridge were coloured orange awareness training as part of the United Nation’s 16 days During FY18 we also: of activism against gender-based Australia’s CEO Challenge is a nonviolence campaign. • conducted domestic violence profit organisation that partners with support training for employees workplaces to train employees in The ‘Orange the world’ campaign aims • provided Brisbane children domestic violence awareness. During to raise awareness about violence living in independent refuges FY18, we hosted domestic violence against women and mobilise people with backpacks in time for the awareness training at our Australian to bring about change. The campaign new school year offices. commenced on 25 November • supported White Ribbon Day, 2017, with the International Day for a national campaign to prevent The training was designed to give the Elimination of Violence against men’s violence against women. our employees the tools necessary Women, and buildings across the to recognise domestic violence, to globe were illuminated in orange to respond effectively and to refer share the message. appropriately. The training will empower our employees to help each other if needed, as well as friends or family members who are affected by domestic violence. Image (right): We lit our bridges orange as part of the United Nations 'Orange the world' campaign— raising awareness of gender based violence 4 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 28 Energy and climate change Cities and communities around the world are already experiencing the impacts of climate change. By managing our energy use and consumption of resources, goods and services, we can create operational efficiencies that reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We’re also looking for ways to reduce our indirect emissions—like those generated by contractors, suppliers and from our customers travelling on our roads. Importantly, we have started the journey to put the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate related Financial Disclosures into practice. 52% Targeting * 140kW 123,545 of renewable tCO2e Scope 1 and 2 energy capacity on GHG emissions in FY18 Transurban buildings reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030 * Compared with 2016 FY18 Energy and climate change Sustainability Report Transurban 29 Energy performance 52% Managing our energy needs, and managing our consumption of resources, goods and FY18 key figures: GHG emission reduction services, are key to our success in creating • 568,370 GJ energy consumption by 2030 operational efficiencies and reducing our • 123,545 tCO2e Scope 1 and 2 GHG (compared to 2016) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and emissions climate change impacts. 10% • committed to a 52 per cent reduction in We have set two key targets to support our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030 long-term goal of carbon neutrality, and to • 140 kW of installed renewable energy reduction reduce risk and drive innovation. electricity generation capacity by 2023 (compared to 2013) • Scope 3 GHG emissions mapped across Energy management full supply chain • Clem7 ventilation trials: six months Transurban’s energy needs include fuel for of successful implementation, operations and maintenance activities, and commitment to saving 300 GJ of energy and avoiding electricity for lighting, tunnel ventilation 236 tCO2e. address the TCFD and offices. recommendations In FY18, our electricity use continued to decrease year-on-year while the extent Transurban annual energy use of our operations increased. However, 600,000 this energy reduction was offset by a significant increase in fuel usage. Reported 500,000 fuel usage across our North American Annual energy use (GJ) assets increased significantly as a result of 400,000 improved contractor reporting processes and expanded operations. Our overall 300,000 energy use increased in FY18 and is currently tracking above our long term 200,000 10 per cent reduction target. 100,000 Video (right): Several significant energy-reduction Our greenhouse gas projects were initiated in FY18 including: a 0 reduction target Clem7 ventilation trial; Lane Cove Tunnel FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 ventilation study; and Cross City Tunnel and Scope 2 Scope 1 CityLink ventilation-optimisation studies. 10 in 10 Target (Scope 1 and 2) These projects, and follow-on initiatives, 10 in 10 Target pathway are expected to deliver significant energy reductions once fully implemented during the next two years and bring us back in line Material and other with our target. relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals ENERGY FY17 FY18 for this chapter Scope 1 (fuel) 39,483 GJ 53,412 GJ Scope 2 (electricity) 517,085 GJ 514,958 GJ Scope 1 and 2 556,568 GJ 568,370 GJ FY18 Energy and climate change Sustainability Report Transurban 30 Case study Clem7 energy and greenhouse gas saving initiative 38% In FY18 we began a two-year trial of an alternative ventilation strategy for Clem7. The first six months of this trial have produced promising results, delivering energy reduction in axial fan run and GHG savings without affecting air quality. Successful times forecasted (FY18) delivery of the trial and full implementation is forecast to deliver a 38 per cent reduction in axial fan run times and GHG reductions of 945 tCO2e per annum. Greenhouse gas emissions These long-term initiatives will ensure we reduce the carbon intensity of our supply chain into the future as Scope 1 and 2 well as reduce our exposure to carbon-sensitive products and services. In FY18, our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were 123,545 tCO2e, similar to the previous year. GHG EMISSIONS FY17 FY18 Scope 1 emissions from fuel grew in FY18 due to Scope 1 (fuel) 2,746 tCO2e 3,697 tCO2e increased operations and maintenance activity on some Scope 2 (electricity) 120,528 tCO2e 119,848 tCO2e of our assets. Fuel usage can vary significantly each year Scope 1 and 2 123,274 tCO2e 123,545 tCO2e with infrequent or one-off activities. We therefore expect our fuel emissions levels will continue to fluctuate over the (Excludes M5 and M7) long term. Scope 2 emissions from electricity decreased in FY18. The decrease was driven by several small lighting upgrades and operational improvements. Electricity usage Trip Compare tool— represents 97 per cent of Transurban’s total emissions and we expect these emissions will decrease significantly Customer vehicle emissions over time as we continue implementing long-term energy In FY18, we estimate that vehicles on Transurban roads reduction and procurement initiatives. produced almost 1,000,000 tCO2e. Scope 3 This is about eight times more than GHG emissions from our own operations, and represents an opportunity for Our current GHG emissions reduction target focuses on us to ensure our road networks are efficient. Efficient direct Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Expanding our focus to roads help reduce customer emissions, as vehicles include Scope 3 (supply chain) emissions will ensure we travelling in free-flowing traffic at higher cruising are managing—and accountable for—the full impact of speeds operate more efficiently (and produce less GHG our operations, and will inform our activities in driving emissions) compared to slow or stop-start traffic. reductions throughout our supply chain. In 2018 we released a Trip Compare tool for CityLink that enables customers to visualise time, fuel and GHG In FY18 we undertook significant mapping of our supply emissions savings when using a Transurban toll road chain impacts, including the GHG intensity of our supply compared to alternative routes. Customers can choose chain. This mapping will enable us to set additional targets to take the most efficient, free-flowing route, therefore and work with our supply chain partners on initiatives to reducing their emissions. The tool provides transparency reduce emissions for key products and services with high with live traffic conditions, enabling customers to make GHG impacts. an informed choice. (Excludes M5 and M7) FY18 Energy and climate change Sustainability Report Transurban 31 Climate change management The impacts of climate change are Responding to the TCFD intensified through human actions. We accept and support the Intergovernmental recommendations Panel on Climate Change position on climate In response to the TCFD recommendations, futures and projections and are working we have kicked off a project to improve our towards addressing the United Nations approach to climate impact management Sustainable Development Goal 13: “Take and disclosures. urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”. During FY18, we ran workshops with our various asset teams with the goal of taking We also support the implementation of a fresh look at climate-related impacts the recommendations of the Task Force on across our portfolio. Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and have begun activities to address the A range of potential physical and transitional recommendations. risks were identified, including: • workforce wellbeing during heat and Our approach weather events • changing driver behaviour and traffic In 2012, we published a Climate Change flow in response to weather, policy Strategy and set an internal agenda that changes and shifts in technology made climate-related impacts a priority for the business. • changing energy markets and pressure on electricity grids. We manage climate risks, including both threats and opportunities, via our In FY19 we will consider the identified Enterprise Risk Management Framework impacts under various future climate and have metrics in place to monitor scenarios and re-assess our risks before and track our progress, including a refreshing our Climate Change Strategy. science-based greenhouse gas emissions We will start to include climate related reduction target to reduce Scope 1 and financial disclosures in corporate financial Scope 2 emissions by 52 per cent by 2030, reporting from FY20. compared to 2016 levels. During the coming years, we will continue to take action against climate change, by reducing our ongoing emissions and managing impacts through the design and construction of major projects. We are also actioning the TCFD’s recommendations and will be making appropriate changes to our current approach to climate change. 5 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 32 Sustainable procurement In FY18, we spent around $1.6 billion across 1,700 external suppliers in our day-to-day operations and major construction projects. To co-create greater social and sustainability benefits through our procurement activities, we are working closely with these key suppliers, as well as with like-minded industry partners and non-government organisations. Our sustainable procurement approach is now informed by the International Guidance Standard on Sustainable Procurement (ISO 20400: 2017) and also anticipates the introduction of Australia’s first Modern Slavery Act. $1.6B More than US dollar ISO— $800M 20400 contracts with DBE/ Striving for SWaM business in alignment the USA to date in supply chain spend FY18 Sustainable procurement Sustainability Report Transurban 33 Aiming for supply chain excellence Our day-to-day operations and major The International Standards Organisation construction projects together require the defines sustainable procurement as services of thousands of external suppliers. making purchasing decisions that meet an organisation’s needs for goods and During FY18, we directly engaged more than services in a way that benefits not only 1,700 suppliers across both our Australian the organisation but also society as a and USA operations. We work with suppliers whole—while minimising any impacts on when buying goods and services, and when the environment. Given the significant we’re procuring major, contractor-managed role suppliers play in our operations, we infrastructure development projects. are taking steps to help our supply chain During FY18, our supply-chain spend enhance its sustainability. was more than $1.6 billion and close to One example of our approach to achieving 70 per cent of our total annual spend was excellence in our supply chain is our on capital expenditure (such as major partnership with Ability Works. This social infrastructure projects). enterprise employs, trains and supports Last year, the first International Guidance people with disabilities. Since 2011, Ability Standard on Sustainable Procurement Works employees have supported our (ISO 20400) was published, and during e-Tag processing and mail-house-sorting FY18, we began the work of aligning our operations. In that time, the Ability procurement practices with this new Works team has processed more than Material and other 500,000 e-Tags and sorted more than one relevant UN Sustainable standard. In May 2018, the Australian Government announced its intention to million mail articles. Our partnership with Development Goals introduce Australia’s first Modern Slavery Ability Works has created local jobs with for this chapter Act, and we have started working with our real social value. suppliers in anticipation of this new Act. FY18 Sustainable procurement Sustainability Report Transurban 34 During FY18, we began working both internally and with our suppliers to better integrate sustainability considerations into all of our procurement policies and processes. These improvements will help us work smarter and more effectively, and will help us generate more sustainable outcomes and benefits via our supply chain. So far, we have refreshed our Procurement Policy, Supplier Sustainability Code of Practice and our Sourcing Toolkit to align with Case study ISO 20400. This will help us better leverage and direct our supplier Prompt payment for small businesses spend in sustainable ways. During FY18, we signed the Business Council of Australia’s Supplier Payment Our Supplier Sustainability Code Code. This voluntary code is an industry-led initiative that enshrines the of Practice now sets governance, importance of prompt and on-time payment for small business suppliers. The community, environmental code requires compliance with best-practice standards in engaging the services management, social responsibility and of small businesses. supply chain criteria for all suppliers working with Transurban. Further, our tender and contract management processes include environmental, sustainability and safety expectations specific to each contract. Case study Kulbardi, long term During FY19, we will conduct pilot projects to test supplier for corporate further sustainable procurement initiatives. stationery printing The upcoming Australian Government’s Modern Slavery Act will undoubtedly In June 2018, we appointed Kulbardi lead us to further refine our procurement processes to ensure our suppliers as our supplier of business cards understand the requirements and partner with us to stamp out instances of and corporate stationery printing. modern slavery. Kulbardi is a Supply Nation-verified Indigenous business. Kulbardi also supports Indigenous communities through its Kulbardi Fund that invests in targeted community projects. FY18 Sustainable procurement Sustainability Report Transurban 35 Supporting small, women owned and minority owned businesses in the USA To help us finance, deliver, operate and maintain transportation solutions that help growing communities get moving, we encourage diversity in partnerships that provide critical business services. In North America, we engage with federal and local governments to strengthen contracting opportunities with Small, Women-owned, and Minority-owned Business (SWaM) and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) programs. To date, Transurban has spent over $800 million in contracts with DBE/SWaM suppliers that are helping to ensure a level playing field and boosting the local economy. One example of our approach is Tolson Consulting. As a SWaM certified business in Virginia USA, Tolson Consulting (previously FreeAhead) is led by Robert Tolson and has been delivering Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) services across Transurban’s 40-mile network of Express Lanes for over a decade—including tolling and ITS equipment, communications infrastructure and technology integration with office and traffic management systems. “Working with an organization that is investing in all resources—both Mr Tolson’s thirty years of global ITS experience workforce and technology—to and unique local knowledge of Northern Virginia’s successfully deliver projects safely, on legacy infrastructure systems has been integral to time and on budget has been a highlight the delivery of the 495 and 95 Express Lanes, and of my career. Transurban views its ongoing development of the 395 Express Lanes and contractors as vital members of the Fredericksburg Extension project. organization and as key contributors Tolson credits Virginia’s SWaM program with allowing him to all lines of success, which has kept the opportunity to build his business in his own backyard me personally invested and committed —keeping him invested and integrated within the local to the long-term operations of these Northern Virginia market. With a decade-long partnership, projects.” Mr. Tolson’s longstanding contract with Transurban Robert Tolson exemplifies the combined value diversity programs can President of Tolson Consulting deliver when matching large public-private investments with local and diverse expertise. $US800M contracts with DBE/SWaM business in the USA to date 6 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 36 Innovation In the near future, transport technology will have a huge impact across the sector—and society in general. We are working to get our roads and operations ready for the changes to come, in particular the arrival of connected and automated vehicles. The technological innovations these vehicles will bring to our roads mean innovative thinking is needed now. We’re partnering with industry, government and our suppliers to develop and use innovative technology and materials. 4 automated vehicle trials 17.5% less asphalt used on the Logan Enhancement Project as a result of using EME2 3 partners working on low carbon cement research across Australia and the USA FY18 Innovation Sustainability Report Transurban 37 Materials Materials we use in construction can Research potentially affect the environment and nearby communities for the full life-cycle Cement is our most significant source of of a project, in both positive and negative embodied emissions. Identifying ways ways. To manage these impacts, and to minimise the amount of cement we make the most of opportunities, we look use in the construction, operations and for—and often implement—new and maintenance of our roads is critical to innovative solutions for materials use on reducing the impact these embodied our development projects. emissions have on our environment. In FY19 we will implement a number of We have partnered with Beyond initiatives, including a sustainable materials Zero Emissions and Boral—one of strategy, to improve the way we integrate Australia's largest cement producers— sustainable materials into the development to investigate opportunities to reduce and operation of our assets. embodied emissions in cement and to explore opportunities to use more materials currently treated as waste. Industry engagement This collaboration will: In May 2018, with the Infrastructure • identify the potential to reduce Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA), emissions from cement use in Australian we co-hosted an industry forum on urban motorways the use of sustainable materials in • explain the potential to use more waste Queensland road construction, focusing products in cement in Australian urban on the challenges and opportunities these motorways materials can generate. • describe the barriers to achieving this More than 60 government, industry and potential supply chain representatives attended. • propose solutions for tackling these The insights and actions forum members barriers, including recommendations for discussed presented real opportunities Transurban and others. to reduce the environmental and social impact of Queensland’s new infrastructure projects. Sustainable materials Attendees showed both willingness and Supporting the development and the ability to make meaningful changes in implementation of new and innovative how construction materials are specified products and materials is a critical and used. component of our strategy to reduce our overall materials footprint. In FY19, we will be publishing an industry paper with the outcomes and key In FY18, we have expanded our use of Material and other EME2 pavement and followed through with recommendations from this forum. relevant UN Sustainable integrating a high proportion of cement Development Goals substitution on NorthConnex. for this chapter FY18 Innovation Sustainability Report Transurban 38 Innovative pavement use Continuing with our commitment to innovative materials in Queensland, this year we have significantly expanded our use of EME2. The Logan Enhancement Project will be among the first projects in Australia to use this product and is planning to roll out the material over approximately 8–10kms of heavily trafficked road. Current estimates suggest the overall thickness of asphalt will be reduced by 17.5 per cent, saving approximately 62,000 tonnes of asphalt. Cement substitution on NorthConnex Through the use of a bespoke batch plant at Mount Kuring-gai, the NorthConnex project will substitute up to 60 per cent of the total cement required for the project with recycled by-products such as fly ash. Sixty per cent cement substitution will be achieved across a variety of different concrete designs and is expected to reduce carbon emissions by up to 64,000 tonnes. Using recycling materials The team on the Monash Freeway Upgrade implemented a range of sustainability initiatives. The project used 70,000 tonnes of crushed recycled concrete and brick products in place of crushed rock in pavement layers. Approximately 600m of recycled HDPE stormwater pipes was also used in place of reinforced concrete pipes. This is equivalent to reusing the material from 200,000 two-litremilk bottles. High Modulus Asphalt (EME2) was developed in the 1980s and is an alternative asphalt mix which can be constructed using thinner layers and has the potential to improve efficiency, reduce environmental impacts and Image (top): maintenance costs, and improve longEME2 being used on the term durability. Logan Enhancement Project Image (bottom): Inside NorthConnex FY18 Innovation Sustainability Report Transurban 39 Innovation grants In FY17, three innovation grants were awarded under our Innovation Grants Program. These projects have progressed throughout FY18 with one completed and the remaining two due to be completed by the end of 2018. From FY18 we have discontinued the grants program and instead, are pursuing individual partnerships, collaborations and research. Eyes on the road: Intelligent smart sensors for road safety Case study Partner: Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Melbourne Smart highways startup challenge The aim of this project was to design and develop a low cost sustainable technology In FY17, we partnered with global startthat can reduce accidents due to drivers up incubator Union to identify solutions to improve the roads and networks exceeding the speed limit in dangerous or we manage. Six start-ups with new accident prone locations. technologies and business models were The team have developed a solar powered selected to participate in a three-month incubation program where we worked sensor based system that gives real-time in partnership to improve their products feedback on vehicle speeds, using flashing through real life testing and take their lights, that warns drivers to slow down. start-ups to the next level. Multiple test in labs and on road have been carried out and the system is currently being refined based on the results obtained. Improving roadside wire barriers Graphene pressure sensor The main aim of this project was to develop a new crash barrier that reduced the risk Partner: Institute for Frontier Materials, Deakin University of injuries for motorcyclists in impacts with wire rope barriers. Traditional crash This grant was awarded to support the trial barriers have reduced injury risk for vehicle of a graphene pressure sensor that, when occupants but in some situations they integrated into the motorway surface, could constitute an additional injury hazard for potentially enable a ‘smarter’ road capable motorcyclists. of reporting on traffic density, weight, volume and road surface condition. This study focused on options for materials, overall performance and development Image (above): All phases of this project are now complete opportunities. The developed prototype Solar powered sensors and the final concept, which was a multibarrier can be installed over existing wire that give real-time layered cold mix asphalt pad with sensors rope barriers and is now ready to progress feedback on vehicle (3m2), has successfully detected and to commercialisation, impact testing and speeds recorded the weight of moving loads. motorcycle crash testing. FY18 Innovation Sustainability Report Transurban 40 Creating future-ready infrastructure Automated vehicles have great potential to make road journeys safer and more efficient, and to help the community travel with greater ease, including people with limited mobility. As human error contributes to more than 90 per cent of crashes, automated vehicles are an important step towards reducing road trauma. Cars that can steer themselves, recognise speed limits and manage their speed are already driving on Australia’s roads. To prepare for the expected influx of connected and automated vehicles (CAVs), we’ve designed and rolled out trial programs across North America and Australia. CAV activities AUGUST 2017 – APRIL 2018 AUGUST 2017+ MARCH – DECEMBER 2018 VIC Partial Automation Trials Market Research NSW Partial Automation Trials Launched in 2016, the trial is a We’re conducting a market research Building on the approach and the partnership with the Victorian program to examine community learnings from the Victorian trials, Government, VicRoads and the Royal attitudes to various aspects of similar trials have been conducted Automobile Club of Victoria (RACV), automated driving. around the Sydney Orbital Network. with vehicles supplied by Audi, BMW, In March we launched trials in Mazda, Mercedes, Tesla and Volvo. This research highlights that as partnership with Roads and Maritime CAVs become more commonplace, Services and Transport for NSW. This trial recorded more than industry and government need to 6,500 observations from 12 vehicles on build community understanding of the Trial data is being captured via an the Monash, CityLink and Tullamarine safe use of automated technology. Australian-first, purpose-built app motorways in Melbourne. that tracks, records and measures all interactions between CAVs and road The trial identified a number of infrastructure. challenges for vehicle manufacturers, infrastructure providers and regulators to consider and overcome in order to safely operate CAVs on the roads. FY18 Innovation Sustainability Report Transurban 41 In conjunction with government and industry partners, we’ve designed trials that are safe and comply with regulations. Our aim is to identify genuine insights specific to our motorway environment and to share our findings and recommendations with the wider community in an accessible manner. cavs.transurban.com APRIL – JUNE 2018 JUNE 2018+ AUGUST 2018+ VIC Highly Automated Vehicle Trials North America Where to from here In June we demonstrated the Bosch Transurban has partnered with the In the next phases of the trial program, TAC Highly Automated Driving (HAD) USA Federal Highway Administration we will build on the learnings from vehicle on CityLink in live traffic at to use vehicle-to-vehicle and vehiclethis first year, extending trials to motorway speed—for the first time on to-infrastructure communications Queensland and introducing more an Australian motorway. This vehicle to demonstrate platooning, speed highly automated vehicles and differs from the production vehicles harmonisation and cooperative connected vehicle communications. involved in our partial automation trials merging on I-95 Express Lanes. in Victoria and New South Wales. In We look forward to sharing further addition to using cameras and radar, details of these trials as they become it also deploys LIDAR, high-precision available, and welcome further maps and driver monitoring. industry collaboration to accelerate the introduction of these important These trials helped inform us about the new technologies. ways in which these more advanced vehicles need to be adapted to suit our local motorway environments, and provide some indication of what to expect from automated cars, when they become commercially available in the future. Also, by taking community members in this highly automated vehicle as part of our research program we learned more about community attitudes to automated driving. 7 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 42 Health, safety and environment STOP As a transport and infrastructure company, we operate in environments where, if something goes wrong safety-wise, it can have serious consequences. We take safety for all employees, customers and contractors very seriously and we work hard to create working environments that are healthy and safe for everyone. This includes working to support the health of the environment itself—including protections for flora, fauna and waterways. 19,018 proactive HSE observations 5.03 recordable contractor injuries per one million hours 0 recordable employee injuries per one million hours by employees FY18 Health, safety and environment Sustainability Report Transurban 43 Our approach Image (below right): Our HSE Strategic Plan is aligned with our Transurban Head of Risk HSE Policy and includes a series of actions Karl Davey accepting to build on our HSE performance, including the Asia Pacific Strategic identifying opportunities for improvement, Risk Award During FY18, we introduced and the creation and consolidation of a high-performing HSE culture. HSE initiatives including: • introducing a Fitness for Work Framework to ensure our employees are able to perform their duties effectively and in a manner that does not increase the risk to themselves or others • establishing HSE Minimum Health, Safety and Requirements that define the key Environment Strategic Plan controls required to manage key HSE risks and benchmark HSE LEADERSHIP AND CAPABILITY expectations for our contractors Build the HSE leadership and capability of • launching new HSE Induction Modules our people at all levels of the business. to ensure a consistent approach to SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES HSE across our business Ensure HSE systems and processes are • further enhancing our Enterprise delivered to drive continual improvements Risk Management (ERM) approach beyond compliance. to improve the identification and management of opportunities to drive ROAD SAFETY HSE innovation. Work proactively with the community to lead road safety outcomes. Our ERM approach links our HSE risk CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT appetite to our strategic objectives and Support a consistent approach to the recently won the Asia Pacific Strategic management of contractors from a HSE Risk Award. perspective. We also run quarterly and annual HSE RISK MANAGEMENT awards where employees are recognised A risk based approach for HSE is for exceptional contribution to health, fundamental to everything we do. safety and environment. Material and other relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals for this chapter FY18 Health, safety and environment Sustainability Report Transurban 44 Fitness for work Case study Through our Fitness for Work Framework we are committed to Staff volunteers step in to help wildlife keeping our employees healthy and Members of our Monash Freeway Upgrade team joined forces with VicRoads safe. Our objective is to minimise the employees in giving native wildlife a helping hand. Working with Landcare risk to our employees, contractors Australia, volunteers built nesting boxes for rainbow lorikeets, possums and and the community, through owls. The volunteers were also taken on a freeway-side tour of Dandenong effective processes and appropriate Creek and neighbouring floodplains to get a better understanding of the local frameworks. environment. Our policies and procedures across Landcare Australia Head of Corporate Partnerships James Link said the nesting the three key areas of ergonomics; boxes would contribute to the creation of a new nature trail. injury management, rehabilitation “By establishing a new nature trail, planting 3,000 trees and installing these and return to work; and alcohol nesting boxes, we will begin to reverse the trend of the area’s loss of habitat,” and other drugs help prevent James said. injury or illness in our workplace. Employee factsheets and videos have The new nature trail will also support the creek itself, where a decline in supported the implementation of the native fish species could lead to the deterioration of ecosystems surrounding the waterway. Framework. The team’s handiwork was installed in trees by an arborist, ready for In the event of a workplace injury, occupation by local wildlife. our procedure provides support and guidance for employees. The 3,000 procedure also provides guidance where injury has occurred outside the workplace and information on trees planted how we can support recovery. HSE Performance 0 We met our target in FY18 to achieve zero employee injuries. Employee injuries per 1 million hours ^* We continued to focus on proactive measures for identifying hazards, near misses and high-potential incidents to ensure that HSE risks are identified and mitigated before injuries occur. 5.03 Tragically, two contractor fatalities occurred on our sites in FY18, one on the 395 Express Lanes in the USA and one on the West Gate Tunnel project in Victoria. Contractor injuries per 1 million hours ^* There were 74 recordable contractor injuries, equating to a Contractor Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) of 5.03 per million work hours. 84 per cent For FY18, our target for Incident Close-Outs (the timely investigation of incidents and nearmisses rated as moderate or above severity) was 75 per cent. We exceeded this target, Incidents closed out on time closing out 84 per cent of incidents on time. 19,018 All employees have individual HSE KPIs linked to HSE culture and supporting behaviour, including the requirement to record HSE observations throughout the year. Proactive HSE observations Employee observations increased by 50 per cent during FY18. ^ injury rate is calculated using the following formula: Injury rate = number of injuries/number of work hours x 1,000,000 * Types of recordable injuries: Lost Time Injury: work-related injury or illness resulting in a person losing one or more full shifts from work after the date of injury. Medical Treatment Injury: work-related incident requiring medical treatment other than first aid FY18 Health, safety and environment Sustainability Report Transurban 45 Environmental leadership Image (right): Our environmental management principles Gateway Upgrade North focus on ensuring our employees and team attending staff contractors are always working to minimise training our impact on the environment. These nine key principles highlight the things that are most important for our operations while still allowing individual teams to define unique goals and initiatives. The key project highlights on the next page show these principles in practice. Applying these principles to our thinking and our operations drives us to innovate and find solutions that protect the environment, while also ensuring we meet—or ideally exceed—our statutory requirements and environmental targets. Transurban Key Environmental Management Principles 1 2 3 Install erosion Protect flora Maintain water and sediment and fauna quality controls 4 5 6 Maintain Minimise noise Protect heritage air quality and vibration and cultural 7 8 9 To ensure our people know how to apply our environmental management principles Manage Manage waste hazardous Maintain site in their everyday work, we conducted staff appropriately substances housekeeping training, supported by a series of quick reference guides on different environmental management topics. These guides explain the most common environmental impacts and controls to minimise our impact on the environment. FY18 Health, safety and environment Sustainability Report Transurban 46 $20M investment in wildlife crossing and ecological offsets 31,500m 2 of land given to Brisbane City Council for bushland preservation 41% increase in fauna connectivity Case study Better connections for wildlife, Logan Enhancement Project The Logan Enhancement Project is a $512 million project to reduce congestion and improve motorist, cyclist and pedestrian connectivity on the Logan and Gateway motorways in Queensland. It's located within an ecologically significant region, and to reflect this, we adopted the theme A Forest Drive . This theme is evident in the integration between road, shared bike and pedestrian trails and fauna connectivity. The shared trail ensures the community will have access to the area’s Case study natural beauty, while dedicated and enhanced fauna overpasses and underpasses will ensure local wildlife can Noise management on the cross the road safely. Logan and Gateway motorways The fauna land bridge at Illaweena Street is a good Residents living near the Logan and Gateway motorways example of the project’s focus on fauna connectivity and (Queensland) have the benefit of 13 new noise barriers built at key locations along these busy motorways. All up, biodiversity enhancement. The bridge will provide critical we built 3.6km of new precast concrete noise barriers. connectivity for vulnerable fauna such as koalas and These were painted a eucalypt green to blend in with gliders. Images of local wildlife have been added to the the natural surroundings and improve visual amenity for bridge, giving motorists insight into the bridge’s purpose. landowners and motorists. The Forest Drive aesthetic extends into bridge The new noise barriers, part of our $8 million Noise structures, anti-throw screens, retaining wall parapets Management Program, are significantly reducing noise and noise barriers—these all connect with the landscape levels generated by motorway traffic for local residents. design and natural landscape beyond, celebrating the area’s unique qualities, while also ensuring lowmaintenance requirements. FY18 Health, safety and environment Sustainability Report Transurban 47 Case study Bringing our environmental management principles to life Our NorthConnex M2 Integration (M2I) project was delivered in line with our environmental management principles, including: • reducing vegetation clearing levels to protect 742 threatened shrubs. In protecting these shrubs, we also saved habitat trees and other native animal habitat in the area, including 29 hollow-bearing trees • recycling about 3,000 tonnes of asphalt, 6,277 tonnes of concrete, and 43,260 cubic metres of Case study sandstone Turning a quarry into a park • planting 4,842 native trees and shrubs A new public park in the northern Sydney suburb of Hornsby, is starting to take shape. We have been filling this disused quarry with close to one • redesigning the Darling Mills Creek million cubic metres of spoil from our NorthConnex tunnelling project. Once Bridge to allow for the installation filled, Hornsby Shire Council will transform the site into a public park for the of a plexiglass screen, reducing community to enjoy. noise for residents and giving motorists a view of the creek gully Spoil haulage began in May 2017, and by the end of June 2018, more than 850,000 cubic metres of shale and sandstone had been poured into the • protecting an important winter quarry’s void. roost for the Eastern Bentwing-bat under an M2 culvert Hornsby Shire Council are working with the community to decide how the park should be used. More than 1,200 surveys were completed by the community, • minimising construction impacts with creative ideas for the future development of the area. on Darling Mills Creek by installing a tower crane and pedestrian We also invited around 50 University of NSW landscape architecture students walkway instead of a rock and to visit the site and develop proposals. pipe crossing. The new park is expected to open in 2023. 8 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 48 Governance and benchmarking Our stakeholders expect us to perform at our best—and so do we. We have set clear, comprehensive and readily accessible governance procedures and policies to ensure our sustainability as a business. We benchmark our policies, procedures and assets—against international and independently verified sustainability rating frameworks such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Infrastructure Sustainability ratings. Holding ourselves accountable to these ratings drives continuous improvement across the business. 2nd DJSI World Index member 5 2 star GRESB rating new certified Infrastructure Sustainability highest rated Transport and Excellent ratings Transport Infrastructure Company FY18 Governance and benchmarking Sustainability Report Transurban 49 Governance Transurban’s corporate governance policies, All employees complete annual mandatory the 2018 Corporate Governance Statement training on our Privacy Policy and and our Annual Report are publicly available Information Security Policy and procedures on our website. to ensure we remain compliant with our obligations. Ethical business practices Political function attendance Transurban has zero tolerance for breaches of its policies. Our people are expected Transurban participates in public policy to conduct themselves in a manner that debate on issues relevant to our business. reflects our values and Code of Conduct. Transurban policy does not permit direct political donations, but acknowledges that Our Ethical Business Practices Policy attendance at political events is a part of defines expectations for all employees in doing business. Accordingly, group policies relation to behaviour and reporting of any permit payment for attending political instances of fraud, conflicts of interest, functions to engage in such debate and bribery and corruption. All employees discussion. undertake mandatory Ethical Business Practices training. Each year, Transurban discloses these payments in accordance with political Our Whistleblower Policy provides disclosure obligations to the relevant protection to employees to report any state and federal authorities, including breaches of Ethical Business Practices the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) immediately to our independent and which releases the data publicly. confidential whistleblower service. This service is available to our customers, suppliers, security holders and employees. Corporate tax profile We invest heavily in building, upgrading and Data privacy and security acquiring road infrastructure. Significant up-front investment and debt costs mean Our Privacy Policy explains how we collect, Transurban can wait many years before a use and disclose customers’ personal road delivers positive returns. This delay information. We also maintain Payment leads to accounting and tax losses. Our Card Industry Data Security Standard corporate structure enables the payment (PCI DSS) compliance for our Australian of distributions to investors while we are operations, which sets out how we manage generating accounting and tax losses. The our customers’ credit information. distributions are subject to tax in the hands We employ a Privacy Officer, who is of investors. responsible for monitoring compliance The Australian Tax Office has categorised Material and other with privacy obligations. The Privacy Officer our main corporate entity, Transurban relevant UN Sustainable investigates privacy matters and incidents Holdings Limited, as a lower consequence Development Goals and, where relevant, reports to Transurban’s taxpayer. We adopted the Australian for this chapter Audit and Risk Board Committee. Government’s voluntary Tax Transparency Code and published our most recent Tax Transparency Report in June 2018. FY18 Governance and benchmarking Sustainability Report Transurban 50 Ratings and benchmarking We use independently verified sustainability Infrastructure Sustainability ratings to benchmark our organisation and assets against best practice. ratings Transurban uses the Infrastructure In 2018 we were also recognised for a Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA) number of achievements in corporate Infrastructure Sustainability Rating Tool sustainability, infrastructure delivery, to evaluate every new major Australian workforce diversity and community project through design and construction. investment. For USA projects we use the Envision rating tool from the Institute for Sustainable Corporate sustainability Infrastructure. benchmarks Projects with a certified IS rating Transurban submits annual benchmarking CityLink Tulla Awarded 2018: Excellent As Built surveys through the Dow Jones Widening AS BUILT V1 Sustainability Index (DJSI) and Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Logan Awarded 2018: Excellent Design Infrastructure (GRESB). Enhancement Project DESIGN V1.2 In 2018 we maintained our position in the DJSI World Index and the highest rating for NorthConnex Awarded 2017: Leading Design an infrastructure company in the Transport DESIGN V1 and Transport Infrastructure sector. We also maintained a 5 star GRESB rating and Gateway Awarded 2017: Excellent Design achieved the highest GRESB rating in the Upgrade North DESIGN V1.2 transport infrastructure sector. Transurban is also a member of the Projects with ratings underway FTSE4Good Index and Ethibel “Excellence” West Gate IS rating committed Socially Responsible Investment Register. Tunnel Project I-95 Envision rating committed Fredericksburg Extension* * In procurement Our organisation, projects and people received external recognition in 2018 including: • Equileap top 200 employers for gender equality • Workplace Gender Equality Agency Employer of Choice for Gender Equality for the fourth year running • Australian Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility State of CSR Australian Top 10 2018 • CARE (Companies as Responsive Employers) award for family friendly policies • StrategicRISK Risk Management Award at the Asia-Pacific Risk Management Awards 2018 FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 51 Appendices FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 52 About this report This Report covers the FY18 period from Changes in reporting scope 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 unless specified. Transurban has released an annual Transurban acquired the A25 toll road in Sustainability Report since 2006, and past Montreal in late FY18 but it has not been reports are available on our website. included in FY18 data in this Report. It will be included from FY19 onwards. The topics included in this report are guided by a materiality assessment to determine the most appropriate issues for Transurban Assurance to report for FY18. We have used several KPMG provided limited assurance over processes to identify material issues for selected disclosures within the FY18 reporting including the GRI G4 Framework, Sustainability Report: Transurban stakeholder feedback, employee • Road Injury Crash Index surveys, media and industry peer review. • Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Consistently high priority issues for our • Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) business include economic performance, health and safety, local communities, ethical • Scope 2 GHG emissions (tCO2e) business practices and employee policies. • Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions (tonnes) The UN Sustainable Development Goals • Customer vehicle GHG emissions (tCO2e) also guide our reporting of relevant • Community investment ($). global issues. Additional data and definitions are published in a Sustainability The KPMG limited assurance statement Data Report appendix. is available in the FY18 Sustainability Data Report. Procurement Road safety Customer privacy Employee HSE Economic performance 5 12 9 11 Local communities Public policy Employment Legal compliance Indirect economic impact Emissions Supplier human rights Customer service Energy Anti-competition 8 17 13 3 Labour complaints Marketing communications Level of stakeholder interest and inﬂuence Indigenous rights Env. compliance Materials Labour relations Equal remuneration Training Service compliance Biodiversity Diversity Local wages and hiring 7 Freedom of association Anti-discrimination Eﬄuents and waste Human rights screening & training Community complaints Anti-corruption Env. impact of services Supplier env. assessment Env. complaints Env. expenses Human rights assessment Water Materials transport Supplier impact on society Supplier labour practices Security Human rights complaints Forced labour Child labour Insigniﬁcant Moderate Extreme Material for reporting Trivial Minor Major Not material for reporting Potential consequence to Transurban Material SDG FY18 Sustainability Report Transurban 53 FY18 community grant recipients In 2018 we supported local community causes across Australia and the USA through community grants to organisations including: • Access Community Services • Act for Alexandria • Alfred Health • Alexandria Housing Development • Blind Sports Victoria Corporation • Bulimba Creek Catchment Committee • Alexandria Police Foundation • Childhood Cancer Support • Assistance League of Northern Virginia • Down Syndrome Association of • Carpenter's Shelter Queensland • Community Residences • First Hand Solutions Aboriginal • Fairfax County Fire & Rescue Corporation Department • Foundation for National Parks & Wildlife • Fairfax County Park Foundation • Giant Steps Melbourne • Fairfax County Public Schools • John Pierce Centre • Friends of Dyke Marsh • Les Twentyman Foundation • Good Shepherd Housing • Lighthouse Foundation • James K. Polk Elementary • Link Community Transport • Keep Prince William Beautiful • Lou's Place (The Marmalade Foundation) • McLean Hamlet Community Association • Mount Druitt Hospital • Mount Vernon Lee Chamber of • Ningy Ningy Cultural Heritage Commerce Association • MVLE • Pascoe Vale South Primary School • New Hope Housing • Port Melbourne Primary School • Project Giveback Community • Randwick Waverley Community Organization Transport • Running Brooke • Refuge of Hope • The Women's Center • The Blue Datto Keeping Safe road • Transportation Association of Greater safety program Springfield • Travancore School • United Community Ministries • Woodbury Autism Education and • VA Hospital Center Foundation Research • Virginia Foundation for Community • YFS Substation 33 Colleges • Washington Regional Alcohol Program • Woodbridge Woman's Club
