Corporate Responsibility www.j-lauritzen.com 2017 Annual Report 2 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Table of Contents CEO Statement 3 Highlights and Outlook 4 J. Lauritzen Overview 5 Human and Labour Rights 6 Environment and Climate 7 Anti-Corruption 8 Value Chain Responsibility 9 Lauritzen Bulkers 10 Lauritzen Kosan 12 About this report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communication on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this report is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. 3 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CEO Statement Publication of this Corporate Responsibility (CR) report has In early 2018, we became signatory to the Global Compact We support global initiatives and are proactive in seeking and happened soon after our recent launch of a new purpose and Network Denmark, which was founded in late 2017. joining new partnerships that we believe will make a positive revised values for J. Lauritzen. Our new values are based on in contribution to the impact shipping may have on people or the depth research and discussion with staff and stakeholders. We believe that responsible business conduct is an essential environment. We joined the Blue INNOship and ECOPRODIGI This gave us a solid foundation from which we worked hard to part of delivering quality maritime transportation services. Acprojects in recent years, with the goal of improving ship effidistil who we are, how we work and how we succeed into a cordingly, corporate responsibility is strategically important to ciency, and so reducing emissions. We firmly believe that short form of words. us. sharing challenges, mobilising resources within our industry partnerships can create combined leverage and drive proOur purpose is a condensed expression of why we exist, and it Humanitarian issues, corruption and transparency are key gress. was developed with clear inspiration from the UN Sustainable challenges facing our industry and they cannot be solved by Development goals: companies individually. Global initiatives and strong coordinaWe apply this philosophy to new and more experimental initiation are what is needed to achieve sustainable results. tives, as well as those which are well-established. With this “We enable global trade through intelligent seaborne soluapproach, we also participate in industry partnerships such as tions – creating growth for local communities around the Even though marine transportation is the most environmenthe Maritime Anti-Corruption Network, Trident Alliance and world.” tally friendly mode of transportation, the shipping industry has IMPA Act. a responsibility to reduce emissions in line with other sectors Our values are expressions of our core principles and behavof the global economy. We continuously strive to reduce emisWe look forward to continuing our efforts towards more reiour encompassing accountability, resoluteness, empathy and sions, and actively participate in relevant partnerships with sponsible business practices within J. Lauritzen and the shipadaptability. different stakeholders to identify the most effective ways of ping industry in general, and we are confident that the ten doing so. principles UN Global Compact will continue to guide us in the In 2017, we revised our overall business strategy toward the right direction. goal of becoming the leading small vessel operator within the Reducing emissions is a complex task, as it can be affected by dry bulk vessel and gas carrier segments. As part of this, we multiple factors, not only by the technology onboard ships. In I hope that you find this report interesting. also aim to be a leader in the use and application of analytics 2017, our bulk fleet had a slightly higher ballast/laden ratio, in decision-making and thus build and utilise superior datacausing the relative emissions per ton mile to increase slightly Mads P. Zacho driven market information. compared to last year. CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S We remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact For our gas fleet, however, it was a different story, with a as the foundation of our corporate responsibility. J. Lauritzen slightly lower ballast/laden ratio and a decrease in relative became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2011 and since emissions per ton mile. Multiple factors can influence efficienthen, the ten principles of the Global Compact have guided cy, such as service speed and weather, which is why year-onour corporate responsibility and helped us identify any impact year comparisons can be misleading. We consider ourselves our business creates that we must be aware of. accountable for our performance and believe it is important to be transparent on emissions – as we are also on our efforts to decrease them. 4 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Highlights and Outlook Our corporate responsibility efforts are based on our core valWe have been an active partner in Green Ship of the Future for Global Compact Network Denmark ues and are aligned with our commitment to the ten principles several years and we continue to support and participate in In early 2018, we became signatory to the Global Compact of the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on the promotion of both new and existing energy efficient techNetwork Denmark, which was founded in late 2017. Business and Human Rights. nologies. Recently, we have been involved in a pilot project investigating the possibilities for the use of 3D printers onboard OUTLOOK 2018 We continuously work for increased integration of our corpoour vessels. In 2018, we will continue our corporate responsibility efforts rate responsibility efforts into our business strategy and dayand commitments. Our focus will always be on the integration to-day operations. Sulphur cap of our CR with our business strategy and thus our overall value As founding member of the Trident Alliance, we continued the creation. HIGHLIGHTS 2017 efforts for the robust enforcement of sulphur regulations in In 2017, we continued our efforts in the ongoing implementaview of the upcoming global 0.5 sulphur cap scheduled to tion of energy-efficiency projects and our anti-corruption comcome into force in 1 January 2020. pliance programme. We also began work with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which became an Responsible ship recycling important source of inspiration in our work to define our overOur policy on responsible ship recycling (approved in 2016) all purpose and values. acknowledges the severe environmental and human impact of some recycling practices. The policy commits J. Lauritzen Environmental policy to ensure recycling of owned vessels in compliance with the During 2017, we updated our policy on environmental responrequirements of the 2009 Hong Kong Convention for the Safe sibility. It confirms our commitment to working toward a and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships and in respect greener environment whilst at the same time creating value for human rights. for our owners, clients and other stakeholders. Recognising a responsibility that often goes beyond owned Energy efficiency initiatives vessels, the policy further commits us to take action to prevent JL’s involvement is the Blue INNOship project is in its final and mitigate severe impacts when we sell vessels for further phase, and the benefits have already been substantial. Several trade. improvements have been implemented to the decision support and processes around efficient ship operation with reIn early 2017, a 1992-built gas carrier was recycled in complispect to energy efficiency and environmental performance. ance with our policy on responsible recycling. ECOPRODIGI is a new project founded by the Interreg Baltic Security policy Sea Region Programme. As part of this, we teamed up with Due to the instability in many countries and regions and the some of the partners from the Blue INNOship project to conrisk of piracy-related activities against ships, our security politinue the development of digital solutions which focus on incy for owned and operated vessels in high-risk areas was upcreasing the eco-efficiency of ships. dated. 5 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 J. Lauritzen Overview J. LAURITZEN FACTS 2017 Owned Ownedby bythethe Lauritzen Foundation 100% 100% Lauritzen Foundation 195 165 32% employees 33% employees 68% 67% ashore ashore year-end 549 522seafarers seafarersonboard onboard owned ownedvessels vessels year-end J. Lauritzen office location Average Averagecontrolled controlled J. Lauritzen has been serving the maritime trade since 1884 Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers, primarily in the fleetofof128 fleet 118vessels vessels and during our existence of over 130 years, we have been enhandysize segment of dry bulk shipping. gaged in a range of different segments of the shipping industry. Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical Invested Investedcapital USD379m capital USD Today, J. Lauritzen is a global provider of the seaborne transand liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) a segment of the shipping industry characterised by complex technical and operayear-end year-end 396m portation of dry bulk cargoes as well as petrochemical and liqtional requirements. uefied petroleum gases. Revenue USD420m Offices worldwide We offer our services through our operational business units We are headquartered in Hellerup, north of Copenhagen, DenRevenue USD 555m Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan. mark, and we have overseas offices in Singapore, the Philippines and the United States. 6 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Human and Labour Rights We consider respect for human and labour rights as part of Our due diligence on human rights has been quality assured our heritage and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. by relevant external experts. Human Rights As a shipowner and operator, we face human rights challengHuman rights at sea Due diligence es ashore as well as at sea, and we use the UN Guiding PrinciAt sea, our human rights efforts are closely linked to our ples on Business and Human Rights as a blueprint to our enhealth, safety and security policies and procedures, which are Our human rights due diligence is an ongoing process deavour to respect human rights. managed within each business unit in accordance with legisdesigned to help us address actual and potential adlation, regulations and the nature of the operations. We apply verse human rights risks and impact that are linked to Managing human rights risks the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 (MLC) when assessing our business activities. We perform due diligence on human rights in alignment with our impact on board our vessels. the UN Guiding Principles to help us identify how our business may impact people’s enjoyment of their human rights and Identification how any potential or actual impact could pose a risk to our business. In addition to due diligence on human rights ashore and at sea, we manage our human rights risks as part of our health Communication Action and safety and risk management systems anchored in our two business units along with the Group’s anti-corruption compliance programme and responsible supply chain management programme. Tracking Human rights due diligence ashore We have conducted human rights assessments in order to understand our potential risk and impact both at our offices in Copenhagen and Singapore. This work included assessments Aligned with the UN Guiding Principles, our due diliof our corporate policies and procedures. gence process covers human rights assessment, including identification and assessment of our adverse huAll human rights outlined in the International Bill of Human man rights impact, actions to prevent and mitigate Rights, including the International Labour Organisation’s Decidentified impact and to address relevant policies and laration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, were procedures, a system for tracking milestones and folassessed to decide which ones are salient to our company lowing up on action plans, and a mechanism for comgiven our geographical and business context. municating how we adress identified adverse impact to relevant stakeholders. 7 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Environment and Climate We acknowledge the environmental impact of our operations In terms of environmental performance, we actively promote We expect that the project will enable us to benefit from the and the related risks to the environment, which mainly relate a performance-oriented culture both at sea and ashore. digitalisation of our industry. to emissions to air and spill to sea. We take responsibility for minimising our environmental footprint and are always workDue to the nature of our business, many of the environmental As a founding member of the Trident Alliance, we continued ing toward this. challenges we meet are industry-related. We prioritise buildthe efforts for robust enforcement of sulphur regulations in ing partnerships with relevant stakeholders to identify the view of the upcoming global 0.5 sulphur cap scheduled to We are committed to reducing emissions both through our most effective solutions for environmental issues. come into force on 1 January 2020. operational procedures and the development and use of new technologies both onboard and ashore. Part of this commitJ. Lauritzen is part of the Blue INNOship project, which focusYou can read more about our environmental efforts and rement is our ongoing reporting on the environmental perfores on creating growth and employment in Denmark through sults in the environmental statements of Lauritzen Bulkers and mance of our ships. development of green and energy-efficient solutions. We are Lauritzen Kosan respectively. See p. 8-9 and 10-11, in which now in the final phase of the three-year project, and the beneemission figures are also disclosed. From early 2017, a joint performance management departfits have already been substantial. Several improvements have ment was established within J. Lauritzen, combining the two been implemented for more efficient ship operation with reBallast water performance departments from Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritspect to energy efficiency and environmental performance. Although the implementation of the International Maritime zen Kosan into one. This benefits our own vessels and those we have on timeOrganisation (IMO) ballast water management convention charter. has been postponed until September 2019, we installed our The purpose of the joint performance management departfirst ballast water treatment system on one of our gas carriers ment is to streamline the processes and data flow around perECOPRODIGI is a new project founded by the Interreg Baltic in late 2017. The next installation is scheduled to be completformance management across J. Lauritzen. It will increase opSea Region Programme with a duration of three years. In line ed in early 2018. portunities for knowledge sharing with the aim of identifying with this, we have teamed up with some of the partners from more opportunities for improving our fleet’s energy efficiency the Blue INNOship project to continue the work on optimising Operational and project experience, alongside continuous and reducing our environmental impact. and improving the daily work on operating our fleet with remonitoring of technological development, will secure fleet spect to eco-efficiency. We particularly expect our participacompliance with the IMO convention and national regulation. We updated our environmental policy in 2017 to confirm our tion in ECOPRODIGI to improve our utilisation of available commitment to reducing emissions and protecting our seas, data even further and for greater benefit. whilst at the same time creating value for our owners, clients and other stakeholders. We have been an active partner in Green Ship of the Future for several years. Our owner, Lauritzen Fonden, has granted doFocus on reducing emissions nations to the project and we have participated actively in the During the year, we continued our energy efficiency efforts to work on exploring the use of new energy efficiency technoloreduce fuel consumption and emissions through technical gies and promoting the use of those already in existence. Curand operational initiatives. rently, we are involved in a pilot project investigating and testing the possibilities for use of 3D printing onboard our fleet. 8 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Anti-Corruption Corrupt practices, especially in the form of demands for We are working on the implementation of an online training facilitation payments, continue to pose a serious risk to the programme to ensure that employees can keep their training Continued focus on shipping industry and to the economic and social development up to date on our anti-corruption policy and practices and on in several countries. mitigating risk. In 2018, we aim to embed the training tool trade sanctions in 2017 within our existing HR software to increase efficiency. We work against corruption in all its forms, and our AntiOperating in an international business environment, we Corruption Policy provides guidance for our shore-based as Working proactively to eliminate facilitation payments is still a are subject to increasingly complex and changeable well as sea-going personnel. The policy is in line with the core element of our anti-corruption policy and our compliance sanctions regulation. principles of the United Nation’s Convention against training. We strongly encourage our crews to report any Corruption along with national law. The policy is anchored in demands for facilitation payments. Despite increased efforts Compliance with applicable trade sanctions is essential our compliance programme, which is rooted with our Board to improve communication between vessel and operations, to responsible business conduct. We have intensified of Directors and Executive Management. the amount of demands for facilitation payments being our efforts to increase trade sanction transparency and reported remains scarce. We will continue to work actively to ensure continuous compliance with the various sancSince 2014, internal and external stakeholders have been able encourage crews to report demands for facilitation payments tions. to anonymously report concerns of compliance violations as it is the only way to gain insight into whether we are through our whistleblower portal. However, no reports have successful in reducing them. Our efforts include face-to-face training on sanctions been made to date despite efforts to increase awareness of compliance, procedures for vetting of counterparties the whistle-blower portal. Partnering on industry challenges and online country and cargo compliance checks. In 2017, we continued our active participation in the Maritime Training and awareness Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), a global business network As part of our compliance programme, we provide continuous working towards a maritime industry free of corruption and to training for both shore-based and sea-going personnel. This enable fair trade to the benefit of the society at large. Through involves face-to-face seminars focusing on compliance and MACN, we meet with other representatives from the industry anti-corruption. to discuss and share best practice. During 2017, both officers and shore-based employees In 2017, we also took part in a MACN working group that received training on fraud prevention, anti-trust, rules for gifts focuses on challenges in the dry cargo sector, such as and hospitality and other related compliance topics. We have clearance of dry cargo holds by port officials. therefore completed training of all relevant employees both on shore and at sea. Follow-up training for new employees will be conducted in 2018 and onwards. 9 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Value Chain Responsibility As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we In early 2017, a 1992-built gas carrier was recycled in complirecognise our role in the long and sometimes complex value ance with our policy on responsible recycling. chains that we are part of. We strive to live by the principles of the Global Compact to avoid having any negative impact on Responsible procurement human rights, including labour rights and the environment anyResponsible procurement is still a core element of the Group’s where within our influence in the value chains. Furthermore, corporate responsibility efforts. We focus on cooperating and we apply anti-corruption measures to minimise risk, cf. page 8. engaging in dialogue with suppliers to ensure decent social and environmental conditions in our supply chain. Updated Corporate Responsibility Policy We amended our Corporate Responsibility Policy in late 2016 As a founding member, we continue to support the IMPA ACT to state that we will always strive to include a standard corpoprogramme, which seeks to improve the economic, social and rate responsibility clause when negotiating contracts and environmental compliance of its purchaser and supplier memagreements on behalf of J. Lauritzen or one of our business bers. When working with suppliers we aim to contribute to units. uniformity in the industry to avoid suppliers having to comply with different expectations from different owners. The scope of our standard corporate responsibility clause reflects our commitment to the UN Global Compact. We use it We keep close dialogue with selected suppliers to align exto communicate our ethical and corporate responsibility stanpectations on human and labour rights, environmental perfordards to our business partners and to encourage them to folmance and anti-corruption. low internationally recognised standards for responsible business conduct. The centre of the dialogue between J. Lauritzen and our suppliers is a Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our miniShip recycling mum expectations on their policies and procedures to identify, Our policy on responsible ship recycling, approved in 2016, prevent and mitigate potential impacts on human rights, laacknowledges the severe impact of some recycling practices. bour rights, protection of the environment and anti-corrupOur policy commits J. Lauritzen to recycling its owned vessels tion. in compliance with the requirements of the 2009 Hong Kong Convention for the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling Through closer dialogue and stronger relations with suppliers, of Ships and with respect for human rights. we aim to increase transparency throughout our supply chain. Recognising a responsibility that often goes beyond owned We have in recent years prioritised dialogue with some of our vessels, the policy further commits us to take action to prevent largest suppliers based on spend, dependency and frequency. and mitigate impact when we sell vessels for further trade. In 2018, we expect to further widen our dialogue to more of our suppliers. 10 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers operates bulk carriers in the handysize and The average RightShip rating for our own fleet was 3.8 star on supramax segments of dry bulk shipping. With our main presence in the handysize segment, our operations are based on a the RightShip five-star scale. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2017 large, homogeneous fleet of owned and part-owned vessels as Security well as long, medium and short-term time-chartered vessels. When entering high-risk areas, we follow the BMP4 guidelines Average age of vessels for protection against piracy as well as our internal security Fleet management guidelines. The guidelines state that before scheduling a voyTechnical management, including crewing for our owned age into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must be conductfleet, is performed by New Century Overseas Management ed, and necessary precautions must be taken. Inc., Manila and Synergy Maritime Pte., Chennai who provide Operated fleet Industry average safe, reliable and cost-effective operations in close collaboraDuring 2017, we updated and amended our security policy. tion with our in-house technical department. In 2017, Lauritzen Bulkers’ owned fleet had nine transits in 4.1 years 9.0 years With ship management outsourced to external service providhigh-risk areas compared to 11 in 2016. No incidents were reers, our in-house technical department specifies requireported related to the high-risk area transits. ments, aligns expectations and monitors performance on achieving safe, reliable and efficient operations. Our seafarers On average 230 Within Lauritzen Bulkers, considerable efforts are put into Health and safety strengthening communication between our office staff, seaseafarers onboard Operational transparency is essential to the safety of our peogoing personnel and technical managers to ensure crew deour owned fleet ple, our vessels and our clients’ cargoes. Building and mainvelopment and satisfaction and so continue a high retention taining open and strong relations with our external managers rate amongst our seafarers. and crews alongside continuous development and training are the essential elements in our health and safety strategy. In 2017, these efforts again included our annual officer seminar attended by 73 officers as well as bimonthly newsletters 22% cut in CO2 We measure our safety performance through various paramdistributed to both our owned and time-chartered fleet, emissions since 2012 eters including the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate, through which topics related to health & safety, energy effiwhich for the owned fleet amounted to zero in 2017. ciency and the day-to-day work with technical and operational challenges were discussed. In 2017, an average of 1.0 deficiencies were reported during Port State Controls. This is a decrease of 23% compared to In 2017, VSAT (Very Small Aperture Terminal) satellite commu9 transits in high-risk areas with NO 2016. At the same time, we had zero detentions in 2017. nication systems were installed on four vessels, providing internet access for seafarers. Installation of VSAT on the remaining incidents During the year, we carried out 11 routine inspections of our owned vessels is scheduled to be completed before Q2 2018. own fleet and attended dry dockings. 11 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We also consider Lauritzen Bulkers’ Major Disaster Assistance Although our efforts to make technical improvements can Table 1: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles Fund important to our seafarers’ job satisfaction and commitonly be applied to our owned vessels, we also strive to optiSegment Emission 2017 2016 2015 ment to J. Lauritzen. The fund was set up in the wake of Tymise the operational performance of our total operated fleet of bulk carriers to improve energy efficiency. Optimisation is Handysize phoon Yolanda which hit the Philippines in 2013. The fund provides Filipino seafarers with financial assistance to recover achieved through continued focus on voyage optimisation, CO2 11.1 11.0 11.6 any property damage caused by natural disasters. day-to-day operations and weather routing. Nox 0.3 0.3 0.3 Sox 0.2 0.2 0.2 During 2017, an average of 230 seafarers were working onAn ongoing focus on fuel-savings and energy efficiency has enSupramax board our owned fleet, and again this year, our technical manabled reductions of the total environmental footprint of our dry CO2 8.3 7.3 8.3 agers upheld a high retention rate of 97% and 98% respeccargo operations over the years, and compared to 2012, we Nox 0.2 0.2 0.2 tively for officers and ratings. have managed to cut the relative CO2 emissions related to our transport work by 22% across our operated fleet. Regrettably, Sox 0.1 0.1 0.1 Additionally, we see that the average officer sails with Lauritdue to changed employment pattern of the fleet, 2017 saw a Total fleet zen Bulkers for approximately 2.4 years, which indicates suc3% increase in CO2 emissions from 2016, as shown in table 1. CO2 10.0 9.7 10.8 cess in our efforts to ensure crew satisfaction and build a solid NOx 0.3 0.3 0.3 and loyal workforce at sea. Sox 0.2 0.2 0.2 Environment EMISSIONS NOTE At year-end 2017, our core fleet consisted of 39 owned and Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual conlong-term time charters with an average age of 4.1 years, sumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated which is considerably below the global industry average. in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas We work intensively with day-to-day performance analysis of accounting system. We have applied the operational control apboth our technical and operational activities with the objective proach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct of reducing emissions. We continuously seek to strengthen link between our business, our economic bottom-line and our enviour performance culture and increase awareness of energy efronmental responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 emisficiency onboard our vessels and amongst our staff ashore. sions and include all operated vessels. During 2017, efforts have been focused on data and its level of quality – as a means to identify and address lower performing and less energy efficient vessels in our core fleet. These efforts have included a more structured approach to collecting and monitoring data from vessels, as well as increased collaboration with the owners of chartered vessels. 12 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan specialises in transportation of petrochemical sonal Injury”, “Lifeboat Operation” and “Slips and Falls”, and liquefied petroleum gases a segment of the shipping inwhich require active participation from staff onboard our vesHIGHLIGHTS IN 2017 dustry characterised by complex technical and operational resels. quirements from regulators and clients. Additionally, we have further developed our resilience proFleet management gramme with exercises both onboard our vessels and during 7% cut in CO2 emisTechnical management of our owned fleet is primarily conour Crewing Seminars. We believe that helping our seafarers sions since 2012 ducted in-house, and our top priority is still on the health and to develop their resilience – during and after challenging situasafety of our seafarers, protection of the environment, our astions will make a difference towards safety onboard. We aim sets and our clients’ cargoes. We have continued to work strato help our seafarers focus on the real hazards and to provide tegically on our value proposition “Chasing Operational Excelsupport after any difficult experiences. Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) lence” amongst shore and sea personnel to ensure alignment throughout the organisation. We work proactively with reguWe will continue to focus on strengthening a culture that emLTIF of LTIF of 1.5 0.3 lators and representatives from the tanker industry to ensure braces safety until we reach our goal of incident-free operathat we are always at the forefront of the regulatory frametions and, ultimately, operational excellence. work, which is increasingly demanding in terms of safety, complexity and cost. Regrettably, the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) came to 1.5 2017 2016 in 2017 versus 0.3 in 2016. The LTI’s in 2017 were all related to Health and safety hand injuries. During the second half of 2017, we consequentHealth and safety is a top priority for us and our stakeholders, ly launched a hand injury campaign, which will be running into and we always work to strengthen our safety culture in an en2018. We will of course not be satisfied before we reach 0.0 vironment that often present demanding circumstances. LTIF. The seafarer retention rate was 98% for As part of our ambition to always provide safe and reliable opSecurity erations, we launched several campaigns during 2017 to inA significant part of the liquefied and petrochemical gases officers and 96% for crease safety awareness of different risk areas. This included carried onboard our vessels is transported through some of ratings a Port State Control campaign to improve the overall standard the high-risk regions of the world. The risk to our crews and of our fleet and to train seafarers to look for potential dangers clients’ cargo due to piracy or violent activity in certain parts of that could lead to hazard situations onboard. the world has our strictest attention. 63 transits in high-risk areas with NO During 2017, we further developed our focus towards the To mitigate exposure to this type of risk, our anti-piracy counincidents “Partners in Safety Programme”, which is propelled by SHELL. ter-measures include close internal dialogue, monitoring risk We carried out quarterly Learning Engagement Training (LET) patterns and the use of external expert risk assessments. on selected safety topics, e.g. “Falling into the water”, “Per13 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Table 2: Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles During 2017, we updated and amended our security policy. We monitor our emissions closely, and strive to keep them at a minimum, with respect for both energy used for propulsion Segment Emission 2017 2016 2015 In 2017, Lauritzen Kosan had 60 transits in high-risk areas and cargo conditioning, for example by optimising the speed Ethylene compared to 63 in 2016. No related incidents were reported. of each voyage. In 2017, our fleet’s relative emissions deCO2 94.6 87.5 77.9 creased by 1% compared to 2016. This brings the total deNox 2.4 2.2 2.0 Our seafarers crease in emissions to 7% since 2012, as shown in table 2. Our seafarers are our most valuable assets at sea, and without Sox 1.4 1.3 1.1 skilled seagoing personnel we would not be able to deliver a To keep motivation for energy efficiency efforts among landF/P safe and efficient service of the highest quality. based and sea going personnel high and to improve operaCO2 159.1 164.1 134.7 tional transparency, we work with an elaborate KPI structure NOx 4.1 4.2 3.4 We recognise the challenges of working at sea over longer pethat clearly outlines decision support and progress. These iniSox 2.1 2.1 1.8 riods of time, and so have a strong focus on continuously imtiatives are also based on the work in the Blue INNOship projS/R proving welfare on board. We undertake various initiatives to ect. CO2 95.7 109.0 94.7 ensure well-being both on and off the job. The IMO Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan continues NOx 2.4 2.8 2.4 During 2017, we implemented a revised crewing strategy for to be an important tool for implementing the various energySox 1.0 1.2 1.0 our gas carrier fleet to ensure the most up-to-date, professionefficiency initiatives among our onboard personnel. Among Total Fleet alised crew management to meet ever-growing regulatory the latest initiatives is a procedure for our seafarers to capture CO2 97.5 98.1 88.3 and customer demands. As part of this process, OSM Mariunderwater photos for monitoring hull and propeller condiNox 2.5 2.5 2.2 time Group was appointed as our new crew manager. tions to detect fouling at an early stage. Sox 1.3 1.3 1.1 Internet control systems were installed in 2017 on all vessels Our data platform is under continuous development and utiEMISSIONS NOTE to block access to websites with malicious files, virus and illelises as many automated sources as possible, e.g. satelliteEmission figures are reported per segment and based on actual congal software downloads. New and strict password policies for based positions and weather. Also, we strive to limit the work sumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated all vessels were implemented and we focused on cyber secuload on our seafarers by sharing data reported from the vessel in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/Circ. 684. The Greenrity training to increase awareness among crew members. with relevant stakeholders, e.g. operations, weather routing house Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas service and agents. accounting system. We have applied the operational control apEnvironment proach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct Our commitment to minimise our environmental footprint During 2017, we installed our first ballast water treatment syslink between our business, our economic bottom-line and our envithrough our performance programmes remains strong. Durtem on one of our gas carriers. The next installation is schedronmental responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 emising 2017, our performance management department made uled to be completed in early 2018. sions and include all operated vessels. improvements to the decision support and processes around efficient ship operation with respect to energy efficiency and environmental performance. This was based on the outcome from our participation in the Blue INNOship project. FINANCIAL YEAR PHILIPPINES Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s 1 January 31 December Lauritzen Kosan Manila ROHQ Corporate Responsibility activities, please 5th Floor, OSM Building contact: HEAD OFFICE 479 Pedro Gil Street J. Lauritzen A/S Ermita, 1000 Manila Dorte Rolff Tuborg Havnevej 15 PHILIPPINES Group General Counsel 2900 Hellerup Phone +63 2231 2809/2810 Legal, Insurance & Compliance DENMARK Phone: +45 3396 8000 SINGAPORE Phone: +45 3396 8418 www. j-l.com J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. Email: dor@j-l.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 1 Harbourfront Avenue #16-18 Keppel Bay Tower OWNER Singapore 098632 Lauritzen Fonden SINGAPORE Tranegaardsvej 20 Phone: +65 6275 800 2900 Hellerup DENMARK USA Phone: +45 3396 8425 J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. www.lauritzenfonden.com 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 Stamford, CT 06901 AUDITORS USA Ernst & Young Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Osvald Helmuths Vej 4 Postboks 250 2000 Frederiksberg DENMARK Phone: +45 7323 3000
