SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROW ON US 2017 www.7cs.com 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT 7Cs GROUP W e are proud to publish our second annual sustainability report, summarizing our results for the year 2017. This report covers information regarding our performance T he 7Cs group was founded in 1999 (under the name of Rosy Blue and renamed 7Cs in 2014 ) by Dr. Harshad Mehta as a company that focused on the jewellery industry. The 7Cs Group has now grown into a well-diversified conglomerate, with a in accordance with the UN Global Compact and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), and therefore, serves as our annual Communication on Progress (COP). The strong presence in the field of wholesale and retail jewellery, sustainable construction, report covers UAE operations of our Group companies 7Cs Eurasia FZE, 7Cs Diamond & real estate investment and hospitality. Headquartered in Dubai, UAE, 7Cs Group Jewellery Trading LLC, 7Cs Gold and Jewellery LLC, 7Cs Fashion House LLC, Soft Touch employs more than 1,900 personnel belonging to 23 nationalities. Jewellers LLC, 55Fifty7 Jewellery LLC, Global Green Bridge Contracting LLC, Global Green Bridge FZE, Aspen Real Estate LLC, Premier Marble Technical Services and Jehan Investment Ltd. GROW ON US All information in the report is complete The philosophy of the 7Cs Group is the empowering message and within the reporting period starting Grow on us. Herein, ‘grow’​represent the future and ‘on’​ from 1st January to 31st December 2017 represent the stability of a strong platform established on firm morals. ‘US’ encompasses ‘u’ for uniqueness because dynamic creativity is at the core of any initiative and every organization should have a culture of innovation, while ‘s’ in ‘us’ represents ‘service’, stressing upon the need to focus on customer satisfaction and delight by offering worldclass service. The 7Cs Group is committed to the idea of enabling growth – both for business as well as the society. OUR VISION We aim to facilitate growth for all stakeholders and continue building mutually beneficial, lasting partnerships. Our ambitious and visionary leadership ensures that we keep exploring new frontiers and achieving new victories, thereby facilitating growth for the entire 7Cs family and its partners. CSR COMMITTEE One of the core values of 7Cs Group is corporate social OUR MISSION responsibility and this is an employee-driven strategy. To drive CSR throughout the organization, a CSR committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are dedicated to offering a reliable platform that nurtures was constituted comprising members of different Group innovation, rewards excellence and creates value for companies called Mandar, connecting good will to good We have an operations board, comprising heads of HR, stakeholders, as well as the community. work. Monthly meetings are held to plan and implement CSR finance and executive directors. All business plans are activities in alignment with the annual strategy. Employees made by a committee of employees, and not just senior suggest projects to support and garner support from their management. This ensures that employees suggestions are respective teams, making each activity a successful one. taken into consideration for business strategies. We also The CSR committee is headed by the Director of Corporate inform all employees of achievements, business plans of Communications and CSR. This enables quicker approvals individual group companies twice a year. and effective impact. FOUNDER DR. HARSHAD MEHTA HOW WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS Dr. Harshad Mehta has over 50 years of global experience The 7Cs Group stands for 7 core values in the diamond industry and is recognized as a veteran i.e. Credibility, Creativity, Customer in the trade. Former Chairman of the Dubai Diamond Service, Collaboration, Consistency, Exchange, Dr. Mehta has also been consistently voted Commitment, and Corporate Social among the top 20 most powerful Indians in the Gulf Responsibility. region. He won the ‘Global Indian of the Year’ award for his outstanding contribution in taking Indian gems and jewellery industry to the world, at the 13th annual OUR CODE OF ETHICS Retail Jeweller India Awards 2017. Beyond business, he Code of conduct is laid down for the 7Cs staff in is well known for his humanitarian efforts in the field order to maintain a healthy work culture in the of education, primary healthcare, medical research, organisation. The human resources manual is among other social issues. Dr Mehta embodies the designed to acquaint employees with the working 7Cs Group’s seven core values that inspire and conditions, benefits and policies affecting guide all aspects of the group’s functioning. employment. Our charter, comprising the code of conduct, is signed by every employee. CHAIRMAN MR. RIHEN MEHTA Mr. Rihen Mehta is a young visionary with a penchant for creating businesses that deliver consistent results. He brings to the table innovative ideas and strategies to keep pace with a growing and challenging market. He is currently on the Board of Directors of the prestigious Dubai Gold & Jewellery Group and the Dubai Diamond Exchange. Mr. Mehta was featured in Forbes Middle East’s list of Top Indian Leaders 2017: The Next Generation 5 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 6 OUR BUSINESSES RETAIL JEWELLERY HUEB JEWELLERY Hueb is an international fine jewellery brand with hand-crafted jewellery designs inspired by its Brazilian heritage. With a flagship store at Madison Avenue in New York, Hueb is present in more than 50 luxury department stores across North America, GOLD JEWELLERY the GCC and Brazil. 7Cs Gold Jewellery supplies superior-quality high-fashion bangles, bracelets, necklaces, pendant sets, earrings, chains and rings in 21 and 22-karat gold. With innovative 2-in1 and 3-in-1 value-for-money & trendy styles, 7Cs Gold Jewellery satisfies every kind of customer. JEWEL CORNER GOLD MOUNTING With more than 20 years in the jewellery industry, Jewel Corner is one of the most reputed jewellery brands operating across the GCC with over 40 locations and an 7Cs Gold Mounting supplies light-weight and fashionable designs of gold mounting to online store. Jewel Corner specializes in trendy and exquisite diamond and gold diamond jewellery retailers and local distributors in the GCC region. jewellery at affordable prices. Their innovative designs, superior quality, coupled with shorter lead times have made them one of the leading suppliers of gold mounting in the region. 55FIFTY7 ROUGH DIAMONDS At 55FIFTY7, an award-winning design team and qualified jewellery professionals 7Cs Eurasia undertakes responsible sourcing of diamonds from mines as well as fine transform client concepts and design ideas into signature jewellery using state-of-theassortment for processing and manufacturing. With decades of experience and market art technology. Aspiring jewellery designers are provided specialized training courses knowledge in rough diamonds, the team guarantees a strong assortment capability and at the 55FIFTY7 Incubator, equipped with the latest facilities and an extensive library reliability to its vast customer base. of reference materials. 7 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 8 CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE ASPEN REAL ESTATE GLOBAL GREEN BRIDGE CONTRACTING LLC Aspen Real Estate, the realty advisory and management wing of 7Cs, is a team of highly-trained professionals with vast experience in the Dubai real estate market. We Global Green Bridge Contracting is an EPC construction company in the MENA region provide end-to-end solutions, focusing on delivering value to our customers by an and specializes in green solutions. It has a G + Unlimited Building Contracting License astute understanding of their investment needs. and Certifications for ISO 90012015, ISO 14001-2015 and OHSAS 18001-2007 and has successfully completed numerous projects in UAE and overseas in various segments such as industrial projects, commercial buildings, schools, malls, residential buildings, and high-end villas JEHAN INVESTMENTS Jehan Investments is a property fund and investment vehicle that currently invests in the GLOBAL GREEN BRIDGE FZE Dubai market, targeting attractive yields with low risk. The portfolio primarily targets ready properties for rental yields, with a small proportion being invested in off-plan Global Green Bridge FZC offers self-supporting unique alternative structural systems properties, which are expected to deliver higher capital appreciation. and infill walls, welded wire mesh and light-weight steel fabrication. The company also offer sustainable landscaping using coir compost, which consumes significantly lesser water compared to standard soil and is an alternative for cultivation soil. The company also supplies planter pots and has over a hundred varieties of indoor plant and 50 HOSPITALITY varieties of outdoor plants. BALARAM PALACE HOTEL Built between 1922 and 1936 by the 29th ruler of Palanpur, Balaram Palace Hotel is a boutique heritage hotel constructed in the neo-classical and baroque architectural PREMIER MARBLE TECHNICAL SERVICES style Situated amidst a reserve forest in Gujarat, India, the hotel is set in 13 acres of terraced upland, rising from a hilly stream and surrounded by lush green gardens. With Premier Marble Technical Services is a marble and natural stone business, offering 34 air-conditioned rooms (including a ‘Nawab’ suite), the hotel offers a diverse culinary quality marble and natural stone under the brand “Rakitalian”, processed at the experience and a host of leisure activities to its guests, including cultural entertainment group’s factory. They work with contractors & interior designers and undertake options and nature walks. installation work in the UAE and India. 9 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 10 CHAIRMAN CSR DIRECTOR DECLARATION STATEMENT To our stakeholders: F or us, sustainability is a journey and we believe that taking a long term strategic view will continue to serve us well now and into the future. We want to contribute to gender equality by becoming signatories of the Women’s Empowerment Principles. building a more sustainable and resilient value chain for our Our efforts have been recognised by the UAE government. company as well as the communities we serve. Our EPC construction company Global Green Bridge As a UN Global Compact member, we share our Contracting won the 5-star Taqdeer award from the UAE commitment and continuous effort made by our teams to government for excellence in employee welfare practice, embed sustainability in our Group culture. We also strive bench marked against global practices on labour policies, to integrate, support and advocate the ten universally facilities and infrastructure , health and safety, recruitment accepted principles of the UN Global Compact and the 17 and wages, justice and transparency. In 2018, we will Sustainable Development Goals. At 7Cs Group, our women continue to honour our commitments towards human rights, colleagues are in the forefront of our successful endeavours. labour, environment and social causes to become a truly So we went a step further to highlight our commitment to sustainable company. 7 Cs Group goes beyond corporate philanthropy and has a hands-on approach towards different social causes such as education, poverty alleviation, women’s empowerment In 2017, we focused on encouraging recycling across the Group. We conducted training, placed bins and encouraged employees to recycle more. We also conducted several and responsible consumption. Our efforts were recognised product donation activities and collected books, toys and by the UN Global Compact and we made it to the list of clothes for the underprivileged. Our sports events and shortlisted companies for the UAE SDG Pioneers Awards. cultural events created stronger bonds among employees. Women empowerment and especially freedom from any sort of abuse is a cause close to my heart and I want to We encourage you to have a look at our work and Grow ensure that every woman feels safe, no matter where she is, on Us! and especially at her workplace. Women today are breaking the glass ceiling across sectors and we need to ensure that Sincerely yours, women in the workforce suffer from no discrimination. At the helm of 1,900-strong workforce in 7Cs Group, I’m in a position to influence policies and bring about change in the lives of my women. By becoming a WEPs signatory, we pledge our support for maintaining gender equality RIHEN MEHTA within 7Cs Group and to cultivate a work environment that DEEPIKA MEHTA Chairman empowers all employees, especially women. Director, CSR & Corporate Communication 11 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 12 EMPLOYEE POT LUCK 7CS EMPLOYEES ENGAGEMENT We organized a potluck breakfast party to turn a regular working day into a celebration of food and festivity. To CrEDO encourage the spirit of sharing and fellowship among the employees, everyone was asked to bring home-cooked 2015 2016 2017 A first-of-its-kind one-day event celebrating construction meals. The pantry in all the 7Cs Group offices was filled with TOTAL NUMBER OF workers is held annually by Global Green Bridge. A delicious dishes, ranging from traditional Indian dishes to EMPLOYEES 1, 625 1701 1,961 cultural programme and a awarding ceremony is central continental food, fruits and some mouth-watering desserts. to ‘CrEDO’ – Construction Employees Day Out. The main The food looked amazing and tasted even better. The activity TOTAL NUMBER OF objective of this program is to motivate and appreciate blue saw an overwhelming response from all the employees and MALE EMPLOYEES 1, 538 1602 1,849 collar employees, who toil every day to create the beautiful was a great way to start a work day in office. TOTAL NUMBER OF landscape of Dubai. FEMALE EMPLOYEES 87 99 112 SMART IDOL CRICKET TOURNAMENT NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 819 582 789 Our employees were encouraged to participate in a musical Our cricket-loving employees enjoyed the Green Bridge competition organised for blue collar workers across Dubai. Cricket League held in Dubai. We harnessed the talent and TOTAL NUMBER OF Our singers Durg Vijay and Harikesh Chauhan performed passion of our strong base of 1900+ employees to form 4 EMPLOYEES WHO TOOK 1 4 1 at Sheikh Rashid Auditorium in Dubai with other finalists of MATERNITY LEAVES teams. This tournament brought the employees together, Smart Idol 2017. create stronger bonds within the organisation. ATTRITION RATE 19.9% 18.5% 35.54% OFFSITE BY THE HILL SIDE INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY No. of Internal/ We celebrate the wonderful women working at the 7Cs S no Name of the Training Trainer Employees A team-building workshop was conducted for 25 employees External Attended Group every single day and today was just another excuse of the jewellery division at the hill-side town of Lonavala. 1 STAR ONE Retail Sales Staff Training Jewel Corner Jayashree / Roopesh Internal 66 for us to show them how much we appreciate them. On Employees from the gold, diamond and gold mounting 2 SGL solitaire GEM Labs SGL External 17 International Women’s Day, our women colleagues divisions took part in this offsite, where brainstorming on 3 Overseas training Jewel Corner Jayashree / Roopesh Internal 5 engaged in games, shared their inspiring stories and enjoyed future strategies was done alongside games and other 4 SEO International SEO External 1 sumptuous food. While our women colleagues were dressed engaging activities. 5 CRM + Loyalty Induction Antony / Gayathri Internal 103 in pink, our male colleagues showed their appreciation and 6 Brand Excellence Amrita Internal 92 solidarity and sported pink hues as well. 7 RJC Anjali Internal 16 8 Advance Excel Ace It External 1 IFTAR PARTY 9 SMACT Anjali Internal 8 At 7Cs Group, we not only respect all traditions and PAINTING BONANZA 10 Product Knowledge Nilesh Internal 15 cultures, but also celebrate and participate in them. To 11 Team building Hala associates External 20 A painting activity was conducted for children of 7Cs showcase our respect for the Ramadan tradition, a majority 12 Fidic Certification Training Ajith Internal 6 employees on the theme ‘Sustainability: Connecting good of our employees voluntarily fasted for a day along with their 13 Bloom Training Hala Internal 18 will to good work’. The lovely paintings were then featured Muslim colleagues. All participating employees broke fast 14 Leadership 5th Discipline Hala Internal 14 in the 7Cs 2018 corporate organizers together during the Iftar party organized at several Group 15 Ignite Training – Induction Green Bridge Hr Internal 25 offices in Dubai. 16 Foreman Meeting Green Bridge Hr Internal 18 17 Chargehand Meeting Green Bridge Hr Internal 14 18 Performance Management Training Ruben John Internal 18 SENIOR MANAGEMENT OUTING SENIOR MANAGEMENT OUTING 19 Swagatham – Induction Training Green Bridge Hr Internal 20 20 C3 Training – Usage Of Atm Cards Green Bridge Hr External 500 AT BOWLING CENTRE AT GAMING CENTRE 21 Site Training Green Bridge Hr Internal 20 At 7Cs Group, we like to make sure all business heads are At 7Cs Group, we believe that all work and no play makes 22 Camp Boss Training Green Bridge Hr Internal 4 in top form, whether they are in the board room crunching us dull. Senior management spent 60 minutes as a team 23 Lean Training Ashok Kumar Internal 15 numbers or participating in sports. Our senior members to solve a series of mysterious and challenging puzzles to 24 Isab Training Green Bridge Hr External 6 geared up for their strategy meet for 2017-18, by unwinding ‘escape’ a room at a gaming centre in Dubai. 25 Dqa Training Ashok Kumar Internal 8 and showing their skills at a bowling centre in Dubai. 26 Od Intervention Hala External 40 Total 1070 13 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 14 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Policy/ Procedure Implementation Policy/ Procedure Implementation • Non-discrimination policy • Employee satisfaction surveys are conducted annually • Code of conduct • We follow the UAE labour laws, wherever applicable. • Harassment policy • 7Cs has launched a knowledge portal iGrow to ensure sharing of best practices • Recruitment policy • Contracts with all our employees to avoid forced labour • Anti-human trafficking policy among all employees. Recognising top users of the portal has motivated all • HSE policy • All our employees are above 18 years of age and we store information on age • HR manual is designed to employees to use the portal. • Ethics policy based on their passport and other official documentation. acquaint employees of the 7Cs • Quarterly ‘Tell Me’ sessions are conducted for grievance redressal • Equal employment opportunity • All employees are covered under medical insurance Group with information about • Quarterly magazine C Times is used to communicate different initiatives policy • Fire drills conducted working conditions, benefits, among the Group. • Conducted HSE trainings including fire safety and first aid (BLS) standards of conduct and policies • ‘We Care’, an initiative for employees to share their grievances and suggestions • We provide staff accommodation to more than 1,500 employees affecting employment. directly with the director and chairman • ‘Dil Se’, which translates to ‘From the Heart’, is an initiative designed to • Anonymous survey of senior management was conducted, wherein 11 address the grievance of the work force. Every Sunday, one representative members shared their feedback from HR department visits the labour accommodation for this session. Measurement of 2018 Targets Measurement of 2018 Targets outcome outcome • 0 complaints of sexual • Employee satisfaction survey • Employees belonging to 23 nationalities work with us. • Online Employee Engagement misconduct or discrimination in • Conduct regular health camps • 0 complaints of violation of UAE labour rights in 2017 survey for labour and staff 2017 • Won the 5-star Taqdeer award, a Dubai government initiative to honour • Engage 2000 employees through • 4 sessions of Tell Me, a companies for excellence in labour practices, different activities meeting with HR team to discuss • 24 ‘Dil Se’ sessions held grievances • 2 sessions of ‘We Care’ ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Policy/ Procedure Implementation Measurement of Policy/ Procedure Implementation Measurement of outcome outcome • HSE policy • Began recycling programme in Recycling data: • Anti-Corruption policy • We have a gift register to monitor • 0 complaints of bribery or other • Environment policy all Group companies • Paper (in kg): 650 all the gifts given and accepted financial frauds against our • Conducted Environment policy • Plastic (in kg): 17 by employees Group companies in 2017. trainings • Cartridges (no.): 9 • Conducted trainings on anti• Global Green Bridge won the • Ewaste (no.): 28 money laundering, antiDubai Quality Appreciation corruption and KYC. Award from the Dubai Economic 2018 Targets 2018 Targets • Appointed AML officer Department for its exemplary and committee for internal business ethics. investigation • Paper (in kg): 700 • Cartridges (no.): 15 • 0 fines/ corruption cases against • Plastic (in kg): To reduce • Ewaste (no.): 35 Group companies consumption of plastic • Participate in beach cleanups 15 7Cs Group / UNGC Report SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 03 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES TOYS WITH WINGS Organisation collects and distributes new as well as secondBEACON OF HOPE Beacon of Hope UAE aspires to bring life, light and hand toys to children in orphanages and refugee camps literacy to impoverished children globally by providing in Middle East, Africa and Europe, in association with the 04 solar lights, books and medical apps to ascertain the health QUALITY Emirates Red Crescent. of impoverished children. Impact: 7Cs Group employees collected and donated eight EDUCATION Impact: Books were donated by employees of 7Cs Group In 2017, 7Cs Group, through its companies cartons of toys to the NGO. The Emirates Red Crescent through the NGO, enlightening 40 children. authorities distributed the old toys in orphanages inside focused on the following Sustainable Development Goals, laid down by the United 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Dubai, and the new toys will be given to children in refugee camps in Jordan, Iraq and Yemen. Nations Development Programme. SMART LIFE AL NOOR TRAINING Smart IDOL is a project started by NGO Smart Life in UAE. It CENTRE FOR PERSONS WITH WE DESIGN A BETTER FUTURE aims to find the finest talent amongst blue Collar individuals, DISABILITIES, UAE whose salaries are less than 2,500 AED, in UAE. The NGO Organisation provides all individuals with special needs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a trains and provides them a platform to exhibit their hidden professional training and care to realize their potential and universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy talent to public and media. integrate them into the wider community. Impact: Around 30 labourers from our construction camp peace and prosperity. Impact: 7Cs Group donation will be used for new teaching sites auditioned for the Smart Idol event. Two labourers were material and renovation work at the school. Additionally, trained and one participated in the Smart Idol competition. employees spent half a day volunteering at the Centre. These 17 Goals build on the successes of the Millennium Development Goals, while We also sponsored the event. including new areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among other priorities. The goals are interconnected – EMIRATES RED CRESCENT SOCIETY often the key to success on one will involve tackling issues more commonly associated Emirates Red Crescent Society is a volunteer humanitarian organization that supports official authorities in times of peace and war. with another. Impact: Around 500 sets of clothes were donated by employees of 7Cs Group to the Emirates Red Crescent society, which was distributed among those needy in UAE and have registered with Emirates Red Crescent Society. 17 7Cs Group / UNGC Report www.7cs.com 18 GOOD HEALTH SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND WELL-BEING AND COMMUNITIES DIABETES TEST AND EKAL VIDYALAYA FOUNDATION EARTH HOUR WALKATHON, UAE AWARENESS PROGRAMME The Ekal Vidyalaya Foundation of India is a registered nonEarth Hour is the world’s largest grassroots movement for Our fine jewellery brand Jewel Corner teamed up with Aster profit service organization dedicated to education and village the environment, which mobilises individuals, communities DM Healthcare to organize a free sugar test for our customers development in rural India. Ekal is the largest, grassroots, and organizations globally to do their part to help check and walk-ins on World Diabetes Day in Dubai, along with non-government education movement in India. Currently, it climate change. The Earth Hour walkathon, organized by providing pamphlets for awareness on the lifestyle disease. is operating in over 52,000 villages and educating over 1.4 Dubai Electricity and Water Authority, is part of the Earth Impact: Around 398 people were screened for diabetes million children in rural India. Hour UAE event, which also involves encouraging people through this initiative. Impact: 7Cs Group has been supporting the project for to switch off unnecessary lights for an hour at 8.30pm on several years, and sponsored more than 100 schools across March 25. YOUNG COMRADE rural India over the years. Impact: Participation by our employees in the walkathon CRICKET CLUB, INDIA to support the initiative and increasing awareness to switch of laptops and computers and chargers overnight to reduce Organisation provides cricket training for those participating in the Young Comrade Shield cricket tournament. DUBAI SPORTS COUNCIL PARTNERSHIPS unnecessary consumption of electricity FOR THE GOALS Impact: 7Cs Group sponsored the upcoming cricket tour at 24-HOUR WALKATHON, UAE Palanpur and Deesa towns of Gujarat. DXB 24-Hour Walkathon is a 24-hour walking challenge in Dubai, organized by the Dubai Sports Council. DUBAI BLOOD DONATION The 90km walkathon around the streets of Dubai was WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES 7Cs Group conducts an annual blood donation camp in designed to raise awareness of health and fitness and wellassociation with Dubai Blood Donation Centre, Latifa being in the corporate sector. The UN Women’s Empowerment Principles are a set of Principles for business offering guidance on Hospital, Dubai. Impact: A group of 22 employees from 7Cs Group companies how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Impact: 7Cs Group donated 42 units of blood in 2017. participated in the walkathon. 7Cs Group Chairman signed the CEO Statement of Support Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate leadership for to the Women’s Empowerment Principles in order to gender equality RESPONSIBLE publicly stand by the principles, including committing to communicate progress towards the principles. We focus on Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination CONSUMPTION AND engaging women employees by organising special events Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all and activities for them such as Women’s Day celebration, women and men workers trainings & special grievance cells for women employees. Principle 4: Promote education, training and professional PRODUCTION development for women Principle 5: Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women ENGAGE DUBAI Principle 6: Promote equality through community initiatives EMIRATES ENVIRONMENTAL GROUP, UAE RECYCLE EMIRATES, UAE and advocacy Engage Dubai is a corporate volunteering programme of Principle 7: Measure and publicly the Dubai Chamber. 7Cs Group has enrolled as a member report on progress to achieve Organisation focusses on sustainable development in UAE Organisation offers environmentally-compliant disposal of of the Engage Dubai and will report on our corporate gender equality through effective environmental protection and responsible computer and IT equipment. volunteering biannually. 7Cs actively participates in Engage waste management programmes. Impact: 7Cs Group practices e-waste recycling and has Dubai seminars and is part of the network of companies Impact: 7Cs Group practises paper recycling and managed recycled 17 desktops, one printer, 6 monitors, 6 routers, 4 who support the development of healthy and sustainable to recycle 650 kg of paper in 2017 CDs, 4 hard disks through this organization. communities. WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK We welcome your feedback on this report to help us improve our reporting and ensure transparency. This report will be available on the United Nations Global Compact and the 7Cs Group website. In case of queries, please contact: Zarrin Suhail Manager, CSR and Corporate Communications Email: zarrin.suhail@7cs.com PO Box 54303, Office 1003 1005 New Century City Tower Phone: +971 4 255 2797 Fax: +971 4 255 2897 www.7cs.com Design by Sanan Goyal www.sanangoyal.com
