Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Assessment Report Company Assessed : EMAZE BVBA Overall Score: 60/100 CSR engagement: Confirmed August 2018 Size: Extra Small Country (company headquarters): Belgium Presence in Risk Countries: No Category/Industry: Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 1/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 TABLES OF CONTENTS 1. Score Overview 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives 3. Assessment Process 4. Ecovadis Methodology a. Four themes with 21 criterias b. Seven management indicators c. Scoring Scale 5. How to understand company Scorecard a. Quantitative information: score & activated criteria b. Qualitative information: Strengths & Improvement Areas 6. Theme: Environment 7. Theme: Labor Practices & Human Rights 8. Theme: Fair Business Practices 9. Theme: Sustainable Procurement 10. 360° Stakeholder Information 11. Specific Comments 12. Contact us ABOUT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment to behave responsibly by integrating social and environmental concerns into business operations. CSR goes beyond regulatory compliance to focus on how companies manage their economic, social, and environmental impacts, as well as their relationships with stakeholders (e.g. employees, suppliers, government). ABOUT THE ASSESSMENT The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and measures put in place as well as the reporting published by companies with regards to environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement issues. The assessment conducted by CSR experts is made on the basis of the company answers to a survey which is dynamically adapted to their country, sector and size, on the basis of supporting documentation, and on public and stakeholder (NGOs, trade unions, press) information. ABOUT ECOVADIS EcoVadis operates the 1st collaborative platform allowing companies to assess the environmental and social performance of their suppliers on a global basis. EcoVadis combines technology and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expertise to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. This document cannot be reproduced or distributed unless otherwise specified in EcoVadis contractually granted license right. No part of this document may be modified in whole or in part and in any form prior express written permission of EcoVadis. EcoVadis does not warrant the accuracy, reliability, completeness of the information, content, text, graphics provided on this document. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 2/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 1. Score Overview The overall and theme scores summarize the CSR performance of EMAZE OVERALL SCORE 60/100 BVBA on a scale of 1 to 100. Legend Outstanding CSR PERFORMANCE Advanced Environment ENV 60 Confirmed Labor & Human Rights LAB 60 Partial None Ethics FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement NA The grey bars on this graph represent the benchmarks. Benchmarks compare BENCHMARK a company’s overall score and theme scores to other companies operating within the same industry. Here the Benchmark on over 150 suppliers. NOTE: The top and bottom 5% of performers are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. ENV : Environment LAB : Labor Practices & Human Rights FBP : Fair Business Practices SUP : Sustainable Procurement The company’s CSR performance was not scored on this theme as it is Benchmark is done on all suppliers of the same business considered not applicable due to the company size (25 or less category on the EcoVadis database employees) This graph depicts the distribution of overall scores for several thousand companies on the EcoVadis platform. EMAZE BVBA has an overall score of 60 and the company is ranked alongside 12% which have Confirmed CSR engagement. The red dot represents the average of all suppliers The blue diamond refers to company position EMAZE BVBA has been identified as Silver regarding their approach to CSR management. To achieve this recognition, a company must have an overall score of [46-61]. The Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Action Plans, a starting point for an Corrective Action Plan in progress effective dialogue on actions taken by the supplier to improve their CSR performance. EMAZE BVBA has a CAP in place and is working on improving their CSR management system. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 3/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives UNDERSTAND: Get a clear picture of the company’s CSR performance. With a score on four CSR themes (environmental, labor practices & Human Rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement), that highlight the company’s strengths and possible areas for improvement. Know the company’s positioning compared to their industry sector peers. On which theme is this company better positioned than their peers? How is this company positioned in comparison to their sector average? Identify sector specific initiatives. What are the main international CSR regulations and sector initiatives specific to the industry sector of the company? COMMUNICATE: Meet client needs. More and more companies raise questions about their supplier’s environmental and social performance. This assessment allows to demonstrate company commitment. Leverage a unique communication tool. Directly share the assessment results with all clients. 3. Assessment Process Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 4/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 4. Ecovadis Methodology is based on A. Four themes with 21 criteria The EcoVadis methodology takes into account 21 CSR criteria which are contained under four themes: ENVIRONMENT, LABOR, FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT. The methodology and criteria are in line with international CSR standards including the Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact, and ISO 26000. B. Seven management indicators The EcoVadis assessment evaluates a company CSR management system by looking at seven management indicators. The four themes and their subsequent 21 CSR criteria are assessed on the basis of the following management indicators that a company has in place. Policies (weight: 25%) 1. Policies: Mission statements, commitments, principles, objectives and/or policies issued by the company. 2. Endorsement: Endorsement of CSR external initiatives, principles and/or active participation to international/sector CSR initiative. Actions (weight: 35%) 3. Measures: Concrete actions put in place to support commitments, objectives and deployment of policies (e.g. training, manual procedures). 4. Coverage: Level of deployment/dissemination of measures and concrete actions put in place throughout the company to support commitments and/or policies. 5. Certifications: Certifications received for the management system and/ or labels received for the products/ services delivered. Results (weight: 40%) 6. Reporting/ KPI: Quality and level of reporting readily available to stakeholders 7. 360°: Controversies, condemnations or positive developments reported by stakeholders (NGOs, Trade Unions, Press) having an impact on the company's CSR performance. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 5/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 5. How to understand company Scorecard The overall score can be better understood by looking at quantitative information theme scores, activated criteria and qualitative information strengths & improvement areas. A. QUANTITATIVES INFORMATION: SCORES & ACTIVATED CRITERIA THEME SCORES: Like the overall score, theme scores are on a scale of 1 to 100. ACTIVATED CRITERIA: Each of the four themes ENVIRONMENT, LABOR, FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENThave specific criteria associated to them. It is important to note that not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). For more information see Appendix: category profile. If criteria are not activated, this means that the specific associated Non Activated issue is not relevant or has very low CSR risk for the company Medium importance criteria are the issues where there is some CSR Medium Importance risk, but it is not the most pressing criteria. High-importance criteria are the issues where the company faces High Importance the greatest CSR risk. Criteria classified as Only in Risk Countries are activated only if the Only in Risk countries company has significant operations in one or more risk country. B. QUALITATIVE INFORMATION: STRENGTHS & IMPROVEMENT AREAS Qualitative information provides more details and insights into the theme scores. For each theme the company is assigned Strengths (the elements of the CSR management system that are positive) and Improvement Areas (the elements of the CSR management system that need to be improved). The strengths & improvement areas are divided according to the 3 management indicators Policies, Actions, Results – and are also classified by level of importance/priority (i.e. Priority.) Green check marks indicate the Strengths Alert signs indicate the Improvement Areas Improvement Areas are a focus point for improvement. The EcoVadis Corrective Action Plan Tool allows companies to improve their CSR performance on specific improvement areas. It is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It supports the development of Action Plans, a starting point for an effective dialogue between buyers and suppliers on actions taken by a supplier to improve their CSR performance. Each improvement area is given a priority level Priority Level which can be used to set up corrective action plans. High Medium Low Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 6/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 C. THE SCORING SCALE Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 7/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 6. ENVIRONMENT The environment theme takes into account both operational factors (e.g. energy consumption, waste management, etc.) and product stewardship (e.g. product end of life, customer health and safety issues). ENVIRONMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor & Human Rights LAB 60 Ethics FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement NA WEIGHT of the Theme ENV 2 out of 6 -> 33% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of the company industry of operation and country comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other of operation(s). The theme weights influence the EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: resulting overall score. are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 suppliers to compare with. ENVIRONMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). ENVIRONMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 8/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 ENVIRONMENT:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic environmental policies: only basic statements or More Information lacks details on specific issues • The company has issued value statements on environmental issues, which either lack specificity at issue level, do not cover all the major issues the company is confronted with, or lack organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application) Guidance • A standard environmental policy integrates commitments and/or operational objectives on the main environmental risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document (e.g. QHSE Policy). A standard environmental policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives (i.e. on energy consumption & GHG emissions), and review mechanisms. Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). Quantitative objectives set on some relevant issues [ More Information i.e. energy consumption ] • The company has defined and has formally communicated quantitative objectives (i.e. targets) with regard to the relevant environmental policy objectives. Guidance • Quantitative objectives or targets on environmental issues are considered as fundamental elements of comprehensive policy mechanism. They provide a monitoring framework that helps establish whether policy objectives are being met, and highlight the progress towards set goals. Some examples of specific targets on this topic include quantitative objectives on issues such as energy consumption reduction. As policy elements, targets can be expressed in absolute or relative terms and must have a valid future deadline (i.e. by 2020 we commit to reduce our energy consumption by 20% from 2015 levels). • Best practices are to issue valid quantitative objectives or targets for all relevant environmental issues in a particular industry sector. Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 9/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 ENVIRONMENT:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Use of renewable energies or purchase of green energy More Information • The company has implemented a process to be able to use renewable energy on its site or to buy green energy from the electricity grid. Guidance • Examples of renewable energy are solar power, wind power, hydroelectric energy, biomass, geothermal power, energy from tides/ocean. The company may have set up a contract with a provider of such type of energy, either a private company or an institutionalized organisation (e.g. the company is connected to the town / region grid which relies on wind power for electricity production). Provision of carbon offsetting option for clients Recycling of office waste (paper, cardboard, ink cartridges etc.) Actions to reduce energy consumption from IT equipment Measures to reduce paper consumption More Information • The company has implemented specific measures to reduce the consumption of paper related to its activities. Guidance • Examples might include provision of online catalogue to clients, distribution and storage of documents electronically (e.g. bills, press release, staff awareness on 'need to print', setting printers to double side). Measures to optimize transport or reduce CO2 More Information emissions from transport • The company has implemented specific measures to optimize transportation or to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions related to transportation Guidance • Examples might include devices to optimize route planning, provision of live traffic information to drivers, carbon compensation options and multimodal transportation plans (i.e. the transportation of goods utilizing differing means of transport). Reduction of energy consumption through employee More Information awareness programs • The company has a specific awareness (and training) program for employees on reducing energy consumption. Guidance • Awareness programs might include brochures given to employees, notices displayed in the workplace areas, presentation used during meetings in order to engage employees on reducing energy consumption. • Some examples of areas it could cover include turning off lights at the end of the day, switching off electrical appliances when not in use, selecting energy-efficient equipment (e.g. for facilities management or procurement department staff), and optimizing machinery use (e.g. stand-by vs active for workshop operatives). Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 10/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 ENVIRONMENT:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic reporting on environmental issues More Information • There is some evidence of formal reporting on environmental issues in the supporting documentation. It may include key performance indicators (KPIs), or statistical figures. However reporting elements may be limited in terms of quality or quantity, may not cover the main issues, or reporting is not regularly updated. Guidance • Based on the information provided for the assessment, reporting does not cover a major portion of relevant issues (i.e. reporting is available for only 1 relevant issue). • To improve the quality of reporting, KPIs could include material issues for the company's environmental performance. For example, annual figures on electricity consumption and GHG emissions, waste management, or any other available KPIs. For more information on the specific environmental performance KPIs please refer to the GRI Standards. Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 11/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 7. LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS (LAB) The labor theme takes into account both Labor Practice issues (e.g. health and safety, working conditions, etc.) and Human Rights issues (e.g. discrimination & harassment, child labor, etc.). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor & Human Rights LAB 60 Ethics FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement NA WEIGHT of the Theme LAB 3 out of 6 -> 50% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of the company industry of operation and country comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other of operation(s). The theme weights influence the EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: resulting overall score. are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 suppliers to compare with. LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP B a s i c l a b o r & h u m a n r i g h t s p o l i c i e s : o n l y b a s i c More Information statements or lacks details on specific issues • The company has basic labor & human rights policies that may include statements, commitments, and operational objectives on the management of its sustainable procurement policies, but lacks details on specific issues. Guidance • A standard labor and human rights policy includes commitments and/or operational objectives on the main labor and human rights risks the company faces. It is communicated to internal and external stakeholders through a formal dedicated document. A standard labor and human rights policy contains qualitative objectives/commitments specific to those issues. The policy should also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives, and review mechanisms. Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Training of relevant employees on health & safety risks More Information and best working practices • The company provides training to relevant employees on health and safety risks and best working practices Guidance • The company has implemented training on health and safety issues. Safety training aims at implementing health and safety procedures into specific job practices and at raising staff Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 12/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP awareness and skills to an acceptable standard. For example, safety training covers topics such as accident prevention and safety promotion, safety compliance, use of personal protective equipment, chemical and hazardous materials safety, and workplace emergency response procedures. • A best practice is to have a training matrix which helps to keep track of which employees have been trained, the date of the training, the training topic, and expected dates for refresher trainings. Monitoring of training attendance certificates is also suggested. • It is also a best practice to have the training carried out in the language that the employees understand best and to carry out tests or quizzes to ensure training concepts have been successfully transmitted to participants. Childcare services or allowance Flexible organization of work available to employees (e.g. remote work, flexitime) Health care coverage of employees in place Awareness training to prevent discrimination and/or harassment Employee health & safety detailed risk assessment More Information • The company carries out employee health & safety detailed risk assessments Guidance • The company has carried out detailed risk assessment of health and safety. Occupational health and safety risk assessments are a crucial step in the prevention process. They involve the identification of all the potential hazards an employee may face while carrying out regular duties and which type of employees may be more exposed to hazards (by job function). The level of risk, records of significant findings and proposition of preventive actions are also highlighted, in addition to plans for regular review of the risk assessment. • If applicable, the results of a health and safety risk assessment should be made available to relevant stakeholders such as employees, members of the health and safety committee , staff representatives, the occupational physicians, and labor inspectors. Regular assessment (at least once a year) of individual More Information performance • The company carries out regular assessments or appraisal of individual performance at least on a yearly basis for employees Guidance • The company has implemented regular assessment of employee performance. Regular assessments of employees aim to evaluate employee individual performance and productivity, combining both written and oral elements, and are based on a systematic and periodic process linked with a pre-established criteria and organizational objectives. • The best practice concerning this criteria is to have a review with the employee at least annually, and to include employee selfassessments aimed at maintaining employee engagement in their own performance and overall organizational objectives. Setting and measuring goals related to the employee's career objectives, as well as including manager and peer feedback on the employee's performance are all important components in this regular assessment process. Active preventive measures for stress More Information • The company has preventive measures in place against stress Guidance • The company has implemented measure to alleviate the stress level of employees. • The definition of stress used by Health and Safety Executive (HSE), namely the adverse reaction people have to excessive Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 13/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP pressures or other types of demand placed on them. Workrelated stress can be caused by poor work design (for example, lack of control over work processes), poor management, unsatisfactory working conditions, and a lack of support from colleagues and supervisors. • Some examples of measures to reduce stress include: provision of appropriate employee support services, conducting stress risk assessments, ensuring that employees are appropriately trained to fulfill their roles, monitoring working hours and overtime, ensuring that employees take their full holiday entitlement, and offering appropriate support to employees who are experiencing stress outside of work. Provision of skills development training More Information • The company provides training to its employees to develop their skills Guidance • The company has implemented vocational training and instruction, which include skills development training, education paid for in whole or in part by the company, with the goal to provide opportunities for career advancement (Source: Global Reporting Initiative G3). • Examples of on-the-job training to enhance employee skills are coaching, mentoring, job rotation, apprenticeships, etc. • Total number of hours of training per employee per year can be a significant key performance indicator for this action. LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic reporting on labor practices & human rights issues More Information • There is some evidence of formal reporting on labor practices or human rights issues in the supporting documentation. It may include key performance indicators (KPIs), or statistical figures. However reporting elements may be limited in terms of quality or quantity, may not cover the main issues, or reporting is not regularly updated. Guidance • Based on the information provided for the assessment, reporting does not cover a major portion of relevant issues (i.e. reporting is available for only 1 relevant issue). • To improve the quality of reporting, KPIs could include injury rates, number of employees covered by social benefits, number of employees trained on discrimination, or the % of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements just to name a few. For more information on examples of specific labor and human rights related KPIs, please refer to the Global Reporting Initiative. Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 14/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 8. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES (FBP) The fair business practice theme focuses primarily on corruption and bribery issues, but also takes into account anti-competition and responsible information management depending on the industry of operation. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor & Human Rights LAB 60 Ethics FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement NA WEIGHT of the Theme FB 1 out of 6 -> 16% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of the company industry of operation and country comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other of operation(s). The theme weights influence the EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: resulting overall score. are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 suppliers to compare with. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic business ethics policies: only general statements More Information or lacks details on specific issues • The company has issued value statements, commitments, and/or operational objectives on fair business practices, which either lack specificity at issue level, do not cover the major business ethics issues the company is confronted with, are not consolidated into a formalized policy document, or lack organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Guidance • A standard policy on fair business practices covers corruption & bribery issues and optionally information security and responsible marketing, depending on the relevancy for the industry or sector. Such a policy is formalized as qualitative objectives/commitments in a formal policy document e.g. Code of Ethics/Code of Conduct and includes organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Download the How-to Guide on this topic here (in English). Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 15/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Implementation of a records retention schedule Measures to protect customer or client data from More Information unauthorized access or disclosure • The company has implemented measures to protect customer or client data from unauthorized access or disclosure. Guidance • The company has taken measures to limit access to customer or client data within its own operation, or have implemented measures to secure its information system including such data so as to protect the data from unauthorized access or disclosure. Specific approval procedure for sensitive transactions More Information (e.g. gifts, travel) • The company has implemented a verification process for sensitive transactions. Guidance • Sensitive transactions involve payments and cash transfers particularly for operations exposed to high risk of corruption and bribery. Some examples are: gifts, entertainment and travel, new investments. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 16/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 9. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT (SUP) The sustainable procurement theme focuses on both social and environmental issues within the company supply chain. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor & Human Rights LAB 60 Ethics FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement NA WEIGHT of the Theme SUP out of 6 -> 0% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of the company industry of operation and country comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other of operation(s). The theme weights influence the EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: resulting overall score. are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 suppliers to compare with. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 17/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 10. The 360° WATCH: stakeholders' information 360º WATCH 08/2018 No records found for this company on Compliance Database . The 360° is a web based tool to collect stakeholders insight on a company‘s CSR approach and impacts. A corporate stakeholder is a party that can affect or be affected by the actions of the company and the achievement of its objectives (i.e. employees, clients, suppliers). Note: If a strength or weakness is activated on the 360°, this is an indicator that the 360° has had an impact on the score. Only legitimate stakeholder sources are selected: Governmental organizations (i.e. government environmental protection administrations, anti-trust agencies, customers protection agencies) CSR networks and initiatives Trade unions and employers’ organizations International organizations (i.e. UN, ILO, UNEP, …) NGO’s (i.e. Greenpeace, Clean Clothes Campaign, Transparency international, UFC, …) Research institutes and reputable press (CSR Asia, Blacksmith Institute, …) Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 18/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 11. SPECIFIC COMMENTS Specific comments are key points which indicate some specific characteristics of the company CSR evaluation and will help to better understand the company’s performance. The company is not included in any compliance-related watch lists or sanction lists. Despite the company implementing measures regarding business ethics issues, policies are not formalized or are only basic. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 19/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 MORE INFORMATION For more information, please refer to our website (http://www.ecovadis.com) where you can also connect to the EcoVadis platform. If you have any questions or problems, do not hesitate to contact us: By email at: support@ecovadis.com By phone : +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 Provided under contract for exclusive use of subscriber: Joost Verschuere 17/09/2018 This assessment is valid for 12 months only. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 20/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 APPENDIX : CATEGORY PROFILE A Category Profile offers practical insights into the key sustainability issues which are applicable to the company industry of operation. It provides a link to major regulations, sector initiatives, and eco-labels. The company industry of operation has been determined based on International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC), which is a compilation of all global economic activities published by the United Nations Statistical Commission. The International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) main purpose is to provide a set of activity categories that can be utilized for the collection and reporting of statistics according to such activities. International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Rev.4, United Nations, New York, 2008 It is possible that a company has operations in more than one category, but EcoVadis classifies companies based on their main area of operation. Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 21/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 CRITERIA ACTIVATION BY THEME: Each category faces specific CSR issues and risks based on their industry of operation. The below chart shows the criteria activated for the company category name : Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis. Environment Labor & Human Rights Ethics Energy Consumption & GHG Employee Health & Safety Corruption & Bribery Water Working Conditions Anti-competitive Practices Biodiversity Social Dialog Responsible Information Management Local Pollution Career Management & Training Materials, Chemicals & Waste Child & Forced Labor Sustainable Procurement Product Use Discrimination & Harassment Suppliers & Environment Product End-of-Life External Human Rights Issues Suppliers & Social Customers Health & Safety Sustainable Consumption Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Noteworthy Practices KEY CSR ISSUES This section shows a qualitative explanation of the key CSR issues and risk pertaining to Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis. Key CSR Issues ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption & GHG Definition: Energy consumption (e.g. electricity, fuel, renewable energies) used during operations and transport. Greenhouse gases direct and indirect emissions including CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC and SF6. Also includes production of renewable energy by the company. Sectorial issues: Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission impacts from architectural and engineering consulting activities, as well as from testing services, are generally smaller compared to such impacts from the manufacturing or construction activities. The areas of impact related to this criteria mostly center on office energy consumption (electricity), fuel consumption from transportation between sites and offices, and energy consumption of machinery used in testing and analysis operations (1). Materials, Chemicals & Waste Definition: Consumption of all types of raw materials and chemicals. Non-hazardous and hazardous waste generated from operations. Also includes air emissions other than GHG (e.g. SOx, NOx). Sectorial issues: Key areas for architectural and engineering consulting related to materials and waste involve the reuse and recycling of office supplies, furniture and IT equipment. For technical testing and analysis activities, chemical and waste impacts largely center on disposal of chemicals that undergo testing, as well as potential byproducts from testing. It should be noted that as such technical testing often analyzes the ways in which materials and chemicals interact with their surroundings (such as their environmental impacts), the subject of environmental effects from the testing itself is less developed (2). Sustainable Consumption Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 22/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Definition: Programs implemented to promote the sustainable consumption of their own products or services among their customer base. This criteria includes the positive/negative indirect impacts of the use of products and services. Sectorial issues: Promotion of sustainable consumption is the highest impact environmental criteria for this sector. As architectural and engineering consulting mostly involves the design of structures and infrasture, rather than their construction, providing services that allow costumers to construct and manage buildings more sustainably is quite relevant to the environmental performance of these companies. The size of this impact is potentially quite large. In the United States, for instance, buildings account for thirty-six percent of total energy use, 65 percent of electricity consumption and 30 percent of GHG emissions (3). They also account for 30 percent of raw material use and waste output, as well as 12 percent of potable water consumption (3). In light of this, the U.S. government issues a detailed procurement guide for federal agencies to hire architectural and engineering firms, specifically for energy efficiency and sustainability performance. It requests that such consultants be qualified in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and to be able to design to Energy Star standards. Among many other environmental criteria, consultants are also requested to have expertise in highefficient design strategies for HVAC systems, low impact development strategies for storm water management, preservation and restoration of native vegetation, eroson control planning, and optimization measures to reduce requirements for insecticide and fertilizer use (4). Technical testing and analysis services provide the data that allows costumers to understand the environmental impacts of their products being tested. Companies engaged in such activities can promote services that specialize in environmental testing (5). Noteworthy Practices AIA 2030 Commitment Extracts The AIA 2030 Commitment is a growing national initiative that provides a framework with metrics and a standardized reporting format to help firms evaluate the impact that design decisions have on an individual project's energy performance. Within six months of signing the commitment, the firm will implement a minimum of four operational action items. These actions will be undertaken while the long-term sustainability plan is in development. Link http://network.aia.org/2030Commitment/home LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS Employee Health & Safety Definition: Deals with health and safety issues encountered by employees at work i.e. during operations and transport. Includes both physiological and psychological issues arising from, among others, dangerous equipment, work practices and hazardous substance. Sectorial issues: While architectural and engineering firms do not directly engage in the construction of the project on which they consult, employee health and safety remains an impactful criteria. Architects and engineers are regularly present at construction sites and are exposed to many of the same safety hazards as construction workers. These include workplace hazards that are fall-related, due to sound/noise/vibration, electrical, and due to automation and explosions. Human and psychosocial factors are prevalent as well, especially stress, as architects and enginners commonly operate under short deadlines with small margins of error (6). Therefore, measures to reduce stress are important in this sector. Health and safety is very relevant for technical testing and analysis as well, as these activities involve the use and manipulation of chemical substances, some of which may be hazardous (7). Working Conditions Definition: Deals with working hours, remunerations and social benefits granted to employees. Sectorial issues: As in any industry, fair working hours, wages, and benefits, such as vacation/holidays, rest periods, maternity/paternity leave, and retirement benefits, are important in this sector. Strong policies on working conditions have a significant effect on employee retention. Architectural and enginnering companies are competitive regarding highly-skilled workers. Therefore, benefits and good working conditions can be important to attract qualified employees. Social Dialog Definition: Deals with structured social dialogue i.e. social dialog deployed through recognized employee representatives and collective bargaining. Sectorial issues: Labor relations can be an issue in any industry. In order to avoid potential issues with employees, structured communication systems with unions are one of the measures that can be implemented. Career Management & Training Definition: Deals with main career stages i.e. recruitment, evaluation, training and management of layoffs. Sectorial issues: A strong workforce provides the basis for a successful company. In order to foster their commitment, companies in this sector must continually invest in training and development of their employees. Firms engaged in architectural, engineering, and technical testing activities, however rely on a highly-educated workforce and participate in a sector with continually evolving technological and design considerations. Therefore, professional development and training is of particular importance. Discrimination & Harassment Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 23/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Definition: Deals with discrimination issues at work. Discrimination is defined as different treatment given to people in hiring, remuneration, training, promotion, termination; based on race, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation or age. Sectorial issues: Diversity at work is a key issue to any company. It is addressed by specific regulations in most countries. External Human Rights Issues Definition: Deals with external human rights issues issues at work. This includes the respect of security, property rights, employees privacy rights, civil and political rights, rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, social and cultural rights (including indigenous people) as well as the prevention of harassment, moral and physical violence and inhumane or degrading treatment. Sectorial issues: Respect for human right at work is a basic principle mentioned by several initiatives such as the The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OIT principles or the Global Compact principles. It is an issue applicable for companies in this sector with operations in risk countries. ETHICS Corruption & Bribery Definition: Deals with all forms of corruption issues at work, including among other things extortion, bribery, conflict of interest, fraud, money laundering. Sectorial issues: Corruption and bribery issues are major issues for any company, particularly when operating in risk countries. Regulations such as the FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practice Act) in the US address these issues and make it unlawful to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Anti-competitive Practices Definition: Deals with anti-competitive practices including among others: bid-rigging, price fixing, dumping, predatory, pricing, coercive monopoly, dividing territories, product tying, limit pricing, and the non respect of intellectual property. Sectorial issues: Fair business practices are critical for any company, including architectural and engineering firms. Regulations are place in many countries that make most anti-competitive practices illegal. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Suppliers & Environment Definition: Deals with environmental issues within the supply chain i.e. environmental impacts generated from the suppliers and subcontractors own operations and products. Sectorial issues: Environmental issues in the supply chain are a consideration as well, although it is not as highprofile an issue as in other industries, such as manufacturing or construction. Architectural and engineering firms set the design requirements for projects that are material-intensive (such as construction). The material sourcing for these projects, however, fall under the scope of the company directly undertaking the projects themselves. Therefore, such design requirements, which would have an impact on sourcing strategies of construction companies, are an ENV9 criteria for architectural and engineering firms. These firms, however, do source office suppliers and other materials, which would fall under the scope of their procurement strategies. Suppliers & Social Definition: Deals with labor practices and human rights issues within the supply chain i.e. labor practices and human rights issues generated from the suppliers and subcontractors own operations or products. Sectorial issues: While subcontracting is a common practice for construction companies, and choosing subcontractors with reliable track records on health and safety is a key issue, companies engaged in architecture, engineering and technical testing do not rely on such outsourcing of specialized tasks to the same extent (8). Firms in this sector still need procurement strategies, however, that do not jeorpodize the labor and human rights of workers in their supply chains. SOURCES Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 24/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Sources 1An Opportunistic Activity-sensing Approach to Save Energy in Office Buildings http://conferences.sigcomm.org/eenergy/2013/papers/p22.pdf 2Faster Environmental Testing for New Synthetic Chemicals and Materials http://www.news.ucsb.edu/2014/014070/faster-environmental-tes... 3EPA Green Buildings http://www.epa.gov/oaintrnt/projects/ 4Sustainable Whole Building Design Guide http://www.wbdg.org/design/sustainable.php 5Eurofins Environment Testing http://www.eurofins.com/environment-testing.aspx 6Engineering Health and Safety Module and Case Studies http://www.safetymanagementeducation.com/en/data/files/downlo... 7OECD Guidelines for the testing of chemicals and related documents http://www.oecd.org/chemicalsafety/testing/oecdguidelinesfort... 8Ten Basic Factors to Identify Suitable Subcontractors for Construction Projects http://www.psdas.gov.hk/content/doc/Paper_Ng_Skitmore&Chung.pdf MAIN REGULATIONS AND SECTORS INITIATIVES This section provides a list of text references related to major CSR standards, regulations, labels or sector initiatives pertaining to Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis. Main Regulations and Sectors Initiatives ( = Regulatory) LAB : Ethics Charter of the AFPA (Association Française de la Formation Professionnelle) AFPA is a French professional association http://www.afpa.fr/ LAB : ILO Recommendation 117 concerning Vocational Training (1962) Internationl convention on vocational training http://www.ilo.org/public/english/employment/skills/hrdr/inst... ENV : Standard ISO 14000 (International Standard Organisation) The ISO 14000 family addresses various aspects of environmental management http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_14000_essentials LAB : Universal Declaration of Human Rights The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is an advisory declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly (10 December 1948 ) http://www.un.org/Overview/rights.html LAB : International Labor Organization's Fundamental Conventions The Governing Body of the International Labour Office has identified eight Conventions as fundamental to the rights of human beings at work. These rights are a precondition for 12 the others in that they provide a necessary framework from which to strive freely for the improvement of individual and collective conditions of work. http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---declara... LAB : Standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) OHSAS 18000 is an international occupational health and safety management system specification. http://www.ohsas-18001-occupational-health-and-safety.com/ind... FBP : Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) prohibits payments, gifts, or Practices Act contributions to officials or employees of any foreign government or government-owned business for the purpose of getting or retaining business. http://www.usdoj.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/ Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 25/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 FBP : United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) The UNCAC is the first leg12y binding international anti-corruption instrument. In its 8 Chapters and 71 Articles, the UNCAC obliges its States Parties to implement a wide and detailed range of anti-corruption measures affecting their laws, institutions and practices. http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/treaties/CAC/index.html ALL : United Nations Global Compact (10 principles) The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/in... ALL : OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises The Guidelines are recommendations addressed by governments to multinational enterprises operating in or from adhering countries. They provide voluntary principles and standards for responsible business conduct in a variety of areas including employment and industrial relations, human rights, environment, information disclosure, combating bribery, consumer interests, science and technology, competition, and taxation. http://www.oecd.org/about/0,2337,en_2649_34889_1_1_1_1_1,00.html ALL : Standard Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) The GRI is a network-based organization, that has set out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. http://www.globalreporting.org/Home ALL : Standard ISO 26000 (International Standard Organisation) The future International Standard ISO 26000, Guidance on social responsibility, will provide harmonized, glob12y relevant guidance based on international consensus among expert representatives of the main stakeholder groups and so encourage the implementation of best practice in social responsibility worldwide. http://www.iso.org/iso/pressrelease.htm?refid=Ref972 ENV : Carbon disclosure project CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. https://www.cdp.net ADDITIONAL CATEGORY STATISTICS Critical Category Strength and Improvement areas (% Suppliers) Strengths Waste management measures in place Provision of eco-design services to clients Reports no lost-time accidents Integration of social or environmental clauses into supplier contracts 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 26/27 EcoVadis Assessment for EMAZE BVBA August 2018 Critical Category Strength and Improvement areas (% Suppliers) Improvement areas No provision of eco-design services to clients No reporting on labor practices or human rights issues apart from KPIs in the questionnaire No information on measures regarding anti-corruption & bribery No sustainable procurement policy 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Strengths and Improvement Areas EcoVadis KPIs Suppliers Active whistleblowing procedure in place 35% Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issues 27% Carbon disclosure project (CDP) respondent 7% Formal code of business ethics OUTDATED 52% Formal sustainable procurement policy 26% Global Compact Signatory 10% ISO 14001 certified (at least one operational site) 35% OHSAS 18001 certification or equivalent (at least one operational site) 21% Reporting on energy use or GHG emissions 70% Reporting on health and safety indicators 71% Supplier EMAZE BVBA KPIs Joost Verschuere ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 17-9-2018 13:21:51 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report August 2018 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 27/27
