Communication on Progress 1 Content 01 Message from BOD 02 Company Information 03 Mission, Vission 04 Quality Policy 05 Business Strategy 06 Organization Chart 07 Committe 08 Company History 09 Product Development 10 Human Rights 11 Labour Rights 12 Environment 13 12 Anti-Corruption Message from Deputy Managing Director AUNG KO KO TIN WIN Deputy Managing Director To Our Honourable Stakeholders, FNI respectfully greets you, wishing you health, wealth and peace throughout your wonderful life. It is now 5 years since FNI started flourishing in the Myanmar Insurance Industry, simultaneously fulfilling its corporate social responsibility by helping its customers in distress on the one hand and running a fairly successful insurance business on the other, without losing sight of the essence of insurance, that is, to look after the insuring public as much as possible. During the previous underwriting year as required and instructed by the Insurance Business Regulatory Board (IBRB) we, the insurers in Myanmar become more united and are selling the new insurance products permitted by the IBRB in cooperation with each other. With a view to acquainting the general public with the new insurance products trainings are being held continuously throughout the year not only for our staff but also for our insurance Agents who as forward operatives connect FNI with the insuring public. Moreover, in order to enhance the public awareness of insurance FNI pavilions were also pitched and showcased in the Insurance Expo. Likewise, our marketing teams have been actively taking part with FNI pavilions built in the show ground at the various exhibitions held from time to time, thereby canvassing business. We believe that now Myanmar people have come to realize and appreciate the benefits of insurance better than before. Accordingly, we further believe that the larger Myanmar Insurance market grows, the more FNI would be able to promptly service and meet the ever-growing insurance requirements of Myanmar people over the coming years. As the First National Insurance Public Co.,Ltd. is an insurance company that fully abides by the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, it serves the interest of the public and the staff with accountability and transparency in the insurance company. The company will always maintain its standards in the future. Thanks and Regards. Company Information YANGON MANDALAY MONYWA MAWLAMYINE PYAY & 18 TOWNSHIP REGIONAL OFFICES to serve the nation. As our reliable First National Insurance Company (FNI) is one of the business unit under HTOO GROUP OF COMPANIES. FNI was established as a public company and granted the business licence (No.007) by Insurance Business Regulatory Board (IBRB) on june 14, 2014. With a strong management team and insurance professionals onboard, FNI has set out to become the largest insurance provider in both Life and Non-Life insura.nce products. Kyats 46 billion was initialy invested for the Paid-up capital and USD 500,000 capital was added to the company’s working capital in 204. Therefore FNI can write the insurance cover in both Myanmar Currency and US Dollars. FNI is offering 9 different types of insurance cover with our highly qualified and well-trained 200 over professional staff. Our head office is in Yangon and the branches are in Mandalay, Monywa, Mawlamyine and Pyay. Moreover we have appointed certified regional offices in 18 township areas in Myanmar. So FNI can provide insurance covers to all across the Nation. First National Insurance is delighted to state that it has the privilege of playing a critical role in Myanmar’s social and economic reforms by ensuring peace of mind and promoting opportunities for prosperity nationwide. FNI provides prompt 24 hours claims services and has been gaining the reputation of effective Communication on Progress 2 Vision, Mission & Core value VISION To become a leading Insurance Company in Myanmar Insurance Industry by fostering Industrial & Economic growth thereby improving quality of peoples’ lives. MISSION To help protect our customers from all kinds of peril by providing them with not only financial benefits but also peace of mind. CORE VALUE Integrity Dedication Team Spirit Customer Centricity Respect & Courtesy Innovation Communication on Progress 3 Quality Policy F NI must be the first choice of a customer whenever and wherever thinking about ‘’Peace of Mind” for his life, property and automobile etc. We always support Myanmar i surance market with special attention on the awareness about the importance of insurance system. F NI concentrates on canvassing business both on direct basis as well as through our agents. We have appointed qualified resident personnel in many townships across Myanmar either as branch offices or mobile teams to serve our insuring public in any way. We offer insurance solutions to the difficulties and problems of the insuring public with the acceptance of risks managed by qualified and experienced underwriters. F NI seeks to establish a reputation for itself as an efficient and fair insurer by meeting its claims obligations in a prompt and efficient manner. To implement this resolution, we include in our team professionals such as counsels, surveyors, adjusters etc. W e shall continually maintain and improve our efficient and quality management system, meeting both the regulatory and ISO 9001:2015 requirements. Communication on Progress 4 Business Strategy 1. Identifying priority markets with potential to grow Focus on major Cities that comprise Myanmar’s Largest Life & Non-Life markets 2. Expanding our geographic focus to cover untapped regions of the country Opening branch Offices Promoting Brand Awareness 3. Taking advantage of Life & Non-Life combinations Offering product bundles under the same brand Introducing new products that can better meet our customer’s needs 4. Building up our competitive advantage by focusing on marketing, distribution, technology, management & financial planning Communication on Progress 5 Organization Chart Communication on Progress 6 Corporate Governance As collective strength is essential for achievement of its operations and sustainable development, the company takes the following measures by forming organizations. Committees A. formation of permanent committees (1) Company Management Committee The committee is led by the Deputy Managing Director and comprises all heads of department. It meets twice a month. (2) Risk Management Committee The committee is chaired by the deputy managing director is formed with four heads of department on 18.1. 2018. It meets twice a month. (3) HR Management Committee The committee was formed on 2.10 2017 with the deputy managing director acting as the patron and a head of department as the chairman. It is made up of six members who are heads of department. The committee meets twice a month. (4) Employee Proficiency Development Committee The committee, which is headed the deputy managing director as the patron and a head of department as the chairman, is formed on 23.4.2018. Its members include six heads of department and two representatives from departments. The committee meets once a month. (5) Quality Management System A deputy head of department lead the group, which was formed with representatives from departments on 23.8.2017. The group is responsible for ISO certificate, which was received on 2.10.2018. B. Temporary committees Temporary committees are occasionally formed for effective operations of the company. For example, (1) formation of committees to organize teams presentation to improve the knowledge and presentation skills, committees of judges to assess the performance. (2) formation of committee to organize team activities such as traditional snacks compteitions and judges for the competitions. Communication on Progress 7 Company History Communication on Progress 8 Product Development Communication on Progress 9 Human Right First National Insurance Public Co.,Ltd. abides by norms in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the following manner. (a) First National Insurance Public Co.,Ltd. does business and hires employees without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status in accordance with Article (2) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. (b) In accordance with Article (4) and (5) of the declaration, the company shall not hold anyone in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms. No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. ( c) In accordance with Article (23) and (24) of the declaration, the company shall allow everyone to have the right to work, to free choice of employment, to equal pay for equal work, to social protection and to form and to join trade unions with pay. Communication on Progress 10 Measurement of the outcome of human rights activities 2.(a) Our employment program is as follows Male 262 and female 326 totalling 588 574 Buddhists and 14 Christians totaling 588 Ethnically, they are 574 Bamars, five Kachins, one Kayin, five Chins, one Rakhine and two Shans totaling 588 (b) Punishments were meted out in accordance with labor regulations and rules as follows: (i) Written warnings were given to 26 persons (ii) 33 persons were dismissed (c) Position-wise monthly salaries have been fixed for employees on equal terms, and extra provisions were presented as follows: (i) A monthly payment of Ks 45,000 for each staff as expenditure for lunch (ii) A wedding gift of Ks 600,000 for four staff members (iii) Ks 700,000 for funeral services of his/her family member for seven staff members (d) Employees have been allowed to enjoy service leaves as follows in accordance with the provisions of Labor Law (i) Six days of casual leave per year (enjoyed by every staff) (ii) Ten days of earned leave per year (enjoyed by every staff) (iii) Thirty days of medical leave per year (26 employees have enjoyed) (iv) Six weeks of pre maternity leave and eight weeks of post maternity leave (26 employees have enjoyed) (v) Fifteen days of maternity care leave (three employees have enjoyed) (vi) Seven days of funeral leave (seven employees have enjoyed) (vii) Five days of marriage leave (four employees have enjoyed) (viii) Two days of special casual leave (leave for blood donors) (41 employees have enjoyed) Communication on Progress 11 Labour Right In accordance with four strategic objectives of the ILO and effective laws of Myanmar, the company shall protect labour rights by (a) employing people who are 18 years old and above, (b) adopting policies to employ people regardless of gender, race, color and religion, and if necessary, women and men with disabilities to the jobs that are appropriate for their abilites and capacities, (c) employing graduates except for work place requirements (d) employing people in apprenticeship, probationary and permanent employments in accordance with labour laws, (e) allowing lowest level employees to enjoy minimum wages at the time he or she is hired in accordance with the law, (f) setting 8.5 working hour( including a rest of 30 minutes, 42.5 hours five days with two weekly holidays and public holidays (g) allowing employees to enjoy leaves in conformity with the Leave and Holiday Act 1951, the Factories Act 1951 and the Social Security Law 2012 (h) allowing employees to earn two times of wages for overtime work and on holidays not exceeing 16 hours a week in accordance with labour laws, (I) raising salaries and ranks in accordance with employees’ skills and length of service , (j) taking workplace safety measures for employees, (k) arranging injury insurances for employees by the company (l) arranging social security benefits such as healthcare and social services, family support insurance, social security insurance, workplace injury insurance in accordance with the Social Security Law 2012, (m) taking measures to train employees at every level to improve their skills, (n) allowing employees to enjoy annual bonuses fro the profit of the company (o) providing assistance to employees and their families in their social occasion of joy or grief (p) taking measures to establish better relations between employers and employees for workplace peace, prevention of disputes and labour rights in accordance with the law and settling disputes in accordance with ranch with the Labour law 2012. Measurement of the outcome 2. (a) A total of 280 employees received 138 hours of Soft Skills training and another 415 received 533 hours of Hard Skills training totaling 671 hours of training (b) Every staff enjoys pay increment every 13 months, and 121 got promotions (c) 218 employees with one-year service period got bonus equal to his/her one montsalary (d) Permanent staffs totaling 510 got personal insurance cover and 186 staff with oneyear service period received medical checkup Communication on Progress 12 Environment The company takes measures for environmental conservation as follows; (a) The company plants trees on both sides of YangonNaypyitaw Highway during the rainy season in June and July every year. (b) The employees volunteer to collect garbage in Yangon, Mandalay and Monywa occasionally. Anti-Corruption The company takes measures for fulfillment of employees’ duty with dignity and withoutcorruption as follows; (a) taking educative measures to prevent corruption caused by greed, anger, fear and ignorance (b) taking measures for obedience of laws and ethics and discipline s of workplace (c) taking effective action against immoral behaviors at workplace (d) monitoring performance of duty at all levels, making right decisions and coordinating. Communication on Progress 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents. YANGON (HEAD OFFICE) No. 400/406, Merchant Road, Botahtaung Township,Yangon. Tel: 01-8610661~5, Fax: 01-8610675, 01-8610676 HOT LINE : +951-8610661 E-mail: customerservices@fnipublic.com Communication on Progress 14
