COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for Amesto CUSTOMER: Global Compact and stakeholders SUPPLIER: Amesto Group YEAR: 2016 1 CONTENT LETTER OF COMMITMENT 1 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS 3 OUR MAIN SERVICES 4 THE VALUES OF SIMPLIFYING 5 WHAT DO WE DO IN AMESTO? 6 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING SHARED VALUE PARTNERSHIP 7 THE VALUE OF SIMPLIFYING DIVERSITY 8 SIMPLIFYING THE VALUE OF THE ENVIRONMENT 9 GLOBAL COMPACT 10 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 LABOUR 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 2 Brief description of nature of business We established Amesto in 2002. We are a Global group with approximately 650 employees. The Group expects a turnover of around $120 million in 2016. Amesto has offices in the Scandinavian countries Norway, Denmark, Sweden and in London. We started our global business in 2012. The advantage of Amesto's Global Network is that we are experts in efficiently establishing and supporting corporate operational, holding and finance entities anywhere in the world. Amesto Global offers a single point of contact – whether you are looking into expanding your business into new international markets or need help with existing international operations. Amesto is part of Spabogruppen, a Norwegian owned family business, with over 40 companies. The Spandow family owns Spabogruppen. In 2016, Spabogruppen had a turnover of approximately $140 million and the plan is a continued strong development through minor acquisitions and organic growth. Amesto is 100% committed to growth and strengthening not only of the Norwegian economy, but also in the global economy. 3 Our Main Services Amesto AccountHouse Outsourcing of accounting and payroll We have accounting services that match all types of companies and company sizes. Amesto AccountHouse also give access to expert advice. We combine expertise in accounting and payroll with financial specialists and we also supply specialists within company investments. Our teams know the industry requirements and challenges and can offer effective and flexible solutions. We provide web-based solutions that ensure detailed insight, current accounts and give complete control. AccountHouse also provide Nordic Payroll. This divition consists of specialists with senior expertise in payroll services in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. As a customer, you get a dedicated team who monitor across borders with only one Payroll Manager to relate to. Amesto Top Temp Recruitment and consultancy rental Top Temp is a company within the Amesto Group. We are one of the largest recruitment and staffing companies in Norway. We have found thousands of employees and managers for our customers in both the private and public sector. All of our consultants have extensive experience in the staffing industry and we have the DNV certification for recruitment personnel. Top Temp is a knowledge-driven organization, where our employees' professional expertise and experience enable us to give expert advise and we take pride in being a prefered dialog partner. Amesto Solutions Software and solutions Amesto Solutions is a supplier of CRM, ERP and HRM solutions. We mainly supply SuperOffice CRM. We are Scandinavia's largest provider of financial systems from Visma Software. The business systems include a wide functionality within accounting and ledger, scanning of documents, remittance, bank reconciliation and reporting. The logistics systems we sell suit different business sizes, ranging from small to large businesses, and the practical areas they provide are within: tracking, lifecycle and service management, rental, alternative management and production. The strengths are the variations of standard functionality and the close interaction with the systems for financials, CRM, payroll, electronic document management and online stores. 4 Amesto Translations og Tolk Translation and interpreting services Amesto is an internationally recognized provider of multilingual translations and interpretation services with the ability to translate in over 200 languages. We are a full-service multilingual translation service provider, certified in accordance with International Standards: ISO 9001:2008 and EN 15038:2006. Amesto has a proven track record of handling translation projects of all sizes and is a one-stop solution for any organisation seeking superior and specialised translations at highly competitive rates. Amesto undertake all types of interpreting assignments. We have vast experience of interpreting for the police and prosecution service, the courts, municipal and county councils and industry, to name a few. Amesto Global – Global expansion made easy Using the services supplied by Amesto to expand globally reduce risks and costs associated with global operations. Amesto Global delivers efficient establishment and support corporate operational, holding and finance entities anywhere required in the world. Our Global Services includes Accounting, Payroll and HR, Recruitment and Consultancy, Legal Secretarial Services, Translation Services and Business Software Solutions. As a firm with a global reach, professionals can ensure that companies remain compliant across multiple jurisdictions. The Values of simplifying Working as a responsible business means good business for Amesto. We always attempt to find good methods to contribute to society, whether it is through facilitating for our intrapreneurs, cooperation with social entrepreneurs, internships for people who need it, strategic pro bono projects and trying our best to work environmental friendly. The aim is for social responsibility to be a natural part of the workday at Amesto. The Values of Simplifying shall have a strong standing in the companies underneath the Amesto brand. Simplifying business is our mission, but we must also seek to simplify in everything we do, whether it being the way to take environmental responsibility or the way of working sustainably. Every day there are at least 150,000 people using any of Amestos’ services. We have over 1,000 employees in Scandinavia and many 100 suppliers. Amesto wants to, and has the opportunity to be a longterm partner for a sustainable society. 5 What do we do in Amesto? In Amesto, we focus on three areas of sustainability:  The Value of Simplifying diversity  The Value of Simplifying shared value partnership  The Value of Simplifying the environment The values of simplifying are the outcomes of collecting all the bits and pieces the company already having been doing, adding other aspects to it and giving them a framework. Amestos’ vision is; Life is short, work somewhere awesome. To obtain this, our values add an effect to our goal of reaching awesomeness. Through giving people a chance of learning through practice, through helping Medicine sans Frontiérs become a more effective NGO, through helping our employees think environmental friendly during their workday. It is easier to communicate and measure the effects that these values add to the company, by getting the employees engaged in them. We have created the values in order for us to acquire the employees to appreciate that our work with corporate social value, not only is a responsibility, but a value, not only for society, but for the company as a whole. By working in a sustainable way, both economically and socioeconomically, we are building a corporation that can withstand time, and not become a dinosaur. Amesto will be a company that evolves following the times we are living in, focusing on the requirements created by customers and employees. LIFE IS SHORT, WORK SOMEWHERE AWESOME Amesto is the sum of people who work here. The ones who spark for the job they do. The ones who are committed and contribute to creating a great workplace. Those who are always looking to simplify in everything they do. Leaders who are predictable, wise and enthusiastic. Leaders who look, listen, challenge and respect their employees. Together we create awesome! 6 The value of simplifying shared value partnership This year we started our strategic collaboration with Doctors without Boarders (MSF). Amesto's ambition is to develop MSF Nordic as a showcase for best practice of how effective an NGO can be managed. A partnership in a Nordic context, engaging the offices in both organisations in Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm around MSFs work and making it meaningful and relevant for both parties involved. Doctors without Boarders has identified that the three Nordic sections wish to work closer and harmonize their finance systems. Together with Visma, we have ventured to add value through pro-bono partnership for Doctors without Boarders. After spending some time in 2015 identifiyng the needs, we now in 2016 have reached the implementation face. The chart is set and we have started with the main challenge in Norway, which was implementing Visma Salary with Visma.Net Expence for travel and expense . This part of the solution is only used by MSF Norway. The solution has been effective and MSF are ensuring that the processes are added value in camparison with their way of working before. Amesto Denmark are now implementing a project with MSF Denmark on a major upgrade of their Visma Business Platform. Further plans are streamlining of internal ERP processes based on the new version af Visma Hanks. In addition, Amesto Translations has started a collaboration, on a European scale, with Medecine Sans Frontiérs Brussels, in order to deliver translation services, supplying MSF with the newest and most effective technological translation services in order for them to communicate at the level they need to. One of Médecins Sans Frontieres core missions is to report on what they see, and this resonats well with Amesto Translations and their possibility to translate to any language. They increase the effectivity of the NGO’s principle of bearing witness, making it easier for MSF to communicate about their missiones in any language. The effect measured: We will continuesly be looking at how we will deliver our services to MSF the next years to come. We are also measuring the effect and will be continuing to measure effect on all projects implemented in order to calculate value added to MSF. 7 The Value of Simplifying Diversity We are continously working on creating diversity in our organisations, as we believe that equal people create good things, but diversified people create awesomeness. Amesto is diversified. We are 4 different businesses units, which attract people with different interests, varied backgrounds, diverse religions and beliefs, from different agegroups. We have through the year had an greater focus on increasing our femal leader corp and have during 2016 recruited 3 new female leaders. In total, this means that we have, in 2016, 8 out of 23 superiors of which are female, in the Amesto main businesses. This equals 33 percent. Our goal is to increase the percentage during 2017, with a enhanced focus on recruiting femal leaders when we are in need of new leaders. At an operational level, when drilling down to how we work in each of the businesses, we have tried to give them the tools and easier access to partners so to make sustainable decisions when hiering. Top Temp, an Amesto company, which industry is recruitment, use different partners in order to assist people into jobs. We cooperate with several rehabilitation enterprises, such as Fretex, Joblearn and directly with NAV (the Norwegian state) as well as Medecines Sans Frontiers in joint force, in order to help their candidates into ordenary jobs. Fretex and MSF have also used assessment skills and methods from TopTemp for their candidates in order to get valuable information about what is going to succeed in given directions and they have also assisted in adressing interviewing skills. We have also, through Top Temp launched a campaign called #ByttBeite, translating into “Change pasture” in order to adress the Norwegian societys challenges in regard to the challenges we as a country have with unemployment rates due to the oil crises. We launched the campaign in Autumn 2016 and will continue throughout 2017 focusing on increased job opportunities if people are willing to change discipline, change industry or move around geographically. “Our cooperation has been very successful for, Fretex as well as TopTemp. We have plans to make the cooperation better and closer under a new framework in the future.” 8 Simplifying the Value of the Environment As member of the Ecolighthouse foundation, Amesto is trying to support climate action on a national level. We are looking to reduce our own footprint and we are trying to make an impact on all the employees that work for an Amesto office. Eco-Lighthouse is Norway’s most widely used certification scheme for enterprises seeking to document their environmental efforts and demonstrate social responsibility. EcoLighthouse enterprises work towards satisfying requirements and implementing environmental measures on a systematic and ongoing basis in order to create more environmentally friendly operations and safer work environments. Through the Eco-Lighthouse Foundation Amesto has prepared industry-specific requirements. Enterprises are certified subject to independent assessment and must undergo a recertification process every three years. We are also required to submit annual environmental reports. The Eco-Lighthouse certification scheme has been approved by the Norwegian public procurement authorities. We are also, through member organisations trying to put preassure through procurment and prioitizing environmental rental spaces where ever and when ever we can. Most of our offices in Norway have now been certified Ecolighthouse, and in Sweden, we are working with the environment through ISO. We are however hoping that Ecolighthouse will become a European standard, so that we can use the same processes in Sweden and Denmark, as we are using in Norway. The main office in Norway underwent a resertification in 2016, and was again certified for three new years. We have also managed to get 4 now offices certified during this year, and are now expecting our last office in Trondheim to get certified. Representing Amestos CO2 footprint 9 Global Compact Amesto is committed to deliver to the UN's Global Compact. We do our best to deliver on all the ten principles related to human rights, labor standards, environmental awareness and anti corruption. Through this affiliation, we have committed t o doing our best to conduct sustainable business through keeping with these ten principles. We try to promote Global Compact and our other corporate responsibilities through our sales channels and through our corporate procurement. We take notice that in increased sales processes companies are asking for documentation on our Corporate Social Value profile. We have looked at the UN Sustainable Development Goals in relevance to our core business, and the corporate social value we are working on creating. We have come to the finalization that we are, through our strategic collaboration with Mediciné Sans Frontiérs are working in relation to goal nr. 3: Good health and well-being, through our commitment to Eco-lighthouse we are tapping onto goal nr. 13; climate action, and we are, through our efforts of growing our own and other businesses sustainably, touching into goals nr. 5, 8, 9 and 10. HUMAN RIGHTS It is necessary for Amesto to win the confidence of the world around us and develop a good reputa-tion among our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners, banking and insurance connections and the public authorities. Competitors as well as the company’s own employees must have confidence in the Groups professionalism and integrity at all times. This demands that the Group behave with caution, honesty and objectivity. We focus on value-based organizational philosophy and try to create a strong winning culture. We need not necessarily be the largest, but we want to be the prominent within our fields of work. Our values and norms must saturate everything we are as a company. What we stand for, what and how we do and say things in our daily work. 10 We focus on what is important, and we place great emphasis on ensuring that our employees are with us. Our daily great challenge is that our values are not just going to be nice words, but that we identify them in everyday business. Our guidelines must necessarily be rather general in a multifarious group such as Amesto. Neverthe-less, we have tried to be as specific as possible without expecting the guidelines to give specific an-swers to every conceivable question. In the Nordic countries, the laws are rigid enough that human rights violations not becomes an issue in our segment. Through the audit that is undertaken each year, we make sure that business is conducted in a good and proper way. We have also created a code of conduct towards our partners and suppliers, where we outline the business conduct we expect our suppliers and partners to act on. LABOUR The overall objectives of the HSE work in Amesto Group AS is to meet our vision of “Life is short, work somewhere awesome”. In addition we work to prevent that our operations do not cause accidents, damage or loss off; • Employees or others' lives and health • The external environment • Knowledge and information We aim to achieve our intentions through: • Qualified staff who inhabit continuous training • Implementation of internal control • Management and employee involvement at all levels • Through good cooperation in the work environmental group • Monitoring of absence because of sickness and occupational injury statistics • Preventive measures through sporting activities, social events and a good work environment The group's employees have acceptable HSE, pay and working conditions. There are no forms of forced labor in our activities (incl. making sure that employment contracts are legal and that employees are not required to make any kind of financial deposit). There is no discrimination against or discriminatory treatment of employees. The group does not, directly or indirectly contribute to the violation of human rights. In addition, we monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey and individual appraisal. This to ensure that everyone gets the possibility to speak their mind, and that the right measures are set to each and everyone individually.The satisfaction of the employees, in all the countries in which we have offices, is increasingly positive. The work environment is of great importance. We see that in creating a positive work environment, we achieve the goals we are set out to make. It is Amesto Groups philosophy that a good, active and creative environment is essential for success and for good results today and in the future. We evaluate the abovementioned factors and document them prior to entering into any commercial investment. In addition, Amesto, through the Eco-lighthouse program, attempt to ensure that our suppliers and partners meet equivalent standards as we are devoted to. These factors are regularly being revised Amesto administers revision of the complete HSE system. The management of the individual companies is responsible for following up. We conduct our yearly safety inspection cross all offices, where each employee speak their mind about what they find satisfactory, and what they find unsatisfying. 11 • All managers and managing directors undertake HSE training courses to keep track of new laws and legislations that continuously are being implemented. • Amesto is continually thriving to address the issues of diversity when it comes to ethnicity, educational background, age and gender and believe that a good blend of all factors bring us closer to an innovating team. ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption includes bribery and improper influence peddling. Corruption undermines legal business activity, distorts competition, destroys the business's reputation and exposes companies and individuals to risk. Bribery occurs when an attempt is made to influence someone in the execution of his/her duties by giving them an illegal personal benefit. Improper influence peddling occurs when an illegal benefit is given to someone in order to influence the execution of a third-party's duties. This kind of illegal benefit may take many forms; e.g. cash, objects, credit, discounts, travel, accommodations or services. Amesto is against all forms of corruption and will work actively to ensure that this does not occur in the Group's business activities. However, should it occur, we do have measures to implement. The prohibition against bribery and improper influence peddling applies to both the party who gives or offers an illegal benefit and the party who solicits, receives or accepts this kind of benefit. It is sufficient that an inquiry or offer of an illegal benefit is submitted in order for the case to be illegal. It is not a necessary condition that the illegal benefit be received by the person on whom an attempt is made to exert influ-ence. Facilitation payments are payments aimed at expediting or securing the provision of products or services to which the company is legally entitled. Amesto opposes the use of this type of payment, even in cases where it may be legal, and will actively work to prevent such payments. If a deviation from this general rule is under consideration, the matter must be documented in writing, and the management is responsible for informing the Board of Directors about this. We also want to point out that Amesto pays tax with honor as it gives stability for the governments to create and carry out activities that lead to generate equity in society, because there is no doubt that the national cooperation will result in economic benefits for society. Amesto is being audited by Deloitte every year. Deloitte has thereby had a sound run through the corporate governance of Amesto. 12
