Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Athens International Airport Eleftherios Venizelos Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 3 4 Contents Highlights of 2017 06 1. Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO 08 2. Company Identity 14 3. Aviation Market Development 26 4. Financial Performance 36 5. Business Performance 42 6. Environmental Performance 60 7. Social Performance  70 8. Future Prospects 84 Annex I: Reporting by the BoD to the AGM 88 (1) Annex II: Financial Statements 102 (1) Appendix: Sustainability Indices 154 Airport Moments 168 5 Highlights of 2017 2017 2016 Traffic Highlights Aircraft Movements Total Aircraft Movements (thousand) Other Aircraft Movements Other Aircraft Movements 19.7 18.7 5.6% All-cargo All-cargo Aircraft Aircraft 5.4 5.7 -4.1% Passenger & Combi Aircraft Passenger & Combi Aircraft 170.8 164.8 3.6% Total 2017 Total 2016 196.0 3.6% 189.1 Cargo Total Cargo Uplift (thousand tonnes) 100 1.5% 3.1% 80 89.8 88.5 81.8 60 79.4 -12.5% 40 20 8.0 9.1 0 Total Cargo Freight Mail Passenger Traffic 8.6% Total Number of Passengers (million) Business Passengers Total 2017 Domestic 2.4% 24% 27% Connecting Passengers 7.3 7.1 21.7 Total 2016 International 12% 21% 24% 12.9 14.4 0 20.0 5 10 6 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2017 IFRS 2016 IFRS € MILLION Financial Highlights 200 Profit before Tax 199.8 150 100 5.7% 189.1 50 0 500 400 Operating Revenues & ADF 300 454.9 5.2% 432.2 200 100 0 Revenues from Airport Charges & ADF 290.9 275.5 5.6% Operating Revenues & ADF per pax (€) 20.9 • ADF: Airport Development Fund • Cash equivalents for 2016 21.6 -3.1% results include €87.5 million of Euro Securities Operating Expenses • AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax 149.0 – (Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value) 134.8 10.6% Cash & Cash Equivalents at the end of the Year* 466.8 373.4 25% AVA** 119.6 111.9 6.9% Total Assets 5.4% 15 20 25 1,246.7 1,182.3 7 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO Year 2017 was a good one for and exceeding prior-year levels the global aviation industry, by 1.7 million, which stands for characterised by competitive a significant 8.6% increase. The oil prices, efficiency of aircraft number of flights amounted to capacity utilisation and fleet 196 thousand surpassing the growth. The combination of the respective 2016 levels by 3.6%. above resulted in a very prosperous The increase in passenger traffic year for the airlines’ profitability, was mainly driven by the strong with attractive fares, which in growth of the international market turn supported a strong growth of (+1.5 million, +12%), whereas the passenger traffic. On a global level, domestic market increased only in 2017 airlines achieved healthy by 2%. This growth was driven profitability with net profit margins by both Greek residents’ strong estimated at 4.6%, according to increase by 13%, as well as foreign IATA. Passenger traffic across residents’ healthy growth by 5% the European network posted an in total. The dynamic development average growth of 8.5%, while of the O&D passengers by an non-EU airports lead the way of increase of 12% should also be passenger traffic growth (+11.4%), highlighted, demonstrating the with EU airports also achieving continuous upsurge of Athens as an strong increase (+7.7%) compared attractive destination, assisted by to the previous year. the joint and coordinated strategic actions undertaken by the Airport In line with the global and European Company, the Municipality of aviation trends, 2017 was another Athens and stakeholders from record-breaking year for Athens the tourism industry. In terms of International Airport (AIA) in passenger demand evolution, it is terms of passenger growth, important to note that the demand reaching 21.74 million passengers for air travel has been resilient to 8 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 the volatility of the macroeconomic The company's business model Operational Compliance and environment while it remained is based on a dynamic marketing Development process, all required unaffected by the European and strategy and incentives policy. preventive and corrective measures regional geopolitical risks. AIA's aeronautical marketing were taken for maintaining strategy encompasses emergency planning and AIA’s Our airline network in 2017 comprehensive developmental preparedness for adversities and targeted programmes for at high level, thus establishing In this framework, the airport’s airlines including incentives and a safe and resilient operating route network was significantly marketing support packages and environment. enhanced in 2017: four new constitutes a cornerstone of AIA’s airlines launched operations aeronautical strategy for healthy A significant highlight of the year to/from Athens and fifteen financial growth. In 2017, all airport was AIA’s Aerodrome Certification new international routes were charges remained unchanged for by EASA as one of the first established, while at the same the ninth consecutive year which European airports in accordance time, 17 Low Cost Carriers (LCCs) was announced during the annual with the stipulations of the offered services to 56 airports consultations with the airport relevant Commission Regulations worldwide. Overall, in 2017, users held in January 2017, as per (EC216/2008, EC1108/2009 and Athens was directly connected the Airport Charges Directives EU139/2014). The thorough and with scheduled services to (2009/12/EC) transposed to the time-consuming certification 137 destinations (103 of which Greek legislation by the PD 52/12. process involved extensive international) in 53 countries, inspections and checks by the operated by a total of 59 carriers. With regards to incentives offered HCAA for an eight-month period. The launch of the new long-haul to airlines by AIA, 13 different services of Emirates to New developmental and targeted In terms of investments, AIA York, of Scoot to Singapore and incentives, both for developing new completed in April 2017 a largeof Air China’s non-stop flight to markets, as well as for reinforcing scale redevelopment project that Beijing should be highlighted as existing ones, were in effect during commenced in September 2016, they have largely contributed to 2017. Applied in a fully transparent namely the Intra-Schengen Project the respective regions’ successful and non-discriminatory manner, (ISP), covering the entirety of the evolution. It is important to they were widely used by operating Schengen area and a significant note that all regions enjoyed a carriers since the majority of part of All-Users Departures sharp growth, supported by the the latter made use of at least areas. ISP followed the same airport’s significantly enhanced one targeted or developmental design principles and approach as route network coupled with the incentive and many received the ones of the successful Extrafavourable evolution of passenger marketing support. Schengen Project (ESP) that was demand. completed in 2015. This extensive Our Business refurbishment resulted to a Our Financial performance and remarkable net commercial space Business model Airport operations were delivered increase of 1,500 m2, expanding efficiently and smoothly throughout AIA’s total commercial space to 2017 was also a record year in the year. The Athens Airport more than 11,200 m2. terms of financial performance: remained a slot non-coordinated overall, the Airport Company airport even in the summer period The full renovation and upgrade presented healthy results and of strong demand for aircraft of the Schengen (15,000 m2) and recorded Profit Before Tax of arrival and parking. This demand non-Schengen (9,000 m2) areas, €199.8 million, increased by €10.8 was adequately addressed through including passenger security million compared to 2016. Growth ad-hoc operational arrangements, screening centralisation, focusing in operating performance more while specific projects were carried on functionality, comfort and than offsets the additional cost out to enhance capacity, i.e. the modern aesthetics responded to requirement following increased operational upgrade of the Sathe latest trends in the travelling traffic and the increase of the tellite Terminal Building – Phase I process and experience and offers variable element of Grant of Rights and the installation of Advanced passengers redesigned areas, Fee recorded in the Operating Visual Docking Guidance System enhanced comfort and plenty Expenses. In view of the company’s at all terminal contact stands. of options. With a significantly expected obligation to pay the Moreover, discussions with Hellenic expanded Retail and Food & Consideration for the extension Civil Aviation Authority (HCAA) Beverage selection, the robust of its concession period (upon the Air Traffic Control continued in sales performance of the new effectiveness of the ADA Extension order to fully exploit the Airport’s stores and concepts led to an Agreement), no dividend to the available capacity of two runways. increase in the Shopping Centre’s shareholders is proposed. As part of the continuous revenues of 10.6% compared to 9 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO the previous year, an increase that surpassed the respective passenger traffic annual increase by 2%. Acknowledging and rewarding our investment programme for the total aesthetic, functional and commercial upgrade in the terminal areas, the passengers rated Athens International Airport at the top position in Europe among airports in the category 15-25 million passengers, in terms of customer services’ quality, in the framework of ACI World’s globally established Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Awards. Since the airport’s opening, we measure customer satisfaction systematically and have always scored very high among our European counterparts. However, we value very highly this year’s award and, aiming at always improving customer experience, we shall continue, during 2018-2019, our investment programme with additional works and services for the travellers using our airport. In this same light, in 2017 a new large Duty-Free outlet commenced operations together with three “last-minute” gate shops; 28 new specialty shops opened and seven Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou / Chairman more were substantially renovated; 11 new F&B concepts were added GATE”, the Airport’s unique Excellence Award is dedicated to to the Terminal Commercial Area competition for innovation and highlighting companies operating and one (1) F&B unit was totally youth entrepreneurship. Organised in the IT and communications renovated and expanded. in cooperation with the Athens industry worldwide. The airport Centre for Entrepreneurship and was awarded in the category of AIA’s property business activities, Innovation of the Athens University Best Use of Social Media and including the Airport Hotel, of Economics and Business, 170 also received a special award in Exhibition Centre, Retail Park teams had the opportunity to the category of Key Performance and space leases, demonstrated present their proposals. The Indicators for its innovative service a stable performance in the past teams finally selected were able «ATH Messenger bot via Facebook year. AIA’s IT&T project portfolio to present their Minimum Viable messenger». was further enriched with new Products, which were developed business-to-business and businesswith the guidance of Airport Major corporate projects and to-consumer services based on professionals and were assessed in developments innovative technology, aiming to a real airport environment. enhance operational excellence and On the issue of AIA's Concession customer experience. In this context, AIA received Extension, further to the the significant international discussions initiated in 2016 Loyal to constantly exploring award Value Winners of the between AIA and the Hellenic innovation and digital initiatives, in WITSA Global Excellence Awards Republic Asset Development Fund 2017 AIA successfully concluded 2017 in the category of Digital (HRADF), in May 2017 the draft the second round of “THE DIGITAL Opportunity. The WITSA Global ADA Extension Agreement was 10 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 regulation introduces a new “architecture” to be applied horizontally throughout all legal entities requiring, among others, the protection of personal data “by design” in all data processes and records and the adoption and implementation of such Information Security tools and practices that safeguard confidentiality, integrity, availability and safeguarding of personal data. Our actions towards GDPR compliance are ongoing in 2018. AIA participates in business projects, exporting its know-how in order not only to generate revenue but also to create non tangible value for the company and its employees. In 2017 the highlights of AIA’ external business activities included consulting & training services to Oman Airports Management Company and two EU funded R&D projects. Our sustainability framework AIA approaches sustainability in an integrated manner, across all aspects of its operation and development, implemented as a structured governance system and embedding international best practices with respect to Dr. Ioannis N. Paraschis / CEO planning, implementing, measuring and transparently reporting approved by the HRADF BoD the Greek State. The Agreement its non-financial performance. and AIA was invited to submit its foresees an extension of the AIA acknowledges its role as financial offer on the Concession ADA term until 11th June 2046 a responsible company, for Extension. The offer was eventually under the terms and conditions creating sustainable value for its approved by the BoD of HRADF on prescribed therein, including the stakeholders and for balancing its 30th May 2017 and affirmed by the payment by AIA of a financial objectives across the perspectives Extraordinary General Meeting of consideration to HRADF. The of operational responsibility, AIA’s shareholders. Agreement will become effective environmental responsibility, upon the completion of the corporate citizenship, employer’s Following the approval of the draft necessary approvals by the responsibility and sustainability ADA Extension Agreement by European Authorities, European governance. the Inter-Ministerial Committee Investment Bank (EIB) and of Assets Restructuring and the ratification by the Hellenic AIA’s approach to sustainability is Privatisations of the Hellenic Parliament. The latter processes reflected in the related Corporate Republic published in the commenced in 2017 and are still Responsibility Policy, which was Government Gazette and the ongoing. revised in 2017 and implemented publication of a voluntary ex ante as a cross-departmental effort transparency notice in the official In 2017, AIA also started preparing through a contemporary three-level journal of the European Union, to meet the substantial and formal governance structure: Strategy, the ADA Extension Agreement deadlines of the General Data Integration and Implementation was signed on 30th September Protection Regulation (GDPR) across the Company. Related 2017 between AIA, HRADF and (EU Regulation 679/2016). The practices are continuously updated 11 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO in line with emerging requirements energy efficient technology over destination have significantly and global standards. the past decade, AIA has managed contributed to the recovery and to reduce its carbon footprint more enhancement of the city’s image AIA continuously progresses its than 40%. AIA’s environmental and the increase in foreign tourists’ Materiality Analysis process for profile is further bolstered by the arrivals to our city. AIA has identifying and prioritising issues production of clean electricity by designed and implemented a series of significant impact for the its 8.05 MWp Photovoltaic (PV) of destination marketing targeted company and its stakeholders. It Park, saving more than 12,000 actions and initiatives by forging is an essential strategic element tonnes of CO2 per year. AIA became strong relations and strategic that identifies sustainability the first Greek Airport certifying co-operations and synergies priorities, structures the related its Energy Management System with tourism organisations action plan, determines the content (EnMS) in accordance with the ISO and associations (Association of sustainability reporting and 50001 standard, thus successfully of Tourism Enterprises, Greek sets the focus of the independent integrating energy management National Tourism Organisation, Sustainability Assurance into AIA’s overall efforts to Ministry of Tourism, Marketing process. The Materiality Analysis improve quality and environmental Greece, etc.). incorporates the input from airport management. It is worth noting community stakeholders with that, preparing for the challenges Within this context and as a part respect to their perceived influence of tomorrow, preliminary work was of the destination marketing of material issues. conducted for a Climate Change initiatives undertaken for the Adaptation study for the airport in promotion of Athens, AIA entered The Company adopts and 2018. into strategic partnership with upholds the United Nations’ the Municipality of Athens and Global Compact principles for Always keen to have a cultural Aegean Airlines. The Athens Human Rights, Labour Relations, impact, in 2017 numerous art Tourism Partnership (ATP) was Environmental Impact and projects were in display at our first presented in December 2016 Anti-Corruption. Furthermore, AIA dedicated temporary exhibition and was launched in January acknowledges the United Nations’ areas in addition to the ongoing 2017. The first stage resulted in a Sustainability Development Goals permanent exhibitions. Through unique digital campaign for Athens, (SDGs) and the Agenda 2030, the Fly me to the Moon named “One City, Never Ending contributing to the collective programme, AIA has provided Stories”, which targeted, in 2017, global effort for addressing the passengers and visitors with the German and French markets most pressing social, economic a distinct entertainment and and was awarded with two top and environmental challenges. cultural experience within the distinctions within the framework Furthermore, AIA acknowledges Airport with prominent artists and of the Ermis Advertising Awards. the importance of its role towards musical ensembles for the fourth The fact that foreign visitors with the attainment of the SDGs and consecutive year. Athens as their final destination ensures that its operations do not significantly increased during hinder this agenda by addressing AIA, a significant driver of the last years denotes the its social and environmental economic development in the effectiveness of such strategic impacts in a coordinated and region, implements a series of synergies and highlights the effective manner. targeted investments in social, necessity for all tourism industry educational, cultural, athletic, organisations and bodies to Steadily committed to balancing environmental and other causes continue cooperating with the longsound financial performance with a that go well beyond the scope term strategic aim to establish sustainable approach to business, of any legal obligations and help Athens as one of the most in 2017 the Airport Company establish AIA as a good neighbour. attractive tourist destinations recorded a valuation of Corporate worldwide. Responsibility activities at 2.17% Our responsible commitment to of the total operating expense, growth: Destination Athens The Airport Company contributed while the total valuation of AIA’s to the International Civil Aviation Sustainability Value yield was For the last six years, not only Organisation (ICAO) Global significantly increased versus 2016, has AIA implemented innovative Aviation Corporation Symposium reaching €179.2 million. marketing initiatives and activities (GACS II), that took place in for its airline partners, business Athens in October 2017 and In 2017 AIA held strong to its partners and consumers, but was co-organised with HCAA. commitment to operate the has also extended its endeavours More than 400 delegates and Airport in a sustainable manner to actively support Athens as a representatives from the aviation with a focus on environmental destination. Actions to reinforce industry attended the Symposium, protection. By heavily investing in Athens’ attractiveness as a tourism promoting intellectual and state 12 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 of the art case studies on that of accuracy, completeness and “Standard 3” equipment, a topic. Additionally, AIA organised adherence to applicable standards. complex project affecting AIA’s once more the 5th Airport Chief This Report contains the outcome baggage handling system will Executives’ Symposium (ACESof the assurance process. commence and is expected to Athens) in December 2017. This be complete in 2022. Airport Company’s initiative which 2018 Outlook takes place in Athens on an annual Further to regulatory basis, has evolved, throughout 2018 is expected to be the fifth compliance, these two projects the years, into an internationally consecutive year of traffic growth, are expected to increase acknowledged gathering of marked, however, by a number of terminal capacity and efficiency top level professionals and challenges and developments in in the affected processes and to international leaders in the aviation aviation business: improve AIA’s value for money and tourism sectors. The aim of offering towards passengers and the symposium is on the one hand, • Airline capacity additions in airlines. to focus on the externalities of the domestic routes will be limited, aviation sector and to highlight the international traffic is expected • Furthermore, AIA continues interdependence between the air to grow further, since additional to invest in order to maintain transport industry and airports capacity will be added in the and even further improve and the development of the Athens market by home and its service quality, ensuring destinations they serve and on the visiting carriers. These positive safe, secure and efficient other, to introduce initiatives for airline decisions are aided by operations. The company is the strengthening of Athens as a the favourable environment closely monitoring future trends tourism destination. regarding competitive fuel related to disruptions from prices, improved fleet capacity digital developments and online Our consistent commitment to and utilisation and high airline shopping which could affect sustainability reporting profitability. our B2B and B2C strategic positioning. AIA’s 2017 Annual & Sustainability • Traffic growth and regulatory Report combines, for the first time, compliance drive two the Airport Company’s financial considerable investments that and non-financial disclosures in the Airport Company plans to At the moment, the ADA Extension a unified report. The Report is undertake: Agreement, signed between the AIA’s 15th consecutive annual Greek State, HRADF and AIA edition on sustainability and o Firstly, as a result of the on 30th September 2017, is still corporate responsibility. Our EU Regulation 458/2017 undergoing the scrutiny of the EU reporting supports our corporate requiring the reinforcement authorities, a necessary condition reputation of a prudent and of passport control checks for its effectiveness. Year 2018 responsible operator that secures at external borders, leading is expected to be a milestone for loyalty towards business partners, to a more diligent passport the completion of this endeavour. mitigates environmental impact, control process for all arriving A successful completion will mark respects diversity, nurtures and departing non-Schengen the beginning of a new era for the employee loyalty and drives public passengers, AIA plans to Airport Company and will lead to confidence. expand its immigration and an improved potential for one emigration facilities. The of the most successful This Report abides by the most construction of this project Public-Private-Partnerships recent Global Reporting Initiative is expected to begin in mid in Europe, from which Airport (GRI) Standards and contains the 2018 and the necessary users, employees, shareholders Communication on Progress (CoP) infrastructural and operational and of course the state and the report in line with our sustaining amendments are planned to wider society will benefit. AIA commitment to the UN Global be in place on time for the pledges to continue to add value Compact. This Report also links to effectiveness of the new to all stakeholders, to act as a the UN Sustainable Development regulation in April 2019. responsible operator and employer Goals, aligning the performance and to be an exemplary company in accounts of our operations to their o Secondly, as a result of all its activities. impact towards addressing global EU Regulation 1087/2011 challenges. regarding the implementation of common standards for Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou AIA has engaged in independent baggage explosive detection Chairman assurance of non-financial systems, which requires all Dr. Ioannis N. Paraschis disclosures abiding by the principles bags to be screened with CEO 13 2 Company Identity Company Identity Corporate Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA” or the “Company”) was development’ of the new Athens International Airport. Profile established in 1996 as a publicprivate partnership with a 30-year The Company’s registered office concession agreement, the Airport is situated in the Municipality Development Agreement (ADA). of Spata, at East Attica region, Greece. AIA is a privately managed Ratified by Greek Law 2338/95, company with the Greek State the concession agreement grants holding 55% of shares (25% held the Company the exclusive right by the Greek State and 30% and privilege of the ‘design, by the Hellenic Republic Asset financing, construction, completion, Development Fund-HRADF), while commissioning, maintenance, private shareholders collectively operation, management and hold 45%. Shareholder structure Shareholder structure of Athens International Airport, according to the relevant Books of Shares and Shareholders, is: Shareholder Number of Shares % Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) 9,000,000 30% AviAlliance GmbH 8,000,004 26.667% Greek State 7,500,000 25% AviAlliance Capital GmbH & Co. KGaA 4,000,002 13.333% Copelouzos Dimitrios 599,997 2% Copelouzou Kiriaki 299,999 1% Copelouzos Christos 299,999 1% Copelouzou Eleni-Asimina 299,999 1% Total 30,000,000 100% 14 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 About the Airport Athens International Airport and 03R/21L: 4,000x60m incl. Building with a total of 24 Contact “Eleftherios Venizelos” (the shoulders on both sides with a Bridges and 75 active remote “Airport”) extends in an area of width of 7.5m). aircraft parking positions. The approximately 16,000km2 and Airport is certified for all known has two runways in compliance The Airport features a 168,000m2 types of currently operating with ICAO Aerodrome Reference Main Terminal Building and a aircraft, including the Boeing 747Code “4E”, (03L/21R: 3,800x60m 34,000m2 Satellite Terminal 8 and the Airbus A380. The Airport extends in an Main Terminal Satellite Terminal Contact area of approximately Building Building Bridges 16,000km2 168,000m2 34,000m2 24 AIA is internationally considered value-for-money services, AIA and extensive development a pioneer public-private has implemented a successful initiatives ranging from IT & partnership, being a major development strategy in both its Telecommunications systems and greenfield airport with the aeronautical and non-aeronautical business activities to high-quality participation of the private sector. sectors. Offering one of the consumer-related products The cost for the development of most advanced incentives and offered at its commercial the airport was mainly financed marketing support schemes, AIA terminals and business activities from bank loans, the European ensures the sustainability and related to its real estate assets. Investment Bank being the development of domestic, regional major lender, while the remaining and international traffic, working The Company operates in a funding was provided through closely with home carriers and socially and environmentally private shareholders equity and international carriers, legacy responsible way providing EU and Greek State grants. airlines and Low Cost Carriers stakeholders an operating and (LCC). working environment that meets With a corporate goal to increasing demands on service create sustainable value to In the non-aeronautical sector quality, safety and security. all stakeholders by offering AIA undertakes advanced AIA’s Stakeholders AIA engages stakeholders practices (committees, exercises, On a wider society level, AIA in a balanced and respectful workshops, joint activities, engages passengers and manner, always including their etc.) further to the day-to-day other consumers through requirements and expectations interface. various feedback mechanisms in developing and implementing (satisfaction surveys, complaint its strategy. The Company has On a community engagement management, etc.) aiming to established mechanisms to elicit level, continuous interaction compile evaluation data used for stakeholders’ feedback which with authorities and their planning actions for improvement. the management evaluates and representatives, facilitates actively responds to. identification of material The stakeholder map reflects sustainability issues and the diversity of the Airport AIA’s operational success heavily prioritisation of challenges Company’s stakeholders based relies on its cooperation with and opportunities through a on the effect of AIA’s operational its stakeholders. Cooperation perspective of mutual trust and business activities both within with customers and business and understanding. Feedback and outside the boundaries of the partners is facilitated through mechanisms from local society airport community. a structure of engagement include a noise complaint line. 15 2 Company Identity AIA Stakeholder Map Bilateral Meetings Passenger User Commitees Bilateral Surveys Customer Meetings Comments Surveys User Commitees Management Customer I-mind Surveys Bilateral Employee Airlines Meetings Surveys Passengers Handlers User Commitees Labour relations Customer Surveys Commu ort nit Other irp AIA Airport Employees A y Community Users Bilateral Meetings Board Meetings ShareConcesJoint Business Governance holders sionnaires Activities Structure Customer Surveys Suppliers O ut rt o State Authorities s id p e t he Ai r HCAA / Ministry Bilateral Int’l Greater Aviation Committees Meetings CommuSociety Crisis Contract Local nity Community Management Terms Regulatory Affairs Publications ACI Business Committees networking & Routes industrial Affairs Conferences Social Community Industrial contribution Engagement Affairs Joint Activities The Airport Company Corporate Governance Governance Structure The nine-member Board of agreement between the Greek Directors elected by the General State and the shareholders holding The corporate governance Meeting of Shareholders with a the majority of the ordinary shares framework established at AIA two-year term of office bears the or in case of non-achievement abides by the provisions of responsibility for the management of such an agreement, by the the Company’s constitutional and administration of all corporate Chairman of the European documents, i.e. the Articles of matters and affairs and has in Investment Bank. The CEO is Association, the provisions of the this respect delegated specific responsible for the day to day Airport Development Agreement authorities to the Chief Executive management and operation of the and Law 2338/1995 Government Officer and members of the Company’s activities, is proposed Gazette A’ 202/14.9.1995 and management respectively. The by the private shareholders and includes a number of specific Greek State advises the Company participates in all Board of Directors processes and procedures which for the appointment of four meetings with no voting right. aim at forging a robust governance members (also appointing the Board meetings are held monthly structure and approach in line with Chairman), while shareholders and are supported by a competent, the principles set forth in the Law who represent the majority of the qualified and experienced Company 2190/1920, article 41 of the 8th ordinary shares other than those Secretary who consults Board European Company Law Directive held by the Greek State, appoint members to ensure that statutory as well as the OECD Principles of four directors and propose the and regulatory requirements are Corporate Governance. Vice Chairman. The ninth director met and also instructs senior is appointed either following an management on Board matters. 16 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The schedule of matters reserved the Company. In order to allow an the previous corporate fiscal for the decision of the Board and effective discharge of its duties, the year and releases the Board of its Committees include without Board has established four Board Directors from any liability from limitation: (a) approval of the Committees, namely the Audit, that year in accordance with the overall long-term strategy, Personnel, Finance and Investment Law 2190/1920 and the Company’s corporate goals and official Committees, with an advisory Articles of Association. The Business Plan, (b) approval of capacity. Having specialised Company is structured around annual operating and capital knowledge, Board committees four Business Units serving the budgets, (c) ensuring the integrity discuss in depth issues in their relevant activity sectors (Aviation, of the Company’s accounts and remit and make recommendations Consumers, Property and IT & financial reporting systems, (d) to the Board. Telecommunications), which hold approval of major pricing policies, a combined responsibility for (e) approval of major contract The Annual Ordinary General operational excellence and business awards, and (f) delegation of Meeting of the Shareholders development. Business Units are powers related to administration, approves actions and decisions supported by various corporate management and representation of of the Board of Directors during functions. Board of directors Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou Sven Erler Panayotis C. Pavlopoulos Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors • Elected Chairman of AIA’s Board • Elected Member of AIA’s Board • Elected Member of AIA’s Board of Directors in September 2016 of Directors in June 2017 of Directors in November 2016 • Elected Member of AIA’s Board • Director Asset Management • Economist of Directors in May 2015 AviAlliance GmbH • Assistant Professor, Planning• Managing Director of Airport Nikolaos Protonotarios Management & Economics Holding Kft. and Airport Member of the Board of Directors in Transport, Department Hungary Kft. • Elected Member of AIA’s Board of Economics, Democritus • Managing Director of HAP of Directors in May 2015 University of Thrace (DUTh) Hamburg Airport Partners • Electrical Engineer Verwaltungs GmbH Holger Linkweiler Gerhard Schroeder Vice-Chairman of the Board of Spyridon Papakonstantinou Member of the Board of Directors Directors Member of the Board of Directors • Elected Member of AIA’s Board • Elected Vice-Chairman of AIA’s • Elected Member of AIA’s Board of Directors in May 2012 Board of Directors in May 2012 of Directors in June 2017 • Managing Director of AviAlliance • Elected Member of AIA’s Board • Economist GmbH of Directors in June 2011 • Chairman of the Board of • Managing Director of AviAlliance Professor Charalampos Pampoukis Directors of Budapest Airport GmbH and AviAlliance Capital Member of the Board of Directors Zrt. GmbH & Co. KGaA • Elected Member of AIA’s Board • Member of the Supervisory Board • Member of the Supervisory of Directors in June 2016 of Flughafen Düsseldorf GmbH Board of Flughafen Düsseldorf • Professor, Private International • Vice-Chairman of the GmbH Law, Law School, University of Supervisory Board of Flughafen • Member of the Operating Board Athens Hamburg GmbH of Aerostar Airport Holdings, • Former Minister of State to the LLC (San Juan Airport, Puerto Prime Minister Charalampos Kakavas Rico) • Former Alternate Minister of Former Member of the Board of Development, Competitiveness Directors Dr. Jacques F. Poos and Mercantile • Member of AIA’s Board of Member of the Board of Directors • Commandeur de la Légion d’ Directors between May 2015 and • Elected Member of AIA’s Board Honneur May 2017 of Directors in June 2005 • Member of the National • Former Member of the College Citizenship Committee Dr. Evangelos Peter Poungias of Quaestors of the European • Former Secretary General at the Former Member of the Board of Parliament Ministry of Foreign Affairs Directors • Former Deputy Prime Minister • Lawyer before the Supreme • Member of AIA’s Board of and Foreign Minister of Court Directors between May 2015 and Luxembourg May 2017 17 2 Company Identity Seating from left to right: Dr. J. Poos, Ms E. Papathanasopoulou (Secretary to the BoD), Dr. D. Dimitriou, Mr. H. Linkweiler, Mr. S. Papakonstantinou Standing from left to right: Prof. Ch. Pampoukis, Mr. G. Schroeder, Dr I. N. Paraschis (CEO), Mr. N. Protonotarios, Mr. P. Pavlopoulos, Mr. S. Erler Board committees Board Committees’ composition as per the decision of the Board of Directors on 29th June 2017. Audit Committee: H. Linkweiler (Member) S. Papakonstantinou (Member) N. Protonotarios (Chairman) Dr. J. Poos (Member) G. Schroeder (Member) G. Schroeder (Member) P. Pavlopoulos (Member) P. Tampourlos (Member) Dr. D. Dimitriou (Member) Personnel Committee: Dr. J. Poos (Chairman) Finance Committee: Investment Committee: Dr. D. Dimitriou (Member) G. Schroeder (Chairman) H. Linkweiler (Chairman) H. Linkweiler (Member) From left to right: Mr. George P. Eleftherakos, Mr. Alexandros M. Aravanis, Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis, Mr. Panagiotis K. Michalarogiannis Chief officers Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Mr George P. Eleftherakos Chief Executive Officer Chief Development Officer Mr Alexandros M. Aravanis Mr Panagiotis K. Michalarogiannis Chief Operations Officer Chief Finance & Administration Officer 18 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 AIA Organisational Structure Communications & Marketing Board Legal of Directors Affairs Internal Audit Data Protection & CompliChief ance Executive Officer (CEO) Dr I.N. Paraschis Corporate Planning Corporate Chief Control Chief Chief Finance & Operations Development Administration Officer (COO) Officer (CDO) Officer (CFO) A. Aravanis G. Eleftherakos P. Michalarogiannis Corporate Security Security Technical Operations Services Information Technology & Aviation Consumers Property Corporate TelecommunicaBusiness Unit Business Unit Business Unit Finance Unit tions Business Unit Human Business Resources Environmental Control ManageServices ment Business Corporate Control Quality System of Internal Controls and operational and financial risks; execution of procedures that Risk Management such approach undoubtedly serve controls. constitutes an advancement as Both the Board and the compared to the “traditional” risk • The role of the Corporate Management are committed transfer approach of managing Control function, assigned to maintain a sound system of the insurance portfolio and with Risk Management internal controls to safeguard resolving claims to protect the responsibilities, providing the Company’s assets and Company’s value. assistance to management ensure that significant risks In addition to the requirements in developing processes and are identified and adequately of the ERM, AIA has implemented controls to manage risks managed. For this purpose, the organisational arrangements and monitoring the timely AIA has adopted the most recommended by the Institute remediation of potential contemporary risk management of Internal Auditors (IIA). Such deficiencies. Its scope also practice, often referred to as arrangements include: includes operational business enterprise risk management continuity planning, as (ERM), and aims to deal with risks • The role of operational described in Ch.5 of this from a broader scope, depth and managers who design, Report. perspective, including strategic, implement and supervise the 19 2 Company Identity • The management’s integrated Accounting & Tax, Procurement, equipment. This certification is and coordinated approach Labour, Fire Safety and Design & the first one that does not apply to risk is also accomplished Construction and Airport Charges only to a specific function but to through the activities of the Policy. the whole Airport Company. Finance function that monitors financial risks and financial Process Management Information reporting issues, the Security/ Safety departments which The Company maintains and On an annual basis, AIA issues monitor the respective risks continuously updates a system of and publicly discloses a number and hazards and the Regulatory policies and procedures ensuring of reports that cover all aspects and Legal Compliance that management directives are of activities and performance. Coordination function which adopted and corporate objectives Furthermore, AIA has developed in turn monitors specific risks are achieved. A corporate a reporting system, which not such as non-compliance with Process Management system is only supports the management applicable laws and regulations. established for ensuring effective in its strategic decision-making, This systematic and disciplined interfaces, proper authorisation but also fosters effective approach enhances and and version control of procedural communication within the optimises the company’s documentation. Company as well as with external strategic decision-making parties. capability. The Company invests in management systems that Publicly available information • The Internal Audit function enhance controls and serve its regarding AIA is available in the provides shareholders with commitment for providing highrelevant section of the Company’s assurance on the adequacy quality, state-of-the-art services. website (www.aia.gr/companyof the Company’s overall risk Where necessary, these systems and-business/the-company) management processes. The are certified in accordance with Statutory Auditor provides prevailing standards. Monitoring assurance on adequacy of controls impacting accuracy In this respect, AIA maintains AIA practises continuous of the financial statements. It certification against the monitoring in order to provide is important to note that this ISO9001:2015 standard for assurance that controls and function is only accountable Quality Management and the other planned actions are to the Audit Committee, thus ISO20000-1:2011 standard for carried out properly and to securing its independence. IT Service Management for its identify key exceptions requiring IT&T Business Unit. Furthermore, quick and effective review and Since Risk Management AIA’s Environmental Management management action. Scheduled and Internal Audit activities System was certified according periodic audits performed are complementary and to the latest version of the ISO both by external auditors and supplementary in nature, the two 14001:2015 standard. the Company’s Internal Audit functions closely collaborate and department aim to further assure operate within a common risk In 2017, AIA's Energy adequacy of the internal control definition and framework. Management System (EnMS) environment. Furthermore, was certified in accordance with enhanced IT solutions that AIA Legal and Regulatory Compliance the ISO 50001:2011 standard, has developed, such as data becoming the first airport in measurement techniques applied Through its Audit Committee the Greece to do so. This certification to the compilation of indicators Board is committed to operating showcases our efforts to use for corporate use, facilitate the a strict policy of compliance with energy more efficiently, conserve continuous monitoring process. all applicable laws and regulations. resources and contribute to the For this purpose, the Company’s fight against climate change Steadily reinforcing the Business Legal Director has assumed and ensures compliance with the Units’ role, AIA’s Value Based increased responsibility through relevant energy legislation. Some Management (VBM) methodology its role as Legal and Regulatory recent projects include the use of measures performance against Compliance coordinator, aiming LED technology to light the apron predefined targets on both to bring together required and other areas of the Airport, financial and non-financial activities of all departments, replacement of older company metrics and parameters (e.g. especially in the areas of vehicles with newer models with systems’ efficiency, quality of aerodrome operations, Ground lower fuel consumption and services, safety of operations, Handling Services, Environment, emissions as well as investment environmental responsibility, Security, Information Technology, in more efficient air conditioning personnel safety, training, etc.). 20 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Business Conduct integrated in the relevant online designing specific actions to awareness programme and is rectify identified control gaps. AIA aims at being acknowledged being revisited on an annual basis. as an exemplary responsible Regular Review of Controls Company within the markets it Anti-Fraud by the Board operates while influencing others in their effort to follow a path Prevention of fraud is a crucial The Board regularly reviews the of sustainability. Our corporate element of AIA’s Policies and main risks to the business and values (Accountability, Team strict compliance to the relevant the effectiveness of the system Spirit, Respect, Effectiveness, rules must be secured by of Internal Controls in managing Customer Focus) are embedded in involved employees, management these risks including financial, all aspects of our operation and members and members of the operational and compliance controls development. Board of Directors. as well as the Risk Management Process. For this purpose, the AIA applies a Code of Business Both management and employees Board, as represented by the Conduct, developed in line are expected to behave in an Audit Committee, receives regular with global best practices, honest and fair way, in line with reports from the Company’s which urges employees to the provisions of AIA’s Code of Internal Auditor and Statutory conduct business activities in Business Conduct for compliance, Auditor on the adequacy of the accordance with corporate integrity and avoidance of conflict internal control system. values, thus aiming to preserve of interest, thus promoting fraud the Company’s good reputation, avoidance. The aforementioned committee maintain public trust and bolster is also responsible for supervising stakeholders’ confidence. The AIA aims to protect its and monitoring the performance Code is a management tool that employees, financial interests, and independence of the Internal safeguards an all-embracing clients, providers and the people Audit department as well as work environment where no who live and operate at the the selection, performance, discrimination, victimisation airport community by carrying objectivity and independence of and harassment may occur. The out a fair and balanced policy that the Statutory Auditor. It oversees Code provides a framework that develops and maintains an antibusiness ethics and anti-fraud allows employees to express their fraud culture. AIA is committed controls and also monitors if the concerns on possible violations in to deter, prevent and investigate Company adequately complies good faith while protecting them fraud and corruption and to apply with all Legal and Regulatory from any retaliation. It promotes appropriate corrective and/or requirements. management responsibility with disciplinary measures as required respect to corporate standards working in a collaborative way to With respect to Corporate of conduct through an annual seek remedy wherever possible. Responsibility governance, related reconfirmation process. Essential issues, namely environmental, to the Code of Business Conduct, AIA has established an Antisafety and human resources the Code of Relations with Fraud Policy, that is, a system issues, are regularly brought to the Business Partners ensures that all of internal controls securing attention of the Board of Directors business partners are treated with adequate containment of fraud by the management. In the same fairness and integrity and that risk; an internal framework is context, the Audit Committee, in employees interfacing with them provided for all employees to its capacity to monitor adequacy abide by a strict framework of report suspected acts of fraud of internal and external controls, principles and rules. or other similar irregularities; reviews the independence and and a mechanism is in place for the quality of the parties that the A Code Acceptance & undertaking formal investigation management engages to provide Reconfirmation process is of such irregularities and CR Assurance services. Sustainability Context Corporate Responsibility Policy promoting sustainability of all its stakeholders and for balancing aspects of its operation and its objectives across the following AIA approaches Corporate development. AIA acknowledges perspectives: Responsibility (CR) in an its role as a responsible Company integrated way aiming at for creating sustainable value for 21 2 Company Identity Corporate Airport Operator’s Environmental Corporate Employer’s Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Citizenship Responsibility Governance Running the airUndertaking initiaEngaging comDeveloping, comAligning with the port efficiently, in tives and commitmunities based on pensating and enprovisions of concompliance with ments to minimise mutual respect, gaging our human temporary sustainapplicable legal environmental advancing social capital while mainability standards and regulatory impact from airport partnership and taining a committed and guidelines, framework and in operation, impleprosperity in the workforce in a safe, performing Mateline with internamenting efficient region, promoting productive and fair riality Analysis of tional best practice energy manageAthens as a travel work environment. the issues which and acting on ment practices, destination, promotare significant for public interest with as well as coming the culture and AIA and its Stakerespect to safety municating and heritage of Greece, holders, planning and service quality. raising awareness supporting humanactions for material Fostering an airport on environmental itarian causes for issues, reporting community culture issues. society at large and performance through cooperarespecting human transparently and tion and by acting rights. promoting sustainfairly and with ability principles integrity towards across our markets. third parties. AIA’s approach to Corporate CR Strategy Materiality Analysis Responsibility is reflected in the related CR Policy, revised anew The CR Strategy is developed in Development and continuous in 2017, and deployed as a crossline with the corporate mission, update of AIA’s CR Strategy is departmental effort through objectives and targets and following based on frequent redefinition a contemporary 3-level CR the assessment of current and prioritisation of the material governance structure: conditions (namely, market trends, issues, i.e. those of significant economic status, social needs, impact on the Company and CR Strategy for Materiality environmental challenges, etc), best Sustainable Development and Analysis and CR Action Plan, practices and prevailing standards, of significant influence to its CR Integration for alignment findings and recommendations stakeholders. The identification of with standards and reporting, arising from the CR assurance these issues is essential as it sets CR Implementation for process and/or any other input priority areas for the CR Action embedding across AIA Units & from benchmarking exercises. Plan and defines the content for Departments. The revised Policy this Report. acknowledges the UN Agenda CR Strategy is reflected upon 2030 and AIA’s commitment to the annual Materiality Analysis The Materiality Analysis was contribute to the attainment of and the resulting CR Action Plan, reviewed for 2017 containing the SDGs. which is approved by AIA’s senior a total of 23 sustainability management and communicated issues, of which 13 are evaluated AIA’s Corporate Responsibility through this Annual & as Material. The correlation approach abides by the Global Sustainability Report. of the material issues with Reporting Initiative Standards the GRI Standards and which (released 2016) and aligns with The CR Committee, consisting GRI disclosures have received the AA1000 Accountability of members of the management, external assurance are described Principles Standard (released is primarily responsible for in the GRI index in the Appendix 2008) specifically the principles developing and reviewing the CR of this Report. of Inclusivity, Materiality and Policy and CR Strategy as an Responsiveness. output of the annual Materiality In line with the provisions of Analysis and CR Action Plan. the GRI Standards and the 22 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 related Airport Operators two parameters is included in the Specific boundaries were defined Sector Supplement (GRI-G4 “Materiality Evaluation Model” in and evaluated for “Scale of AOSS) evaluation of materiality the Appendix of this Report. Impact” and particularly relating is based on two parameters: to Global, National and Airport “Impact” (Significance of Impact) Identification of aspect Community-level impact. and “Influence” (Influence on boundaries took the unique Stakeholders’ Assessment). The characteristics of an airport The outcome of the materiality elaborated description of these environment into consideration. analysis is shown in the Map below: AIA’s Materiality Map Influence (Influence on stakeholders’ assessment) Customer Safety Market Presence Economic Performance Service Quality Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness Noise Corporate Governance Community Engagement Accessibility Responsible Procurement Indirect Economic Impacts Effluents & Waste Occupational Health & Safety Customer Privacy Emissions & Climate Change Energy Water Employment Practices Human Rights in Operations Training & Education Labour Human Rights Biodiversity Intermodality Impact (significance of impact) Emphasis is placed on the AIA adopts and upholds the responsible manner while pursuing aspects identified as “material”; related sustainability principles for opportunities to address societal consequently, the CR Assurance Human Rights, Labour Relations, challenges through innovation and Engagement process focuses Environmental Impact and Anticollaboration. Global challenges on those issues. Material issues Corruption. Furthermore, the – ranging from climate, water through the chapters of this Company acknowledges the and food crises, to poverty, Report are marked with this United Nations’ Sustainability conflict and inequality – drive the symbol: Development Goals (SDGs) and transformation of business models the Agenda 2030, contributing to and the embedding of globally the global sustainability effort. acknowledged values in everyday business. Material Issue Hence, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals can be directly correlated with business activities. Linking AIA’s business objectives This is also the case for AIA, as with the Sustainable Development the company’s sustainability issues Goals have a direct impact on most of Regardless of size and industry, the Goals. Specifically, for the In line with the Company’s all companies can contribute Material Issues, the correlation is sustaining commitment to the to the attainment of the SDGs as following: United Nations Global Compact, by carrying out business in a 23 2 Company Identity AIA’s Material Issues and correlation with the Global Sustainable Development Goals A Customer Safety A Occupational Health & Safety A Service Quality N Economic Performance A Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness G Market Presence N Indirect Economic Impact N Corporate Governance N Responsible Procurement L Noise A Energy G Emissions & Climate Change N Community Engagement Scale of Impact G Global N National A Airport Community L Local 24 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Other SDGs are also contributed employees, members of the plan (expressed as actions to by AIA operations to a lesser airport community, business complete) extent. The table in Appendix of partners and various other • Human Resources development this report shows the connection stakeholders while it also (expressed as training hours per of all AIA’s sustainability issues available to all interested parties FTE) with the Goals. on the corporate website. This Charts and tables with Report is complemented with performance specifics for all The Annual & Sustainability Report the other corporate publications, above are found in the following the Aerostat publication on chapters of this report, along with For 2017, AIA has changed the airport statistics (English), a specific mentions regarding the corporate reporting structure Sustainability outlook report attainment of corporate targets. and instead of producing two (Greek), the “Care for the editions, i.e. the Annual Report Environment” publication Industrial Affairs and and the Corporate Responsibility (Greek -English) and the 2Board Sustainability Report, proceeds with a merged quarterly, free-press magazine publication in English that (Greek-English) publication. Our active membership in business combines information from both, associations and our presence in to present the full spectrum of its Managing non-financial various sustainability networking activities in a sole report. performance events enable us to demonstrate our practices and share expertise. This 2017 Annual & Sustainability The Airport Company develops and Athens International Airport is Report covers information implements appropriate responses a member of the Board of CSR across the full spectrum of AIA’s to sustainability challenges Hellas, the Board of the local UN activities and performance, considering stakeholder views. Global Compact Network and structured across seven chapters: In 2017, our annual corporate chairs the CSR Committee of Ch. 2 Company identity, Ch. 3 scorecard included sustainabilitythe Hellenic-American Chamber Aviation Market Development, related objectives for measuring of Commerce which in 2017 Ch. 4 Financial Performance, Ch. the company’s performance. The organised its 15th Annual CSR 5 Business Performance, Ch. 6 attainment of these objectives Conference, sponsored by AIA, Environmental Performance, Ch. is linked to the evaluation of AIA under the title “Inclusive Cities & 7 Social Performance and Ch. 8 Management’s and employees’ Engaged Citizens: Rebuilding our Future Prospects. performance. In particular, the Society Sustainably”. areas in which non-financial The 2017 Annual & Sustainability performance objectives were set Furthermore, AIA is a member Report is the fifteenth consecutive on a corporate level, as part of the of the Greek Business Council annual edition on sustainability. Operational Scorecard were: for Sustainable Development In order to maximise the added (under the auspices of the Greek value of the CR reporting • Efficiency of critical systems Federation of Industries) and process, AIA engages in external (expressed as system availability the ACI-Europe Environmental assurance of its disclosures for for critical systems, namely: Strategy Committee. accuracy, completeness and Baggage Handling, Medium adherence to applicable guidelines Voltage, Passenger Boarding In 2017, AIA sponsored a major and standards through the Bridges, Airfield Lighting and conference on Sustainable engagement of an independent IT&T systems) Developments Goals, organised audit firm. The outcome of this • Efficiency of critical systems jointly by CSR Hellas and the process is included as a separate (expressed as maximum duration Greek Business Council for Assurance Statement in Appendix of single-event-failures for: Sustainable Development, focusing II of this Report. Baggage Handling, Medium on the 17th Goal “Partnership for Voltage, Airfield Lighting and the Goals”. Through the Annual & IT&T systems) Sustainability Report, AIA • Aviation safety (expressed as Planning Ahead enhances transparency and occurring incidents / events) disclosure practices related to • Airport Service Quality Connected with the Materiality governance, environmental, social (expressed as the “overall Map, the CR Action Plan 2017 and employee related initiatives. satisfaction” from AIA’s included in Chapter 8 “Future Passenger Survey) Prospects” offers an indication The 2017 Annual & Sustainability • Climate Change Action Plan of activities that AIA plans to Report is distributed to a large (expressed as actions complete) undertake versus each of the audience consisting of AIA • Community Engagement Action Material Issues. 25 3 Aviation Market Development Aircraft Movements Aircraft Movements 2017 2016 200 3.6% 150 4.1% 100 2.9% 81,822 79,528 114,129 109,609 195,951 189,137 50 0 Domestic International Total 26 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Passenger Traffic Development Passenger Traffic Development 2016-2017 2017 2016 7,322,304 Domestic 2.4% 7,150,932 14,414,162 International 12% 12,866,066 21,736,466 8.6% Total 20,016,998 0 5,000,000 10,000,000 15,000,000 20,000,000 25,000,000 Key Developments 2017 In line with the global and has been resilient to the volatility from Athens and fifteen new European aviation trends, Athens of the trading environment international routes were International Airport achieved while it remained unaffected established, further enhancing considerable passenger growth from the European and regional the airport’s route network. At during 2017 which proved to be geopolitical risks. Greek travellers’ the same time, 17 LCCs offered another record-breaking year for behaviour led to considerable services to 56 airports worldwide. the Airport. AIA reached 21.74 increase of their air travelling Overall in 2017 the airport’s million passengers exceeding both in 2016 and 2017, influenced number of flights amounted to prior-year levels by 1.7 million, by competitive air ticket prices 196 thousand and demonstrated a significant increase of 8.6%. and macroeconomic stability. a rise of 3.6% compared to prior International traffic proved to be Foreign visitors also presented year levels. Both domestic and the main growth driver (+12%), a healthy increase in the period international flights grew by whereas domestic traffic also under review. The number of 2.9% and 4.1%, respectively. grew but at lower rates (+2%), flights amounted to 196 thousand Lastly, in 2017 Athens was impacted by capacity reductions surpassing the respective 2016 directly connected with scheduled mainly in the winter periods. levels by 3.6%. services with 137 destinations In terms of passenger demand (103 of which international) in 53 evolution, it is important to note During 2017, four new airlines countries, operated by a total of that the demand for air travel launched operations to/ 59 carriers. 27 3 Aviation Market Development Total number of passengers (mio) (including transit passengers) Passenger Traffic 2017 2016 var% Domestic 7.3 7.1 2.4% International 14.4 12.9 12.0% Total 21.7 20.0 8.6% Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. 2017 Total number of arriving and departing passengers (mio) (not including transit passengers) Arriving Departing Total Domestic 3,745,260 3,560,810 7,306,070 International 7,144,766 7,221,288 14,366,054 Total 10,890,026 10,782,098 21,672,124 2017 Total number of passengers by airport use (in million) Origin & Transfer Terminal Destination Transit Total Passengers Passengers Passengers (O&D) 2017 Total number of 17,146,985 4,525,139 21,672,124 64,342 21,736,466 passengers by airport use Note: The breakdown in O&D and transfer passenger is an estimation based on the results of 2017 AIA's Passenger Survey. The breakdown of terminal passenger is an estimation of O&D passenger and transfer passengers. Aircraft Movements (thousands, take-offs and landings) Aircraft Movements 2017 2016 var% Domestic 81.8 79.5 2.9% International 114.1 109.6 4.1% Total 196.0 189.1 3.6% Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. Aircraft Movements 2017 (Flight categories, incl. helicopters) Total Scheduled Charter Military General Movements passenger passenger Cargo &State Other* Aviation (incl. (incl. combi) (incl. combi) Aviation Helicopters) Domestic 73,646 81 1,794 3,694 315 2,292 81,822 International 95,944 1,101 3,647 10,099 1677 1661 195.951 The day/night segregation is not applicable in our airport, because the airport operates 24/7 and there is no night curfew (night flight restrictions).*Other: Special (FAA/Government), State Police/Fire/Diplomatic,Military, Ambulance, Training, Technical Test, Technical Stop, Positioning/Ferry. Aircraft Movements With respect to the development flights presented a gradual upward the year. In addition, the strong of aircraft movements, it is trend while international services rise of services outside Europe interesting to note that domestic showed a robust rise throughout should be highlighted. 28 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Quarterly Aircraft Movements Development 2017 Domestic International Total % Growth 2017/2016 8% 7.6% 7.6% 7.6% 5.4% 4.1% 4% 3.5% 3.6% 2.2% 2.4% 1% 0.4% 0% -3% -4% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Development of International Flights International Flights Per Region 2017 % Growth 2017/2016 % Market Share 2017 Western Europe 3.5% 70.8% Eastern Europe -0.9% 13.9% Africa 7.2% 10.0% America 10.3% 2.4% Middle East 35% 2.4% Rest of Asia 64% 0.4% -10% 0% 35% 70% Passenger Traffic A closer look to the overall development are both worth noting. favourable evolution of passenger passenger traffic throughout the demand. The launch of the new year reveals a robust development As far as international passenger long-haul services of Emirates to in all quarters through the traffic per region is concerned, New York and Scoot to Singapore, consistently high growth rates it is important to note the sharp and Air China’s non-stop flight to in the international sector and growth of all regions, supported by Beijing should be highlighted as a gradual amelioration of the the significantly enhanced airport’s they have largely contributed to the domestic passenger traffic route network coupled with the rise of the region. Quarterly Passenger Tra c Development 2017 Domestic International Total % Growth 2017/2016 16% 14.1% 13.7% 14% 12.8% 12% 10.3% 10% 8.8% 9.5% 7.6% 7.8% 8% 6% 4.4% 4.2% 4% 1.7% 2% 0% -2% -2% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 29 8% 6% 4.4% 4.2% 34%Aviation Market Development 1.7% 2% 0% -2% -2% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 International Passenger Tra c Development per Region 2017 % Growth 2017/2016 % Market Share 523.6% 100% 100% 80% 80% 70.9% 60% 60% 38.6% 40% 40% 26.9% 18.4% 8.7% 12.9% 12.9% 9.9% 20% 20% 4.4% 1.5% 0.4% 0% 0% Western Eastern Middle America Africa Rest Western Eastern Middle America Africa Rest Europe Europe East of Asia Europe Europe East of Asia Despite a small decline, London Strong passenger increase was digit growth. Diverse levels of consistently retains the title of achieved on intercontinental growth resulted in a reshuffling the busiest European destination operations, with the nonof the top ten positions, with for 2017, with fast growing European scheduled destinations Tel Aviv ranking 1st from 2nd in Larnaca following closely in the witnessing a staggering 27% 2016, followed by New York that second place. Rapid growth was growth in 2017. With the climbed up two positions. Despite also achieved by Istanbul and exception of Abu Dhabi that the fact that Doha did grow, it Amsterdam that managed to experienced a small decline, still climbed down from 1st to 4th significantly increase their market all other major non-European position. share in the Athens market. destinations witnessed doubleTop 10 European Scheduled Top 10 Non-European International Destinations Top 10 European Scheduled Scheduled Top Destinations 10 Non-European International Passengers % Market Share Passengers % Market Share Destinations London 9.8% Scheduled Tel Aviv Destinations 15.3% Larnaca 8.5% New Tel York London 9.8% 14.3% Aviv 15.3% Rome 6.9% Dubai Larnaca 8.5% New York 13.1% 14.3% Paris 6.1% Doha 12.8% Rome 6.9% Dubai 13.1% Istanbul 5.8% Cairo 8.4% Paris 6.1% Doha 12.8% Frankfurt 4.2% Beirut 6.6% Istanbul 5.8% Cairo 8.4% Zurich 3.9% Abu Dhabi 5.4% Frankfurt 4.2% Beirut 6.6% Munich 3.9% 4.9% Zurich 3.9% AbuToronto Dhabi 5.4% Milan 3.7% Montreal 4.4% Munich 3.9% Toronto 4.9% Amsterdam 3.7% Philadelphia 3.9% Milan 3.7% Montreal 4.4% Other 43.6% 10.7% Amsterdam 3.7% Other 3.9% Philadelphia 0% 12.5% 25% 37.5% 50% 0% 3.2% 6.4% 9.6% 12.8% 16% Other 43.6% 10.7% Other 0% 12.5% 25% 37.5% 50% 0% 3.2% 6.4% 9.6% 12.8% 16% With respect to airlines’ ranking, up from 10th to 6th position traffic. Although in 2017 the share the two home-base carriers, largely due to the New York of low-cost carriers was reduced, Aegean Airlines/Olympic Air and service, while the entry of Sky mainly due to the domestic Ryanair, predictably hold the top Express in the top ten following capacity reduction by Ryanair and two places in terms of passenger the expansion of its domestic certain carriers’ consolidation of traffic. Ryanair’s reduction/ services is also an impressive international services, a number suspension of specific domestic development. of low-cost carriers achieved services, especially in the winter growth in 2017, expanded their period, resulted in a reduced Passenger traffic carried with services and increased their market share. It should also be low-cost carriers constitutes an passenger base. mentioned Top Emirates that10 Airlinesclimbed important According to Total the Airport’s Tra part ofPassenger c Top 10 Market Airlines Share According 2017 to Total Passenger Tra c 30 48.9% Market Share 2017 50% Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Top 10 Airlines According to Total Passenger Tra c Market Share 2017 48.9% 50% 40% Low-cost 30% Low-cost carriers' carriers' sharesharein passenger in passenger tra trac c 20.7% 20% 2017 201713.3% 2016 2016 30% 30% 10% 25.0%25.0% 24.3%24.3% 3.1% 2.3% 22.3% 2.1% 2.1% 24.0% 22.3% 24.0% 2.1% 1.9% 1.8%21.1%1.7% 21.1% 18.8%18.8% 18.8% 18.8% 20% 20% 0% Aegean/ Ryanair Lufthansa easyJet Swiss Emirates Turkish British Alitalia Sky Other 10% 10% Olympic Airlines Airways Express 0% 0% Domestic Domestic International International TotalTotal Low-cost carriers' share in passenger tra c 2017 2016 30% 25.0% 24.3% 22.3% 24.0% 21.1% 18.8% 18.8% 20% 10% 0% Domestic International Total Passenger Travelling Behaviour The substantial increase of year. Greek residents grew by The dynamic growth of the Origin passenger traffic was an outcome a considerable 13%, with the and Destination passengers (O&D) of the strong performance of leisure market being once more by 12% should also be emphasised, both Greek and foreign residents. the segment showing stronger since it denotes the consistent Foreign residents grew overall by growth than the business one. emergence of Athens as an 5%, but it is important to note Extensive airline offers consisting attractive destination, assisted by that the leisure segment, which is of attractive discounts played the joint and coordinated pertinent the largest, grew by a significant a decisive role in the growth of actions of the Airport Company 10%, suggesting that incoming Greek residents’ travelling. with stakeholders from the tourism tourism had another successful industry. GreekGreek andand Foreign Foreign Residents Residents O&D O&Dandand Transfer Transfer -17% +6% -4% 8.4% 8.4% 15.4%15.4% 20.9%20.9% +5% +13% 28.8%28.8% 47.4%47.4% Greek and Foreign Residents O&D and Transfer 79.1%79.1% +10% 8.4% +16% +12.4% 15.4% GR business GR business GR leisure GR leisure 20.9%O&D O&D Transfer Transfer Foreign Foreign leisure Foreign leisureForeign business business % Growth 2017/2016 31 28.8% 47.4% 3 Aviation Market Development Airline Development and Marketing Airline Awards 2017 Category Winner Highly Commended Best of the Top 10 Performance Sky Express Domestic Sky Express Olympic Air Western Europe Pegasus Airlines Austrian Airlines Fastest Growing Eastern Europe Ryanair Aeroflot Airline per Middle East Middle East Airlines Emirates Geographical Africa Aegean Airlines EgyptAir Region Asia Air China America Emirates Air Canada Overall Aegean Airlines Fastest Growing Airline Seasonal Route Croatia Airlines Air Baltic Best New Entrant Performance Cobalt Fastest Growing Airline Thin Route Royal Jordanian Favourite Airline among European passengers Aegean Airlines Favourite Airline among non-European passengers Emirates Market Presence Material Issue As an infrastructure provider, the in January 2017 (as per the airlines was also reflected in Airport’s main role, to safely and Airport Charges Directives the 2017 campaign under the efficiently accommodate aircraft 2009/12/EC, as transposed slogan “See the big picture in landings and take-offs, is selfto the Greek legislation PD Aviation Marketing”, denoting evident. In addition, growth of 52/12), AIA announced that for AIA’s willingness and its efforts air traffic is material for Athens the ninth consecutive year all to approach the actual needs International Airport as it is the airport charges would remain of each of its airline partners main revenue stream. unchanged without any increase. in an innovative and integrated This freezing of charges was manner, and to employ the latest For this purpose, AIA works closely complemented by the continuous advertising means and tools, in with home and international development and fine-tuning order to design and implement a carriers, legacy airlines and of our incentives’ scheme and complete marketing strategy. LCCs, in order to sustain and comprised growth incentives and further develop domestic, a number of targeted incentives For the 18th consecutive year, AIA regional and international traffic for airlines. acknowledged the contribution of by offering one of the most airlines to its annual performance advanced incentive and marketing In total, thirteen different by rewarding the highest growth support schemes, consistent to developmental and targeted in passenger traffic during 2017. its aeronautical strategy. This incentives, both for developing strategy, dynamically continued in new markets, as well as for In addition to devoting its 2017, encompasses comprehensive reinforcing existing ones, were in marketing efforts to its airline developmental and targeted effect during 2017 and as always, and business partners and programmes for airlines including applied in a fully transparent and to consumers, AIA has also incentives and marketing support non-discriminatory manner. The vigorously promoted Athens packages and constitutes a majority of the operating carriers as a Destination. Its innovative cornerstone of AIA’s healthy made use of one or more of them, approach and effective actions financial growth. while many also further benefited have reinforced Athens’ by receiving marketing support. attractiveness as a tourism During the annual consultations destination and have significantly with the airport users, held AIA’s customised approach to contributed to the recovery of 32 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 the city’s image and an increase industry trends, but was also visitors also presented a healthy in the arrivals of foreign tourists. largely determined by all the increase in the period under review. A series of targeted destination aforementioned initiatives. Year marketing initiatives have been 2017 was another record-breaking This growth was driven by undertaken as a result of the one for the Airport, with the both Greek residents’ strong strategic co-operation and airport’s traffic reaching 21.74 rise by 13%, as well as foreign synergies that AIA has developed million passengers, exceeding residents’ robust increase by with tourism organisations prior-year levels by 1.7 million, 5%. The dynamic growth of and associations (Association a significant increase of 8.6%. the O&D passengers by 12% of Tourism Enterprises, Greek International traffic was the main should also be highlighted since National Tourism Organisation, growth driver (+12%), whereas it demonstrates the consistent Ministry of Tourism, Marketing domestic traffic also grew but at emergence of Athens as an Greece, etc). The partnership lower rates (+2%), impacted by attractive destination, assisted between AIA, the Municipality capacity reductions which occurred by the joint and coordinated of Athens and Aegean Airlines, mainly in the winter periods. In actions of the Airport Company named Athens Tourism terms of passenger demand, it is with stakeholders from the Partnership (ATP), which was important to note that demand tourism industry towards this announced in a press conference for air travel a) was disconnected direction. The fact that foreign in December 2016 and was from the macroeconomic trends, visitors with Athens as their launched the following month, is since despite the country’s final destination significantly the epitome of this co-operation. fragile situation, Greek travellers increased during the last year Managed by Marketing Greece, increased their air travel both in denotes the effectiveness of such ATP launched an innovative digital 2016 and 2017 to a considerable strategic synergies and highlights campaign to promote Athens in extent, supported by competitive the necessity for all stakeholders’ the German and French markets, air ticket prices, and b) was industry organisations to continue which ended in June 2017. resilient to the volatility of the their cooperation with the longtrading environment and the term aim to establish Athens as Growth of Athens International continuing geopolitical risks one of the most appealing tourist Airports’ air traffic followed (including Brexit and terrorist destinations worldwide. the global and European attacks in Europe), since foreign Cargo Community Culture AIA manages all cargo business handling and transportation of its cargo community partners activities at the airport by pharmaceuticals and therefore had the chance to demonstrate developing the necessary ensure integrity and quality of the Airport’s competitive infrastructure, coordinating the transported medicines. The advantages and explore cargo community and facilitating initiative was presented to an opportunities for new business new endeavours that may help expert audience at IATA’s World development. expand the market. All cargo Cargo Symposium organised in stakeholders participate in Abu Dhabi in March 2017. • The joint participation of AIA each offering, thus clients are and PCDC, a logistics operator ultimately presented with an • Showcasing AIA and the wider in Piraeus Free Trade Zone, integrated solution. Greek logistics community in the 6th International Supply through the participation of a Chain & Logistics Expo, during This collaborative approach has national cluster of companies which their collaboration in led to the following developments of the industry at the biennial combined transport with a new in 2017: Transportmesse Muenchen: solution to be offered in 2018 • The launch of a new inspired by AIA’s community was announced. certification programme approach, the Germanoffered by IATA, by six Hellenic Chamber of Industry • Three Airport visits of members of the airport supply and Commerce coordinated approximately 150 young chain (the three third-party the joint participation of 15 students familiarised them handlers, two forwarding Greek transport and logistics with aviation logistics while companies and a trucking enterprises at this global also enhanced the business company) that will help improve event. In this context, AIA and experience of the forwarders. 33 3 Aviation Market Development Cargo Uplift In contrast to the global air global or European pattern and cargo was recorded for the cargo’s excellent performance follows different norms. Although fourth consecutive year. The during 2017 (+9% compared to cargo volumes increased for the international freight sector is 2016), Athens cargo traffic had a fourth consecutive year, yet the the one that contributed to rather volatile course with peaks market seems not to have been the positive results posting an and valleys throughout 2017 stabilised. overall 4.7% increase compared resulting in a final year-on-year to 2016, which however was increase of 1.5% and reaching Although cargo business has counterbalanced by the 89.770 tonnes. Once more, it been severely affected by the considerable decrease of the became evident that local demand Greek crisis of the last seven domestic traffic by a total of is relatively inconsistent with the years, a slight increase in airport 17.1% compared to last year. International Cargo Uplift Total International Cargo 2016 2017 82,817 3.4% 80,085 39,367 2017 2016 Tonnes 36,567 37,459 35,055 5.1% 4.3% 3,608 4,247 -15% Freight out Mail in Freight in Domestic Cargo 2017 2016 Tonnes Uplift 2016 2017 7,000 -19% -17.5% 5,250 Total Domestic Cargo 6,953 3,500 -2.1% -10.9% -26.7% -33.8% 1,750 -17.1% 8,392 1,346 1,375 4,516 5,477 353 532 739 1,008 1,698 1,907 5,255 6,485 0 Freight in Freight out Mail in Mail out Cargo in Cargo out 34 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 We consider as key developments Finally, freighter operators built up during the year: their volumes by 4.2% improving • the constant increase of their market share, which grew to international outbound volumes 37.3% (versus 36.3% in 2016) at which once more reached an allthe expense of passenger carriers’ time high of 39.367 tonnes and market share. At the same time, posted a 5.1% growth against integrators’ (DHL, Fedex, TNT and 2016; UPS) traffic rose by a further 6% • the further improvement of contributing to a marginal increase international inbound volumes in their market share (0.5%). which grew by 4.3% on average; • the launch of a second cargo flight to Larnaca by Swiftair Spain as a result of an increased demand mainly for courier traffic. The other cargo flight to Larnaca is operated by TNT. 42,641 40,783 40,175 4.6% 39,302 2.2% 3,275 3,325 -1.5% Cargo in Cargo out Mail out Cargo Traffic (in/out, thousand tonnes) Inbound Cargo 2017 Outbound Cargo 2017 Total 2017 Cargo Aircraft 20.74 12.71 33.46 Passenger Aircraft 21.13 35.18 56.31 Cargo Traffic (domestic/international, thousand tonnes) 2017 2016 Var% Domestic 6.95 8.39 -17.1% International 82.82 80.09 3.4% Total 89.77 88.48 1.5% 35 4 Financial Performance Financial Performance Financial performance is corporate mission, namely to one of the major pillars for create sustainable value for its the accomplishment of AIA’s stakeholders. Material Issue Economic Performance Throughout its operation, AIA financial performance. has allocated people, tools, methodologies, processes and Given the importance of financial resources for the management performance not only from a of financial performance. These legal and compliance perspective, financial performance tools have but also from a business point proliferated over the years and of view, the company’s view is to have reached a level of maturity. continuously enhance the financial More specifically, in addition to performance mechanisms. legal requirements for financial recording and monitoring, AIA 2017 was another successful has put in place various levels of year for Athens International controls through systems (e.g. our Airport, witnessing an all-time Corporate Business Information high traffic performance (21.74 System with its numerous million passengers or 8.6% more modules), central and de-central than those of the previous year) financial monitoring and control in and healthy financial results the AIA organisation (Accounting, and financial position. Growth Procurement, Corporate Finance, in operating performance more Treasury, Business and Corporate than offsets the additional cost Controllers, Internal Audit), requirements that derive from effective procedural controls increased traffic and the increase (processes, procedures, etc.), of the variable element of Grant business performance tools (e.g. of Rights Fee recorded in the Value Based Management), etc. Operating Expenses. Overall, 2017 Finally, a corporate financial financial results demonstrate performance cycle which includes growing profitability with Profit financial planning (business plan, Before Tax of € 199.8 million, i.e. budget) and financial reporting higher than previous year by € (monthly, quarterly and annual 10.8 million. The following section results), ensures proper monitoring provides an overview of the and adjustment (e.g. through company’s financial performance quarterly latest estimates) of our in 2017. 36 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Operating Revenues & ADF For 2017, AIA’s revenues inclusive reduced by 4.2% compared to benefiting from the renovated of the company’s share from the the previous year. The latter Intra Schengen retail area, while Airport Development Fund (ADF) shortfall is mainly the effect of car parking revenues were similar showed an increase of 5.2%, from the decrease of the ADF charge to previous year, affected by €432.2 million in 2016 to €454.9 for non-EU passengers from €22 unfavorable conditions in the million. to €12 per departing passenger relevant market. Furthermore, from 11 April 2017 onwards in Property business (€31.1 Aeronautical Revenues, inclusive accordance with law 4465/2017. million) demonstrated a stable of AIA’s share from the Airport performance, i.e. a 2% increase Development Fund, amounted Revenues from non-aeronautical compared to 2016, with the to €290.9 million, representing segments reached €164.0 million, airport Hotel and the Exhibition around 64% of the total income. higher than the previous year’s Centre recording considerable Revenues from airport charges by 4.6%. Specifically, revenues growth, the Retail Park achieving increased by 9.8% compared to from Ground Handling and Airside a marginal increase, and Space the previous year. AIA maintained Concessions stood at € 53.2 Leases sustaining the business all charges unchanged without any million and increased by only at the same 2016 levels. Finally, increase for the ninth consecutive 1.2%, hence diverging from traffic IT&T revenues (€ 8.4 million) year. The freezing of charges was performance mainly due to a 27% increased by 8.3%, mainly driven complemented by the continuous reduction of charges for PRM by external business projects development and fine-tuning of (persons with reduced mobility) and traffic performance, while the incentives’ scheme comprising on July 2017. Revenues from Other Revenues (€1.4 million) growth incentives and a number Commercial activities which stood also increased by 28.6%. The of targeted ones for airlines. AIA’s at € 69.8 million, increased by following chart depicts AIA’s share from Airport Development 7.8%, with terminal retail showing 2017 income streams vs. those Fund (ADF) reached €79.9 million, a very satisfactory performance, of 2016. 2017 Revenues Structure Operating Revenues Breakdown 2017 2016 Variance (%) 1.9% 0.3% Aeronautical 211.1 9.8% Charges 192.2 6.8% 79.9 ADF -4.2% 83.3 15.3% Groundhandling 53.2 & Airside 1.2% 46.4% 52.6 Concessions 11.7% 69.8 Consumers 7.8% 64.7 17.6% 31.1 Property 2.0% 30.5 8.4 IT&T 8.3% 7.8 Aeronautical Charges 1.4 ADF Other 28.6% 1.1 Groundhandling & Airside Concessions Consumers 454.9 Property Total 5.2% IT&T 432.2 Other 0 125 250 375 500 37 4 Financial Performance Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2017 amounted to concession extension, as well as due to the full year € 149.0 million, € 14.3 million higher than 2016. effect of the variable element of the Grant of Rights This divergence is driven by the additional cost Fee. requirements following the increased traffic and an once -off expense regarding consulting, legal The 2017 operating expenses breakdown and and similar expenses for the effectiveness of the comparison against 2016 is illustrated below. 2017 Operating 2017 Operating Expenses Expenses Structure Structure 2017 vs. 2017 2016 vs. Operating 2016 Operating Expenses Expenses 2017 2016 2017 2016 53.5 53.5 Outsourced Outsourced 27% 27% 28% 28% Services Services 49.5 49.5 41.7 41.7 Salaries &Salaries Other & Other 6% 6% EmployeeEmployee Related Related 3% 3% Expenses Expenses 36% 36% 41.8 41.8 53.9 53.9 Other Operating Other Operating Salaries & Other SalariesEmployee Employee & OtherRelated Related Expenses Expenses Expenses Expenses Outsourcing Outsourcing & Other Services & Other Services 43.5 43.5 P.R. & marketing P.R. & marketing Utilities Utilities Other Operating Operating Expenses Other Expenses 0 15 0 30 15 30 45 60 45 60 Highlights of the 2017-2016 Profit & Loss Statement Financial results 2017 2016 (€million) (€million) Operating Revenues & ADF 454.9 432.2 Operating Expenses (149.0) (134.8) EBITDA including ADF 305.9 297.5 Amortization & Depreciation (76.6) (74.2) Financial Expenses (29.5) (34.2) Profit (Loss) before Tax 199.8 189.1 Total Corporate Taxation (59.8) (56.7) Profit after Tax 140.0 132.4 38 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Profitability EBITDA, inclusive of AIA’s share from ADF, reached In a challenging environment and despite structural €305.9 million compared to €297.5 million in 2016, changes on the cost side, the Airport Company higher by €8.4 million. Depreciation charges were continued to present remarkable financial performance, higher by €2.4 million due to additional investments with consistently strong key performance indicators. in capital expenditure within the year. Financial expenses were lower by €4.7 million mainly due to Taking into consideration the 2017 financial results the gradual reduction of the outstanding balance after tax, the statutory and other reserves of €7.0 of the AIA’s debt. Profit before Tax was recorded million and the previous year’s retained earnings of at €199.8 million, reflecting an increase of 5.7% or €85.4 million, there remains a distributable profit €10.8 million compared to previous year. Corporate of €218.4 million. In view of the company's potential taxation for 2017 Profits reached €59.8 million, high financial obligations in the year 2018 for the based on the effective income tax rate. Profit after payment for the concession extension right, no Tax for 2017 reached the level of €140.0 million. dividend distribution to the shareholders is proposed by the Board of Directors. 2017 vs. 2016 Key Performance Indicators Performance indicators 2017 2016 Change In Revenues & ADF / pax (€)1 20.9 21.6 -3.1 % Revenues & ADF / FTE ('000€)2 636.9 627.5 1.5 % Revenues & ADF / Net Asset Value (%) 3 71.5% 62.2% 9.2 pp Operating cost / pax (€) 6.9 6.7 1.8 % PBT margin (%) 4 43.9% 43.7% 0.2 pp ROCE (%)5 40.2% 33.2% 7.0 pp AVA (million €) 6 119.6 111.9 6.9 % 1 Net Turnover plus ADF / Passengers 2 Net Turnover plus ADF / Full Time Equivalents 3 Net Turnover plus ADF / Net Asset Value (including Works In Progress) 4 Profit Before Tax / Net Turnover plus ADF 5 Operating Profit Before Interest & Tax / Capital Employed 6 AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax – (Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value) 39 4 Financial Performance Cash Flow Within 2017, AIA sustains a healthy cash position. million) reflecting increased capital expenditure. Net Cash inflow from operating activities reached €235.7 cash outflow from financing activities was recorded million compared to €230.5 million in 2016, mainly at €114.1 million, €69.8 million lower than previous due to improved operating performance and lower year, mainly due to lower dividend distribution. Finally, income tax payments. The latter derive from a lower a reserve account of € 9.9 million for Attica Bank dividend distribution compared to the previous year, shares was effected in order to comply with Finance partly offset by an increased Grant of Rights fee Documents undertakings with EIB. Closing cash and unfavorable working capital variances. Net cash position for 2017, inclusive of investments in heldoutflow from investing activities stood at €18.2 to-maturity financial assets, reached €466.8 million, million, compared to lower outflow in 2016 (€ 9.6 €93.4 million above previous year’s levels. Cash Position Development 2016-2017 2017 2016 235.7 18.2 114.1 230.5 9.6 184.0 500 9.9 0 466.8 373.4 373.4 375 336.4 250 125 0 Opening Cash Cash Inﬂow Cash outﬂow Cash outﬂow Cash outﬂow Closing Cash* from Operating from Investing from Financing for Attica shares' Activities Activities Activities reserved cash *Cash equivalents for 2016 results include 87.5 million of investments in held-to-maturity ﬁnancial assets 40 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Indirect Economic Impacts Material Issue Airports are increasingly considered as an important extent to job creation and economic development both driver of socioeconomic growth for both the national at a regional and at a national level. On a recurring economy and the local communities in which they basis AIA commissions socio-economic impact studies operate. Their contribution is not limited to the for identifying the total economic impact (at national direct impacts generated by their operation but and local level), the effect on jobs creation and total instead spans to include much bigger benefits created added value expressed as percentage of the national for local companies, state entities and the wider GDP. community, which all have access to the generally high level of services and products developed at For the purposes of Annual & Sustainability Report, international airports. the Material Issue “Indirect Economic Impacts” is a broad compilation of activities that contribute to Athens International Airport exerts a considerable indirect socio-economic value creation as defined in impact that goes beyond the financial value it creates the GRI Standards and in relation to corresponding for shareholders and the Greek State in particular. Sustainable Development Goals. The airport community contributes to a significant Measuring our Sustainability value Our achievement to handle substantial traffic performance with a sustainable approach to business, increase while sustaining costs at low levels and the Airport Company recorded a valuation of our maintaining high quality of services confirms that Corporate Responsibility activities that was at AIA is sustainably efficient without compromising its 2.17% of the total operating expense, while the total value-for-money strategy. Furthermore, consistent valuation of AIA’s Sustainability Value yield reached to our commitment of balancing sound financial €179.2 million. 2017 2016 Sustainability Value (*) 179.2 161.2 Stated in €million Social Product is the total valuation of amounts paid for AIA payroll, contracted services payroll, social security contribution, income/municipality/other tax, corporate responsibility opex, environmental and safety-related capex. Includes provisions Corporate Responsibility % OpEx 2.17% 2.78% * Restated 2016 figure 41 5 Business Performance Business Performance Introduction AIA’s organisational structure is based on four Business measures the performance of the Business Units against predefined Units, namely Aviation, targets on both financial and nonConsumers, Property and IT & financial metrics and parameters Telecommunications, which share (e.g. system efficiency, quality of the responsibility for operational services, safety of operations, excellence and business environmental responsibility, development. A Value Based personnel safety, training, etc.). Management (VBM) methodology AVA per Business Unit The main metric that has been create, also taking indirect selected for measuring financial expenses and asset-related costs value creation by the four Business into consideration. Units is AVA (Added Value on Assets). AVA measures the value The financial performance of each created from operating revenues Business Unit in terms of AVA is and expenses, also taking assets presented below. In 2017, AVA was and cost of capital into account, significantly increased compared since airports are largely capitalto 2016 (€119.6 million vs €111.9 intensive business entities. We million). The primary drivers of the have allocated all revenues, costs AVA improvement are the increase and assets to the four Business of operating profits due to traffic Units and are therefore able to growth, as well as the increased measure how much financial value asset efficiency. their individual business activities 42 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 AVA per Business Unit 2017 vs. 2016 Million € 0.0 5.1 119.6 120 111.9 0.9 1.6 0.1 100 80 60 40 20 0 AIA AVA Aviation Consumers Property IT&T Other AIA AVA 2016 Variance Variance Variance Variance 2017 Note: AVA = Net Operating Profit After Tax Cost of Capital x Net Assets Other represents the impairment loss (net of tax) in relation to the fair value of Company’s available for sale financial assets AVA per Business Unit 2017 2016 Million € 100 80 60 63.3 62.4 52.2 50.6 40 20 3.6 3.5 1.7 1.7 0 Aviation Consumers Property IT&T Note: The segmentation of the Business Units is for VBM purposes only and not related to regulatory Air-Non Air Acitivites segmentation Aviation Business Unit General Operational and Capacity increased demand for ground • Completion of the Advanced Related Developments stay/apron parking by general and Visual Docking Guidance Smooth and efficient operations business aviation aircraft. System (A-VDGS) project were delivered throughout 2017. after installing twenty-four Moreover, AIA remained a slot Developments to enhance A-VDGS units at all Main non-coordinated airport even capacity include: Terminal Building (MTB) and in periods of excessively high STB contact stands to ensure demand for aircraft arrival and • Completion of the first phase optimum use of the latter. parking during the summer of the operational upgrade of period. This demand was the Satellite Terminal Building • Initiation of discussions with adequately addressed through ad (STB); operations commenced HCAA in order to exploit hoc operational arrangements. in May and lasted until October the available capacity of the 2017. Further enhancements Airport’s two runways to at The 2017 summer period, as are in progress in order to least 65 movements per hour, regards to passenger and aircraft accommodate additional traffic as per its original minimum movements, reached its highest at the STB in summer 2018. design specifications. peak in July, partly driven by an 43 5 Business Performance Revenues from Aeronautical Charges 47% PTF 25% 21% Security Landing Parking 7% Aeronautical Charges 2017 vs 2016 13.4% 2017 2016 100 Million € 80 8.2% 60 6.6% 100.5 88.7 40 53.9 44.0 1.8% 49.8 20 41.3 14.3 14.0 0 Landing Parking PTF Security Compliance issues accordance with the stipulations Safety and Operations related As part of the continuous of the Commission Regulations procedures, training Syllabuses Operational Compliance and (EC) 216/2008, (EC) 1108/2009 and Manuals. Having been found Development process, all required and (EU) 139/2014. The thorough in full compliance, AIA becomes preventive and corrective and time-consuming certification the first Hellenic airport and measures were taken for process involved extensive amongst the few European ones maintaining emergency planning inspections and checks by the to have completed on time its and AIA’s preparedness for HCAA for a period of eight license/certificate conversion into adversities at a high level, thus months. HCAA inspectors have an EASA one. establishing a safe and resilient gone through detailed audits operating environment. and verification processes of the Ten major emergency exercises aerodrome airside infrastructure, were organised at the airport, AIA is amongst the first European legitimacy and accuracy of the including the Annual Partial Scale airports to be granted an relevant organisational structure, Emergency Exercise “Aircraft EASA Aerodrome Certificate in as well as of all Aviation Accident on Airport”. 44 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Provision of Ground Handling Services PRM Assistance Services 2017 2016 Total PRM Passengers 159,840 145,564 Pre-notified PRM Passngers 46% 39% Non Pre-notified PRM Passengers 54% 61% AIA is committed to ensure the This is attained through the daily Other Highlights and Distinctions reliable supply of quality ground operated ramp monitoring system, In cooperation with the Rescue Fire handling services. Bearing the role frequent audits and recurrent and Fighting Services (RFFS), an AIA of the Airport Operator, AIA sets evolving training of all participants. team of experts provided training the quality standards and monitors services to the Greek Regional the operational performance Furthermore, daily interaction with Airports Fire Fighters. regarding the provision of the the operating ground handling ground handling services, while companies since the beginning The aging airfield “follow-me” treating both aircraft operators of the airport’s operation, has fleet, in continuous operation since and ground handlers as partners materialised in an Airport Ground 2004, was replaced with ten new towards the common objective Handling Action Group where vehicles. of safe operations and ultimately operational issues, concerns and customer satisfaction. developments are coordinated with In recognition to its adherence to relevant AIA departments. smart technologies and continuous In order to achieve this, AIA dedication to enhance passenger conducts the tendering, selection In specific, there has been experience, AIA has been awarded and appointment processes a voluntary development of the Fast Travel ‘Gold Status’ by required for the award of Airport Service Level Agreements in the International Air Transport Ground Handling Rights, as defined co-operation with the operating Association (IATA), as a result in the existing legal framework, ground handling companies as to of its fast-developing smart resulting in agreements with the continuously monitor and adjust infrastructure and automation in respective companies. AIA also the performance of all main ground the areas of self-check-in, bags closely monitors ground handling handling activities, systematically ready-to-go, document check, services provision through contract reviewed through monthly reports. flight re-booking, self-boarding, management activities and in and bag recovery. collaboration with all involved This approach which promotes entities. sharing of operational knowledge For the fifth time in a row, AIA and has rendered communication all members of the Athens airport In this light, AIA’s interaction with between the operational teams on aviation fuel supply chain were AIA’s Users Committee (AIAUC) duty more effective but has also awarded a Gold distinction by the and its cooperation with State generated innovative ideas for Joint Inspection Group (JIG), while Authorities and Airline Operators further improvement. Partnership OFC/Athens airport remains the Committee (AOC) safeguards between AIA and the operating only airport fuel facility worldwide the efficient and smooth ground ground handling remains strong in which has been awarded ten handling services provision at the the interest of the mutual endconsecutive JIG Certificates of Airport. customer: the passenger. Excellence (2008-2017). Business Continuity and Emergency Preparedness Material Issue As part of the Corporate risk services which are considered plans are developed to secure management process, Corporate important and establishes a the continuity of those systems Control identifies possible course of action to adequately and services, in accordance with operational risks that would mitigate the risk of them being agreed operational targets in the adversely impact business interrupted. In this respect, the form of pre-defined timeframes, operations. The system identifies following principal actions are (b) recovery plans are prepared those airport systems and undertaken: (a) contingency aiming to bring these services 45 5 Business Performance back to normal operations, (c) reputation and marketplace • A new advanced automated resources needed, either provided credibility. boarding pass control was in-house or outsourced, are equally deployed to improve passenger arranged, (d) required procedures The entire process is driven by the processing at the gates. are developed summarising the top management. The Corporate established actions in relation Control defines its structure and In addition, existing plans were to each specific operational risk, oversees its implementation. significantly modified in order to and finally (e) exercises aimed at improve systems’ resilience and assuring that all aforementioned In 2017, AIA actively worked on its ensure continuity of operations. arrangements will work as Business Continuity Plan (BCP) For this purpose, the redundancy anticipated when required and and developed response plans of the system responsible for the will be able to provide response to ensure continuity of services Check-in and Boarding process and recovery within the agreed at all times. In particular, AIA’s in AIA was further enhanced timeframes are designed and management has established in terms of both geographical implemented. an enterprise-wide business location and network connectivity. continuity plan to enhance its The Baggage Handling System The importance of this system is operational resilience in the event (BHS) was configured anew to threefold: of a terrorist attack or a serious essentially enhance the automated natural disaster rendering the baggage sortation process. Lastly, (a) it makes certain that efforts Main Terminal Building (MTB) since effectiveness and security of everyone involved aim to non-operational. BCP aims of IT systems are key in providing safeguard the uninterrupted to enable AIA to temporarily uninterrupted, high-quality provision of high-quality continue its operations shortly service, the IT internal firewall services, as per the Airport after the disruptive event, even infrastructure has been upgraded Company’s strategy; with a short-term reduction of to High Availability deployment. its normal capacity, but without (b) it ensures that associated compromising security and safety As part of the annual BCP exercise resources (processes, people, and avoiding airport closure. programme, AIA conducted several infrastructure/systems and tests of increased scope and outsourcing contracts) and the Additional BCP plans were complexity. Various components resulting cost are reasonable prepared following the of IT and electromechanical and optimised to the maximum enhancement of the Airport’s systems were tested in order to possible extent; and lastly infrastructure: gauge the overall response and readiness of the airport company (c) it creates a competitive edge • A new state-of-the-art digital to situations that may affect for the Airport, projecting Advanced Visual Docking its ability to provide the agreed an image of a well-prepared Guidance System has been services. Actions deriving from company that can successfully installed, replacing the old type these tests were identified and address any disruptive event analogue docking guidance their implementation is currently and strengthening its great system. under development. Critical Systems Availability Critical Systems Availability 2017 2016 Baggage Handling System 99.80 % 99.80% Medium Voltage 100% 100% Airfiled Lighting 100% 100% Passenger Boarding Bridges 99.97% 99.97% Average of UFIS/FIDS, CUTE, Voice & Data Networks 99.99% 99.99% Calculated based on the failures down time of these systems 46 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Customer Safety (Aviation) Material Issue Seldom is the importance extensive inspections and checks the development of an enhanced of aviation safety knowingly by the HCAA for a period of Safety Management System recognised by the average air eight months. HCAA inspectors (SMS) as well as the AIA’s traveller with safety aspects have gone through detailed certification conversion process in being usually considered only audits and verification processes line with the new EASA regulatory when accidents occur. However, to the aerodrome airside framework (Regulation [EU] pertinent regulations and infrastructure, the lawfulness 139/2014) were discussed, while practices ensure the safety of and accuracy of the relevant particular attention was paid to countless passengers on literally organisational structure, as well the resulting training requirements thousands of passenger and cargo as of all Aviation Safety and and “EASA Training Plan 2017flights every day. Operations related procedures, 2018”. Moreover, the SRC training Syllabus and Manuals. Members reviewed all activities To this end, AIA engages all AIA was found in full compliance undertaken in the context of the operational stakeholders in thus becoming the first Hellenic Safety Action Plan for 2016 and the implementation of every Airport and amongst the few approved the Safety Action Plan preventive measure that European airports having for 2017. minimises the risk of an aviation converted their license certificate accident. into an EASA one on time. Safety Performance /Safety statistics European Aviation Safety Agency Aviation Safety Services Office Aviation safety performance is of (EASA) Aerodrome Certification Under the spectrum of the EASA outmost importance for AIA. The On the 20th of December 2017, and ICAO’s Safety Management aviation safety Key Performance AIA was granted an EASA System requirements the 6th Indicator (KPI) for 2017 was 33.68 Aerodrome Certificate in annual meeting of the AIA’s serious incidents per 100,000 accordance with the stipulations Safety Review Committee (SRC) aircraft movements, versus a of the Commission Regulations took place on the 9th of March corporate target of ≤34 serious (EC) 216/2008, (EC) 1108/2009 2017, chaired by the CEO as the incidents for outstanding safety and (EU) 139/2014. The Accountable Manager. During performance, with a total number certification process has involved the meeting, the progress on of 195,951 aircraft movements. Aviation Safety (Key Performance Indicator) 2017 2016 Serious incidents / 100,000 aircraft/helicopter movements 33.68 33.83 1. 2017 total number of aircraft movements: 195,951 2. This performance fulfills the related corporate target for 2017, at the outstanding level. On the 7th of December the Scientific presentations were personnel for their aviation safety second AIA “Aviation Safety Day”, delivered, and panel discussions awareness and preventive safety an annual one-day conference took place with the participation actions during 2016 and 2017. dedicated to aviation safety, of distinguished academics and The Aviation Safety Management took place on the occasion of the aviation experts who provided new System & Crisis Planning function International Civil Aviation Day. insights and information to more provided SMS trainings both This year’s event focused on the than 150 participants. The event to Ground Handling companies contribution of the academic also featured an award ceremony (under the Article 22 of research to aviation safety. for commending stakeholders’ HCAA’s Basic Ground Handling 47 5 Business Performance Regulation), and AIA successfully performed during until early 2017 AIA provided the staff (under the stipulations 2017 including the annual Partial initial training to 372 firefighters of the Commission Reg. EU Scale Emergency Exercise at the AIA RFFS premises. 139/2014 and in accordance with “Aircraft Accident on Airport”. Subject areas were covered by the company’s EASA Training qualified RFF instructors of Plan 2017-2018”. Under the frame of Airport the Hellenic Fire Corps at AIA emergency preparedness, and AIA ABU qualified trainers. Crisis Planning (CRP) CRP was actively involved in Furthermore, CRP successfully During 2017, Crisis Planning the planning and execution participated in the provision (CRP) took all required preventive of emergency preparedness of training regarding crisis and corrective measures scenarios at the Airport, in planning both to ground handling regarding the emergency planning close collaboration with other companies and AIA’s staff in and preparedness for developing AIA’s involved departments and compliance with related EU and maintaining a safe and Stakeholders’ State Entities’ & National regulations and in resilient operating environment, staff. accordance with AIA’s concept: establishing a collaborative “EASA Training Plan 2017-2018”. framework with the active CRP also contributed to the participation of all stakeholders training of firefighters at the Finally, following a relevant for mitigating and controlling all Greek regional airports on a invitation, CRP staff participated impacting factors of operational contract basis with the Hellenic as an observer in the Annual adversities. Fire Corps and Fraport Greece. Full-Scale Emergency Exercise With the aim to help regional of the Budapest Airport, sharing As regards drills and practical airport firefighters acquire the and mutually exchanging valuable training, ten major emergency necessary skills and knowledge to experience and knowledge with exercises were organised and perform their tasks, in late 2016 their counterparts. Emergency Response System (Breakdown of incidents) AIA's emergency response system responded to 122 incidents 2017 2016 40 35 34 35 30 30 25 23 20 20 20 16 16 15 15 15 13 10 7 5 0 Bomb Threat Full Emergency Local Standby Medical Incident Incident not Security Event Emergencies On Airport involving Aircraft involving Aircraft 48 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Performance Statistics / Emergency Events 2017 Mobilization of Airport Hellenic Fire Corps A/c emergencies 14% Fire Alarms 77% Traffic accidents 1% Fuel/Gas Leaks 3% Other (i.e.fire on cars, animal rescue) 5% 2017 Mobilisation of Airport Services Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC)* 2017 2016 Arrived alone 1,718 1,689 Arrived with ambulance 848 813 Transportation in hospitals 118 127 Treated in house 2,449 2,375 Passengers 951 933 Personnel / visitors / guests 1,616 1,570 * (per 100,000 aircraft movements) Customer and Public Health Safety and Hygiene AIA and its stakeholders identify Airport public areas are well AIA’s project of the renovation customer and public health as maintained both proactively and of MTB/Intra Schengen a top material issue, due to correctively, precautionary signage departing area which included moral, social, legal, and economic is installed and related equipment the construction of new stores reasons but also for the crucial is kept in sound condition, while was the most demanding and impact it exerts on corporate certifications are obtained for complex project of 2017 in terms responsibility and the Airport’s hazardous equipment. All technical of health and safety, mainly due to public profile. Since employees are and construction activities are the fact that the project involved also among AIA’s stakeholders, thoroughly monitored and permits a multitude of contractors and it is needless to say that public are required for several serious works were carried out in public safety is of utmost concern for works; hazardous activities are areas. AIA intensively reviewed each and every person occupied at only undertaken by licensed and all required documentation while the Airport premises. highly trained professionals as also continuously monitored to avoid public exposure to any construction activities to ensure AIA’s target is to ensure health, related hazard. compliance with regulatory and safety and welfare of the corporate health & safety rules. public as far as it is reasonably Especially for construction works, practicable. AIA ensures that all preventive All public and working areas were measures and precautions are in daily inspected by our Corporate AIA ensures compliance with place before the commencement Health & Safety function as to all applicable health and safety of works in order to avoid public ensure that not only our personnel regulations that fall under its exposure to hazards and to but also that of every stakeholder responsibility and undertakes all prevent unauthorised entry to and contractor operated in necessary measures to identify, construction sites while frequent accordance with AIA’s standards. evaluate and minimise every floor and pavement checks are During 2017 those inspections public safety or health-related carried out as to eliminate slip, trip resulted in the issuance of 146 hazard. and fall hazards. health & safety improvement 49 5 Business Performance notices; recommendations in all contract agreements with element of public health & safety for corrective actions were third parties, who in addition are due to its direct and broad impact communicated to pertinent required to submit their health on public health. The quality of departments and monitored for & safety management plans for the Potable Water is continuously implementation. Preventive or review and audit by AIA. monitored in accordance to corrective actions have been taken requirements of the Potable Water or initiated for every issued notice. In 2017, 324 health and safety Safety Plan, which is based on plans and six safety management the World Hygiene Organisation’s Moreover, AIA carries the systems of third parties were “Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation responsibility to coordinate all reviewed. Furthermore, 27 in Aviation”; water samples health & safety issues among audits in security, maintenance, are submitted to accredited stakeholders in the common ground handling, cargo and retail laboratories for examination areas. Committed to ensuring companies were performed, against microbiological, chemical that associated regulations confirming compliance level. and pesticides contamination. are properly observed, AIA incorporates pertinent clauses Potable water is also a major Airport Fire Life Safety Fire life safety is a critical part of context, we follow our corporate the Airport operation. fire safety procedures which are subject to systematic monitoring Since AIA is committed to always for adherence. In regards to the protect human life, business technical facilities operations, continuity, the environment and compliance with regulations and all of its assets, it has classified the proper employee training level fire life safety as one of the are duly audited on a semi-annual/ principal areas of compliance annual basis. and implements a thorough Fire Life Safety Programme. The Programme not only ensures compliance of all Airport infrastructures with up-to-date • Daily free chlorine technical codes and standards but also entails fire drills and fire tests from 10 different safety training sessions within the sampling points Airport community. AIA’s Fire Life Safety Programme is audited both internally and externally by the • 102 microbiological Airport’s insurers. tests from 29 sampling points Furthermore, AIA conducts scheduled and surprise audits annually so as to ensure compliance • 5 chemical measurements and enhance awareness. During 2017, a two-day survey was carried Portable from 3 sampling points out by the Airport’s insurers on water testing and its buildings and infrastructure elements, with Fire Safety being in 2017 • 176 checks at water a key risk assessment factor, yet producing positive results. fountains for cadmium, copper and iron. Our Airport infrastructure and operations comply with strict Fire Safety regulations. In this 50 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Airport Security Security Audits In 2017, the European Commission Audit and Tests at AIA. Passenger regarding security operation of inspected and tested all functions and Hand Baggage Screening the Regulated In–Flight Suppliers, of AIA’s Security System. For a methods and processes, the Hold as well as the complex issue whole week in October, a team Baggage Screening Operation, of the security function of the of six security inspectors of Access Control and Vehicle Known Airport Suppliers were also the European Commission, also examination procedures and inspected. Audit findings were accompanied by three observers the screening of persons other very positive for the Airport’s from the Transportation Security than passengers at the AIA Security Operations and confirmed Administration, U.S.A. TSA, premises, were all thoroughly compliance with the International conducted a General Security examined. The chain process Aviation Security Standards. Consumer Business Unit Retail services In the frame of redesigning of ultralow-cost carriers and Within the context of constantly AIA’s commercial offering to competition, negatively affect improving passenger experience better address the constantly the parking business by mainly at the airport, the large-scale evolving passenger needs, in 2017 altering the mix of Greek O&D commercial redevelopment project a new large Duty-Free outlet passengers who constitute the that commenced in September commenced operations together car parking primary users, in 2016, namely Intra-Schengen with three “last-minute” gate favour of public transport and car Project (ISP), covering the shops; 28 new specialty shops drop-off means. entirety of Intra – Schengen (IS) opened and seven more were area and a large part of All-Users substantially renovated; 11 new Online booking has been Departures area, was completed F&B concepts were added to strategically placed for one more in April 2017, delivering to the the Airport Shopping Centre’s year in the centre of parking passenger audience a new IS and one F&B unit was totally marketing communication so commercial area of contemporary renovated and expanded. as to address ongoing business commercial and aesthetical challenges, support sales and design, with a significantly Further to the above, AIA launched further enhance the offered expanded Retail and Food & a series of targeted marketing and service against alternative airport Beverage (F&B) selection. The co-promotional sales activities access options. In 2017 e-parking robust sales performance of the in close cooperation with the tickets increased by an impressive new stores and concepts led to an concessionaires, including amongst 30%, with the e-parking service increase in the Shopping Centre’s others several happenings to been highly supported by the revenues of 10.6% compared to celebrate the launch of the new IS new parking website that was the previous year, an increase area that were also communicated launched in April and the wellthat surpassed the respective through a radio campaign, a accepted initiation of the parking passenger traffic annual increase special discount programme loyalty scheme “PARK€WIN” that by 2%. for Perfumes & Cosmetics and has already enlisted more than a Fashion Bazaar, all achieving 30,000 members. ISP was implemented following remarkable results both in terms the same design principles and of enhancing customer experience Aiming to address current parking approach with the successful but also in terms of generating competition in the vicinity of Extra-Schengen Project (ESP) sales. the airport, the “always on” that was completed in 2015. marketing campaign remained This large-scale refurbishment Landside services active for another year providing resulted in a remarkable net The airport’s car parking strong communication of the commercial space increase of revenues recorded a marginal AIA parking offers through radio 1,500 sq.m., expanding AIA’s total decrease during 2017 by 0.3% spots and monthly newsletters, commercial space to more than compared to the previous year. while supporting awareness of the 11,200 sq.m. The propensity of Greeks to new aggressive price policy. The spend, together with the presence effectiveness of the above is also 51 5 Business Performance Consumers Revenues 2017 vs. 2016 Million € 10.7% 77% -0.7% Commercial -0.7% Consumers Revenues 4% 19% Parking Other Commercial mirrored in passenger surveys control were introduced for the Screening Point was thoroughly where the price acceptance first time in our Airport, both revamped, well-defined by the among parking users has been in the Departures and Arrivals introduction of an exclusive improved by 13%. Furthermore, areas with three units per area. entrance for business and priority an important part of the parking The e-gates expedite European passengers. strategy comprised several passport holders with biometric new partnerships with AIA’s travel documents. Airport staff Finally, in our effort to Shopping Centre and Retail Park were present to inform travellers, continuously improve information concessionaires and with Attiki manage queues and assist provision and passenger service, a Odos. transfer passengers with short new Airport Information Counter connections. was placed in the Intra-Schengen Terminal Services Arrivals Corridor. Gates for automated passport “Fast Lane” at the Intra-Schengen 52 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Committed to always create a “Fast Lane” at the Intra-Schengen Service Quality positive passenger experience Screening Point was revamped and provide quality service, the to offer efficient and exclusive Material Terminal Services Department service to business or priority Issue ensures that its staff is available on passengers departing from gates a 24/7 basis to assist passengers, B01-B31. A Terminal Services visitors or airport users through agent, aided by automated the Call Centre, e-mail account boarding pass reader and the (airport_info@aia.gr) or in person, segregated screening unit either from a mobile agent branded with the “Fast Lane” or at one of the Information branding, helps passengers who Counters located centrally on are expedited at the Security the Departures and Arrivals Screening point. Concourses. Airport Information Services Supervisors support the Service in the Extra-Schengen Press Office in providing timely area was also upgraded with the and accurate information on our introduction of new “e-gates” for Facebook and Twitter accounts. automated passport control. With the increased passenger In co-operation with IT&T, Flight traffic in 2017, interaction Information Monitors were between the Terminal Services modified to indicate the message staff and the public also increased “Gate to be Announced” prior to with more than 2.5 million airport the specific gate being operated users requesting and receiving by the airline or their handling personal assistance or airport agent. Information monitors, information. The Airport Call located strategically after Centre handled approximately Security Screening at both the 430,000 enquiries with a service Extra and Intra-Schengen areas, rate of almost 95% of calls being were modified to also indicate answered within 20 seconds, “Time to Gate” information while more than 4,300 e-mail for each departing flight thus queries were dealt with with a allowing passengers to manage commitment for a first response their dwell time for a pleasant within 24 hours. and stress-free use of terminal facilities and services. Flight activity at the General Aviation Facility also increased in 2017 with over 15,000 flights and almost 30,000 travellers using the dedicated terminal. A new Airport Information Counter was introduced for those passengers travelling in the Intra-Schengen area of the Main Terminal Building. Strategically located in the Intra-Schengen Arrivals Corridor, it facilitates both arriving and departing passengers and especially those in need of transfer assistance. 53 5 Business Performance Passenger Service Parameters 2017 2016 Call Center Service Level (% calls answered in under 60 sec) 98.52% 96.71 Call Center Efficiency (% calls answered / total calls received) 99.50% 98.92 Avg Waiting Time for Check-in (min) 7 3.3 Avg Waiting Time for Security Screening (min) 1.5 1.1 Avg Response Time to Passenger Comments (days) 3.5 4.6 Baggage Handling Shortshipped Bags (per mio bags handled) 19 12 Baggage Handling Average time for First Bag reclaim (min:sec) 15:20 14:16 Passenger Complaints Analysis 2017 2017 2016 Customization rate of Responses (custom / total responses) 91.75% 90.1% Distribution of Complaints People with reduced mobility (PRM) 0.99% 1.46% Way finding / signage 1.26% 1.66% Security services 10.50% 8.64% Seating / rest facilities 1.76% 2.27% Retail & services 4.70% 3.62% Parking services 7.56% 5.86% IT public systems 3.78% 5.65% Information services 2.67 3.90% Information screens 0.57% 1.44% Food & beverage 5.08% 4.74% Facility maintenance 2.18% 1.55% Cleaning services 5.15% 3.33% Baggage trolleys 0.42% 0.80% Aviation services 27.80% 27.84% Note: the above table covers categories of complaints that are being monitored on a continuous basis for comparison reasons. There are also other categories related to facility-related complaints that are excluded from this table. Measuring Passenger Satisfaction process. To appreciate passenger the relevant disruption caused AIA continuously monitors perception, AIA also carries out a by infrastructure works at the passenger satisfaction through a daily monitoring called Passenger terminal. number of channels ranging from Survey which obtains feedback structured surveys to spontaneous on Airport performance from Furthermore, AIA’s dedication feedback communication. Results more than 40,000 passengers and commitment to passenger are forwarded to involved annually. Last year’s results service excellence were mirrored departments through the monthly (4.35 on a 5-point scale) were in an exceptional accomplishment notification process; they are also significantly improved compared that brought the Airport at the compiled and annually presented to the previous one, a very positive top position of all European to the management who heads performance considering the airports. After the ASQ Survey the continuous improvement significant traffic increase and undertaken by ACI, Athens Airport 54 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 was awarded as the Best Airport with an average score of 3.93 out through our Facebook page and by Size and Region: 15-25 million of 5 for arrivals and 3.87 out of 5 Twitter account. passengers annually, Europe , with for departures. a score of 4.14 and a continuous The i-mind programme Improvement versus previous For more in-depth analysis Passenger satisfaction is at the years. AIA also undertakes a Quality focus of every AIA employee, Monitor Survey that monitors as witnessed by the innovative As of 2016, the direct rating performance satisfaction trends “i-mind” programme: in mechanism “PrivateReview” is for specific service categories. 2017 more than 600 “virtual available at more than 50 units A similar analysis is carried passenger” walkthroughs were installed in the Main Terminal, out on passenger comments realised, which are the equivalent allowing for several thousand elicited from the complaints and to more than 70,000 inspections. responses to be analysed in comments leaflet “Your Opinion Maintaining the commitment to relation to the time of the day Counts”, available at various courteous service provision, the for multiple locations. By way of places of the Terminal and on Company handled and responded illustration, 845,510 ratings were AIA’s website; this analysis also to more than 4,500 comments collected for washrooms in 2017, incorporates comments received received from 2,400 passengers. Customer Data Privacy IT&T Information Security confidentiality, integrity Authority (HDPA) of customers’ AIA endeavours to create an and availability of its assets messages in the Airport Call environment where individuals and to tackle any emerging Centre’s voice recording system may have access to trustworthy cyberthreats, thus safeguarding on a regular basis. sources of technological means Airport’s critical internet facing and a policy environment that systems and their operational Additionally, AIA is regulated fosters innovation and empowers effectiveness against internal and regarding airport customer data individuals to be able to protect external threats. collection through telephone or and safeguard their information the internet which are subject to assets and securely utilise AIA complies with the applicable audits by the Hellenic Authority technology. national legislation, European for Communication Security and and international regulations Privacy (ADAE), evidencing AIA’s AIA’s IT&T Information Security with reference to human rights. commitment to abiding by the follows international best As a result, AIA officially informs law, human rights and all ethical practices in order to safeguard the Hellenic Data Protection standards. The General Data Protection Regulation (EU Regulation 2016/679, or “GDPR”) The GDPR (EU Regulation and practices that safeguard exercise, personal data mapping 679/2016) introduces a new confidentiality, integrity, throughout all corporate and “architecture” to be applied availability and safekeeping of operational functions and the horizontally throughout all legal personal data. Responding to the establishment of a competent entities, requiring, among others, challenge, in 2017 AIA started department and Data Protection the protection of personal data preparing its organisation to Officer. Further actions towards “by design” in all data processes meet the substantial and formal GDPR compliance are ongoing in and records, as well as the deadlines of May 2018, set by 2018. adoption and implementation of the Regulation. Such actions such Information Security tools include a GDPR familiarisation 55 5 Business Performance Property Business Unit In 2017, AIA’s property business Property activities demonstrated a firm Revenues 2017 Utilities performance. The Airport Hotel & B&C 29% and the Exhibition Centre recorded considerable growth, the Retail Park achieved a marginal increase, Building while Space Leases managed to Space Leases 47% sustain business at 2016 levels. The documented turnover of the Airport Hotel (Sofitel), showed an annual increase of 11.7%, a record Property performance since its opening, Development 24% although there was a marginal drop in the occupancy rate by 1.5%. Year’s highlights include a major renovation programme addressing the operational and aesthetic upgrade of the hotel’s facilities Property Revenues initiated during 2017, which is scheduled for completion early in 20 2017 vs. 2016 2018. -4.3% 15 The Metropolitan Exhibition & 14.7 15.4 Conference Centre recorded a 7.2% 10 considerably improved turnover by 9.7% 8.5% compared to 2016, mainly 9.0 8.4 2017 attributed to the “XENIA” trade 5 7.3 6.7 2016 show targeting the hospitality industry, which was successfully Million € 0 relaunched in 2017 and scheduled Building Utilities Property to take place annually. Space Leases & B&C Development Despite the continuing unstable serving the Airport community environment of the domestic retail (i.e. airlines, ground handlers, sector, the Retail Park showed a concessionaires) sustained their marginal sales growth of 0.5% occupancy rates close to the 2016 compared to 2016. The operation levels. of the Retail Park on Sundays from mid-July until October, following With the aim to further improve the new law for shop opening on passenger travel experience, Sundays in tourist areas, was a Extra Schengen CIP lounges were positive development. enhanced with the addition of a brand-new lounge operated by Building and Space Leases mainly Aegean Airlines. 56 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 IT&T Business Unit e Added Serv ic lu Va es 13% Other at aN etwork Serv ic 1% D es IT&T 15% Revenues Cute 38% 2017 ire less Telecom W s 14% red Telecoms Wi 18% Information Technology & Telecommunications Business Unit continued its successful performance contributing to AIA’s and its stakeholders’ unobstructed IT&T 3.5 operations along the year. Its project 8.2% portfolio was further enriched, aiming Revenues 3.0 3.2 to enhance operational excellence and 2017 vs. 3.0 customer experience by launching 2016 2.5 new business-to-business and business-to-consumer services using 2.0 innovative technology. 2017 2016 -1.0% 1.5 17.5% -0.6% Million € 1.5 1.5 26.5% 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.1 1.1 -0.9% 0.5 0.9 0.1 0.1 0 Cute Wired Wireless Data Network Value Added Other Telecoms Telecoms Services Services 57 5 Business Performance Operational Resilience Other Projects and Developments CONTINUITY”, and in the and Cyber security In the context of the new AIA category “ALIGNMENT OF As part of our systems’ Extranet Project, IT&T launched ENTREPRENEURSHIP & ICT improvement with regards to “Airportal”, a new website STRATEGY”. Information Security, Internal addressed exclusively to the airport Firewalls were replaced. These community. The portal offers an Digital Initiatives firewalls control communications updated version of the “Flight The Airport Company’s digital between Airport Operational Information Pages”, an e-phone information to passengers can Systems, such as the Universal book service with additional be provided through the FLIO Flight Information System (UFIS), information and access to e-books global airport application which is Baggage Handling System (BHS), such as the Aerodrome Operations considered one of the main global Common Use Terminal Equipment Manual (AOM). digital marketplaces for airports, (CUTE), Building Automation airlines, retailers and brands. FLIO System (BAS) and more. The new Governance Risk & carries valuable airport information Compliance (GRC) system for over 1,500 airports worldwide, The annual IT&T Disaster Recovery for enhancing Internal Audit all in one mobile application. exercise was performed jointly with department’s (IAD) processes and the involved users. The redundancy automation was introduced. The second round of “THE mechanisms, referring to 40 IT&T DIGITAL GATE” was concluded. systems, including critical systems, IT&T commissioned and acquired This competition for innovation and virtualisation infrastructure, a new Learning Management youth entrepreneurship, organised networking services and external System (LMS). The new platform, in cooperation with the Athens connectivity were tested integrated with the Human Centre for Entrepreneurship and successfully, within a timeframe of Resources Information System Innovation of the Athens University eight hours. (HRIS), is the sole learning tool of Economics and Business, aims for both AIA employees and those to drive young entrepreneurship IT&T ISO 20000 and ISO 9001 of third parties within the airport by awarding the best innovative certificates were renewed community. It allows the Human proposals and applications for successfully by TÜV HELLAS. Resources department to easily new digital services and business manage all training records as well activities with implementation Cyber security remains at as to efficiently administer training potential in a real airport the top of our attention. In resources, whilst at the same environment. order to further enhance AIA’s time it supports AIA’s compliance defence against cyber risks, requirements. In 2017, 162 participants with 58 Anti-Distribution Denial of different proposals for innovative Service (DDOS) mechanisms, Awards digital services for the Airport both software and hardware, AIA received the significant and the wider Airport community have been installed to protect international award Value responded to AIA’s challenge. communication lines and the Winners of the WITSA Global Through the three stages of the internet website. Moreover, Excellence Awards 2017 in the competition, eight teams (https:// modifications have been category of Digital Opportunity. thedigitalgate.gr/dgiipilots/) were accomplished in coordination The awards are dedicated to selected, with business ideas with Hellenic Telecommunications highlighting companies operating related to airport operational Organisation OTE in in the IT and communications support, passenger/visitor the architecture of the industry worldwide. At the facilitation, and innovative services telecommunication system “Corporate Affairs Excellence for tourists. It is worth noting that infrastructure, to reassure the Awards 2017” AIA was awarded with the substantial guidance of uninterrupted provision of voice in the category of Best Use of experienced Airport managers and data services within the Social Media and also received a during the final stage of the airport premises. special award in the category of process, teams had the opportunity Key Performance Indicators for its to test and assess their product or The renewal of AIA’s Data Network «ATH Messenger bot via Facebook service in a real environment. and Telephony infrastructure messenger». through introduction of the “New Generation Networks” technology At the Impact Bite Awards progressed significantly; IT&T has of Boussias Communications, successfully completed the upgrade AIA’s IT&T BU was presented of its Data Network and Telephony with two golden awards, namely Backbone. in the category “BUSINESS 58 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The eight finalist teams will each receive €3,000, the year, as well as advisory guidance presented their Minimum Viable possibility of extending their and support in their funding Products and four teams were pilot's duration in the Airport pursuit. awarded. The winning teams environment for an additional Responsible Procurement Material Issue AIA promotes its corporate services to the end customer. benefits associated thereto. In values to everyone in its supply As a company that heavily 2017, AIA cooperated with 812 chain falling in its sphere of relies on outsourcing for facility different suppliers, of which 85% influence, namely providers of and systems management and were domestic and 15% foreign, materials, services and works. maintenance, AIA places strong ensuring beneficial partnerships AIA’s corporate procurement focus on the selection of business in all purchasing areas concerning values are conveyed both through partners and their operation airport technical works, services written agreements and by in line with airport rules and and supplies. The percentage of cooperating with third parties regulations. Related agreements products and services purchased that share the common goal of bear all necessary provisions locally in 2017 amounts to 93.86% service excellence. We award as to ensure that the required of the total cost. contracts which integrate green service level is adequately procurement guidelines, receive defined, quantified and in line Procurement Ethics energy efficient supplies and with required performance We promote fairness, implement projects combating thresholds. AIA applies contract transparency, equal treatment, climate change and improving management best practices non-discrimination and AIA’s CO2 emissions footprint. that include performance proportionality at every phase monitoring mechanisms that of the procurement process, in Our suppliers are required to ensure the attainment of high compliance with our corporate comply with all applicable laws service level for the benefit Procurement Policy and and regulations, conform to the of the airport community and Framework and with our Code highest standards of ethical end customers. Through a of Relations with Business conduct, respect and support corporate-wide methodology Partners and by following human rights, operate in an and in-house developed international best practices. environmentally responsible monitoring tools, AIA monitors Likewise, all internal needs and and effective manner and abide contractor performance with goals are addressed according by all health and safety rules. predetermined critical service to the principles of European Committed to acting fairly parameters. This methodology and national procurement law. and with integrity towards promotes mutually beneficial Through this Policy, developed its stakeholders AIA pursues partnerships with the awarded in 2016, AIA ensures adequate mutually beneficial relations service contractors; it applies to a publicity and objective selection with third parties who share significant number of contractual and award criteria for its tender our dedication to sustainable agreements related to Airport procedures, in line with the practices. critical infrastructure, technical, prevailing framework. AIA also facility and environmental applies electronic procurement Procurement and Efficiency management systems. Also, an practices (e-auction) as to ensure Procurement is an integral part annual evaluation process of the best possible purchasing of AIA’s professional efficiency. all suppliers ensures the best terms and the highest level of Materials, services and work possible performance. AIA aims to compliance. suppliers are part of AIA’s develop long-term relationships service chain leading to delivering with suppliers, providing added 59 6 Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Environmental Management & Compliance Environmental protection is legislation, our Airport Development a top priority for the Airport Agreement (ADA) and Article 8 Company. We aim to responsibly of the Ratifying Law 2338/1995]. and effectively monitor all All relevant compliance risks environmental aspects and to are identified and efficiently minimise or prevent, where possible, addressed while corrective actions the airport’s environmental impact are performed in a prompt and through initiatives that exceed effective manner when necessary. regulatory requirements. Our We provide regular and accurate corporate Environmental Policy information on our level of focuses on our commitment compliance and our efforts for to continuously improve our excellence to the Audit Committee environmental performance and of the Board of Directors. undertake initiatives to reduce emissions from airport operations, The Environmental Services while maximising energy efficiency Department reports to AIA’s Chief in our infrastructure. Principles Operations Officer who has the of sustainable development are responsibility to ensure that the incorporated in our corporate Company adapts to all current procedures. legal and regulatory requirements, proactively responds to possible In accordance with our corporate corporate environmental risks Compliance Policy we are and implements remedial actions committed to ensuring that all whenever required. aspects of our activities are in full compliance with the current Fostering environmental awareness legal and regulatory framework amongst employees, members of [International Civil Aviation the Airport community and local Organization (ICAO) Annex 16, municipalities is a key driver for the relevant European and national successful implementation of all our 60 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 action plans. Furthermore, sharing the ISO 14001 standard by an Furthermore, environmental information with employees, independent certification body. audits of third parties operating business partners, state authorities Our certification is valid until at the Airport are conducted and the public in general is strongly January 2019. In addition, at the on a regular basis in order to encouraged. We regularly review end of 2017 AIA became the first assess compliance with the and update our environmental Greek Airport which certified applicable national and European objectives and targets while our its Energy Management System environmental legislation, Airport performance and achievements are (EnMS) in accordance with the ISO guidelines and regulations as well regularly disclosed to the public. 50001 standard. This specific ISO as their approved Environmental standard helps organizations adopt Management Plans. During 2017 no legal action against and implement the appropriate The 8th Environmental Workshop AIA was taken nor was any fine policies, procedures, and tools to for third parties was held or monetary sanction related to systematically track, analyse and in December 2017 with the environmental aspects imposed. improve energy efficiency. participation of 49 representatives from 33 companies operating Our efforts to effectively address All contractual agreements at the Airport and focused on all significant environmental with third parties operating the issue of Sustainability. In challenges take place within the at the airport contain strict addition, we introduced AIA’s first context of our Environmental environmental requirements. For ever Third Party Environmental Management System (EMS) which example, all major third parties Excellence Award which for 2017 has been certified according to must establish an EMS and certify was received by OFC Aviation the international standard ISO it in accordance with ISO 14001 Fueling Services S.A. in recognition 14001 since 2000. In 2017 AIA’s and/or the Eco-Management of their exceptional record and Environmental Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) cooperation to ensure that their System (EMS) was successfully regulation. To date, forty-seven critical but sensitive operations re-certified in accordance with (47) companies within the Airport do not negatively impact the the latest version (2015) of community have been certified. environment. Energy Material Issue Efficient energy (electricity & for all stakeholders including local the Airport’s continued strong natural gas) management is communities. performance in energy efficiency. critical for both aeronautical and non-aeronautical activities The total energy figure During 2017, AIA’s Photovoltaic Park performed at the Airport. (Electricity & Natural Gas) for produced 13,642 MWh of renewable In recent years, AIA has 2017 was increased mainly due energy, higher by almost 3% than implemented a series of intensive to the significant growth in the the previous year, mainly due to the energy-saving actions and Passenger and Aircraft Traffic, favourable weather conditions. The projects without compromising paired with the year’s weather energy produced was equivalent to Airport operations, promoting conditions. Consequently, the 13% of the Airport’s total electricity such efforts within the Airport “Consumption per Pax” KPI has consumption or 25% of AIA’s own community and lessening impacts improved and demonstrates electricity needs. Emissions and Climate Change Material Issue Protecting the environment As part of a new sustainable placed on both airlines and airports is a central element of our development agenda, the United to report on these issues. sustainability strategy and central Nations has established Climate In addition to measuring and to obtaining our license to grow. Change as one of its 17 goals. managing greenhouse gas While improving the quality of Although the majority of emissions emissions under our direct control, life and driving the global and occur during the flight, airports a commitment clearly stated in our national economies, air travel can still have a role to play in reducing Environmental Policy, we also aim also significant impact both the aviation's carbon footprint. to influence our partners within the local and the global environment. Increasing demands are being Airport community to do the same. 61 6 Environmental Performance Electricity Consumption 2017 2016 var% Total Airport (MWh) (Refers to the entire airport community) 104,715.8 104,058.6 0.6% AIA only (MWh) (Refers to the Company only) 54,407.2 52,582.7 3.5% Total Airport consumption per passenger (kWh/pax) 4.82 5.20 -7.4% Natural Gas Consumption 2017 2016 var% Total Airport (Nm3 / 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 2,285.5 2,143.5 6.2% AIA only (Nm3 / 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 1,068.3 1,096.1 -2.6% Total Airport consumption per passenger (Nm /pax) 3 0.105 0.11 -4.6% PV Plant Operation 2017 2016 var% Total Energy Production (MWh) 13,641.8 13,280.6 2.7% Total PVP CO2 emissions savings equivalent (tonnes) 7,939.5 9,097.500 -12.7% Climate Change Corporate Action Plan Every year, a Climate Change equipment in AIA’s Data Furthermore, for the ninth Corporate Action Plan (CCCAP) Centres. consecutive year we continued to is developed following an • Replacement of all apron lights actively participate in the global internal process involving all in the area of the Main Terminal initiative “Earth Hour” by closing AIA departments in introducing Building with LED products. one of the Airport’s two runways (or suggesting) measures to • Centralised control of heating and switching off its lighting as reduce carbon emissions and and cooling demand across the well as reducing lighting in all maximise energy efficiency. The Airport premises. buildings, staff parking areas and CCCAP is approved by the senior • Further replacement of physical other Airport sites for an hour management and included in our servers with virtual ones. on 25th March 2017, actions that Operational Scorecard under the • Engagement of members of were in addition communicated to Stakeholder Perspective. In 2017, the Airport Community in the the general public. its 10th year of implementation, development of new initiatives our Climate Change Corporate to reduce carbon emissions Lastly, we organised a Action Plan had the following • Further replacement of Workshop titled Climate Change results: vehicles of AIA’s fleet based Adaptation and AIA during which • Upgrade of AIA's aircraft on operational, financial and renowned speakers from the docking infrastructure with environmental criteria. academic community and state Advanced Visual Docking • Upgrade of telephone and authorities presented issues on Guidance Systems (A-VDGS) data networks as part of the climate change and its potential • Certification of AIA's Energy Airport-wide Next Generation impact on AIA to participants, Management System according Network (NGN) project. members of AIA and third-party to the ISO 50001 standard. • Continued conversion of staff. AIA intends to commission a • Additional reduction in the corporate paper-based forms relevant study in 2018. number of servers and other to electronic format. 62 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Airport Carbon Accreditation AIA participates in Airport Carbon To date, we have achieved to (PPC) that ensure that all electricity Accreditation, a voluntary initiative reduce our carbon footprint more consumed by AIA was produced launched by the European region than 40% compared to our 2005 by renewable energy sources, and of Airports Council International baseline, which corresponds to a by purchasing verified carbon (ACI Europe), aimed at helping reduction of approximately 32,000 offsets for AIA's other remaining airports map and manage tons of CO2. In 2017, AIA maintained emissions (e.g. its vehicle fleet) greenhouse gas emissions under its carbon neutral status by that ensure that these emissions their control which eventually zeroing out its residual carbon were neutralised by clean energy evolved into a global programme emissions. This was accomplished produced in other parts of the following the induction of all other by purchasing Guarantees of Origin world. As a result, AIA was reACI regions. from its local electricity supplier accredited in the last – and final – through the Greenpass program level of the programme, Neutrality. Natural Gas Consumption 2017 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) Natural Gas 1,068,297 Nm3 2.254 53,130 lt of petrol 121 Vehicle Fleet 398,338 lt of diesel 1.066 Scope 1 1,820 lt of LPG 3 13,604 lt of diesel 36 Stationary Sources 11,495 lt of heating oil 29 Scope 1 TOTAL 3,509 Grid Electricity 54,407,221 kWh 31.665 Scope 2 Scope 2 TOTAL (Location-based) 31.665 Scope 2 TOTAL (Market-based) 0.0 Total (Scope 1 and 2) 35,174 Emission Factors used: 1. For all fuels except for heating oil: EFs from GHG protocol i.e. 3. For natural gas: emission factor (55.74 tonnes CO2/tJoule) for • Motor Gasoline: 2.2717926 kg CO2/lt • Gas/Diesel oil: 2.676492 kg natural gas provided in the National Inventory for Greece (2017), CO2/lt • LPG: 1.6117002 kg CO2/lt p.114 (http://unfccc.int/national_reports/annex_i_ghg_inventories/ 2. For heating oil: emission factor of 2.51973 kg CO2/lt issued by the national_inventories_submissions/items/8812.php) Methodology United Kingdom's Department for Environment, Food and Rural suggested by external verifier Affairs (DEFRA) found in documentation of the ClimateNeutral 4. For electricity: emission factor (0.582 kg CO2/kWh) for grid Company (http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/) electricity (IEA, 2017, Greece, p.83,87) for the location-based method. since there is no EF for heating oil in the GHG. 63 6 Environmental Performance Air Quality In addition to CO2, aircraft conditions both within the The AQMN, which consists of five engines, ground handling Airport fence and in the adjacent permanent monitoring stations equipment and other aviation communities. In addition, installed in the neighbouring sources emit pollutants that emissions of air pollutants from areas of Glyka Nera, Koropi, can negatively impact local air all relevant Airport sources are Markopoulo, Pallini and Spata quality at and around the Airport. assessed while measures are and one mobile station, has been National and international legal taken to reduce these emissions in operation since 1998, well and regulatory provisions apply where possible. AIA’s monitoring before the airport commenced to a wide range of industries, equipment includes an Air operations in 2001. Ground-level including aviation. For example, Quality Monitoring Network concentrations of the major the International Civil Aviation (AQMN), a Differential Optical pollutants (NOx, O3, PM10, PM2.5, Organisation has set international Absorption Spectroscopy system SO2, CO and HCs), as well as standards for aircraft engine (DOAS), a SOnic Detection and basic meteorological parameters emissions that must be met by Ranging system (SODAR), a (wind speed and direction, manufacturers. Radio Acoustic Sounding System temperature, relative humidity, (RASS) and a Meteorological precipitation, total solar radiation AIA continuously monitors air Station. and atmospheric pressure), are quality and meteorological measured. Mean Concentrations of Monitored Pollutants at the AQMN Stations NO2 (μg/m3) O3 (μg/m3) PM10 (μg/m3) PM2.5 (μg/m3) SO2 (μg/m3) CO (mg/m3) HCs (ppm) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Glyka Nera 13.1 15.2 84.8 83.1 23.1 28.1 n/m n/m 5.1 7.1 0.3 0.3 n/m n/m Koropi 10.5 11.4 81.9 79.8 n/m n/m 21.8 21.7 n/m n/m n/m n/m 2.1 2.3 Markopoulo 14.5 15.6 81.7 78.5 27.4 35.2 n/m n/m n/m n/m 0.4 0.3 n/m n/m Pallini 7.7 10.4 87.8 87.6 n/m n/m 14.0 13.1 5.8 5.7 0.2 0.2 n/m n/m Spata 14.2 16.1 78.0 75.1 31.2 30.9 n/m n/m 4.0 4.6 0.3 0.3 2.4 2.4 AQMN: Air Quality Monitoring Network Mean concentrations are calculated through MIS n/m: Pollutant is not measured in the specific station Noise Material Issue Aircraft noise is one of the ground, they are the primary noise levels in the residential main environmental challenges recipients of complaints from areas in the vicinity of the Airport associated with airport local citizens. The Airport and underneath flight paths. operations. AIA recognises noise Company addresses noise issues as a material issue given that it responsibly by taking measures In 2017 the Strategic Noise Map has an effect on the quality of life aiming at reducing annoyance (SNM) for AIA was updated with of neighbouring communities. to our neighbors. As such, Noise 2016 traffic data and the relevant Abatement Procedures have been Noise Action Plan was reNoise arises from different in place since the Airport started examined. The public consultation sources, primarily the aircraft’s operating and are implemented phase for the Noise Action Plan engines but also airflow around in collaboration with the Hellenic was initiated at the end of the aircraft and since airports Civil Aviation Authority (HCAA) year. are the face of aviation on the and airlines in order to reduce 64 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Map of Flight Paths and NMTs Rafina Gerakas Pallini 7 Pikermi 4 6 Glyka Nera 10 5 Spata 3 Artemis 2 1 Koropi 9 8 Markopoulo Indicative landing flight path Indicative take-off flight path Kalivia Thorikou Noise Monitoring Terminal Average Noise Level per Noise Monitoring Terminal (NMT) 2017 2016 NMT Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) 2 39.5 25.8 39.9 26.6 3 61.2 45.0 60.4 44.5 4 57.6 49.9 60.1 51.5 5 54.9 40.5 54.3 38.2 6 50.9 39.1 51.2 37.5 7 53.2 45.7 53.3 45.7 8 46.8 35.7 47.8 37.1 9 55.6 42.1 54.9 41.3 10 31.7 21.2 33.1 19.7 Legend: Lden and Lnight are calculated as defined in Ministerial Decision 13586/724 (GGG 384B, 28/3/2006). Noise levels are measured in dB(A), a unit that represents the human ear's response to sound. Since 2015, the data presented refers to noise levels generated from flights only, as per the requirements of Joint Ministerial Decision 210474/2012, while prior to 2015 the total noise level was presented. Preferential Runway Use System Results Runway 2017 2016 Take-offs Percentage of take-offs to the north from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 03R 6% 6% Percentage of take-offs to the north from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 03R 4% 3% Landings Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 21L 9% 7% Percentage of landings to the south from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 21L 3% 1% 65 6 Environmental Performance We have installed a NOise In 2017 we completely refurbished and citizen groups. Furthermore, MOnitoring System (NOMOS) our Noise Monitoring Terminals concerned citizens may also call consisting of 1 mobile and 10 (NMTs), which have been operating us on the dedicated telephone line permanent Noise Monitoring continuously since 2001. called “We Listen” we operate Terminals (NMTs) which provide around the clock or fill in a special a detailed profile of aircraft noise Since noise exposure is one form on our corporate website in the residential areas near flight of the primary environmental to register their complaints or paths. This system is connected aspects impacting residents in request clarifications on noise with HCAA’s radar so that the vicinity of the Airport, there related issues. In 2017 a total correlations can be made based is frequent communication with of twenty-nine complaints were on actual flight track information. representatives of local authorities handled. Noise Complaints Number of citizen complaints received broken down by origin (Neighboring communities) 2017 2016 Artemis 20 13 Koropi 1 0 Ag. Kiriaki 1 1 Other areas 7 8 Total 29 22 Comparative Noise Levels dB(A) Pain Limit 130 Night Club 115 Car horn 110 Bus 82.5 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 3 80 Normal conversation 75 Car in residential area 75 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 5 74 Boeing 737-400 in NMT 2 73 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 2 & 3 72.5 Propeller Aircraft in NMT 5 70 Quiet residential area 50 Whisper 30 Water We systematically monitor from the aircraft maintenance Airport’s main off-site discharging water consumption (potable and activities but also from other point. Possible hydrocarbon irrigation), as well as the quality sources (wastewater from spillages are immediately managed of surface and groundwater. The runway derubberisation, oil/ using bioremediating substances water supply network is closely water separators, etc). In order to and appropriate sweeping vehicles. monitored so that possible leaks raise awareness, AIA encourages An approved Spillage Response may be detected and promptly all airport users to limit their Plan is in place and is implemented addressed. In addition, we apply water consumption when using each time a spillage occurs. Due a number of water-saving restrooms and kitchen facilities. to the local climate, aircraft/ measures, such as the use of helicopter and runway anti/ treated wastewater from our The quality of surface water de-icing operations are limited. own Sewage Treatment Plant is monitored regularly through Nevertheless, relevant procedures (STP) for irrigation of non-public ad hoc sampling and analyses have been established for the green areas at the airport. An following rain events as well ground handling companies which Industrial Wastewater Treatment as on a continuous basis by an have the responsibility for the Facility (IWTF) operating on site Online Water Monitoring System provision of de-icing services in receives wastewater primarily (OWMS) installed preceding the accordance with ICAO and IATA 66 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 standards and based on our Local ground handling companies. The During 2017, no water treatment Ground Handling Regulation total amount of aircraft and actions were required as per the and the respective concession pavement de/anti-icing material criteria defined in our Corporate agreements with airlines and used in 2017 was 122.656 m³. Procedures. Water Consumption 2017 2016 var% Total Airport (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 615 602 2.2% AIA only (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 408 398 2.5% Total Airport consumption per passenger (m3/pax) 0.028 0.030 -6.7% * based on pax numbers Wastewater Treatment (Refers to the entire airport community) 2017 2016 var% Processed through Sewage Treatment Plant (m x 1000) 3 377 352 7% Processed through Industrial Water Treatment Facility (m3 x 1000) 2.1 1.7 19% Refers to AIA & Airport community. The treated effluent from the Airport's STP, which treats all sewage generated onsite, is used exclusively to irrigate non-public green areas at the Airport. Effluents & Waste In accordance with our enlisted cooperation with the administrative tasks (e.g. recycled commitment to comply with Alternative Management Systems paper for stationery use and environmental regulations, for final disposal of hazardous corporate correspondence). standards and best practices, we waste. In 2017 they received 22% In parallel, various corporate have developed a comprehensive of the hazardous waste produced tasks (contract review, expense waste management system based onsite with the remaining 78% claims, annual leave forms, etc.) on “The Polluter Pays” principle having been transferred to other are administered electronically. that promotes separation at licensed management facilities. Our efforts to encourage source and recycling. Solid NonMoreover, all industrial wastewater Airport employees to recycle Hazardous Waste, Hazardous produced at the airport is treated resulted to the collection of 6.9 Waste and Medical/Clinical Waste onsite at its Industrial Wastewater tons of recyclable materials at are the major types of waste Treatment Facility (IWTF). our Recycling Centre in 2017. generated at the Airport. In 2017 Furthermore, we encourage the amount of food waste from Our commitment to recycling our partners to develop similar international flights was 1,850 is complemented by our use environmentally-friendly business tonnes. Since 2005 we have of recycled materials for daily practices. Hazardous Waste Produced 2017 2017 2016 Managed by Alternative Management Practices 22% 25% Transferred to licensed Management Facilities 78% 75% Breakdown of Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 2017 (tonnes) 2017 2016 Municipal Waste 6.054 5.691 Recyclables 9.638 7.761 Special Waste 0 9 Total 15.692 13.461 67 6 Environmental Performance Glass 2017 2016 Paper Tetra Pak 12% Bio-waste 298 266 -5% 48% 2,313 2,427 Sludge STP 101 68 Metal Construction & 3% Demolition Waste Aluminium 424 411 37% 11% 938 685 67% 425 384 -32% 3,455 2,072 20 29 Plastic Wood 25% -3% 1,337 1,071 278 287 10% -100% 46 42 18 -16% Edible Oils 2 3 Other Recyclables Tyres Recycling Breakdown Total of Non-Hazardous 24% Waste in 2017 9,638 7,761 68 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Recycling Breakdown of Non-Hazardous Waste in 2017 2017 2016 var% Paper 2,313 2,427 -5 Metal 425 384 11 Glass 298 266 12 Plastic 1,337 1,071 25 Wood 278 287 -3 Tetra Pak 101 68 48 Aluminium 20 29 -32 Tyres 2 3 -16 Edible Oils 46 42 10 Bio-waste 424 411 3 Sludge STP 938 685 37 Construction & Demolition Waste 3,455 2,072 67 Other Recyclables 18 -100 Total 9,638 7,761 24 Biodiversity We implement a comprehensive bionecessary. The programme of of Community Importance (SCI). monitoring programme in the vicinity trapping and relocating raptors Since 2015, the project has been of the Airport aimed at protecting launched in 2009 continues to extended to include initiatives at the region’s biodiversity by applying bear positive results. More than the Alyki Wetland in Artemis, where international best practices. The 100 individuals were trapped and more than 140 bird species have number of bird species spotted at relocated during 2017. been recorded. the airport has risen in recent years and serves as an indicator of the We continue our successful According to data collected so far, overall health of the local ecosystem. partnership with the Hellenic the biodiversity of the Vravrona Ornithological Society to protect Wetland includes 100 plant taxa, In addition, a team of specialists and promote the Vravrona Wetland, 210 bird taxa, 27 taxa of other monitors and records wildlife a local site of unique ecological and terrestrial vertebrates, 1 very rare activity at the airport and takes archaeological value included in species of freshwater fish, as well measures to control and reduce Natura 2000 European network of as 15 habitat types as defined within wildlife hazards for aircraft where protected areas, identified as a Site the relevant EU legislation. Vravrona Wetland 69 7 Social Performance Social Performance AIA is committed on performing • External Social Impact: responsibly and setting a role AIA engages communities model for both aspects of its respectfully, advancing social social impact: partnership and prosperity in the region. On a wider scale, • Internal Social Impact: AIA promotes Athens as a AIA develops, compensates travel destination, contributing and engages its human to growth while sheltering and capital while ensuring a safe, advancing the cultural heritage productive and fair work of Greece and supporting environment. humanitarian causes for the benefit of society at large. Employer’s The people of AIA are the Company’s most valuable asset. and the best use of our people’s knowledge and skills. We Responsibility AIA continuously strives to be an incorporate human resources employer of choice, developing, systems that effectively support engaging and rewarding this aim, such as workforce human capital and maintaining planning, equal opportunity a committed workforce in a policies, employee competency safe, productive and fair work measurement and employee environment. We offer a healthy performance management with work environment that promotes emphasis placed on improving diversity and is in line with target-setting at individual applicable legislation and best level. Furthermore, the annual practices. Training Plan is designed to equip our people with the knowledge, We have a long-standing skills and competencies required commitment creating a culture to succeed in their jobs and to that encourages the development further improve. 70 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Presenting our Team At the end of 2017 our headcount staff, was at 1,5% for 2017. such a specialised business and was 598 people under open-ended particularly the nature of most contracts and 113 under fixed-term Having a diverse workforce means technical jobs the ratio of women contracts. All AIA employees are that the company offers a wide to men is relatively low. Thus, in employed on a full-time basis. The range of ideas, skills, sources and 2017 35% of all employees were average age of our employees is holds an important competitive female while women made up 45.9 years old with a considerable edge. Diversified workplaces have 16.3% of management. educational background. A high proved to increase productivity and percentage of 31% of our personnel constitute an element of a desirable Considerable importance is residing at the local communities employer, in this way attracting given to the educational level of reflects our close relationship with talented employees. It is for this our workforce and our aim is to the Mesogeia community. The reason that AIA favours equal attract, develop and retain capable entire management team resides in treatment and equal opportunities and competent employees. Our the Attica region. therefore supports and offers job workforce is highly educated and a prospects without discrimination. significant proportion of them hold Turnover ratio, excluding seasonal However, due to the nature of post-graduate degrees. Employment by Gender 2017 2016 Number of employees 711 684 Men 65% 66% Women 35% 34% Age Average 2017 Age Average 45.9 Employment by Type of Contract Men Women Total Open-end contracts 399 199 598 Seasonally employed 64 49 113 Female managers 2017 2016 Diversity in Management as % of total Management 16.3% 12.5% Educational Status (open-end contract employees) PHD Master's University TEI College Lyceum Basic Total Men 4 61 69 53 119 83 10 399 Women 1 33 64 16 49 36 0 199 Total 5 94 133 69 168 119 10 598 71 7 Social Performance Employee Benefits One of the most important the option to choose the way in opportunities to young people components of a successful which they will commute to the especially those eager to acquire business is keeping employees Airport and benefit accordingly theoretical or practical knowledge contented and providing (travel on the company’s staff bus, on the aviation industry. In this incentives to maximise their obtaining an e-pass, getting a free light, for the second consecutive productivity. Being a responsible Athens Public Transport multiyear our company cooperated employer, AIA offers tangible trip card or get a fuel subsidy). with the Hellenic-American benefits to its employees over Among all eligible employees, 44% University and organised the 2nd and above what is legally required, have selected the e-pass, 33% the Aviation and Flight Academy. to help meet their own and their Athens Public Transport card, 17% The intention was to give young dependents’ needs. Below is the a fuel allowance and 6% take the people the chance to attend main list of benefits AIA provides: company bus. a short summer course which included not only theoretical Group Insurance Programme Nursery Allowance – MET knowledge but also practical AIA provides a group insurance Acknowledging financial implementation at the Athens programme with medical difficulties that most people in International Airport and at coverage for employees and the country encounter these days, the airport of Megara, as well their dependent members (1.910 in 2017 the company continued to as experiencing a virtual flight persons in total including eligible support employees with children through a sophisticated simulator. dependents). Furthermore, and arranged for a lump sum to the programme provides life 104 employees that met specific The programme was open to and disability insurance for all income and family criteria to employees’ children of age 14 to employees. partially subsidise pre-school child 16 and 15 children enrolled. For care. almost a month, from 26th June till Pension Plan programme 14th July 2017, participants were The Pension Plan programme, Reward of Distinguished Students taught the principles of aviation established in 2003, is based Since AIA recognises every effort by experienced executives and on the philosophy of matching for great performance especially scholars of the aviation industry contribution (a shared from young people, each year we who gave them the chance not responsibility approach) with the reward our employee’s children for only to experience something new aim to reduce the gap between their dedication to excel at school. but also to have a first glimpse of the State Pension and the salary Therefore, students in Upper the highly exciting and promising before retirement. All open-ended School delivering a distinctive business aviation industry. employees are offered a pension performance are awarded at a All students were awarded programme of whom 95.1% have ceremony organised by HRE with certifications for participating selected to participate with own 300 euros for high school and 400 contribution. euros for lyceum students. This pioneering initiative aims to become an annual educational Transportation Aviation and Flight Academy activity in the industry and in our Each year AIA employees are given AIA is always keen to offer country. Work Life Balance Work life balance is about creating with the support of DHL Express financially support the activities and maintaining a supportive and AIA hosted the Plane Pull, a truly of the association which in 2017 healthy work environment. At remarkable event of the airport helped nationwide 26.298 children AIA, we recognise this important community, in favour of “The Smile facing health challenges and their aspect by offering our employees of the Child” association. At the families. the opportunity to work in a event, held on 28th April 2017 on consistently balanced time frame a properly prepared airfield area, AIA considers such activities thus supporting balance between 13 groups of 25 people each pulled particularly important not only for work and personal life. the AIRBUS 300-600, weighing their contribution per se but also 100 tons, which DHL Express lent because they foster solidarity and Corporate Events for the event, for 10 metres each. a team spirit among participants For the second consecutive year The aim was to raise money to who strive for a common goal 72 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 while living a truly memorable age of 0 to 14 years old were all activities. In November 2017, 44 experience. offered presents. employees participated in the Athens Authentic Marathon Race Family Events Children from “The Ark of the in all routes. Nine of them ran the During this year AIA organised a World” charitable association were full 42 km route and all of them variety of activities for employees also invited to spend some nice successfully finished the race. and families, supporting an time together with our employees’ engaging climate that promotes children and receive presents. For the 11th consecutive year AIA’s team bonding. basketball team participated in the Blood Donation “Nikos Galis” European corporate AIA organised a number of events Blood donation is an act of championship, the oldest and for employees and their families, humanity, an action of social largest corporate sport event, in including an experiential wine solidarity, compassion and which 115 teams and 1,150 athletes harvest event to welcome autumn kindness. In 2017, AIA continued compete. and the school opening, a guided its cooperation with the Blood tour at the Acropolis museum and Transfusion Centre of Aglaia AIA football team completed the an educational programme during Kyriakou Children Hospital which 2016-2017 season with another a day visit at the Pentelis Institute hosts AIA’s blood bank for the great success, winning second of Astronomy. needs of children, AIA’s employees, place in the Leontario Soccer their families or close relatives. Club corporate league in which 24 The annual festive event for Employees voluntarily participated business companies participate. employees and their families took in the blood donation activity and The team also gained international place at Cultural Centre with 33 units of blood were donated. experience by participating for Christmas-themed festivities for the first time in the “Aviation children, a digital projection for Sports Football Cup-World Series” 7x7 elder children and a live music AIA encourages and eagerly tournament in Vienna. band for all. Children from the supports our employees sporting Occupational Health & Safety Material Issue AIA recognises the importance of Within the framework of our efficiency and effectiveness. employees’ overall wellness, thus accident prevention programme, Especially, first-aid and nearparticular care is taken to provide employees are encouraged to misses records are considered a contemporary, healthy and safe report all incidents regardless important for assessing the working environment by keeping of their severity (including firsteffectiveness of existing controls risks to a minimum. AIA aims to aid incidents, near misses and to identify whether new trends are comply with all applicable national property damages) while we have developing and to implement new and international regulations and developed procedures and e-tools procedures in order to avoid future adopt related standards. to facilitate and improve process serious incidents. Occupational Accidents 2017 2016 var% Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) 9 9 0.0% Accident Frequency Rate 0.28 0.14 100% Frequency Rate: Number of lost work day cases x 200,000 / total workhours Breakdown of Accidents 2017 2016 var% Lost workday cases 2 1 100% First Aid Cases 7 8 -12.5% Accidents to / from work 5 7 -28.6% Fatal accidents 0 0 73 7 Social Performance The Airport Company has • give necessary instruction and pertaining to their activities in established good occupational training taking into account order to increase awareness safety standards, not only as diversity of employees’ level are organised. In 2017, the a legal requirement but also functions and capabilities, Health & Safety Team took a as a result of the company’s step further and enriched AIA’s responsibility towards employees. • provide adequate supervision portfolio of e-learning courses of work practices ensuring with some that serve to raise The Airport Company takes the that proper use of relevant awareness on hazards that office necessary preventive measures occupational health and safety employees may encounter during and precautions to ensure a measures is made, their everyday activities and safe place of work (including on the safe use of chemicals in access and egress), safe plant • institute suitable occupational workplace. The online interactive and equipment and safe systems health and safety management course “Office Safety” was related to work. Similarly, it arrangements appropriate to delivered to all AIA’s employees places great importance in the working environment, the while a “Chemical Substances helping all employees acquire size of the undertaking and the Safety” course is scheduled for a certain level of competence nature of its activities and 2018. for supervision, information, instruction and training. • provide adequate protective Establishing common health clothing and equipment which and safety measures is the AIA’s corporate safety policy are reasonably necessary when fundamental preventive action in which reflects all national and workplace hazards cannot the effort to eliminate hazards international regulatory provisions otherwise be prevented or and when this is impossible or is key in this system. Additionally, controlled, without any cost to impractical to reduce the risk. monitoring best practices and the employee. As a last resort, for risks that the Corporate Health & Safety cannot be otherwise eliminated Manual both determine the Occupational Health and Safety appropriate Personal Protective relevant strategy and framework. is practiced through a system Equipment is provided. The Airport Company takes the of procedures, inspections and necessary actions in order to: workplace measurements, in AIA’s management holds line with legal requirements, regular meetings with the joint • provide and maintain international best practices and management-employees’ Health workplaces, machinery and methods developed within AIA. and Safety Committee (elected by equipment and use work and representing all employees). methods which are as safe Special emphasis is on employees During those meetings working and without risk to health as is occupied in hazardous tasks or conditions are evaluated and reasonably practicable, at hazardous areas and specific suggestions for improvement are training sessions for risks raised. Protecting Employees Health The Airport Company does not requirements, AIA cooperates Visitor and a Medical Doctor from limit itself to protecting its people with the occupational doctor the Social Security Institution from occupational hazards; who keeps all employees’ medical (IKA) (facilitating the fast and over and above, AIA fosters the records in order to ensure that easy access of employees) is adoption of health-defending AIA staff is in good health to available for the employees daily. conduct by means of information perform their job. This process In 2017, AIA employees visited the programs through the Intranet is periodical and bound by Occupational Doctor to have their and information provided directly confidentiality. medical files updated (bound by to groups of employees. the medical confidentiality). Those An infirmary staffed with an found eligible received an anti-flu As per relevant legal Occupational Doctor, a Health vaccination. 74 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Training and Development: Building on Organizational Capabilities Aviation is an industry where key for deploying competitive encouraging competence and training is critical for addressing business strategies and growth of AIA’s employees, as compliance requirements in a achieving ambitious goals. AIA is well as of those of the Airport highly regulated environment continuously investing in training community and other Airport and employee development is and development that aims at operators. AIA's Training Plan AIA’s Training Plan is based ensure that we meet training Year 2017 has been one with on business and organisational demands, while introducing a wide variety of training and needs, regulatory mandates, novel and creative development development initiatives, during latest market trends in training opportunities for our employees which training hours (absolute and development solutions and partners. and per FTE) were significantly and technologies. Thus, we increased versus 2016. AIA's Training Plan in 2017 25,070 100% 35.1 Training Learning Hours Hours Coverage per FTE Training Hours Learning Coverage Hours/FTE 2017 25,070 100% 35.1 2016 18,383 100% 26.5 Training Categories Compliance Job Related Developmental Corporate Conferences Training Hours 12,475 7,201 3,631 1,078.5 685 Percentage to Total Hours 50% 29% 14% 4% 3% Airport Community Training companies operating within the of 12.460 hours with more than As the Airport operator, AIA Airport community. In 2017 our 3,000 participants. provides training either directly Airport community training also or indirectly to employees of increased and reached a total Airport Community Training Training hours 2017 Training hours 2016 Ground Handling Training 816 574 Security Awareness Training 9,932 7,768 Airside Safety Training 1,579 853 Environmental Awareness Training 133 95 75 7 Social Performance Aviation Industry Training Airport orientation and individual entry for AIA and AIA community • AIA is an Accredited Training role assignments for a period of employees, enhancing Airport Centre of Airport Council two weeks, during which trainees development and collaboration. International (ACI) since 2007, have the chance to gain diverse Through the new platform we and we are hosting annually global experience in airport operations in support the need to train, assess, ACI programmes for airport the beginning of their career. document and maintain records for professionals worldwide. In regulatory training while enabling 2017 we organised four training EASA Compliance: the use of new technologies in programmes with the participation Training Programme training. The “i-learn” platform of 27 AIA employees and 29 EASA’s new regulatory framework provides easily accessible education aviation professionals from the determines necessary rules, taking in training’s constant international airport community, as regulations and practices for evolution. It allows AIA, on one follows. The programme’s duration the certification of European hand, to enrich its e-learning is typically five days. aerodromes. offering and trainees, on the other, to complete training at their own AIA conforms to EASA/AMC1 pace and to access supportive ADR.OR.D.017 for the provision material when needed. Benefits of aerodrome training and the of digitalising training include relevant compliance training increased efficiency, a shorter • Airport Business Analytics programme is a product of a time to upskill the workforce, cross-departmental cooperation. dissemination of good practices, • GSN 6: Aerodrome Auditing Internal trainers were certified direct response to new generations’ and Compliance by the NCFENorthern Council ways of learning and a further for Further Education, UK, while reduction of our environmental • Human Factors for Airport training courses addressing footprint. Managers aviation safety have been developed internally according Developing a Culture • GSN 5: Advanced Safety to EASA regulations for relevant of Positivity & Innovation Management Systems professional aviation roles, A positive mindset helps us cope including the Airport Hellenic Fire successfully with life and work Corps. challenges. ‘Positivity Day’, an • Furthermore, in 2017 AIA interactive session for all AIA offered on-the-job training to The EASA compliance training employees, focuses on how we can airport professionals from Muscat programme has been successfully embrace a positive attitude and International Airport of Oman. delivered in Q3 and Q4 2017 with positive feelings every day through These training services were part 327 participants and a total of a series of exercises and several of a consulting project delivered 5.036 training hours. tips that everyone can apply daily. by AIA’s Corporate Planning Participation and engagement department where 73 participants AIA’s training policy and systems among employees has been very were practically trained in various have been revised to include high with a series of Positivity airport operation roles in aviation and support the deployment of Days being introduced in the operations, technical services, the EASA compliance training organization. environmental services, terminal programme for AIA and the services and facilities services. Airport community. In 2017 we Our Innovation program address introduced the i-learn platform all AIA employees who are eager • At AIA we actively support the to support airport development to share new and creative ideas on development of young airport and collaboration on compliance specific challenges and subsequently professionals through our longtraining. turn them into feasible solutions. In lived partnership with Munich 2017 there were five challenges set International Airport. This year we “i-learn”: Gateway to learning by the organization and employees received eight participants who In our continuous engaged in “Thinkathlons” for were placed in various AIA Units, efforts to support generating new ideas which were i.e. Security Services, Human employee development turned into projects and winning Resources Occupational Health and provide more teams were awarded for their & Safety, Communications & training opportunities, effort and contribution. The aim Marketing, Information Technology we introduced a training of our Innovation program is to & Telecommunications, according collaboration platform, i-learn, to continue developing a culture of to their education and former reinforce a common culture for innovation and enhancing the professional experience. The compliance and development in our collaboration and creation of ideas programme involves a group airport community. It is a point of in our organization. 76 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 101 Idea Profiles were filtered to find the 6 932 Very Best Ones Innovation Ideas in Challenges proposal The Innovation 23 Teams Program in numbers 99 Participants Community Engagement Material Issue The Airport Company recognises cultural, athletic, environmental b) prioritisation of the large – that it is part of a community that and other causes that go well due to the country’s ongoing extends beyond the airport fence. beyond the scope of any legal recession number of requests obligations and help establish the for support received from We recognise that our operations Airport as a good neighbour. local entities with a focus on may impact our neighbours, such emerging social needs, and as annoyance due to aircraft noise, Therefore, AIA has developed a thus our goal is to limit, if not corporate Community Engagement c) incorporation of AIA’s own eliminate, this impact to the extent Plan (CEP), incorporated in our initiatives which aim to improve possible. annual Operational Scorecard. Key the quality of life over time. to its successful implementation are: At the same time, the Airport is In 2017, a total of 189 meetings a significant driver of economic a) continuous cooperation and were held with representatives development in the region. This constructive dialogue with all from local authorities, associations, is complemented by targeted local stakeholders to understand schools and individuals. investments in social, educational, their needs and expectations, Engaging Local Entities (breakdown of meetings) 2017 2016 Municipalities 96 90 Associations 43 58 Schools 35 58 Individuals 15 10 77 7 Social Performance Local Community Investment 2017 2016 Education 59.6 270.9 Culture & Athletics 29.0 32.4 Society 38.8 155.6 Environment 7.9 33.2 Transportation 40.0 Other Community Activities 30.0 Total 135.3 (*) 562.1 (*) In 2016 an additional provision of €316.540 was made in order to implement new community projects requested in the coming years. Community Investment The major actions and projects this precious natural resource. Society implemented in 2017 are described Additionally, an informative • A colour ultrasound machine below: leaflet was distributed to was donated to the Spata the students following the Health Centre to help improve Education presentations. primary care services provided • All 28 public schools in the to citizens of the region. municipality of Spata-Artemis • In addition, and within the were rewarded for participating framework of our continuous • Playground equipment was in our recycling programme, efforts to raise environmental purchased and installed in the which has been running since awareness and maximise playground in the city centre 2005. environmental benefits in the of Artemis, with the aim of Mesogaia area, we performed improving the quality of life of • For the seventh consecutive ten environmental awareness its residents. year, financial rewards were presentations to 429 high school offered to 36 high school students from surrounding • Supermarket vouchers were students in Spata-Artemis, municipalities, which included distributed to more than 900 Koropi, Markopoulo & Airport site tours. individuals and families in need Rafina-Pikermi, who excelled during Easter and Christmas in academically and were • Finally, electronic equipment collaboration with social services admitted to higher educational and household appliances were of Spata-Artemis Municipality. institutions. provided to schools in the Moreover, supermarket neighbouring communities as vouchers were provided to a • Two scholarships were awarded well as Christmas presents to all local philanthropic association to postgraduate students Spata-Artemis kindergartners. for the preparation of meals for studying environmental science those in need and to the local at the University of the Aegean, Culture and Athletics social supermarket. an initiative that AIA has • Financial support was offered to supported since 2003. major local cultural associations • Upon initiation of the new school for their annual cultural year 2017-2018, we purchased • For the third consecutive events and to major athletic school supplies for the Spatayear, we implemented an associations for their athletic Artemis social supermarkets environmental awareness events. we have done during the last programme in cooperation with several years. NGO Mediterranean SOS at • For the tenth consecutive local elementary schools in order year, support was provided • Medicines and pharmaceutical to increase student awareness to the Vravrona Museum for supplies were provided to on water management issues. the maintenance and repair of support health services of Overall, 519 students from several critical systems as well Spata-Artemis municipality. 10 primary schools of Spataas for the purchase of materials • Local animal welfare Artemis, Koropi, and Rafinaand equipment necessary for associations were supported for Pikermi participated and were the smooth operation and the protection and care of stray educated on the principles of security of the Museum. animals. sustainable management of 78 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Environment tenth consecutive year as a fire Additional actions in favour • The Vravrona Wetland prevention measure. of Public Organisations Protection and Promotion • Members of the Airport Programme carries on in • Financial support was provided community were supported collaboration with the Hellenic to the Association for the in their efforts to maintain a Ornithological Society (HOS) Protection and Welfare of smooth operational environment and municipality of Markopoulo, Wildlife (ANIMA) within the and to deliver enhanced levels of also covering the ‘Aliki’ Wetland framework of our cooperation service. In addition, fire stations in Artemis. for the treatment of injured in the local communities wildlife and its subsequent were provided with financial • The area of ‘Prasinos Lofos’ in release back to the wild. assistance in order to ensure Artemis was cleaned up for the their operational readiness. Corporate Citizenship Promoting the City of Athens “WanderlustGreece.com”, a During this year’s “ACES-Athens”, Athens Tourism Partnership digital travel show that sets the AIA presented an overview of the (ATP) is a collaboration between stage for various presenters to years 2013-2017 and the related the City of Athens, Aegean and showcase Greece to the world. evolution that took place in tourism Athens International Airport Presenters travelled around the and aviation as reflected in the for the promotion of Athens, country and broadcasted live Athens market; furthermore, light established in 2016. It aims to across all Discover Greece’s social was shed on the characteristics promote Athens as a contemporary media channels. With the support and the cluster of initiatives, cultural centre and an attractive, of Athens International Airport, synergies and partnerships year-round tourist destination. Wanderlust Greece dedicated its among the tourism and aviation The launch of a dynamic digital second season to Athens. The industry players, that contributed campaign titled «One City. Never guest presenter’s journey in Athens to Athens’ resurgence as a prime Ending Stories», financed by the continued until mid-January 2018 tourist destination. members of the partnership, was allowing viewers from all around designed to showcase the Athenian the world ‘travel’ to the heart of This year’s “ACES-Athens” was experience and run until June a city of never-ending stories and held under the title” Western 2017. The campaign’s central video discover its people, neighbourhoods Threats and Eastern Promises” illustrated all facets of Athens and architecture that make Athens and focused on the following in a modern and exuberant way. one of the most exciting city break issues: Aiming to penetrate city travellers destinations in the world. and having collected valuable • Brexit: The way forward and the information about their behavioural 5th Airport Chief Executive’s wider repercussions for aviation patterns and trends, next steps Symposium (ACES-Athens) and tourism, of the campaign were designed in The annual Airport Chief 2017 with a view to be launched Executives’ Symposium “ACES • China Europe: The current in early 2018: a tactical campaign – Athens”, an initiative launched situation and the perspectives to run in February and March in 2013 by Athens International for tourism and air transport, 2018 capitalising on the «One City. Airport, took place for the 5th Never Ending Stories» message consecutive year, at the Stavros • the re-emergence of Athens and targeting the German market Niarchos Foundation Cultural among the most attractive in order to fully exploit the spring Centre, the new landmark of the international tourist travelling peak and the relevant city of Athens. destinations, thanks to the joint momentum. In addition, a new effort, efficient partnerships more vivid, inspiring and influential While consistently aiming at and innovative programmes campaign is being designed with highlighting the importance initiated by the tourism and the aim to further boost and of constructive dialogue, aviation stakeholders. establish Athens as a destination “ACES – Athens” highlights the throughout the year, to be aired in interdependence between airports Prominent executives from the the last quarter of 2018. and the destinations they serve, as global aviation industry, tourism, well as the overall contribution of and travel & trade services, as well ‘DiscoverGreece.com’, the the aviation industry and airports as the Mayor of Athens honoured e-platform of state-owned to the economic development of this year’s Symposium with their Marketing Greece S.A., launched their destinations. presence and addresses. 79 7 Social Performance Art & Culture Athens International Airport at the Art & Environment area in contemporary creations animate has become a cultural hub for cooperation with the Goulandris The Benaki Museum Collections”. travellers and visitors and an National History Museum/Greek It was a collective exhibition active member of Athens’ cultural Biotope-Wetland Centre (EKBY) that brought together 15 world life. More than 250,000 visitors aiming, through photos and video, renowned fashion designers and per year visit the permanent at promoting the forests of Greece talented artists who love Greece Airport exhibitions, namely the to recreation destinations of great and embrace the Greek element in exhibition of Archaeological value and high standards, while their work. Findings, the “Acropolis Museum familiarising airport travellers with – A Classic Destination” exhibition the forest wealth of Greece and Athens International Airport and the interactive exhibition inviting them in a fascinating tour continued its collaboration dedicated to the eminent politician trip in the Greek nature. with the Athens Digital Arts Eleftherios Venizelos after whom Festival (ADAF) and hosted a the Airport was named. For the second consecutive year, multimedia exhibition under the three dynamic entities with title: “#PostFuture JourneyIn 2017, in addition to the above significant presence, the Benaki Flying Beyond Digital Reaching exhibitions, AIA launched numerous Museum, Costa Navarino and The #PostFuture”. The exhibition art collaborations in its two Athens International Airport joined included installations as well as temporary art exhibition areas. forces for culture and presented video art and animation screenings Specifically: the exhibition titled the exhibition titled: “Under of both Greek and foreign artists. “Greek Forests, Green Destination” The Spell of Greek Costume: 80 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 After a successful collaboration around the world who have visited Christodoulou, one of the most earlier in 2011 that included three AIA’s children’s play area during popular young singers & composers exhibitions, the Museum of Cycladic the last 15 years and have left their with her famous band, Encardia, Art, once again, collaborated with comments in the guest book. performing world music tunes and Athens International Airport and tarantella rhythms of South Italy; organised the exhibition “A Journey The multi-awarded “Fly me to the the musical ensemble Bracera Through The Culture of Cycladic Moon” initiative which started performing traditional songs from Islands”. It constituted a concise in 2013 is a joint collaboration all over Greece; and the Tango presentation of the large-scale with «ελculture» platform of Fix and QuickStep dance schools, exhibition “Cycladic Society, 5,000 contemporary art. who “travelled” passengers and Years Ago” organised last year by visitors at the airport with their the museum on the occasion of its This year’s successful dynamic Milonga choreographies. 30th anniversary and curated by multidimensional entertainment Furthermore, for the third its Director, Professor Nikolaos programme included concerts, consecutive year, our cooperation Stampolidis. dance shows and other cultural with the Alternative Stage of the events that inspired popular artists Greek National Opera continued; Lastly, together with NGO “The to showcase their work at the and we welcomed the Young Smile of the Child”, AIA presented airport premises contributing to Peoples’ Stage of the National the exhibition “Travelling around the passengers’ and visitors’ airport Theatre of Greece which presented world with a Smile” which is based experience. In 2017, we hosted extracts from the musical “Momo”. on the feedback of families from live performances of Monika 81 7 Social Performance AIA also provided support to major the Herakleidon Museum, the archaeological sites and Greek cultural entities such as Multitrab Productions, and the monuments of Athens through the Greek National Theatre, the Cyprus Theatre Association. theatrical performances offered by National Research Foundation young talented actors. In addition, “Eleftherios K. Venizelos”, the Furthermore, AIA cooperated with AIA launched its cooperation with Megaron Athens Concert Hall the Hotel Association of Athens, the “Diazoma” Association for platform, the “A jewel made Attica & the Argosaronic for the the protection, restoration and in Greece” serving, the Greek cultural campaign “Stones Speak”, promotion of Greek monuments National Opera, the Museum of a unique project where the great and ancient theatres. Cycladic Art, the Greek Festival, writers of antiquity the Onassis Cultural Centre, came to life at selected Art and Cultural Investment / Sponsorship Program 2017 Art and Cultural Investment 2017 2016 Cultural Sponsorships 25,785 27,753 Art Exhibitions / Events 88,672 78,810 Total 114,457 106,563 Sponsorship Program 2017 2017 2016 Sports 5,500 2,500 Business-General 59,700 51,269 Business-Aviation Sector 25,066 19,060 Social-Various Humanitarian 4,850 8,934 Social-Children/Youth 49,562 15,430 Science 29,294 28,817 Total 173,972 126,010 Grand Total 288,429 232,573 A welcoming Airport for Children Airport Visitors Service We state and private vocational creations animate the Benaki host field trips at the airport schools, the University of Athens, Museum Collections”. premises to help pupils and the University of Piraeus, the students broaden their horizons State University of NY, the Airport Children’s Play Area in through visiting airport facilities Airlines Services Training (AST), collaboration with NGO “The Smile and learning about operational the Wirral Metropolitan College of the Child” Athens International procedures. These visits last 2½ and specialised educational Airport operates a Children’s Play hours and include a presentation institutions. Area for families travelling with of the Main Terminal Building, the children. It is located in the public Airport’s Museum, the cultural In the framework of our Visitors area of the Main Terminal Building exhibitions, the baggage reclaim Service Programme we also in order to accommodate both Intra area and a visit to the airport hosted, in collaboration with the & Extra Schengen passengers. fire station where the impressive Benaki Mentis Museum, an The facility is carefully designed PANTHER fire trucks are kept. educational visit from the 12th to adhere to all pertinent safety In 2017 we welcomed in total Elementary School of Chalkida at guidelines and the staff provides 1,200 visitors from kindergartens, the exhibition Under The Spell of activities for different age groups in elementary schools, high schools, Greek Costume: Contemporary a safe and secure environment. 82 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 During 2017 the Children’s Play Area welcomed 5,886 young visitors in a total of 77,190 since its opening in 2002. Average time spent is an hour, the most common age group is 4-7 years old, 89% of the families travel to European destinations and visitors very often offer highly positive reviews at our social media. Enhancing Social Commitment An important pillar of our corporate Robinsons” travelling educational Furthermore, for the 9th responsibility’s strategy is to support project, the National Special consecutive year, we participated children and social groups in need. Kindergarten and UNICEF. in the International Fellowship In 2017 we continued our multiProgramme of the MBA dimensional social programme which Furthermore, for the second International of the Athens entails contributions to national and consecutive year, we continued our University of Economics and international non-governmental cooperation with the Institute of Business. We continued to humanitarian endeavours such as the Preventive Medicine Environmental support initiatives related to the promotion of the “Travelling Greece & Occupation Health “Prolepsis” in education of unemployed young in Comfort and Safety” campaign of order to cover part of the cost of people. Under this pillar of our I.O.AS. (Panos Mylonas Institute for the Public Health Programme for corporate citizenship commitment, Road and Safety), the Environmental pupils of the Mesogaia area schools for the fifth consecutive year, we Association of Attica “Time for and the broader Attica vicinity. supported the “Entrepreneurship & Action” for the promotion of the Career Panorama 2017” organised campaign for volunteers “Let’s do it We also actively participate in by the Research Centre of Greece”, the CSR – Hellas network, the “Amber Alert”, “Silver Alert” Strategic Business Management of the Greek Paralympics Committee and “Omnibus” programmes, a the Athens University of Economics for the preparation games of the volunteer partnership between law and Business, focusing on business athletes, the Hellenic Athletic enforcement agencies, broadcasters, start–up seminars for unemployed Federation of the Deaf for organising transportation related parties and young people. several national championships, the the wireless industry which notifies Athletic Association “ATLAS”, the the public on child abduction or AIA Initiative against Human Association of Greek Gymnastic missing persons’ cases. Trafficking Athletic Societies (SEGAS) for the In 2017, AIA cooperated with the 35th Authentic Marathon of Athens, On the education front we Hellenic Police and particularly the the “Make-A-Wish” organisation, supported the University of Piraeus Athens Airport Police Division for “The Smile of the Child” for their Fellowship programme raising awareness among Airport organisation, the “Agoni-Grammiof the department of Banking community staff on the sensitive Gonimi” association by supporting & Financial Management as issue of human trafficking. The their actions for pupils of elementary well as for organising a Science “Train the Trainer” event intended schools of the PSO (Public Service Conference on “Insularity and to disseminate information across Obligation) routes of the Greek the Blue Economy: Pillow of the Airport was attended by officers Islands, the “FRONTIDA” Association Development, Innovation & of the Airport Police Department, for the support of people with Entrepreneurship”, the American AIA employees, employees of cerebral palsy, mental retardation University Aviation Academy for security companies as well as and the down syndrome, the NGO their aviation programme, the employees of airlines and ground “Anoichti Agalia” (Open Arms), the New Wrinkle Association for their handling companies. It focused MEDASSET Hellas, the “Medecins educational programme “Shared on recognising signs of potential du Monde” organisation, the “Kivotos Future Labs” under the auspices trafficking victims and passing the tou Kosmou” (World’s Arc)”, the of UNESCO, the ALBA Graduate information to police authorities AMIMONI Panhellenic Association of Business College for the financial in a discreet and secure manner. persons with problems of vision and support of the Graduate’s Fund Also, AIA contributed to a public additional disabilities, the ActionAid and the Law Digest Organisation discussion on the same issue by for large–scale humanitarian for the organization of the Greek participating in the 2017 Break the crisis projects, the ELEPAP “Little Law Digest Conference. Chain Festival. 83 8 Future Prospects Future Prospects 84 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 85 8 Future Prospects Our expectation for 2018 is that of passport control checks • Furthermore, AIA continues it will be the fifth consecutive at external borders, leading to invest in order to maintain year of traffic growth. However, to a lengthier passport and even further improve following a cumulative traffic control process for all its service quality, ensuring growth since 2013 of over 73%, it arriving and departing safe, secure and efficient is reasonable to expect a slownon-Schengen passengers, operations. Moreover, AIA will down in the growth rate. 2018 AIA plans to expand its carry on with investments will be marked by a number of immigration and emigration that make business sense challenges and developments in facilities. The construction in commercial activities and aviation business: of this project is expected to is closely monitoring future kick-off in mid‘18 and the trends related to disruptions • Airline capacity in domestic necessary infrastructural from digital developments routes is not expected to and operational amendments and on-line shopping which show substantial change are planned to be in place on could affect our B2B and B2C overall, international traffic time for the effectiveness strategic positioning. is expected to grow further, of the new regulation (April since additional capacity 2019). As these lines are being written, will be placed in the Athens the ADA Extension Agreement, market by home and visiting o Secondly, as a result signed between the Greek State, carriers. These positive of EU Regulation HRADF and AIA on 30 September airline decisions are aided by 1087/2011 regarding the 2017, is still undergoing the the favorable environment implementation of common scrutiny of the EU authoritiesregarding competitive fuel standards for baggage a condition necessary for its prices, improved fleet capacity explosive detection systems, effectiveness. We trust that and utilisation and high airline which requires all bags to 2018 will be the milestone year of profitability. Also, tourism be screened with “Standard the completion of this endeavor. demand is supported by 3” equipment, a complex Its completion will mark the the improved Athens value project affecting AIA’s beginning of a new era for the proposition in contrast with baggage handling system Airport Company and will lead the geopolitical situation which will commence for the to improved potential for airport continues to trouble some of compliance to the said users, employees, shareholders our competitive markets. regulation, with expected and of course the state and the completion in 2022. wider society from the operation • Traffic growth and regulatory of one of the most successful compliance drive two Further to regulatory compliance, Public-Private-Partnerships in considerable investments that these two projects are expected Europe. AIA pledges to continue the Airport Company plans to to increase terminal capacity to add value to all stakeholders, to undertake: and efficiency in the affected act as a responsible operator and processes and to improve AIA’s employer and to be an exemplary o Firstly, as a result of the EU value for money offering towards company in all its activities. Regulation (EU 458/2017) passengers and airlines. requiring the reinforcement Planning Ahead for Sustainability Connected with the Materiality of activities carried out by each of the non-financial Material Analysis, the Sustainability Action AIA in 2017 and planned to be Issues. Plan below gives an indication undertaken in 2018, in relation to 86 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Material Issue Actual Activities 2017 Planned Activities 2018 • AIA was granted an EASA Aerodrome Certificate in accordance with the stipulations of the respective Commission Regulations. The certification process involved extensive inspections and checks by the HCAA for an • Aviation Safety Training Courses eight-month period. development (initial courses). Customer • Aviation Safety Training development and implementation for recurrent • Safety promotion initiatives, Hazard Safety courses. Identification and Risk Assessments, (Aviation) • Regular inspections for all public and technical areas. In 2017, 324 Health & Safety inspections in public health and safety plans and 6 safety management systems of third areas. parties were reviewed. Furthermore, 27 audits were carried out to various airport community stakeholders. • Strong growth of the international market (+12%), whereas the domestic Market market presented a slight increase (+ 2%). • Incentives Plan (Developmental & Presence • Overall connections in 2017: 137 destinations (103 of which international) Targeted Incentives) (Traffic in 53 countries, operated by a total of 59 carriers. • Route Development / Marketing Support development) • 13 different incentives (both for developing new markets as well as for Policies reinforcing existing ones), were in effect during 2017. • Critical Systems Efficiency targets of the Corporate Scorecard 2017 • Emergency Crisis Planning training / Business Continuity were attained. workshops / exercises plan & Emergency • Ten major emergency exercises were organised at the airport, • Action to attain availability targets for Preparedness including the Annual Partial Scale Emergency Exercise “Aircraft Critical Systems Accident on Airport”. • GDPR-related preparation actions • In 2017 AIA started preparing its organisation to meet the deadlines including Policies, Manuals, Procedures of May 2018, set by the GDPR Regulation. Actions included personal Corporate and related controls. data mapping throughout all corporate and operational functions Governance • Risk Management & Business Continuity and the establishment of a competent department and Data activities Protection Officer. • Code of Conduct e-training • Commencement of the MTB South Wing • ACI World – ASQ Award: 2017 AIA best airport in Europe for customer Expansion (SWE) project experience • STB Refurbishment project • Airport Service Quality target of the Corporate Scorecard 2017 was • WC Refurbishment project attained. Satisfaction rating of our passengers at 4.35 / 5 • Airport Service Quality / Passenger Service • Completion of Intra-Schengen Project (operation, aesthetic & Satisfaction Surveys/ Quality Monitor Quality commercial improvement Surveys • More than 600 AIA employees participated in “i-mind” walkthroughs • Passenger Comments Management (corresponding to 70,000 inspections) / i-mind programme/ service • ISO9001 and ISO20000 certifications (IT&T Business Unit) retained measurements • Air Smiles programme • Athens Tourism Partnership Project in cooperation with Aegean Airlines, Indirect Marketing Greece & the Municipality of Athens • Destination Marketing activities Economic • Digital Gate 2017 programme for innovation • Art & Culture programme Impact • Internal Innovation Programme (thinkathlon) • Implementation of the new Procurement Policy and related procedures, Responsible • Implementation of new Procurement in line with international best practice Procurement Policy & Procedure • Rollout of the new Contract Performance Management system (Qontract) • Energy management system targeting conservation and exploitation of Energy conservation projects: Energy renewable energy • LED lighting for Apron • ISO50001 certification for Energy Management • Upgrade of Preconditioned Air plants • Climate Change Corporate Action Plan • Climate Change Corporate Action Plan target of the Corporate 2018 Scorecard 2017 was attained. Carbon footprint reduction by nearly • Maintain Neutrality level for Airport Emissions 50% compared to our 2005 baseline, corresponding to a reduction of Carbon Accreditation & Climate approximately 32,000 tons of CO2 • Investigation of biofuel option for aircraft Change • In 2017, AIA maintained its carbon neutral status by zeroing out its and electrification of groundhandling residual carbon emissions vehicles (in cooperation with airport community stakeholders) • Noise Abatement Procedures in collaboration with HCAA, the Ministry of • Noise Abatement Procedures in Environment and the airlines Noise collaboration with involved parties • Complaint management: 29 noise complaints received and handled in • Noise Complaint management 2017 • Health & Safety training / awareness sessions and Risk Assessments Occupational • Steady Occupational Health & Safety indicators in 2017, maintaining • Fire Life Safety e-training Health & safety the low number of Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) • E-training for office safety and chemical safety Community • Community Engagement target of the Corporate Scorecard 2017 was • Multidimensional Community Engagement attained with 19 distinct actions completed. Engagement Action Plan 2018 87 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM Annex I: Reporting by the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders for the Financial year ended 31 December 2017 1 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Dear Sirs and Mesdames, According to article 43a, paragraph 3 of Codified Law (C.L.) 2190/1920, as applicable, we submit herewith to your General Assembly the Company’s Financial Statements for its 22nd financial period. The present report refers to these statements as well as to any supplementary information necessary or useful for the statements’ appreciation and approval by the General Assembly, according to the proposal of the Board of Directors. Year 2017 was one of strong momentum for the global aviation industry, characterised by low oil prices, efficiency of aircraft capacity utilisation and fleet growth. The combination of the above resulted in a very prosperous year for the airlines’ profitability, with attractive fares, which in turn supported a strong growth of passenger traffic. On a global level, airlines achieved healthy profitability with net profit margins in 2017 estimated at the level of 4.6%, according to IATA (source: IATA-Economic-Performance-of-the-Industryend-year-2017-report). In addition, consumers benefited from lower travel costs and more routes offered and Revenue Passenger Kilometres (RPKs) increased overall by 7.5%. ACI also reports strong traffic rise on the global scale at 6.4% (source: ACI World Press Release Feb 2018), however with a slow-down from September onwards. Passenger traffic across the European network posted an average growth of 8.5% (source: ACI Europe Press Release Feb 2018). Non-EU airports lead the way of passenger traffic growth (+11.4%), with EU airports also achieving strong increase (+7.7%), although impacted from specific airline-caused disruptions (Air Berlin and Monarch cease of operations, Ryanair growth slowdown in winter period). In line with the global and European aviation trends, 2017 was another record-breaking year for Athens International Airport (AIA, Airport Company) in terms of passenger annual growth, reaching 21.74 million passengers exceeding prior-year levels by 1.7 million, a significant increase of 8.6%. The number of flights amounted to 196 thousand surpassing the respective 2016 levels by 3.6%. International traffic proved to be the main growth driver (+12%), whereas domestic traffic also grew but at lower rates (+2%), impacted by airlines’ capacity reductions mainly in the winter periods. In terms of passenger demand evolution, it is important to note that the demand for air travel has been resilient to the volatility of the trading and economic environment since it remained unaffected from the European and regional geopolitical risks. The behaviour of the Greek travellers led to a considerable increase of their air travel both in 2016 and 2017 influenced by competitive air ticket prices and macroeconomic stability. Foreign visitors also presented a healthy increase in the period under review. In 2017 the Airport Company presented healthy results and recorded Profit Before Tax of €199.8 million, increased by €10.8 million compared to 2016. Growth in operating performance more than offsets the additional cost requirement following increased traffic and the increase of the variable element of Grant of Rights Fee recorded in the Operating Expenses. In view of the Company’s expected obligation to pay the Consideration for the extension of its concession period (upon the effectiveness of the ADA Extension Agreement), no dividend to the shareholders is proposed. 1. Traffic Highlights With 21.74 million passengers in 2017, AIA delivered an all-time high performance, surpassing previous year traffic by 1.7 million (+8.6%). This outcome was mainly driven by a strong growth of the international market (+1.5 million or +12%), whereas the domestic market presented a slow rise of 2% due to a capacity reduction in the winter periods. Greek residents presented a strong rise of 13%, while foreign residents showed a robust increase by 5% in total, formulating the overall level of growth. The dynamic growth of the O&D passengers by 12% should also be highlighted, demonstrating the consistent ascent of Athens as an 2 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM attractive destination, assisted by the joint and coordinated pertinent actions of the Airport Company with stakeholders from the tourism industry. Transfer passengers presented a small decline of 4% in the course of 2017, mainly attributed to the reduction of self-connecting passengers. Focusing on the international passenger traffic developments per region, it is important to note that all regions enjoyed a sharp growth, supported by the significantly enhanced airport’s route network coupled with the favourable evolution of passenger demand. The launch of the new long-haul services of Emirates to New York and Scoot to Singapore and Air China’s non-stop flight to Beijing should be highlighted as they have largely contributed to the respective regions’ successful evolution. During 2017, four (4) new airlines launched operations to/from Athens and fifteen (15) new international routes were established (6 of which were intercontinental), further enhancing the airport’s route network. At the same time, 17 LCCs offered services to 56 airports worldwide (compared to 59 airports in 2016). Overall in 2017 the airport’s number of flights amounted to 196 thousand and demonstrated a rise of 3.6% compared to prior year levels. Both domestic and international flights demonstrated growth at 2.9% and 4.1%, respectively. Lastly, in 2017 Athens was directly connected with scheduled services with 137 destinations, 103 of which international (including 23nonEuropean) in 53 countries, operated by a total of 59 carriers. Although cargo business has been severely affected by the Greek crisis of the last seven years, a slight increase in airport cargo was recorded for the fourth consecutive year, posting an overall annual increase of 1.5% over the previous year, reaching 89,770 tonnes of freight and mail. 2. Business Highlights AIA’s business highlights for the year 2017 are presented hereunder: 2.1 Airport Operations Smooth and efficient operations were delivered throughout 2017. Moreover, the airport remained a slot noncoordinated airport even in periods of excessively high demand for aircraft arrival and parking during the summer period. This demand was adequately addressed through ad-hoc operational arrangements. The 2017 summer period, as regards to passenger and aircraft movements, reached its highest peak in July, partly driven by an increased demand for ground stay/apron parking by general and business aviation aircraft. Capacity Related Developments In terms of capacity related enhancements, the following developments took place: • The first phase of the operational upgrade of the Satellite Terminal Building (STB) was completed successfully and operations commenced in May and lasted until October 2017. Further enhancements are in progress in order to accommodate additional traffic at the STB in summer 2018. • The Advanced Visual Docking Guidance System (A-VDGS) project was successfully completed with the installation of twenty-four A-VDGS units at all Main Terminal Building (MTB) and STB contact stands, ensuring optimum use of the stands. • Airport Company has commenced discussions with HCAA (Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority) in order to take full advantage of the Airport’s two runways’ available capacity to at least 65 movements per/hour as per its original minimum design specifications. Compliance Issues As part of the continuous Operational Compliance and Development process, all required preventive and corrective measures were taken for maintaining emergency planning and AIA’s preparedness for adversities at a high level, thus establishing a safe and resilient operating environment. Following a strict, proactive and efficiently planned schedule, AIA is amongst the first European airports to be granted an EASA Aerodrome Certificate in accordance with the stipulations of the Commission Regulations (EC) 216/2008, (EC) 1108/2009 and (EU) 139/2014. Having been found in full compliance, AIA becomes the first Hellenic airport and amongst the few European ones to have completed on time its license/certificate conversion into an 3 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 EASA one. The thorough and time-consuming certification process involved extensive inspections and checks by the HCAA for a period of eight months. HCAA inspectors have gone through detailed audits and verification processes of the aerodrome airside infrastructure, legitimacy and accuracy of the relevant organisational structure, as well as of all Aviation Safety and Operations related procedures, training Syllabuses and Manuals. It is noteworthy that ten (10) emergency exercises were organised at the airport, including the Annual Partial Scale Emergency Exercise “Aircraft Accident on Airport”. Highlights and Distinctions In recognition of its adherence to smart applications’ technologies taking into consideration a continuous dedicated approach to enhance passenger experience, AIA has been awarded, in September 2017, the Fast Travel ‘Gold Status’ by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), as a result of its fast-developing smart infrastructure and automation in the areas of self-check-in, bags ready-to-go, document check, flight re-booking, self-boarding, and bag recovery. The Airport Company’s team of experts in cooperation with the Rescue Fire Fighting Services (RFFS) provided training services to the Greek Regional Airports Fire Fighters. The aging airfield “follow-me” fleet, in continuous operation since 2004, has been replaced with ten (10) new vehicles. For the fifth time in a row, Airport Company and all members of the Athens airport aviation fuel supply chain were awarded a Gold distinction by the Joint Inspection Group (JIG), while OFC/Athens airport remains the only airport fuel facility worldwide which has been awarded ten consecutive JIG Certificates of Excellence (2008-2017). 2.2 Pricing and Airport Marketing During 2017 Airport Company continued its dynamic marketing strategy and incentives policy. AIA’s aeronautical marketing strategy encompasses comprehensive developmental and targeted programmes for airlines including incentives and marketing support packages and constitutes a cornerstone of Airport Company’s aeronautical strategy for healthy financial growth. During the annual consultations with the airport users, which were held in January 2017, as per the Airport Charges Directives (2009/12/EC) as transposed to the Greek legislation (PD 52/12), Airport Company announced that all airport charges remain unchanged without any increase for the ninth consecutive year. The freezing of charges was complemented by the continuous development and fine-tuning of our incentives’ scheme comprising growth incentives and a number of targeted incentives for airlines. In total, thirteen (13) different developmental and targeted incentives, both for developing new markets, as well as for reinforcing existing ones, were in effect during 2017. Incentives are applied in a fully transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The majority of the operating carriers made use of one or more targeted or developmental incentives, many of which benefited further by receiving marketing support actions. The 2017 campaign under the slogan “See the big picture in Aviation Marketing” reflected AIA’s individual approach of each airline partner, its will and efforts to address actual needs of each airline partner in an innovative and holistic manner and to employ the latest advertising means and tools, in order to design and ultimately implement a complete marketing strategy. Airlines’ contribution to the airport’s performance in 2017 was acknowledged by Airport Company for the 18th consecutive year by rewarding them for the most successful passenger traffic development during that year. For the last six years, AIA has not only devoted innovative marketing efforts to its airline, business partners and consumers but has also extended its endeavours to actively support Athens as a destination. Actions to reinforce Athens’ attractiveness as a tourism destination have significantly contributed to the recovery and enhancement of the city’s image and the increase in foreign tourists’ arrivals to our city. In particular, Airport Company has implemented a series of destination marketing targeted actions and initiatives by forging strong relations and strategic co-operations and synergies with tourism organisations and associations (Association of Tourism Enterprises, Greek National Tourism Organisation, Ministry of Tourism, Marketing Greece, etc.). 4 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM Within this context and as a part of the destination marketing initiatives undertaken for the promotion of Athens, Airport Company entered into strategic partnership with the Municipality of Athens and Aegean Airlines. The partnership named Athens Tourism Partnership (ATP) was presented in a press conference in December 2016 and was launched in January 2017. It is a unique digital campaign for Athens, which was managed by Marketing Greece, and targeted the German and French market until June 2017. The fact that foreign visitors with Athens as their final destination significantly increased during last year denotes the effectiveness of such strategic synergies and highlights the necessity for all tourism industry organisations and bodies to continue co-operating with the long-term strategic aim to establish Athens as one of the most appealing tourist destinations worldwide. Establishing knowhow and disseminating long-stand experience in airport and aviation industry, AIA organises international events, promoting the company’s high level of expertise and Athens as a tourist and knowledge destination. Airport Company contributed to International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Global Aviation Corporation Symposium (GACS II), that took place in Athens in October 2017 and was co-organised with HCAA, attended by more than 400 delegates and representatives from the aviation industry, promoting intellectual and state of the art case studies on that topic. Also, AIA organised once more the 5th Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium (ACES-Athens) in December 2017. This Airport Company’s initiative which takes place in Athens on an annual basis aims on the one hand to highlight the interdependence between the air transport industry and airports and the development of the destinations they serve and on the other to introduce initiatives for the strengthening of Athens as a tourism destination. This year’s event focused on the evaluation of the Chinese market and the Brexit case and their possible consequences in the aviation market was presented and discussed. The symposium was attended by more than 100 top executives from the air transport, the cruise business and tourism industry, as well as from the financial sector. 2.3 Consumers Retail services Within the context of constantly improving passenger experience at the airport, the large-scale commercial redevelopment project that commenced in September 2016, namely Intra-Schengen Project (ISP), covering the entirety of Intra – Schengen (IS) area and a large part of All-Users Departures area, was completed in April 2017, delivering to the passenger audience a new IS commercial area of contemporary commercial and aesthetical design, with a significantly expanded Retail and Food & Beverage (F&B) selection. The robust sales performance of the new stores and concepts led to an increase in the Shopping Centre’s revenues of 10.6% compared to the previous year, an increase that surpassed the respective passenger traffic annual increase by 2%. ISP was implemented following the same design principles and approach with the successful Extra-Schengen Project (ESP) that was completed in 2015. This large-scale refurbishment resulted in a remarkable net commercial space increase of 1,500 sq.m. expanding AIA’s total commercial space to more than 11,200 sq.m. In the frame of redesigning Airport Company’s commercial offering to better address the constantly evolving passenger needs, in 2017 a new large Duty-Free outlet commenced operations together with three “lastminute” gate shops; 28 new specialty shops opened and seven more were substantially renovated; 11 new F&B concepts were added to the Airport Shopping Centre’s and one F&B unit was totally renovated and expanded. Further to the above, AIA launched a series of targeted marketing and co-promotional sales activities in close cooperation with the concessionaires, including amongst others several happenings to celebrate the launch of the new IS area that were also communicated through a radio campaign, a special discount programme for Perfumes & Cosmetics and a Fashion Bazaar, all achieving remarkable results both in terms of enhancing customer experience but also in terms of generating sales. Landside services The Airport Company’s car parking revenues recorded a marginal decrease during 2017, by 0.3% compared to the previous year. 5 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The propensity of Greeks to spend together with the presence of ultralow-cost carriers and competition, negatively affect the parking business by mainly altering the mix of Greek O&D passengers, who constitute the car parking primary users, in favour of public transport and car drop-off means. Online booking has been strategically placed for one more year in the centre of parking marketing communication so as to address ongoing business challenges, support sales and further enhance the offered service against alternative airport access options. In 2017 e-parking tickets increased by an impressive 30%, with the e-parking service been highly supported by the new parking website that was launched in April and the well-accepted initiation of the parking loyalty scheme “PARK€WIN” that has already enlisted more than 30,000 members. Aiming to address current parking competition in the vicinity of the airport, the “always on” marketing campaign remained active for another year providing strong communication of the AIA parking offers through radio spots and monthly newsletters, while supporting awareness of the new aggressive price policy. The effectiveness of the above is also mirrored in passenger surveys where the price acceptance among parking users has been improved by 13%. Furthermore, an important part of the parking strategy comprised several new partnerships with AIA’s Shopping Centre and Retail Park concessionaires and with Attiki Odos (Athens ring-motorway). Terminal Services In a year marked by major construction projects within the terminals, Airport Company was able to offer personal assistance and information to more than 2.5 million passengers and visitors. The Airport Call Centre handled approximately 430,000 telephone inquiries with almost 95% of callers being served within 20 seconds. In addition, more than 4,400 inquiries received electronically via the “airport info” service were processed. Gates for automated passport control were introduced for the first time in our airport, both in the Departures and Arrivals areas with three units per area. The e-gates expedite European passport holders with biometric travel documents. Airport staff were present to inform travelers, manage queues and assist transfer passengers with short connections. “Fast Lane” at the Intra-Schengen Screening Point was thoroughly revamped, well-defined by the introduction of an exclusive entrance for business and priority passengers. Finally, in our effort to continuously improve information provision and passenger service, a new Airport Information Counter was placed in the Intra-Schengen Arrivals Corridor. 2.4 Property Business Unit In 2017, Airport Company’s property business activities demonstrated a firm performance. The airport Hotel and the Exhibition Centre recorded considerable growth, the Retail Park achieved a marginal increase, and space leases activity managed to sustain business at 2016 levels. The documented turnover of the airport Hotel (Sofitel), showed an annual increase of 11.7%, a record performance since its opening, despite the slight drop in the occupancy rate by 1.5%. Year’s highlights include a major renovation programme, the first phase of which is planned to be completed in 2018. The Metropolitan Exhibition & Conference Centre recorded a considerably improved turnover by 8.5% compared to 2016. Growth is mainly attributed to the hosting of the “XENIA” trade show, which was successfully relaunched in 2017 and henceforth is scheduled to take place annually, targeting the hotel and the wider hospitality sector. Amidst the overall environment in the domestic retail sector, the Retail Park showed a marginal sales growth of 0.5% compared to 2016. Operation of the Retail Park on Sundays from mid-July until October, as per the new law for shop opening on Sundays in tourist areas, contributed towards this improvement. Building and space leases mainly serving the airport community (i.e. airlines, ground handlers, concessionaires) sustained their occupancy rates close to the 2016 levels. In the context of improving passenger travel experience, Extra Schengen lounges for Commercial Important Persons (CIP) were enhanced with the addition of a brand-new lounge operated by Aegean Airlines. 6 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM Finally, the Photovoltaic Park increased production by approximately 3% in 2017 and reached a level of 13,642 MWh annually, largely due to the favourable weather conditions. 2.5 Information Technology & Telecommunications Information Technology & Telecommunications Business Unit continued its successful performance contributing to Airport Company’s and its stakeholders’ unobstructed operations along the year. Its project portfolio was further enriched, aiming to enhance operational excellence and customer experience by launching new business-to-business and business-to-consumer services using innovative technology. Operational Resilience and Cyber security As part of our systems’ improvement with regards to Information Security, Internal Firewalls were replaced. These firewalls control communications between Airport Operational Systems, such as the Universal Flight Information System (UFIS), BHS, Common Use Terminal Equipment (CUTE), Building Automation System (BAS) and more. The annual IT&T Disaster Recovery exercise was performed jointly with the involved users. The redundancy mechanisms, referring to 40 IT&T systems, including critical systems, virtualisation infrastructure, networking services and external connectivity were tested successfully, within a timeframe of eight hours. TÜV HELLAS renewed the IT&T ISO 20000 and ISO 9001 certifications without any findings. Cyber security remains at the top of our attention. In order to further enhance Airport Company’s defence against cyber risks, Anti-Distribution Denial of Service (DDOS) mechanisms, both software and hardware, have been installed to protect communication lines and the internet website. Moreover, modifications have been accomplished in coordination with Hellenic Telecommunications Organisation OTE in the architecture of the telecommunication system infrastructure, to reassure the uninterrupted provision of voice and data services within the airport premises. The renewal of AIA’s Data Network and Telephony infrastructure through the introduction of the “New Generation Networks” technology progressed significantly; IT&T has successfully completed the upgrade of its Data Network and Telephony Backbone. Innovation & Digital Initiatives The Airport Company’s digital information to passengers is provided also through FLIO global airport application which is considered one of the main global digital marketplaces for airports, airlines, retailers and brands. FLIO carries valuable airport information for over 1,500 airports worldwide, all in one mobile application. The second round of “THE DIGITAL GATE”, the competition for innovation and youth entrepreneurship, was concluded. “THE DIGITAL GATE” is organised in cooperation with the Athens Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation of the Athens University of Economics and Business In 2017, eight teams presented their Minimum Viable Products which were developed with the guidance of airport professionals and were assessed in a real airport environment. The ranking results and the winners were announced during a special event in February 2018. In the context of the new AIA Extranet Project, IT&T launched “Airportal”, a new website addressed exclusively to the airport community. The portal offers an updated version of the “Flight Information Pages”, an e-phone book service with additional information and access to e-books such as the Aerodrome Operations Manual (AOM). The new Governance Risk & Compliance (GRC) system for enhancing Internal Audit department’s (IAD) processes and automation was introduced. IT&T commissioned and acquired a new Learning Management System (LMS). The new platform, integrated with the Human Resources Information System (HRIS), is the sole learning tool for both AIA employees and those of Third Parties within the airport community. It allows Human Resources department to easily manage all training records as well as to efficiently administer training resources, whilst at the same time it supports AIA’s compliance requirements. 7 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Awards Airport Company received the significant international award “Value Winners” of the WITSA Global Excellence Awards 2017 in the category of Digital Opportunity. The WITSA Global Excellence Award is dedicated to highlighting companies operating in the IT and communications industry worldwide. At the “Corporate Affairs Excellence Awards 2017” Airport Company was awarded in the category of Best Use of Social Media and received also a special award in the category of Key Performance Indicators for its «ATH Messenger bot via Facebook messenger». At the Impact Bite Awards of Boussias Communications, Airport Company’s IT & T BU was awarded two (2) golden awards, namely in the category “BUSINESS CONTINUITY”, and in the category “ALIGNMENT OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP & ICT STRATEGY”. 2.6 Major Corporate Projects and developments Concession Extension Further to the discussions since 2016, between Airport Company and the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) as prescribed in Article 4.2 of the ADA and the relevant exchange of information between the two parties and their advisors, in May 2017 the BoD of HRADF approved the draft ADA Extension Agreement and invited Airport Company to submit its financial offer on the Concession Extension. Airport Company’s financial offer was finally approved by the BoD of HRADF on 30 May 2017 and the offer was affirmed by the Extraordinary General Meeting of AIA’s shareholders on 1 June 2017. Following the approval of the draft ADA Extension Agreement by the Inter-Ministerial Committee of Assets Restructuring and Privatisations of the Hellenic Republic published in the Government Gazette (FEK B’ 3294/19.09.2017) and the publication of a voluntary ex ante transparency notice in the official journal of the European Union, the ADA Extension Agreement was signed on 30 September 2017 between AIA, HRADF and the Greek State. The Agreement foresees an extension of the ADA term until 11 June 2046 under the terms and conditions prescribed therein, including the payment by AIA of a financial consideration to HRADF. The Agreement will become effective upon the completion of the necessary approvals by the European Authorities, EIB and the ratification by the Hellenic Parliament. The latter processes commenced in 2017 and are still ongoing. External International Business Activities Airport Company participates in business projects, exporting its know-how in order not only to generate revenue but also to create non-tangible value-added to the company and its employees. In 2017 the highlights of Airport Company’ external business activities were: • Consulting & training services to Oman Airports Management Company: Airport Company was entrusted with the training of its Muscat and Salalah airports personnel. Within a series of intensive full week onthe-job training programmes covering a broad spectrum of airport functions, seventy-six (76) Omani professionals have until now concluded their training. • Research & Development – European projects: Airport Company’s IT&T has been awarded funding by the EU for two R&D projects. The “ICARUS” project, which aims to bring together the Aerospace, Tourism, Health, Security, Transport, Retail, Weather and Public sectors, in order to accelerate their data-driven collaboration that can produce novel industry applications which add social and commercial value. The “CHARIOT” project, which focuses on the Privacy, Security and Safety of the Internet of Things Systems under a unified approach through a cognitive computing platform. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) The GDPR (EU Regulation 679/2016) introduces a new “architecture” to be applied horizontally throughout all legal entities requiring, among others, the protection of personal data “by design” in all data processes and records, as well as the adoption and implementation of such Information Security tools and practices that safeguard confidentiality, integrity, availability and safekeeping of personal data. Responding to the challenge, Airport Company in 2017 started preparing its organisation to meet the substantial and formal deadlines of May 2018, set by the Regulation. Such actions include a GDPR familiarisation exercise, personal data mapping throughout all corporate and operational functions and the establishment of a competent department and Data Protection Officer. Further actions towards GDPR compliance are ongoing in2018. 8 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM 3. Corporate Responsibility Airport Company approaches Corporate Responsibility (CR) in an integrated manner, aiming at promoting the sustainability of all aspects of its operation and development. AIA acknowledges its role as a responsible company, for creating sustainable value for its stakeholders and for balancing its objectives across the perspectives of operational responsibility, environmental responsibility, corporate citizenship, employer’s responsibility and sustainability governance. Airport Company’s approach to Corporate Responsibility is reflected in the related CR Policy, which was revised in 2017 and implemented as a cross-departmental effort through a contemporary three-level CR governance structure: Strategy, Integration and Implementation across AIA structural units and departments. Related practices are continuously updated in line with emerging requirements and global standards. The Company engages in independent Sustainability Assurance for the verification of disclosures accuracy, completeness and abidance to applicable standards. Airport Company’s sustainability reporting abides by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards of 2016 and is in line with the company’s sustained commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, the acknowledgement of the United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) and the Agenda 2030, contributing to the global sustainability effort. 3.1 Operational Responsibility Operational responsibility is the cornerstone of Airport Company’s commitments. The Company ensures safe, secure, efficient and value-adding services for the benefit of a well-coordinated airport community and for delivering an exceptional experience to the travelling public. In 2017, the Airport Company was certified for compliance with the EASA Aerodrome Rules for aviation safety practices. During the year, 14 aviation safety audits were conducted to third parties. Ensuring the health & safety of the travelling public, all public and technical areas are regularly inspected, in order to ensure that airport facilities personnel comply with legal provisions and Airport Company’s corporate rules and procedures. In 2017, 21 health and safety audits were conducted towards various airport community stakeholders. Operational readiness and availability performance of critical systems was maintained at exceptional levels. At the same time, satisfaction rating from passengers was considerably improved and maintained at high levels (4.35 on a 5-point scale compared to 4.26 of the previous year), an outstanding performance mainly reflecting the impressive functional and aesthetic changes of public and retail areas at the terminal. It is worth to be noted that in 2017, 9.81% more Passengers with Reduced Mobility (PRM) made use of assistance services compared to 2016. Passenger satisfaction is at the focus of every AIA employee, as more than 600 “virtual passenger” walkthroughs were conducted in 2017 as part of the innovative “i-mind” programme, corresponding to over 70,000 inspections. Committed to providing quality services, the company handled and responded to more than 4,500 comments received from 2,400 passengers. 3.2 Environmental Responsibility In 2017 Airport Company held strong to its commitment to operate the airport in a sustainable manner with a focus on environmental protection. AIA refurbished its Noise Monitoring Terminals, which had been continuously operating since 2001, updated its Strategic Noise Map to incorporate 2016 traffic data and re-examined the relevant Noise Action Plan. In addition, according to best practices, preliminary work was conducted for a Climate Change Adaptation study for the airport in 2018. By heavily investing in energyefficient technology over the past decade, AIA has managed to reduce its carbon footprint more than 40%. Airport Company’s environmental profile is further bolstered by the production of clean electricity by its 8.05 MWp Photovoltaic (PV) Park, saving more than 12,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. Application of the “Polluter Pays” concept to waste management at the airport continues to produce 9 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 remarkable results: for the first time ever, the Recycling Rate exceeded 60% for Solid Non-Hazardous Waste (9,638 tonnes of the total of 15,541 tonnes). In addition, 285 tonnes of Hazardous Waste and 185 kg of medical/clinical waste were collected and transferred to licensed facilities. Also, airport employees recycled seven tonnes of hazardous and non-hazardous waste at AIA’s dedicated Recycling Centre. In 2017, Airport Company certified its Energy Management System (EnMS) in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard, becoming the first airport in Greece to do so. This certification (valid until 04/12/2020) recognises our efforts to use energy more efficiently, conserve resources and contribute to the fight against climate change and ensures compliance with the relevant energy legislation. Some recent projects include the use of LED technology to light the apron and other areas of the Airport, replacement of older company vehicles with newer models with lower fuel consumption and emissions as well as investment in more efficient air conditioning equipment. This certification is the first one that does not apply only to a specific function but to the whole Airport Company. Furthermore, AIA’s Environmental Management System was upgraded to the latest version of the ISO 14001 standard. The current certification is valid until 12/01/2019. 3.3 Employer’s Responsibility The people of AIA is the Company’s most valuable asset. At the end of 2017, our headcount was 711 persons (598 persons under open-ended contracts and 113 persons on a fixed-term contract basis) versus 684 persons in 2016 (604 persons under open-ended contracts and 80 persons on a fixed-term contract), holding a high level educational background. Thirty-one (31%) percent of our personnel reside in the local communities, reflecting our close relationship with the Mesogeia community. In October 2017, a Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) was signed, as each year since 2000, between Airport Company’s Management and the Employees’ Union under mutual consensus of the two parties in order to meet and satisfy employees’ requests. The signing of the CLA is an important factor for maintaining labour peace in a well-coordinated company, which has not changed the salaries despite the downtrend of the market for one more year. Our business strategy is closely linked with the development of our people’s skills and capabilities. Continuous professional and personal training of our employees is of vital importance, therefore we allocate significant resources towards these activities. The 2017 Training Plan resulted in a total of 25,070 training hours, with 100% of the employees attending at least one training session and receiving the equivalent of 35.1 hours per FTE. Relating to EASA Compliance Training, there were 3,283 training hours of recurrent courses attended by 137 participants and 1,753 training hours of externally provided courses attended by 191 participants. In 2017 Airport Company continued the “Praxis” programme initiated in 2016, which aims to contribute to youth employability in Greece by offering paid working experience to 28 young people who are aged between 19 and 29 years. Upon completion of the programme, a consultant facilitates the trainees to access the labour market. 3.4 Corporate Citizenship For the 2nd consecutive year in 2017 Airport Company, the Benaki Museum and Costa Navarino joined forces and presented an ambitious cultural exhibition titled “Under the Spell of Greek Costume: Contemporary Creations Animate the Benaki Museum Collections”. This group exhibition brought together 15 worldrenowned fashion designers and artists who were inspired by Greek costumes of the period 16th to 20th century, as pictured in the collection of imprints donated to the Benaki Museum by J.D. Koilalous. Airport Company collaborated once again with the Museum of Cycladic Art for the exhibition “A journey through the culture of Cycladic islands”. It constitutes a concise presentation of the large-scale exhibition “Cycladic Society, 5.000 years ago”, organised by the museum on the occasion of its 30th anniversary. In collaboration with the Athens Digital Arts Festival (ADAF), Airport Company hosted the multimedia exhibition titled: “#PostFuture Journey-Flying beyond digital reaching the #Post Future” with major video art and animation installations. In collaboration with the Goulandris Natural History Museum / Greek Biotope-Wetland Centre, AIA hosted the exhibition “Greek Forest, Green Destinations” which aims to promote Greek forests as highquality recreation destinations. 10 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM Through the “Fly me to the Moon” programme, Airport Company has provided passengers and visitors with a distinct entertainment and cultural experience within the Airport with prominent artists and musical ensembles for the fourth consecutive year. The Airport is a significant driver of economic development in the region. This is complemented by targeted investment in social, educational, cultural, athletic, environmental and other causes that go well beyond the scope of any legal obligations and help establish AIA as a good neighbour. The Company’s ties with local society remained intact through its annual Community Engagement Plan implementation. Highlight initiatives for 2017 include the provision of financial rewards to local schools for their participation in Airport Company’s Recycling Programme and to top students from local high schools admitted to Greek Universities; a programme for raising awareness on water conservation issues that was implemented to ten local elementary schools and attended by 519 students; the continuation of the Environmental Management Programme which aims to raise awareness on the airport’s environmental protection measures in the Mesogaia area and includes a presentation and an Airport site tour, this year delivered to 429 high school students; and financial assistance to local cultural and athletic associations, charity groceries and families in need. In 2017, a colour ultrasound machine was donated to the Spata Health Centre in order to upgrade and improve the primary care services provided to the citizens of the region. Playground equipment was purchased and installed in the playground in the city centre of Artemis, thus improving the quality of life of its residents. The area of ‘Prasinos Lofos’ in Artemis was cleaned up for the tenth consecutive year as a fire prevention measure. Also for the tenth consecutive year, Airport Company continued to support the Vravrona Archaeological Museum and the conservation and promotion of the Vravrona Wetland. 4. Financial Statements’ Highlights The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Accounting Policies approved by the Board of Directors of the Airport Company. Operating revenues of AIA reached the amount of €433.5 million, higher by 6.61% (or €26.9 million) compared to the previous financial year, mainly attributed to the increase of passenger traffic and the improved performance of the retail revenues. In total, AIA’s participation in the Airport Development Fund (ADF) reached the amount of €79.9 million, lower by €3.5 million or 4.18% in comparison to the prior financial year, as a result of the decrease of the ADF levy for non-EU passengers from €22 to €12 per departing passenger from 11 Apr 2017 onwards in accordance with law 4465/2017. Part of the ADF receipts covered interest expenses, i.e. €21.4 million (2016: €25.6 million) and were recorded as subsidies related to financial expenses, while the remaining €58.5 million (2016: €57.8 million) covered part of the instalments of the loan received for the construction of the airport and was transferred to other revenues. In 2017 operating expenses increased by €14.3 million or 10.58% mainly due to additional cost requirements following the increased traffic and the once-off consulting, legal and other related expenses for the effectiveness of the concession extension (€5.9 million) as well as due to the full year effect of the variable element of the Grant of Rights Fee (€8.4 million). Overall earnings before interest, tax, depreciation & amortisation (EBITDA) in 2017 were increased by €12.6 million or 4.64% compared to the previous year, reaching the level of €284.5 million. Depreciation charge was €76.6 million in 2017, slightly higher by €2.4 million to the corresponding charge in 2016 of €74.2 million due to additional investments in capital expenditure within the year. Net financial expenses stood at €29.5 million presenting a decrease of €4.7 million or 13.8% versus 2016 mainly due to the gradual reduction of the outstanding balance of the Airport Company’s debt. Profit before Tax reached the amount of €199.8 million. After accounting for the aggregate charge for income tax of €59.8 million, the statutory and other reserves of €7.0 million and the prior year’s retained earnings of €85.4 million, there remains a distributable profit of €218.4 million. Given the short-term financial obligations for the Airport Company arising from the ADA Extension Agreement, no dividend distribution to the shareholders is proposed by the Board. 11 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The Statement of Financial Position of 31 December 2017 reflects total Assets of €1.2 billion. The value of Airport Company’s Non-Current Assets (€0.65 billion) represents 52% of Total Assets, indicating that Airport Company still remains a capital-intensive company. AIA continued to present healthy financial performance, with consistently strong key performance indicators. More specifically, Net Turnover & ADF per passenger stands at €20.9 (2016: €21.6), while Operating Costs per Passengers remain at low levels, i.e. €6.9 per passenger (2016: €6.7 per passenger). Moreover, Airport Company uses a metric, i.e. AVA (Added Value on Assets) to measure the value created from operating revenues and expenses, also taking into account assets and cost of capital since airports are largely capitalintensive business entities. In specific increased value has been generated in 2017, i.e. AVA (Net Operating Profit After Tax minus Cost of Capital x Net Assets) was €119.6 million (2016: €111.9 million). All Fixed Assets are recorded in the Fixed Assets Register and are free of any encumbrances apart from the conditional assignment of the Usufruct extended since 1996 in favour of the Lenders. Fixed Assets were depreciated at rates reflecting their estimated useful lives and the legal limits on their use as provided by the ADA. The value of the Usufruct of the Land that was assigned by the Greek State for the development and operation of the Airport, the present value of the fixed component Grant of Rights Fee and the value of the Intangible Assets are equally depreciated over the operation of the 25-year concession period. Investment in Associates consists of €3.25 million and represents the carrying amount of AIA’s participation in the equity of Athens airport Fuel Pipeline Company S.A. AIA’s Closing Cash position is €466.8 million. AIA is exposed to financial risks such as cash flow and fair value interest rate risk, price, credit and liquidity and to concentration risks. The Company invests its cash and cash equivalents in short-term deposits and held-to-maturity highly liquid financial assets minimising its exposure to interest rates volatility. As regards the borrowings, these are with fixed interest rates eliminating any potential adverse impact on company’s financial performance from the fluctuation of interest rates. In particular, the weighted average fixed interest rate of EIB Loan is 6.12%, whereas the current outstanding balance amounts to € 295.6 million out of the initial withdrawn amount of € 997 million. The repayment of EIB Loan is effected through semi-annually installments which started in June 2004 and will be completed in June 2021. In order to cover the credit risk, the company obtains adequate securities from customers, as per the applied Credit Policy. The liquidity risk is managed through efficient cash management involving cash forecasting and investments strategy that ensures the sufficient level of available cash to meet operational needs, to cover the debt service obligations and to finance investments, complying with the debt covenants in terms of creditability and maturity of investments. The nature of the risks, as well as the scope and the company policies for managing financial risks, are presented in Section 3 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Other risks and uncertainties related to tax disputes with the Greek State and disputes on municipal charges with two of the surrounding municipalities are analytically referred to in note 5.28 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Regarding events that occurred after the balance sheet date a reference is made in note 5.31 of the Financial Statements. 5. 2018 Outlook Our expectation for 2018 is that it will be the fifth consecutive year of traffic growth. However, following a cumulative traffic growth since 2013 of over 73%, it is reasonable to expect a slow-down in the growth rate. Year 2018 will be marked by a number of challenges and developments: • The Greek economy shows clear signs of improvement, following one of the lengthiest and more severe recessions in modern history. Nevertheless, the macroeconomic environment remains fragile, affecting the Greeks’ spending propensity. • Whereas airline capacity in domestic routes will be reduced, international traffic is expected to grow further, since additional capacity will be placed in the Athens market by home and visiting carriers. These positive airline decisions are aided by the favourable environment regarding low fuel prices, improved fleet capacity and utilisation and high airline profitability. Also, tourism demand is supported by the improved Athens value proposition in contrast with the geopolitical situation which continues to trouble some of our competitive markets. 12 Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM • Traffic growth and regulatory compliance drive two considerable investments that the Airport Company plans to undertake: • Firstly, as a result of the EU Regulation (EU 458/2017) requiring the reinforcement of passport control checks at external borders, leading to a lengthier passport control process for all arriving and departing non-Schengen passengers, AIA plans to expand its immigration and emigration facilities. The construction of this project is expected to kick-off in mid-2018 and the necessary infrastructural and operational amendments are planned to be in place on time for the effectiveness of the new regulation (April 2019). • Secondly, as a result of EU Regulation 1087/2011 regarding the implementation of common standards for baggage explosive detection systems, which requires all bags to be screened with “Standard 3” equipment, a complex project affecting AIA’s baggage handling system will commence for the compliance to the said regulation, with expected completion in 2022. Further to regulatory compliance, these two projects are expected to increase terminal capacity and efficiency in the affected processes and to improve AIA’s value for money offering towards passengers and airlines. • Furthermore, AIA continues to invest in order to maintain and even further improve its service quality, ensuring safe, secure and efficient operations. Moreover, AIA will carry on with investments that make business sense in commercial activities and is closely monitoring future trends related to disruptions from digital developments and on-line shopping which could affect our B2B and B2C strategic positioning. As these lines are being written, the ADA Extension Agreement, signed between the Greek State, HRADF and AIA on 30 September 2017, is still undergoing the scrutiny of the EU authoritiesa condition necessary for its effectiveness. We trust that 2018 will be the milestone year of the completion of this endeavor, which has been the joint effort of numerous stakeholders over the recent years. Its completion will mark the beginning of a new era for the Airport Company and will lead to an improved potential for airport users, employees, shareholders and of course the state and the wider society from the operation of one of the most successful Public-PrivatePartnerships in Europe. AIA pledges to continue to add value to all stakeholders, to act as a responsible operator and employer and to be an exemplary company in all its activities. Spata, 26 April 2018 On behalf of the Board of Directors of Athens International Airport S.A. Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou Chairman of the Board of Directors 13 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Annex II Financial Statements Annex II Financial Statements As at 31 December 2017 In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards Sociétés Anonymes Registration Number: 35925/04/B/96/60 General Commercial (G.E.MI) Registration Number: 2229601000. 1 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The attached Financial Statements are those that were approved by the Board of Directors of ATHENS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT S.A. on 20 March 2018. The Financial Statements and the Notes to the Financial Statements, as presented on pages 1 to 48, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union, and have been signed, on behalf of the Board of Directors by: Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou Chairman of the Board of Directors Holger Linkweiler Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr Ioannis N. Paraschis Chief Executive Officer Panagiotis Michalarogiannis Chief Financial Officer Alexandros Gatsonis Accounting & Tax Manager 2 Annex II Financial Statements Contents INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 7 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 8 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 1 Incorporation & activities of the Company 9 2 Significant accounting policies 9 3 Financial risk management 22 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgments 27 5 Notes to the financial statements 28 5.1 Revenues 28 5.2 Depreciation & amortisation charges 29 5.3 Net financial expenses 29 5.4 Subsidies received 29 5.5 Income tax expense 30 5.6 Basic earnings per share 30 5.7 Property plant & equipment-owned assets 31 5.8 Intangible assets 32 5.9 Financial assets 33 5.10 Other non-current assets 34 5.11 Inventories 34 5.12 Construction works in progress 34 5.13 Trade receivables 35 5.14 Other receivables 35 5.15 Cash and cash equivalents 35 5.16 Share capital 36 5.17 Statutory & other reserves 36 5.18 Retained earnings 36 5.19 Bank loans 37 5.20 Employee retirement benefits 38 5.21 Provisions 40 5.22 Income & deferred tax liabilities 40 5.23 Other non-current liabilities 41 5.24 Trade & other payables 42 5.25 Other current liabilities 42 5.26 Operating lease arrangements 43 5.27 Commitments 43 5.28 Contingent liabilities 43 5.29 Related parties transactions 47 5.30 Reclassifications 48 5.31 Events after the balance sheet date 48 3 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 Note 2017 2016 Operating revenues 5.1 374,779,380 347,499,533 Other revenues 5.1 58,746,398 59,142,915 Total operating revenues 433,525,777 406,642,448 Operating expenses Personnel expenses 41,706,298 41,759,712 Outsourcing expenses 53,459,052 49,503,143 Public relations & marketing expenses 4,244,760 4,658,623 Utility expenses 8,785,755 8,554,580 Insurance premiums 1,677,099 1,829,272 Net provisions and impairment losses 6,636,894 7,922,678 Grant of rights fee variable fee component 15,987,884 7,599,458 Other operating expenses 16,519,790 12,926,779 Total operating expenses 149,017,533 134,754,245 EBITDA 284,508,245 271,888,203 Depreciation & amortisation charges 5.2 76,559,706 74,209,512 Operating profit 207,948,539 197,678,691 Financial income 5.3 (116,439) (430,680) Financial costs 5.3 29,595,004 34,632,429 Net financial expenses 5.3 29,478,565 34,201,749 Subsidies received for borrowing costs 5.4 (21,359,734) (25,583,924) Profit before tax 199,829,708 189,060,866 Income tax expense 5.5 (59,780,635) (56,669,454) Profit after tax 140,049,073 132,391,412 Basic earnings per share 5.6 4.67 4.41 The notes on pages 9 to 48 are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 Annex II Financial Statements Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 Note 2017 2016 Profit after tax 140,049,073 132,391,412 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be classified to profit or loss Actuarial gains/(losses) 5.20 (262,672) (511,762) Deferred tax on actuarial gains/(losses) 76,175 148,411 Deferred tax due to change in tax rates 0 0 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 5.9 231,000 (8,250,000) Deferred tax on the change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 5.9 (66,990) 2,392,500 Recycling to profit or loss 5.9 0 8,019,000 Deferred tax on the recycling to profit or loss 5.9 0 (2,325,510) Total comprehensive income for the year after tax 140,026,586 131,864,051 The notes on pages 9 to 48 are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2017 ASSETS Note 2017 2016 Non-current assets Property plant & equipment-owned assets 5.7 24,308,333 21,656,909 Intangible assets 5.8 609,737,703 667,697,001 Non-current financial assets 5.9 11,088,000 957,000 Other non-current assets 5.10 3,481,460 3,455,985 Total non-current assets 648,615,496 693,766,896 Current assets Inventories 5.11 5,623,024 5,745,316 Construction works in progress 5.12 2,470,539 5,175,040 Trade receivables 5.13 35,396,805 50,568,749 Current financial assets 5.9 0 87,549,512 Other receivables 5.14 87,825,141 53,698,773 Cash & cash equivalents 5.15 466,780,996 285,827,483 Total current assets 598,096,505 488,564,872 TOTAL ASSETS 1,246,712,001 1,182,331,768 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 5.16 300,000,000 300,000,000 Statutory & other reserves 5.17 69,031,428 62,058,994 Retained earnings 5.18 218,443,242 125,889,090 Total equity 587,474,670 487,948,084 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 5.19 217,431,038 295,632,204 Employee retirement benefits 5.20 10,761,931 10,148,627 Provisions 5.21 19,764,431 17,906,069 Deferred tax liabilities 5.22 114,164,377 101,289,704 Other non-current liabilities 5.23 91,221,691 100,686,282 Total non-current liabilities 453,343,468 525,662,886 Current liabilities Bank loans 5.19 78,974,546 74,578,239 Trade & other payables 5.24 60,170,102 64,871,232 Income tax payable 5.22 46,896,777 16,542,254 Other current liabilities 5.25 19,852,438 12,729,074 Total current liabilities 205,893,864 168,720,798 Total liabilities 659,237,332 694,383,684 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 1,246,712,001 1,182,331,768 The notes on pages 9 to 48 are an integral part of these financial statements. 6 Annex II Financial Statements Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 Share Retained Total Reserves Capital Earnings Equity Balance as at 31 December 2015 300,000,000 55,966,785 114,717,249 470,684,034 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 2016 0 0 132,391,412 132,391,412 Other comprehensive income 0 (527,361) 0 (527,361) Total comprehensive income 0 (527,361) 132,391,412 131,864,051 Transactions with owners Dividends distributed to the shareholders 0 0 (114,600,000) (114,600,000) Total transactions with owners 0 0 (114,600,000) (114,600,000) Transfer to statutory reserves 0 6,619,571 (6,619,571) 0 Balance as at 31 December 2016 300,000,000 62,058,994 125,889,090 487,948,084 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year 2017 0 0 140,049,073 140,049,073 Other comprehensive income 0 (22,487) 0 (22,487) Total comprehensive income 0 (22,487) 140,049,073 140,026,586 Transactions with owners Dividends distributed to shareholders 0 0 (40,500,000) (40,500,000) Total transactions with owners 0 0 (40,500,000) (40,500,000) Transfer to statutory and other reserves 0 6,994,921 (6,994,921) 0 Balance as at 31 December 2017 300,000,000 69,031,428 218,443,242 587,474,670 The notes on pages 9 to 48 are an integral part of these financial statements. 7 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2017 Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit for the year before tax 199,829,708 189,060,866 Adjustments for: Depreciation & amortisation expenses 5.2 76,559,706 74,209,512 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 5.13 (96,804) (179,579) Impairment (gain)/ loss on available-for-sale financial assets 5.9 0 8,019,000 Net financial expenses 5.3 29,478,565 34,190,442 (Gain)/loss on PPE disposals (1,899) (19,323) Increase/(decrease) in retirement benefits 350,632 1,007,069 Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1,544,755 728,752 Increase/(decrease) in other assets/liabilities (14,905,679) (15,254,655) Increase/(decrease) in working capital (15,877,753) 15,334,870 Cash generated from operations 276,881,231 307,096,954 Income tax paid (16,969,009) (46,809,451) Interest paid 5.3 (24,261,939) (29,745,705) Net cash flow from operating activities 235,650,284 230,541,798 Investment activities Acquisition of intangible assets PPE (18,545,431) (10,520,313) Interest received 5.3 122,480 446,847 Investments to financial assets 5.9 77,649,512 125,591,501 Dividends received from associate 216,260 451,719 Net cash flow from investment activities 59,442,821 115,969,754 Financial activities Dividends paid 5.18 (40,500,000) (114,600,000) Repayment of bank loans 5.19 (73,639,592) (69,354,408) Net cash flow from financial activities (114,139,592) (183,954,408) Net increase/(decrease) in cash & cash equivalents 180,953,513 162,557,144 Cash & cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 285,827,483 123,270,339 Cash & cash equivalents at the end of the year 466,780,996 285,827,483 The notes on pages 9 to 48 are an integral part of these financial statements. 8 Annex II Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Incorporation & activities of the Company Athens International Airport S.A. (“the Company” or “AIA”) is active in the financing, construction and operation of civil airports and related activities. As a civil airport operator, the Company manages the AIA at Spata, Greece. The Company is a Societe Anonyme incorporated and domiciled in Greece. The address of its registered office is Spata, Attica 19019, with General Commercial Registry Number 2229601000. The Company was established on 31 July 1995 by the Greek State & Private Investors for the purpose of the finance, construction, operation and development of the new international airport at Spata Attica. In exchange for the finance, construction, operation and development of the airport the Greek State granted the Company a 30-year’s concession commencing on 11 June 1996. At the end of the concession arrangement (11 June 2026), subject to the stipulations of Article 33 of the Airport Development Agreement (“ADA”) and without prejudice to all rights and obligations then having accrued to the Greek State and/or the Company, the airport together with all usufruct additions will revert to the Greek State, which will enjoy all rights of ownership over these without payment of any kind and clear of any security, unless the concession arrangement is renewed as provided by the Article 4.2 of the ADA. Further to the discussions since 2016, between AIA and the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) as prescribed in Article 4.2 of the ADA and the relevant exchange of information between the two parties and their advisors, in May 2017 the BoD of HRADF approved the draft ADA Extension Agreement and invited AIA to submit its financial offer on the Concession Extension. AIA’s financial offer was finally approved by the BoD of HRADF on 30 May 2017 and the offer was affirmed by the Extraordinary General Meeting of AIA’s shareholders on 1 June 2017. Following the approval of the draft ADA Extension Agreement by the Inter-Ministerial Committee of Assets Restructuring and Privatisations of the Hellenic Republic published in the Government Gazette (FEK B’ 3294/19.09.2017) and the publication of a voluntary ex ante transparency notice in the official journal of the European Union, the ADA Extension Agreement was signed on 30 September 2017 between AIA, HRADF and the Greek State. The Agreement foresees an extension of the ADA term until 11 June 2046 under the terms and conditions prescribed therein, including the payment by AIA of a financial consideration to HRADF. The Agreement will become effective upon the completion of the necessary approvals by the European Authorities, European Investment Bank (“EIB”) and the ratification by the Hellenic Parliament. The latter processes commenced in 2017 and are ongoing. The Company’s return from air activities is capped at 15.0% on the capital allocated to air activities. In the event that the Company’s actual compounded cumulative return exceeds 15.0%, in 3 out of any 4 consecutive financial periods, the Company is obliged to pay any excess return to the Greek State. The terms and conditions of the concession for the AIA are stipulated in the ADA. The ADA and the Company’s Articles of Association were ratified and enacted under Law 2338/14.09.1995. The Company commenced its commercial operations in March 2001 following a construction period of approximately 5 years initiated in September 1996. The number of open-ended staff employed at year-end was 598 employees, compared to 604 employees at the end of 2016. The financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2018 and are subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders. 2 Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have consistently been applied to all the years presented. 9 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC Interpretations and the Law 4308/2013 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, with the exception that the Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. 2.1.1 Going concern As a result of the funding activities undertaken and the increased focus on working capital, the Company’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Company should be able to operate within the level of its current financing. Currently net interest expenses are covered by operating profits more than 6 times. After making enquiries, management has reasonable expectations that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. 2.1.2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations: Certain new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued that are mandatory for periods beginning during the current financial year and subsequent years. The Company’s evaluation of the effect of these new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations is as follows: Standards and Interpretations effective for the current financial year IAS 7 (Amendments) “Disclosure Initiative” These amendments require entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. IAS 12 (Amendments) “Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses” These amendments clarify the accounting for deferred tax assets for unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair value. Standards and Interpretations effective for subsequent periods IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” and subsequent amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39 which deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities and it also includes an expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used today. IFRS 9 establishes a more principles-based approach to hedge accounting and addresses inconsistencies and weaknesses in the current model in IAS 39. The Company is currently investigating the impact of IFRS 9 and no significant impact on its financial Statements is anticipated. IFRS 9 (Amendments) “Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) These amendments allow companies to measure particular prepayable financial assets with so-called negative compensation at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income if a specified condition is met—instead of at fair value through profit or loss. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. 10 Annex II Financial Statements IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) IFRS 15 has been issued in May 2014. The objective of the standard is to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets. It contains principles that an entity will apply to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognised. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The Company is currently investigating the impact of IFRS 15 and no impact on its financial Statements is anticipated. IFRS 16 “Leases” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) IFRS 16 has been issued in January 2016 and supersedes IAS 17. The objective of the standard is to ensure the lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents those transactions. IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently. The Company is currently investigating the impact of IFRS 16 and no significant impact on its financial Statements is anticipated. IFRS 2 (Amendments) “Classification and Measurement of Shared-based Payment transactions” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) The amendment clarifies the measurement basis for cash-settled, share-based payments and the accounting for modifications that change an award from cash-settled to equity-settled. It also introduces an exception to the principles in IFRS 2 that will require an award to be treated as if it was wholly equity-settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold an amount for the employee’s tax obligation associated with a share-based payment and pay that amount to the tax authority. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. IFRS 4 (Amendments) “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance contracts” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) These amendments introduce two approaches. The amended standard will: a) give all companies that issue insurance contracts the option to recognise in other comprehensive income, rather than profit or loss, the volatility that could arise when IFRS 9 is applied before the new insurance contracts standard is issued; and b) give companies whose activities are predominantly connected with insurance an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 until 2021. The entities that defer the application of IFRS 9 will continue to apply the existing financial instruments standard—IAS 39. IAS 40 (Amendments) “Transfers of Investment Property” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) The amendments clarified that to transfer to, or from, investment properties there must be a change in use. To conclude if a property has changed use there should be an assessment of whether the property meets the definition and the change must be supported by evidence. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. IAS 28 (Amendments) “Long Term Interests in Associates and Joint ventures” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019). The amendments clarify that companies account for long-term interests in an associate or joint venture—to which the equity method is not applied—using IFRS 9. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. 11 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 IFRIC 22 “Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018) The interpretation provides guidance on how to determine the date of the transaction when applying the standard on foreign currency transactions, IAS 21. The Interpretation applies where an entity either pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign currency-denominated contracts. The interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the EU. IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over income tax treatments” (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) The interpretation explains how to recognise and measure deferred and current income tax assets and liabilities where there is uncertainty over a tax treatment. IFRIC 23 applies to all aspects of income tax accounting where there is such uncertainty, including taxable profit or loss, the tax bases of assets and liabilities, tax losses and credits and tax rates. The interpretation has not yet been endorsed by the EU. Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2014 – 2016 Cycle) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017) The amendments set out below describe the key changes to two IFRSs. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. IFRS 12 “Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities” The amendment clarified that the disclosures requirement of IFRS 12 are applicable to interest in entities classified as held for sale except for summarised financial information. IAS 28 “Investments in associates and Joint ventures” The amendments clarified that when venture capital organisations, mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities use the election to measure their investments in associates or joint ventures at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), this election should be made separately for each associate or joint venture at initial recognition. Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2015 – 2017 Cycle) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019) The amendments set out below include changes to four IFRS. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU. IFRS 3 “Business combinations” The amendments clarify that a company remeasures its previously held interest in a joint operation when it obtains control of the business. IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements” The amendments clarify that a company does not remeasure its previously held interest in a joint operation when it obtains joint control of the business. IAS 12 “Income taxes” The amendments clarify that a company accounts for all income tax consequences of dividend payments in the same way. 12 Annex II Financial Statements IAS 23 “Borrowing costs” The amendments clarify a company treats as part of general borrowings any borrowing originally made to develop an asset when the asset is ready for its intended use or sale. 2.2 Foreign currency translation 2.2.1 Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates (‘the functional currency’). The Company’s financial statements are presented in EURO (€), which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 2.2.2 Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. 2.3 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment mainly comprise movable assets, such as vehicles and furniture & fixtures which do not form part of the service concession intangible asset. The items included under the heading “Property, plant & equipment” in the accompanying statement of financial position are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the various categories of property, plant and equipment to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Mechanical Equipment 10 years Vehicles 6-10 years Fixtures & Equipment 10 years Hardware 5 years Land, buildings, installations, fencing, aircraft ground power system, runways, taxiways, aircraft bridges and aprons held under the Service Concession Arrangement constitutes the total infrastructure that has been recognised as an intangible asset (refer to accounting policy 2.4). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other (losses)/gains – net, in the income statement. 13 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2.4 Intangible assets 2.4.1 Service concession arrangement The Service Concession Arrangement refers to the ADA which governs the right that has been granted by the Greek State to the Company for the purpose of the finance, construction, operation and development of the AIA. The above right has a finite useful life of approximately 25 years which is equal to the duration of the concession arrangement following the completion of the construction phase. The Service Concession Arrangement has been accounted under the intangible asset model since the Company, as operator, is paid by the users and the concession grantor has not provided any contractual guarantees with respect to the recoverability of the investment. The intangible asset corresponds to the right granted by the concession grantor to the Company to charge users of the airport services. The Service Concession Arrangement consists of the fair value of acquiring the service concession which principally includes the cost of the usufruct and the costs incurred to construct the infrastructure (net of government grants received) as well as the present value of the fixed determined future obligations for the grant of rights fee payable to the Greek State as set out in the ADA. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the right over the duration of the Service Concession Arrangement which is approximately 25 years. Any subsequent costs incurred in maintaining the serviceability of the infrastructure is expensed as incurred unless such cost relate to major upgrades which increase the income generating ability of the infrastructure. These costs are capitalised as part of the service concession intangible asset and are amortised on a straightline basis over the remaining period of the Service Concession Arrangement. 2.4.2 Grant of rights fee, variable fee component As set out in the ADA and in respect to the period after the twentieth anniversary of the Agreement Commencement Date and until the end of the Concession Period, the Company shall pay to the Greek State per quarter the higher of: (a) a fixed amount of €3,750,000 and (b) 25.0% of 15.0% of the Consolidated Operating Profits for the Financial Year of the Company ending immediately prior to such Quarter. Consolidated Operating Profit is specifically defined in the ADA as: (a) the operating profit of the Company and its Subsidiaries (before interest, extraordinary and exceptional items, taxation calculated on profits or distributions and similar charges), all as determined on a consolidated basis and excluding amounts attributable to minority interests in Subsidiaries, in respect of a Financial Year as shown by the Audited Accounts in respect of that Financial Year, (b) less interest paid during that Financial Year (other than any interest paid on or as a result of a prepayment or acceleration of all or part of the relevant indebtedness) in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money incurred in respect of the provision, acquisition, construction, maintenance, repair, renewal and operation of the assets allocated to Air Activities. The accounting for the Service Concession Arrangement continues as determined in 2.4.1, with the exception that the variable element of the Grant of Rights Fee is expensed to the income statement in the period in which it relates. 2.4.3 Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are depreciated over their estimated useful lives (5 years). Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Company, and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Costs include the employee costs incurred as a result of developing software and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Computer software development costs that recognised as assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives (5 years). 14 Annex II Financial Statements 2.5 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets, such as the service concession intangible asset, that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced by the same amount. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 2.6 Financial assets 2.6.1 Classification The Company classifies its financial assets depending on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The Company has three classes of financial assets comprising held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables and Available-for-sale financial assets. It does not hold any financial assets at fair value through profit and loss. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets. The Company’s loans and receivables recognised in the statement of financial position comprise “Trade and other receivables” and “Cash and cash equivalents”. Refer to notes 2.8 and 2.9 respectively. Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that company’s management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity, other than: • those that the Company upon initial recognition designates at fair value through profit or loss • those that the Company designates as Available-for-sale • those that meet the definition of loans and receivables Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period. 2.6.2 Recognition and measurement Regular-way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date – the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effecwtive interest rate method. Held-to-maturity financial assets are initially recognised at amortised cost and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the Company transfers substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 15 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets are upon initial measurement recognized at fair value including any transaction cost that has been incurred upon acquisition. Subsequent to initial recognition Available-forsale financial assets are measured at fair value. All gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognized directly in other comprehensive income, except with respect to impairment losses that are recognized in profit or loss. 2.6.3 Impairment The Company assesses at each end of the reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a probable ‘loss event’) and that probable loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Company about the following events: • Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor; • A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments; • It is becoming probable that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; • The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or • Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flow from a group of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, including: • adverse changes in the payment status of issuers or debtors; or • national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on trade receivables or held-tomaturity investments carried at amortised cost, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement under provision for impairment. If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised (such as improved credit rating), the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement. As regards Available-for-sale financial assets, if there is objective evidence that impairment has been incurred, the amount that has to be recognized as an impairment loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement. The impairment loss is transferred from other comprehensive income, where it has been previously recognised, to the income statement. Objective evidence of impairment is, either a significant in terms of fair value, or prolonged in terms of period, decline in the fair value of the financial asset. A decline is considered significant when the difference of the fair value and the cost of the financial asset reach 20.0% and irrespective of percentage difference is considered prolonged if the fair value is below its costs for a period of 6 months. Any subsequent reversals of impairment losses with respect to equity instruments cannot be recognized in profit or loss but have to be reflected as an increase directly in other comprehensive income. 16 Annex II Financial Statements 2.7 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 2.8 Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for aeronautical and other services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. 2.9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 2.10 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs associated directly with the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a reduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 2.11 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 2.12 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of a qualifying asset. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 2.13 Government grants Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to borrowing and other related costs are recognised in the income statement to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate. Government grants relating to non-current assets are off-set against the cost of the relevant non-current asset. The grant is recognised as income over the life of the respective depreciable non-current asset by way of a reduction in the depreciation/amortisation charge. 17 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2.14 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of Greek tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Company’s financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit and loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. 2.15 Employee benefits 2.15.1 Pension obligations The Company has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that typically defines an amount of pension benefits that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The Company’s obligations to pay employee retirement benefits under Law 2112/1920 are considered and accounted for as defined benefit plans. The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income statement. For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. 18 Annex II Financial Statements 2.15.2 Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Company before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Company recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value. 2.15.3 Bonus plans The Company recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on achievement of predefined financial and operational targets. The Company recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. 2.16 Provisions Provisions are recognised when: The Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions include the obligations under the Service Concession Arrangement to maintain the serviceability of major infrastructure components, such as runways, taxiways, aprons, etc. which require major overhauls at regular intervals during the concession period. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense. 2.17 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Company’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts. The Company recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and specific criteria have been met for each of the Company’s activities as described below. The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved. The Company bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. 19 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2.17.1 Sales of services Revenue from the sale of services is derived from “air activities” and “non-air activities”. “Air Activities” mean the provision of facilities, services and equipment for the purpose of landing, parking and servicing of aircrafts; the handling of passengers, baggage, cargo or mail on airport premises; and the transfer of passengers, baggage, cargo or mail to and from aircrafts and trains. “Non-Air Activities” mean the provision, operation, maintenance, repair, renewal staffing and supervision of the following services, facilities and equipment: car parking, general retail shops, restaurants, bars and other refreshment facilities, vehicle rental, porter service, hotels etc. Airport charges Revenues related to airport charges are recognised in the income statement when the services are rendered. The criteria for the recognition of income related to airport charges is the aircraft’s take off. Each arrival of an aircraft and its subsequent departure is considered as a cycle of movement/flight where all necessary services have been rendered. Article 14 of ADA, sets the rules for defining the charges levied to the users of the airport with respect of the facilities and services provided at the airport. According to the aforementioned article, the Company is entitled to determine at its discretion the level of airport charges in order to achieve a maximum return of 15.0% per annum on the capital allocated to air activities. Concession agreements The Company’s business area has at the balance sheet date, a total of 62 concession contracts, concerning the performance of various commercial activities at the airport. A concession involves granting of rights to a concession holder to operate and manage a commercial activity in a specific location designated by the Company. The concession rights are calculated according to an agreed scale as a percentage of the sales generated by the concession holder subject to an annual minimum guaranteed fee. A separate part of the concession contract is entered into for the space required for warehouses, for which a fixed rent is payable. Concession revenues are recognised in the income statement on a monthly basis, while the settlement of the annual concession fees is finally recognised by the Company in the income statement, at year-end. 2.17.2 Building space rentals and services The Company rents properties held under the concession and located within the airport premises under operating leases. Revenue from such leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 2.17.3 Parking fees Revenues related to parking services to vehicles used by passengers and visitors to reach airport are recognized in the income statement when the service is concluded. The criterion for the recognition of revenue related to parking charges is the vehicle’s departure. Each arrival of a vehicle and its subsequent departure is considered as a cycle of movement where all services have been rendered. 2.17.4 Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. When a receivable is impaired, the Company reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired loans and receivables is recognised using the original effective interest rate. 20 Annex II Financial Statements 2.17.5 Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 2.18 Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty. 2.19 Leases Leases under which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made by the Company under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. The Company does not lease any material property, plant or equipment under finance leases under which it substantially retains all the risks and rewards of ownership. 2.20 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 2.21 Fair value estimation and hierarchy Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. The carrying value of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values at the balance sheet date. The fair value of financial assets held to maturity and Available-for-sale financial asset is assessed using quoted prices in active market (Level 1). The fair value of loans is estimated by the method of discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate swaps for the average duration of the loan which corresponds to the average duration of the relevant debt obligation (Level 2). During the year there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and no transfers into and out of Level 3 for the measurement of fair value. 21 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2.22 Associates Associates are all entities over which the Company has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20.0% and 50.0% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any impairment losses. Dividend income is recognised when the right to such income is established. The Company’s investment in its associate amounts to €3.25m as of 31 December 2017 represents less than 1.0% of total assets at that date. This investment has not been accounted for under the equity method of accounting on the basis that it is not considered to be material to the Company’s operations and the departure from IAS 28 is unlikely to influence the economic decision of the users of these financial statements. 3 Financial risk management 3.1 Financial risk factors The Company is exposed to financial risk, such as market risk (fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The general risk management program of the Company focuses on the unpredictability of the financial markets, and attempts to minimize their potential negative influence on the financial performance of the Company. The financial risk management of the Company is performed internally by a qualified unit, which operates under specific rules that have been approved by the Board of Directors. The ongoing developments relating to the macroeconomic and financial environment in Greece have not significantly affected the operations and financial performance of the Company. Historically, the Company has demonstrated increased resilience in the years of macroeconomic instability, combining financial performance with operational excellence and quality of services and therefore Management does not expect that the operations and financial position of the Company will be significantly affected in the foreseeable future. Despite all adversities, past and future, Management has and will continue to assess the situation and its possible impact, adjusting its operating strategy whenever necessary, in order to deliver financial and non-financial value to shareholders and other stakeholder parties. 3.1.1 Exchange rate risk Exchange rate risk occurs if future business transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in activities outside the euro zone are expressed in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company (euro). The Company’s exposure to foreign exchange risk is very limited since its business is substantially transacted in its functional currency. 3.1.2 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The cash flow interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuations in the future cash flows of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in the market interest rate. The Company has interest-bearing assets in the form of cash and cash equivalent (short term time deposits and other highly liquid investments), thus profits and cash flows from investment activities are dependent on market interest rates. During 2017 the Company’s cash and cash equivalent (short term time deposits and other liquid investments) did not produce any interest revenues (referring to yield from time deposits and current accounts), thus the effective interest rate amounted to 0.0% (2016: 0.0%). The impact from possible future interest rates on the Company’s financial performance, regarding cash and cash equivalents, is presented below: 22 Annex II Financial Statements 2017 2016 Interest rates fluctuation +1.0% 0.0% +1.0% 0.0% Impact on interest receipts 4,812,690 0 2,877,672 0 The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk arising from its long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable interest rates expose the Company to cash flow interest rate risk while borrowings issued at fixed interest rates expose the Company to fair value interest rate risk. The Company’s borrowings are borrowings with fixed interest rates. Hence the financial performance cannot be affected by fluctuations in interest rates with respect to such loans. The fair value interest rate risk of such loans is presented in note 5.19 “Bank loans”. The fair value interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of a financial instrument as a result of fluctuations in the market interest rate. The Company is exposed to fair value interest rate risk as a result of discounting liabilities and receivables of long term settlement. Such liabilities and receivables are discounted using the prevailing pre-tax risk-free rate which is affected by interest rates fluctuations. The impact from possible future interest rates on the Company’s financial performance from liabilities of long term settlement is presented below: 2017 2016 Interest rates fluctuation +1.0% -1.0% +1.0% -1.0% Grant of rights fee payable 400,814 (386,575) 440,745 (440,202) Interest rates fluctuation +1.0% 0.0% +1.0% -1.0% Provision for major restoration expenses (11,338) 7,066 152,288 (153,323) Total impact on interest expenses 389,476 (379,509) 593,034 (593,525) 3.1.3 Price risk Price risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of assets and liabilities as a result of changes in market prices. The Company’s exposure to equity securities price risk is limited to the investment in an unlisted entity which represents less than 1.0% of total asset. The Company is not exposed to commodity price risk. 3.1.4 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents held with banks, short term and long term held-tomaturity financial assets and credit exposures from customers. Cash and cash equivalents – Financial assets For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with minimum ratings described below, as set out under the Master Facility Agreement between the Company and the European Investment Bank (EIB), are acceptable. The Company could cooperate with banks or financial institutions or proceed with the purchase of financial assets that satisfy the following criteria: • Long term unsecured and unguaranteed debt should be rated at: a. A3 or higher by Moody’s; or b. Aor higher by S&P; or c. Aor higher by Fitch • The maturity date of an investment should not exceed the period of 2 years from the investment date • Operates a branch in Greece or such other places as may be agreed between the Company and EIB; and • Is acceptable by EIB 23 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 All cooperation banks are acceptable by EIB. The analysis of financial assets and bank deposits’ balances based on credit ratings is presented in the following table: 2017 2016 AAA to ACCC to RD AAA to ACCC to RD Held-to-maturity financial assets 0 0 87,549,512 0 Available-for-sale financial assets 0 1,188,000 0 957,000 Restricted cash financial assets 9,900,000 0 0 0 Bank deposits' balances 464,375,931 400,361 283,393,903 431,277 Total 474,275,931 1,588,361 370,943,415 1,388,277 The above criteria are satisfied with respect to the Held-to-maturity financial assets and the Bank deposits’ balances. As regards the investment in the Available-for-sale financial asset, for which the above criteria are not satisfied, the Company obtained the consent and waiver of EIB on 1/12/2016. Further information is presented in notes 5.9 and 5.19. Trade receivables Regarding credit exposure from customers, the Company has an established credit policy and procedures in place aiming to minimise collection losses. Credit control assesses the credit quality of the customers, taking into account independent credit ratings where available, their financial position, past experience in payments and other relevant factors. Cash and other collateral are obtained from customers when considered necessary under the circumstances. Trade and other receivables are analysed as follows in terms of credit risk: Trade and other receivables subject to impairment testing 2017 2016 Fully performed 14,601,047 23,570,484 Past due but not impaired 30,517,654 32,974,390 Impaired 2,460,490 3,265,105 Total trade and other receivables subject to impairment testing 47,579,191 59,809,979 Any past due account that is fully covered by guarantees or collaterals given is not tested for impairment. The aging analysis of the past due, but not impaired amount is presented in the following table: Aging analysis of past due but not impaired receivables 2017 2016 1-30 days 17,912,448 14,094,663 31-60 days 4,916,781 4,843,507 Over 60 days 7,688,425 14,036,220 Total of past due but not impaired receivables 30,517,654 32,974,390 Credit quality of financial assets The credit quality of the financial assets is quite satisfactory, taking into account the allowance for doubtful debt. The Company has established a credit policy which requires the customers to extend securities for the use of airport’s services and facilities. The securities held by the Company are in the form of cash deposits and bank letter of guarantee. The fair value of the collaterals held by the Company as at 31 December 2017 is analysed as follows: 24 Annex II Financial Statements Fair value of collaterals held 2017 2016 Letter of guarantees 63,555,986 61,286,818 Cash deposits 27,559,497 30,731,694 Total fair value of collaterals held 91,115,483 92,018,511 The collaterals above have been received against the outstanding balance of all trade receivable accounts. The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to information about counterparty secured amounts: 2017 2016 Group 1 – Fully secured 8,942,809 17,772,428 Group 2 – Partially secured 5,330,592 5,274,470 Group 3 – Not secured 327,647 523,586 Total 14,601,048 23,570,484 Provision for impairment As of 31 December 2017, trade receivables of €32,978,144 (2016: €36,239,495) were partially or fully tested for impairment and adequately provided for their unsecured amount. The amount of provision stood at €2,416,675 as of 31 December 2017. The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to customers, who are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations. It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. In addition, the provision relating to receivables collected during the year has been reversed. Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2017 2016 At 1 January 2,513,479 2,693,058 Addition (release) of provision for receivables impairment (96,804) (179,579) At 31 December 2,416,675 2,513,479 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in “Net provisions and impairment loses” in the income statement. The other classes within trade receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the value of total provision for impairment of trade receivables. 3.1.5 Concentration of credit risk The Company is exposed to concentration risk attributed to the concentration of the trade receivables and cash balances and financial assets. The Company has a high concentration of credit risk with respect to 2 carriers (2016: 2 carriers) which represents higher than 10.0% of its aeronautical revenues. For bank balances and deposits, there is a significant concentration of credit risk with respect to 2 banks (2016: 2 banks), which hold more than 10.0% of the Company’s cash balances and deposits. However, no financial loss is expected based on what has been referred above in note 3.1.4 for cash balances and financial assets. 25 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 3.1.6 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the entity will have difficulty in raising the financial resources required to fulfil its commitments. Liquidity risk is held at low levels through effective cash flow management and availability of adequate cash. Cash flow forecasting is performed internally by rolling forecasts of the Company’s liquidity requirements to ensure that is has sufficient cash to meet operational needs, to fund scheduled investments and debt and to comply with loan covenants. As at 31 December 2017 no cash and cash equivalents were subject to capital controls through effective cash management (€ 41.0m in 2016). The table below analyses the financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Undiscounted cash flows in respect of balances due within 12 months generally equal their carrying amounts in the balance sheet, as the impact of discounting is not significant. Between Between At 31 December 2017 Less than 1 year Over 5 years 1 & 2 years 2 & 5 years Borrowings 95,128,776 95,148,992 142,663,610 0 Grant of rights fee payable 15,000,000 15,000,000 45,000,000 51,833,333 Trade and other payables 55,631,818 0 0 0 Total 165,760,594 110,148,992 187,663,610 51,833,333 Between Between At 31 December 2016 Less than 1 year Over 5 years 1 & 2 years 2 & 5 years Borrowings 95,142,340 95,128,776 237,812,602 0 Grant of rights fee payable 15,000,000 15,000,000 45,000,000 66,833,333 Trade and other payables 60,222,183 0 0 0 Total 170,364,523 110,128,776 282,812,602 66,833,333 Grant of Rights Fee payable relates to the fixed determined future obligations (refer to note 2.4.1). 3.2 Capital risk management The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, use excess cash to repay its borrowings (subject to the termination provisions of the respective loan agreements) or sell assets not pledged as security, to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including “Current and non-current borrowings” as shown in the statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents and current held-to-maturity financial assets. Total capital is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the statement of financial position plus net debt. The gearing ratios at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 26 Annex II Financial Statements Gearing ratio 2017 2016 Total borrowings 295,632,204 369,271,797 Less: Cash & cash equivalent and current financial assets (466,780,996) (373,376,995) Net debt (171,148,792) (4,105,198) Total capital – (equity plus net debt) 416,325,878 483,842,886 Gearing ratio -41% -1% Current held-to-maturity financial assets are also included in the above calculation, as they are an integral part of the Company’s overall cash management strategy. 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgments Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The accounting estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next year are disclosed below. 4.1.1 Taxes The internal control procedures for the related tax risks are part of Company’s control system. The general tax risk for the Company concerns the timely submission of complete tax returns, the payment of the tax amounts concerned as well as compliance with all tax laws and regulations and reporting rules specifically relating to corporate income tax. The Company is subject to income tax, VAT and other taxes in Greece. Significant judgment is sometimes required in determining the Company’s tax position for such taxes in certain instances due to the particular tax regime, under the ADA, applicable to the Company’s operations, which is subject to challenge by the tax authorities on the grounds of ambiguity or different interpretation with tax laws. The Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will arise or tax losses reduced. Where that final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax, deferred tax and other tax assets and liabilities in the period during which such determination is made. 4.1.2 Provision for restoration cost Provision for restoration cost includes future expenses for the major overhauls of roads, runways, taxiways and replacement of airfield lighting and baggage handling equipment. Significant estimates are required to determine the level of provision such as the timing of the expenditure, the extension of the works and the amount that it will be expensed in the future. The nominal value of the provision for restoration cost is annually determined by a qualified department within the Company based on international experience and the specific conditions relating to the operations of the airport. The amount of the provision is discounted at balance sheet date by using the risk-free rate for similar time duration. 4.2 Critical judgments in applying the entity’s accounting policies There were no critical judgments necessary in applying the Company’s accounting policies. 27 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5 Notes to the financial statements 5.1 Revenues Analysis of revenues 2017 2016 Air activities Airport charges 211,073,759 192,201,771 Centralized infrastructure & handling related revenues 47,803,331 46,427,198 Building and ground rentals & concessions 25,305,860 25,927,829 IT&T and other Services 4,830,709 4,818,020 Other 58,514,509 58,300,638 Total air activity revenues 347,528,168 327,675,456 Non-air activities Concession activities 53,723,404 48,246,722 Parking services 13,324,944 13,418,384 Building and ground rentals & concessions 14,838,888 13,571,562 IT&T and other Services 3,878,485 2,888,047 Other 231,888 842,276 Total non-air activity revenues 85,997,609 78,966,992 Total revenues 433,525,777 406,642,448 Operating revenues were measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account the amount of any trade discounts or tax-volume rebates. The fair value of the consideration received, or receivable is equal to the invoiced amount, since the Company doesn’t formally provide any deferred credit terms to its customers, in the form of interest-free instalments or at below market interest rates. The Company, in cases where it is likely, based on estimations, that the economic benefits related to a transaction are not expected to flow to the entity, does not recognise the revenue of the specific transaction. As at the balance sheet date, the Company has contracted with tenants for the following minimum noncancellable operating lease payments: Analysis of minimum lease payments 2017 2016 Within one year 16,131,252 16,608,000 Between one and five years 57,575,177 60,675,564 More than five years 29,598,107 40,966,139 Total minimum lease payments 103,304,535 118,249,704 Concession fees earned for the year ended 31 December 2017 include turnover linked fees in excess of base concession fees amounting to €6,643,758 (2016: €8,720,116). 28 Annex II Financial Statements 5.2 Depreciation & amortisation charges Analysis of depreciation & amortisation charges 2017 2016 Depreciation of owned assets 4,284,413 3,444,023 Amortisation of intangible assets 87,352,070 85,842,266 Amortisation of cohesion fund related to intangible assets (15,076,777) (15,076,777) Total depreciation & amortisation expenses 76,559,706 74,209,512 5.3 Net financial expenses Analysis of net financial expenses 2017 2016 Financial expenses Interest expenses and related costs on bank loans 21,256,921 25,583,924 Unwinding of discount for long term liabilities 5,488,831 6,702,622 Other financial expenses 2,849,253 2,334,576 Financial expenses 29,595,004 34,621,122 Financial revenues Interest income (116,439) (430,680) Financial revenues (116,439) (430,680) Net financial expenses 29,478,565 34,190,442 Interest and related expenses amounting to €24,261,939 (2016: €29,745,705) were paid during the year ended 31 December 2017. The weighted average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash surplus (investments in time deposits and financial assets) for 2017 was approximately zero (2016: 0.0%). The average maturity of the Company’s investments (time deposits and held-to-maturity financial assets) for 2017 was 152 days (2016: 398 days). Interest income amounting to €122,480 (2016: €446,847) was received during the year ended 31 December 2017. 5.4 Subsidies received Airport Development Fund (ADF) In accordance with Law 2065/1992, as amended with Law 2892/2001, the Greek State imposed a levy on passengers older than 5 years old departing from Greek Airports, amounting to €12 for EU passengers and €22 for non-EU passengers, for the purpose of ensuring that passengers share the responsibility for funding the commercial aviation infrastructure within the Hellenic Republic. From 11 April 2017 onwards, in accordance with Law 4465/2017, and until 1 November 2024 the levy is decreased to €12 for non-EU passengers and as of 1 November 2024 to €3 for all passengers. A passenger fee is collected by the airlines and consequently refunded to the Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority on a monthly basis, through bank accounts opened at the Bank of Greece for each airport, in favour of the Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority. For the year ended 31 December 2017 the Company was entitled to subsidies under the ADF amounting to €79,860,546 (2016: €83,341,394) as analysed below: 29 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Analysis of subsidies receivable 2017 2016 Receivables meeting interest and related expenses 21,359,734 25,583,924 Excess over borrowing cost 58,500,812 57,757,470 Total subsidies receivable 79,860,546 83,341,394 Any subsidies receivable in excess of qualifying interest and related expenses for the year are shown as other revenues in line with the accounting policy 2.13. 5.5 Income tax expense Domestic income tax is calculated at 29.0% (2016: 29.0%) on taxable income or, in circumstance where the Company has tax losses carried forward, on gross dividends declared for distribution. (For further information refer to note 5.22). The total income taxes charged to the income statement are analysed as follows: Analysis of income tax expense 2017 2016 Current income tax (46,896,777) 0 Income tax on dividends distributed 0 (16,542,253) Deferred income tax (12,883,858) (40,127,201) Total income tax expense for the year (59,780,635) (56,669,454) The following is the reconciliation between income taxes as presented in the income statement, with those resulting from the application of the enacted tax rates: Reconciliation of effective income tax rate Rate 2017 Rate 2016 Profit before tax for the year 199,829,708 189,060,866 Income tax 29.0% (57,950,615) 29.0% (54,827,651) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.95% (1,892,735) 1.04% (1,972,801) Revenues relieved from income tax (0.03)% 62,715 (0.07)% 130,998 Total income tax expense for the year 29.92% (59,780,635) 29.97% (56,669,454) Refer to notes 5.22 and 5.28 for further analysis of income and deferred taxes. 5.6 Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the Company’s net profits after taxes by the weighted average number of shares during the year as follows: Analysis of earnings per share 2017 2016 Profit of the year attributable to shareholders 140,049,073 132,391,412 Average no of shares during the year 30,000,000 30,000,000 Earnings per share for the year 4.67 4.41 There were no new shares issued or existing shares repurchased during the year. The average number of shares remained unchanged. The Company does not have any potential dilutive instruments. 30 Annex II Financial Statements 5.7 Property plant & equipment-owned assets Property plant & equipment-owned assets Land & Plant & Furniture & Cohesion Acquisition cost Vehicles Total buildings equipment fittings fund Balance as at 1 January 2016 40,000 20,719,326 36,269,694 80,802,424 (17,437,643) 120,393,800 Acquisitions 0 55,315 40,858 449,858 0 546,031 Disposals 0 0 (867,376) (2,000,094) 0 (2,867,470) Transfers 0 0 994,717 3,189,082 0 4,183,800 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2016 40,000 20,774,641 36,437,893 82,441,270 (17,437,643) 122,256,161 Balance as at 1 January 2017 40,000 20,774,641 36,437,893 82,441,270 (17,437,643) 122,256,161 Acquisitions 0 3,025 88,161 569,062 0 660,248 Disposals 0 0 (316,727) (51,243) 0 (367,970) Transfers 0 25,746 464,278 5,785,567 0 6,275,590 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2017 40,000 20,803,412 36,673,605 88,744,656 (17,437,643) 128,824,029 Depreciation of owned property plant & equipment Land & Plant & Furniture & Cohesion Depreciation Vehicles Total buildings equipment fittings fund Balance as at 1 January 2016 0 7,372,342 34,891,499 75,196,471 (17,437,644) 100,022,668 Depreciation charge for the year 0 1,299,839 406,515 1,737,670 0 3,444,024 Disposals 0 0 (867,376) (2,000,064) 0 (2,867,440) Transfers 0 0 0 0 0 0 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2016 0 8,672,181 34,430,638 74,934,077 (17,437,644) 100,599,252 Balance as at 1 January 2017 0 8,672,181 34,430,638 74,934,077 (17,437,644) 100,599,252 Depreciation charge for the year 0 1,279,766 484,018 2,520,629 0 4,284,413 Disposals 0 0 (316,727) (51,242) 0 (367,969) Transfers 0 0 0 0 0 0 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2017 0 9,951,947 34,597,929 77,403,464 (17,437,644) 104,515,696 Carrying amount of owned property plant & equipment Land & Plant & Furniture & Cohesion Carrying Amount Vehicles Total buildings equipment fittings fund As at 1 January 2016 40,000 13,346,984 1,378,195 5,605,953 1 20,371,132 As at 31 December 2016 40,000 12,102,460 2,007,255 7,507,193 1 21,656,909 As at 1 January 2017 40,000 12,102,460 2,007,255 7,507,193 1 21,656,909 As at 31 December 2017 40,000 10,851,465 2,075,676 11,341,192 1 24,308,333 31 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5.8 Intangible assets Intangible assets Acquisition cost Concession assets Cohesion fund Software & other Total Balance as at 1 January 2016 2,091,657,468 (380,686,471) 17,704,298 1,728,675,294 Acquisitions 170,017 0 86,776 256,793 Disposals 0 0 0 0 Transfers 2,921,326 0 740,377 3,661,703 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2016 2,094,748,811 (380,686,471) 18,531,451 1,732,593,790 Balance as at 1 January 2017 2,094,748,811 (380,686,471) 18,531,451 1,732,593,790 Acquisitions 113,256 0 156,961 270,217 Disposals 0 0 0 0 Transfers 13,085,852 0 959,927 14,045,779 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2017 2,107,947,919 (380,686,471) 19,648,339 1,746,909,786 Depreciation of intangible assets Depreciation Concession assets Cohesion fund Software & other Total Balance as at 1 January 2016 1,200,923,094 (222,380,259) 15,588,467 994,131,302 Depreciation charge for the year 85,082,235 (15,076,777) 760,030 70,765,488 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 Disposals 0 0 0 0 Transfers 0 0 0 0 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2016 1,286,005,329 (237,457,036) 16,348,497 1,064,896,790 Balance as at 1 January 2017 1,286,005,329 (237,457,036) 16,348,497 1,064,896,790 Depreciation charge for the year 86,107,983 (15,076,777) 1,244,087 72,275,293 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 Disposals 0 0 0 0 Transfers 0 0 0 0 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Balance as at 31 December 2017 1,372,113,312 (252,533,813) 17,592,584 1,137,172,083 Carrying amounts of intangible assets Carrying amount Concession assets Cohesion fund Software & other Total As at 1 January 2016 890,734,374 (158,306,212) 2,115,831 734,543,993 As at 31 December 2016 808,743,482 (143,229,435) 2,182,954 667,697,001 As at 1 January 2017 808,743,482 (143,229,435) 2,182,954 667,697,001 As at 31 December 2017 735,834,607 (128,152,658) 2,055,755 609,737,703 The concession assets represent the right granted to the Company by the Greek State for the use and operation of the Athens International Airport under the ADA. 32 Annex II Financial Statements 5.9 Financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are analysed as follows: Analysis of held-to-maturity financial assets 2017 2016 Bonds EIB 0 15,507,687 Bonds EFSF 0 56,174,962 Corporate bonds 0 15,866,863 Total held-to-maturity financial assets 0 87,549,512 Held-to-maturity financial assets are measured at amortized cost. The fair value measurement of the held-tomaturity financial assets was categorised as Level 1. As of balance sheet date the Company held no Held-tomaturity financial assets. Available-for-sale financial assets are analysed as follows: Available-for-sale financial assets 2017 2016 Attica Bank shares 1,188,000 957,000 Total available-for-sale financial assets 1,188,000 957,000 Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. The acquisition cost of the Available-forsale financial asset amounted to €9,900,000, whereas the fair value as of 31 December 2016 was €957,000. As of Balance Sheet date the fair value of the Availablefor-sale financial asset amounted to €1,188,000. A fair value gain of €231,000 was recognized in other comprehensive income. As of post balance sheet date 16 February 2018 the fair value of the Available-for-sale financial asset amounted to €1,079,100. As explained in notes 3.1.4 and 5.19, the Available-for-sale financial assets acquired are not “Authorised Investments” as defined in the loan agreements entered into between the Company and EIB with respect to the Company’s borrowings. In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned agreements, the Company obtained the consent and waiver of EIB for this investment on 01 December 2016. The waiver imposed the undertaking to the Company to open a new pledged Reserve Account (Attica Sub-Account) with the amount of the acquisition cost of the Available-for-sale financial asset (€9,900,000) that is classified as restricted cash. Based on their maturity date, these assets are classified as follows: Analysis of financial assets 2017 2016 Current financial assets Current financial assets 0 87,549,512 Total Current financial assets 0 87,549,512 Non-current financial assets Non-current financial assets-Available-for-Sale 1,188,000 957,000 Non-current financial assets-Restricted cash 9,900,000 0 Total non-current financial assets 11,088,000 957,000 Total financial assets 11,088,000 88,506,512 With respect to presentation in the Cash Flow Statement line “Investments to financial assets” amounting to €77,649,512, comprises of the disposal of Held to Maturity financial assets of €87,549,512 and transfer of cash of €9,900,000 (Attica Sub-Account). 33 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5.10 Other non-current assets Other non-current assets are analysed as follows: Analysis of other non-current assets 2017 2016 Investment in associates 3,245,439 3,245,439 Long term guarantees 236,021 210,546 Total other non current assets 3,481,460 3,455,985 Long term guarantees relate to guarantees given to lessors for operating lease contracts, and were measured at their present value, by discounting future cash flow transactions with the weighted average borrowing rate of the Company. 5.11 Inventories Inventory items are analysed as follows: Analysis of inventories per category 2017 2016 Merchandise 582,415 672,509 Consumables 891,258 930,750 Spare parts 4,769,127 4,607,402 Inventory impairment (619,776) (465,345) Total inventories 5,623,024 5,745,316 During 2017, an impairment provision of €154,431 was recognized in the income statement in order to reflect the accumulated provision for certain obsolete and slow-moving items to €619,776. 5.12 Construction works in progress Analysis of construction works in progress 2017 2016 Construction works in progress 2,470,539 5,175,040 Total construction works in progress 2,470,539 5,175,040 Construction works in progress mainly refer to additions and improvements on the existing infrastructure assets such as technical works, building and facilities, roads etc. These assets will be returned to the Grantor at the end of the Concession Period, together with all other infrastructure assets as described in note 1. Upon the completion of the construction, such assets related to the infrastructure, will increase either the cost of the concession intangible asset or the owned assets. 34 Annex II Financial Statements 5.13 Trade receivables Trade receivable accounts are analysed as follows: Analysis of trade receivable accounts 2017 2016 Domestic customers 26,954,565 39,916,791 Foreign customers 1,869,942 2,745,244 Greek state & public sector 6,763,459 7,529,254 Accrued revenues 2,225,515 2,890,938 Provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,416,675) (2,513,479) Total trade receivable accounts 35,396,805 50,568,749 All receivables are initially measured at their fair value, which is equivalent to their nominal value, since the Company extends to its customers short-term credit. Should any of the trade receivable accounts exceed the approved credit terms, the Company charges such customers default interest, (that is, interest on overdue accounts) at 6 months Euribor interest rate plus a pre-determined margin, as stipulated in the respective customer agreements. Such interest is only recognised when it is probable that the income will be collected. During 2017 a provision release of €96,804 was recognized in the income statement, resulting in an impairment provision as at 31 December 2017 of €2,416,675 (2016: €2,513,479). 5.14 Other receivables Other receivable accounts are analysed as follows: Analysis of other receivable accounts 2017 2016 Accrued ADF 67,888,957 9,804,466 Other 19,936,184 43,894,307 Total other receivable accounts 87,825,141 53,698,773 Accrued ADF represents the amount of the passengers’ airport fee attributable to the Company, which had not been collected by the Company at year-end. Part of the accrued ADF of €16,400,000 was collected on 5 February 2018 and the remaining is estimated to be collected progressively in year 2018. Other Accounts Receivable mainly consists of payments for taxes and duties carried out by the Company, that relate to various tax disputes, as required by relevant laws in order for the tax disputes to be referred to the competent Courts for resolution. The Company has assessed that these amounts are fully refundable upon the successful resolution of the legal cases. The major tax disputes as referred also in note 5.28 Contingent Liabilities and involve taxes imposed for VAT, Property Taxes, Special Once Off Taxes and Municipal Charges. 5.15 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are analysed as follows: Analysis of cash & cash equivalents 2017 2016 Cash on hand 2,004,704 2,002,303 Current & time deposits 464,776,293 283,825,180 Total cash & cash equivalents 466,780,996 285,827,483 35 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5.16 Share capital The issued Share Capital of the Company has been fully paid by the shareholders and comprises 30,000,000 ordinary shares of €10 each amounting to €300,000,000. The Company is jointly controlled by the Greek State (25.0% of the shares), the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (30.0% of the shares), the AviAlliance and other private shareholders (45.0% of the shares). 5.17 Statutory & other reserves Under Greek Corporate Law it is mandatory to transfer 5.0% of the net after tax annual profits to form the legal reserve, which is used to offset any accumulated losses. The creation of the legal reserve ceases to be compulsory when the balance of the legal reserve reaches 1/3 of the registered share capital. At 31 December 2017 the Company’s legal reserve increased by an amount of €7,002,454 (2016: €6,619,571) and amounted to €68,606,603 (2016: €61,604,149). In addition, there are a reserve for tax purposes amounting to €352,604 (2016: €360,137), a reserve for actuarial gains/losses recognized due to the adoption of the amended IAS 19, amounting to €(91,789) (2016: €94,708) and a reserve for Available-for-sale financial assets valuation amounting to €164.010 (2016:€0). Analysis of other reserves 2017 Movement 2016 Statutory reserves 68,606,603 7,002,454 61,604,149 Reserves for tax purposes 352,604 (7,533) 360,137 Actuarial gains/(losses) reserve net of tax (91,789) (186,497) 94,708 Available-for-sale financial assets reserve net of tax 164,010 164,010 0 Totals 69,031,428 6,972,434 62,058,994 5.18 Retained earnings In accordance with Greek Corporate Law, companies are required each year, to declare dividends of at least 35.0% of after tax profits, after allowing for the legal reserve. In addition, the prevailing bank loan agreements impose specific conditions for the permitted dividend distribution, which have been fulfilled since 2003 when the Company was in the financial position to distribute dividends. The dividends paid in 2017 were €40,500,000 (€1.35 per share). Given the additional short term financial obligations for the Company arising from the “Airport Development Agreement” Extension Agreement, no dividend distribution to the Shareholders is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. 36 Annex II Financial Statements 5.19 Bank loans Borrowings are analysed as follows: Analysis of loans 2017 2016 Long term loans EIB loan 217,431,038 295,632,204 Total long term loans 217,431,038 295,632,204 Short term loans EIB loan 78,201,166 73,639,593 Accrued interest & related expenses 773,380 938,646 Total short term loans 78,974,546 74,578,239 Total bank loans 296,405,584 370,210,443 The Company and EIB, under a supplemental agreement signed on 19 December 2008 between them, agreed to partial release the Greek State’s Guarantee on the outstanding balance of EIB Loan and to modify certain terms of the EIB Master Facility Agreement related to the applicable interest rates. The modified terms are effective from 31 July 2009 and include the consolidation and division of the outstanding balance of the initial loan into two loans, Loan A and Loan B. As of 31 December 2017, Loan A was fully repaid while the outstanding balance of Loan B was €295,632,204. The weighted average interest rate for all tranches under Loan B is 6.12%. All the covenants set under the EIB Master Facility Agreement have been fulfilled as of 31 December 2017. As explained in notes 3.1.4 and 5.9, as of 1 December 2016, and following the negotiations with EIB and the Greek State in its capacity as EIB Loan Guarantor, the Company obtained the waiver of EIB for the investment of €9,900,000 in the Available-for-sale financial asset that did not meet the criteria of “Authorised Investments”. The waiver imposed the undertaking to the Company to open a new pledged Reserve Account (Attica SubAccount) with the amount of the acquisition cost of the Available-for-sale financial asset (€9,900,000) and the decrease of the amount available for Dividend distribution to the Company’s Shareholders by the balance of the Attica Sub-Account. The relevant Attica Sub-Account opened on 1 December 2016 and the amount of €9,900,000 was deposited on 2 January 2017. The Company may only transfer amounts out of this bank account in situations where the Company has disposed of some or all of its shares in Attica Bank on market terms. Furthermore, in terms of this remediation agreement, any funds left over once the entire Attica Bank shareholding is disposed of, will be transferred into the Proceeds account. The amortised cost of the long term financial liabilities at fixed interest rates (i.e. EIB Loan) is determined using the effective interest rate method, by discounting the future contractual cash flows with the effective interest rate applied to those liabilities. The fair value of the financial liabilities at fixed interest rates is determined by discounting the future contractual cash flows with the current mid-swap interest rate for the average loan life period of such liabilities. The fair value measurement of the financial liabilities is categorised as Level 2. Fair value of the borrowings 2017 2016 Carrying amount 295,632,204 369,271,797 Fair value 330,952,805 424,890,870 Excess of fair value over carrying amount (35,320,601) (55,619,073) All borrowings are denominated in Euro, the functional currency of the Company. 37 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5.20 Employee retirement benefits In accordance with Greek labour law, employees are entitled to compensation payments in the event of dismissal or retirement with the amount of payment varying depending on the employee’s compensation, length of service and manner of termination (dismissal or retirement). Employees who resign or are dismissed with cause are not entitled to termination payments. The amount payable in the event of retirement is equal to 40.0% of the amount which would be payable upon dismissal without cause. The provision for employees’ retirement benefits is reflected in the attached statement of financial position in accordance with IAS 19R and is calculated, as at the balance sheet date (31 December 2017), based on an independent actuarial study performed by Hewitt. The results of any valuation depend upon the assumptions employed. Thus, as at 31 December 2017: • If the discount rate used were 1.0% higher, then the DBO would be lower by about €1.58m. • If the discount rate used were 1.0% lower, then the DBO would be higher by about €1.89m. The results of the actuarial study for the provision for employee retirement benefits as computed by the actuary are shown below: 38 Annex II Financial Statements Actuarial study analysis 2017 2016 Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 December 2017 Discount rate 1.63% 1.79% Range of compensation increase 0%-3.0% 0%-3.0% Plan duration 16.26 17.38 Present value of obligations 10,761,931 10,148,627 Net liability/(asset) in the balance sheet 10,761,931 10,148,627 Components of income statement charge Service cost 272,613 389,994 Interest cost 181,101 207,277 Recognition of past service cost 0 443,201 Settlement/curtailment/termination loss 118,386 113,043 Total income statement charge 572,100 1,153,515 Movements in net liability/(asset) in the balance sheet Net liability/(asset) at the beginning of the period 10,148,627 8,629,797 Benefits paid directly (221,468) (146,446) Total expense recognised in the income statement 572,100 1,153,514 Total amount recognized in the OCI 262,672 511,762 Net liability/(asset) in the balance sheet 10,761,931 10,148,627 Reconciliation of benefit obligations DBO at start of the period 10,148,627 8,629,797 Service cost 272,613 389,993 Interest cost 181,101 207,277 Benefits paid directly by the Company (221,468) (146,446) Extra payments or expenses/(income) 118,386 113,043 Obligation of past service cost 0 443,201 Actuarial loss/(gain) 262,672 511,762 DBO at the end of the period 10,761,931 10,148,627 Remeasurements Liability gain/(loss) due to changes in assumptions (234,712) (742,118) Liability experience gain/(loss) arising during the year (27,960) 230,356 Total actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in OCI (262,672) (511,762) An actuarial loss (the difference between expected and actual DBO as at the end of 2017) of €262,672 arose during the year due to the following factors: • Change in financial assumptions: the equivalent discount rate decreased from 1.79% to 1.63%, producing a loss of €280,270. The inflation and salary increase assumptions have both decreased producing a gain of €45,558. Thus, the change in financial assumptions gives rise to an overall actuarial loss of €234,712. • Experience: loss of €27,960 mainly due to population mobility being higher than expected. According to IAS19 Revised, the entire actuarial gains or losses that arise in each accounting period are recognized immediately in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). In this case, the loss arising over 2017 (i.e. €262,672) is recognized as a loss in the OCI statement. 39 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 5.21 Provisions As at As at Analysis of provisions Additions Utilisations Releases 1 Jan 2017 31 Dec 2017 Restoration expenses 15,000,363 673,221 563,456 0 15,110,128 Net other provisions 2,905,706 1,748,598 0 0 4,654,303 To be settled over 1 year 17,906,069 2,421,819 563,456 0 19,764,431 Total provisions 17,906,069 2,421,819 563,456 0 19,764,431 The provision for restoration expenses relates to the future expenses that result from the Company’s contractual obligations to maintain or to restore the infrastructure to a specified condition before it is handed over to the Greek State at the end of the service concession arrangement. It is expected that an aggregate amount of €17.70m will be spent on major restoration activities commencing in year 2018 through to 2025 based on management’s current best estimates. 5.22 Income & deferred tax liabilities Income tax liabilities At the balance sheet date, the recognition of the income tax liability amounting to €46,896,777 reflects the income tax payable on taxable income at the rate of 29.0%. The 2016 amount reflects the income tax payable on the dividends declared for distribution, although the Company was in a tax loss position, in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 47 of Law 4172/2013. The income tax liability amounting to €16,542,254 was determined by applying the following formula: Dividends declared for distribution * Income Tax Rate / (1Income Tax Rate) Deferred tax assets & liabilities The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Deferred tax assets & liabilities 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months (37,326,464) (41,908,087) Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months (5,855,987) (31,281,798) Total deferred tax assets (43,182,451) (73,189,885) Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 136,519,915 156,789,603 Deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 20,826,913 17,689,986 Total deferred tax liabilities 157,346,828 174,479,589 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 114,164,377 101,289,704 The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2017 2016 As at 1 January 101,289,704 61,377,904 Income statement charge 12,883,858 40,127,201 Other comprehensive income (9,187) (215,401) As at 31 December 114,164,377 101,289,704 40 Annex II Financial Statements The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated tax Grant of rights Usufruct of the Deferred tax liabilities Total depreciation fee site As at 1 January 2016 182,123,446 7,414,893 205,259 189,743,598 Charged/(credited) to the income statement (14,571,745) (706,180) 13,916 (15,264,010) and other comprehensive income As at 31 December 2016 167,551,701 6,708,712 219,175 174,479,589 Charged/(credited) to the income statement (16,440,497) (706,180) 13,917 (17,132,760) and other comprehensive income As at 31 December 2017 151,111,204 6,002,532 233,092 157,346,828 Retirement Deferred tax assets Tax losses Provisions benefit Other Total obligations As at 1 January 2016 (83,106,002) (5,427,169) (2,191,244) (37,641,279) (128,365,694) Charged/(credited) to the income statement 57,444,149 (282,361) (440,462) (1,545,517) 55,175,809 and other comprehensive income As at 31 December 2016 (25,661,853) (5,709,530) (2,631,706) (39,186,796) (73,189,885) Charged/(credited) to the income statement 25,661,853 (548,834) (177,858) 5,072,272 30,007,433 and other comprehensive income As at 31 December 2017 0 (6,258,364) (2,809,564) (34,114,523) (43,182,451) At the balance sheet date, the Company has no unused tax losses available for offset against future taxable profits, thus no deferred tax asset (2016: €25,661,853) has been recognised. According to the provisions of article 25.1.2.(k) of the ADA, (Law 2338/1995) tax losses can be carried forward to relieve future taxable profits without time limit. Tax losses have primarily arisen from the application of the accelerated depreciation method as provided by paragraph 8 of article 26 of Law 2093/1992. In addition, according to article 25.1.2.(j) of the ADA the accelerated depreciation method provided by Law 2093/1992 refers to tax depreciation and constitutes an allowable deduction for tax purposes even though the depreciation in the annual statutory accounts of the Company may differ from year to year. At the balance sheet date, the Company recognised a deferred tax liability on the outstanding accelerated depreciation, amounting to €151,111,204 (2016: €167,551,701). 5.23 Other non-current liabilities Other long-term liabilities are analysed as follows: Analysis of other non-current liabilities 2017 2016 Grant of rights fee payable 89,010,679 98,648,464 Long term securities provided by customers 2,211,012 2,037,818 Total other non-current liabilities 91,221,691 100,686,282 The Company pays a quarterly fee to the Greek State during the concession period for the rights and privileges granted in ADA. The carrying amount of the liability represents the present value of the future payment that concerns the fixed part of the fee at the balance sheet date. In 2017 a finance charge amounting to €5,362,215 has been recorded as unwinding interest of the liability due to the passage of time (2016: €5,818,583). The amount payable within the next 12 months is included in trade & other payables. The present value of total future payments at the time of airport opening has been included in the cost of the intangible concession asset which is amortised over the concession period. An amount of €2,435,104 is included in 2017 amortisation of the intangible concession asset with respect to the grant of rights fee (2016: €2,435,104). 41 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Long term securities relate to performance guarantees provided for by the lessees for longterm lease agreements. Long-term securities are measured at their net present value, by discounting the future cash flow payments with the weighted average borrowing rate, at the balance sheet date. The weighted average borrowing rate for the Company for 2017 was at the rate of 6.12%. 5.24 Trade & other payables Trade & other payable accounts are analysed as follows: Analysis of trade & other payable accounts 2017 2016 Suppliers 14,770,622 15,155,794 Advance payments from customers 12,219,988 15,012,996 Beneficiaries of money – guarantees 13,637,982 15,024,519 Value added tax 747,491 866,251 Other taxes payable and payroll withholdings 3,790,793 3,782,798 Grant of rights fee payable 15,000,000 15,000,000 Other payables 3,225 28,874 Total trade & other payable accounts 60,170,102 64,871,232 The amount shown above for suppliers represents the short-term liabilities of the Company towards its trade creditors as at the corresponding year end for the goods bought and the services they had rendered in the respective year. Advance payments from customers represent mainly the prepayments effected by the airlines which have selected the “Rolling prepayment” method in settling their financial obligations to the Company for the use of the airport facilities. Beneficiaries of money – guarantees represent the cash guarantees provided by the concessionaires for the prompt fulfilment of their financial liabilities arising from the signed concessions agreements. The cash guarantees are adjusted each year in accordance with the latest estimate of the expected sales forecast of the concessionaires for the subsequent year. The carrying amount of trade payables closely approximates their fair value at balance sheet date. 5.25 Other current liabilities Other current liabilities are analysed as follows: Analysis of other current liabilities 2017 2016 Accrued expenses for services and fees 19,852,438 12,729,074 Total other current liabilities 19,852,438 12,729,074 Current liabilities mainly concern to accrued cost for services rendered by third parties, private or public, which had not been invoiced at year end. 42 Annex II Financial Statements 5.26 Operating lease arrangements The Company as a lessee Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Company for certain of its vehicles. Leases are negotiated for an average term of 5 years and rentals are fixed for the same period. In the current year, minimum lease payments under operating lease, amounting to €240,807, were recognised in the income statement, while the corresponding amount for the year 2016 was at €242,828. At the balance sheet date, the Company has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which are presented in note 5.27. The Company as a lessor Refer to note 5.1. 5.27 Commitments As at 31 December 2017 the Company has the following significant commitments: a. Capital expenditure commitments amounting to approximately €7.8m (2016: €13.4) b. Operating service commitments, which are estimated to be approximately to €71.7m (2016: €101.0m) mainly related to security, maintenance, fire protection, transportation, parking and cleaning services, to be settled as follows: Analysis of operating service commitments 2017 2016 Within 1 year 30,166,462 33,011,377 Between 1 and 5 years 24,841,560 46,063,946 More than 5 years 16,757,114 21,943,455 Total operating service commitments 71,765,136 101,018,778 c. Operating lease commitments are analysed as follows: Analysis of operating lease commitments 2017 2016 Within 1 year 223,226 217,397 Between 1 and 5 years 395,961 453,173 Total operating lease commitments 619,187 670,570 d. Variable fee Component of the Grant of Rights Fee, based on the calculation of 2017 Consolidated Operating Profit as set out in the ADA and as described in the notes 2.4.1 and 2.4.2, is estimated to €15.99m. This amount will be recognised in the income statement within 2018. 5.28 Contingent liabilities The Company has contingent liabilities comprising the following: Tax Audits a) The Company has not been audited yet by the Tax Authority for the fiscal year 2010. Recent decisions of the Conseil d’Etat set a 5-year limitation period of the State’s right to impose taxes and fines, although the limitation period can be extended up to 10, 15 or 20 years, based on applicable provisions. At balance sheet date, the Company has not received any tax audit notification for the subject year. 43 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 b) In accordance with Law 2238/1994, Ministerial Decision 1159/2011, Law 4223/2013 and Ministerial Decision 1124/2015, years from 2011 until 2017 are audited by individual Certified Auditors and a “Tax Certificate” is issued upon completion of the tax audit. Income tax In accordance with Law 3808/2009 the Greek State imposed a “special once off tax surcharge” on the profits generated by legal entities in fiscal year 2008. The Company was advised by the Tax Authorities that it is liable to pay a special once off tax surcharge amounting to €23.0m, which was higher by €9.0m than the amount that should be paid in accordance with the provisions of the law and the tax privileges, which have been granted by the ADA. Tax Authorities refused to modify the assessment of the once off tax surcharge and Management proceeded with the legal actions to remedy the tax bill referring the issue to the Administrative Court of Appeals on 18 February 2010. The hearing, took place on 17 December 2013 and by virtue of decision no. 2896/2015 notified to the Company on 7 September 2015, the appeal of the Company was rejected. The Company filed on 5 November 2015 respective annulment petition before the Conseil d’Etat for the cassation of the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeals. The hearing initially set for 31 May 2017 has been postponed for 9 May 2018. No provision has been recognised based on Company’s and experts’ opinion by reference to the specific legislation governing its tax affairs. Value added tax With respect to VAT, the Tax Authority questioned the right of the Company to set off the total VAT of all fixed assets acquired and services rendered until 31 December 2015, as stipulated by article 26 paragraph 7 of Law 2093/1992, in conjunction with Articles 25.1.1 & 25.1.2 (g) of the ADA as ratified by Law 2338/1995. The Tax Authority disputed the above right of the Company to set off VAT, which corresponds to activities not subjected to VAT, i.e. property leases, and proceeded to impose VAT –including penaltiesfor the fiscal years 1998-2012 amounting totally to €168.4m, comprising of €46.0m capital and €122.4m surcharges. The Company referred the issue, related to years 1998-2009, to the London Court of International Arbitration, in accordance with Article 44 of the ADA. Pursuant to the final award of the London Court of International Arbitration No 101735, which was issued on 27 February 2013, the relating acts of determination had been issued in breach of law. Alongside, the Company appealed before the competent Administrative Courts of Appeals against all the acts of determination of the Tax Authority to impose VAT on such capital and operating expenses, requesting the annulment of the tax assessments for all years from 1998 to 2012. The Administrative Court of Appeals by its decisions, regarding the acts of determination for the years 20042009 amounting to €12.8m, rejected the appeals of the Company. The Company filed respective annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat for the cassation of the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeals and the Conseil d’Etat by its Decisions, which were notified to the Company on 11 March 2015, accepted the annulment petitions of the Company on the VAT disputes for the fiscal years 2004-2009 and referred-back the cases to the Administrative Court of Appeals. The hearing before the Administrative Court of Appeals took place on 7 October 2015, which by its decisions finally accepted the Company’s petitions and the VAT assessments for the fiscal years 2004-2009 were annulled. However, the Greek State on 20 May 2016 filed annulment petitions against the latter aforementioned decisions in favour of the Company before the Conseil d’Etat. The hearing took place on 11 October 2017 and the decision is pending. Furthermore, regarding the assessments for the years 1998-2003 and 2010-2012, the juridical process before the Administrative Courts of Appeal is as follows: 44 Annex II Financial Statements • For the fiscal years 1998-2003, which corresponds to VAT imposed on non-exempt expenses, such as, entertainment and hospitality expenses amounting to €1.3m, the hearing took place at 7 April 2017, apart for year 2002 where the hearing is set for 16 October 2018. By virtue of decisions 1988/2018, 1930/2018, 1933/2018 and 1983/2018 for the years 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2003 respectively, the Company’s appeals were fully upheld. The same Court with its decision 1910/2018 referred the VAT assessment for the fiscal year 2001 to the Administrative Court of Appeals due to lack of competence (refer to note 5.31). • For the fiscal years 2001-2003, which corresponds to VAT imposed on the acquisition of fixed assets and operating expenses amounting to €150.3m, the hearing is set for 16 October 2018. • For the fiscal years 2010-2011, which corresponds to VAT imposed on the acquisition of fixed assets and operating expenses amounting to €3.0m, the hearing took place at 10 October 2016 and by virtue of decisions nos. 1665/2017 & 1666/2017 the Company’s appeals were fully upheld. The Greek State has filed respective annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat the hearing of which is set for 19 September 2018. • For the fiscal year 2012, which corresponds to VAT imposed on the acquisition of fixed assets and operating expenses amounting to €1.0m, the hearing is set for 8 October 2018. Based on the Company’s experts’ opinion by reference to the aforementioned final award of the London Court of International Arbitration No 101735, no provision has been recognised for all above acts of determination. Property tax With respect to property tax, the Tax Authority questioned the right of the Company to be exempted from any property tax until 31 December 2015 as provided by paragraph 5 of article 26 of Law 2093/1992, in conjunction with Articles 25.1.1 & 25.1.2 of the ADA. Further to the completion of tax audits on real property, the Tax Authority issued real property tax assessments for the fiscal years 2008-2013, amounting totally to €44.6m, comprising of €28.2m capital and €16.4m surcharges. The Company referred the issue, to the London Court of International Arbitration, in accordance with Article 44 of the ADA. Based on the final award of the London Court of International Arbitration No 142821, which was issued on 21 January 2016, the Greek State was instructed to indemnify the Company as per Articles 5.2(i) and 32.3 of the ADA against the consequences of the real property tax levied on the Company by the Greek State for the period 2008-2013. Alongside, the Company appealed before the competent Administrative Courts of Appeals against all the acts of determination of the Tax Authority to impose real property tax, requesting the annulment of the tax assessments for all years from 2008-2013. Regarding the real property tax assessments, the juridical process before the Administrative Courts of Appeal is as follows: • For the fiscal years 2008-2009, which corresponds to real property tax imposed amounting to €12.7m, the hearing took place at 19 September 2016 and by virtue of decisions nos. 1048/2017 and 1047/2017 the Company’s appeals were fully upheld. The Greek State has filed respective annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat the hearing of which is set for 19 September 2018. • For the fiscal years 2010-2012, which corresponds to real property tax imposed amounting to €15.2m, the hearing took place at 16 January 2017 and by virtue of decisions nos. 5522/2017, 5524/2017 and 5527/2017 the Company’s appeals were fully upheld. The Greek State has filed respective annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat the hearing of which is not set yet (refer to note 5.31). • For the fiscal year 2013, which corresponds to real property tax imposed amounting to €16.7m, the hearing took place at 10 October 2016 and by virtue of decisions nos. 804/2017 and 807/2017 the Company’s appeals were fully upheld. The Greek State has filed respective annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat the hearing of which is set for 19 September 2018. Based on the Company’s experts’ opinion by reference to the aforementioned final award of the London Court of International Arbitration, as well as the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeals, which recognised that the arbitral award is binding for the Greek Administrative courts, no provision has been recognised for all above acts of determination. 45 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Municipal charges The Municipality of Paiania charged the Company with municipal charges for the provision for waste, landscaping, cleanliness and lighting maintenance for the years 2004-2016 amounting totally to €59.4m, comprising of €40.7m capital and €18.7m surcharges. Management filed a number of petitions with the Administrative Court of Athens versus the Municipality of Paiania, accompanied by corresponding petitions for the deferment of payments, claiming that in accordance with the provisions of the ADA, the Company has been granted with the exclusive right to provide such services to airport users. The juridical process is still in progress before the Administrative Courts of Appeals as follows: • For the fiscal years 2004-2009, which corresponds to municipal charges of €37.4m, deferment of payment has been granted. Furthermore, the Administrative Court of Appeals accepted in substance the petitions of the Company related to the imposition of municipal charges and penalties rendering the respective decisions of the Mayor of Paiania as null and void to that effect. However, the Municipality of Paiania filed annulment petitions against the decisions in favour of the Company before the Conseil d’Etat. The hearing took place at 22 March 2017. By virtue of decisions 390/2018, 391/2018, 392/2018, 393/2018, 394/2018, 395/2018, the Company’s appeals were fully upheld (refer to note 5.31). • For the fiscal years 2010-2013, which corresponds to municipal charges of €12.3m, deferment of payment has been rejected. As per decisions of the Administrative Courts of Appeals, the petitions for the fiscal years 2010-2012 were fully upheld, thus rendering the imposition of municipal charges unlawful. However, the Municipality of Paiania filed annulment petitions against those decisions issued in favour of the Company before the Conseil d’Etat. The hearing took place at 22 March 2017. By virtue of decisions 396/2018, 397/2018 and 398/2018, the Company’s appeals were fully upheld (refer to note 5.31). The hearing of the petition for the fiscal year 2013 took place on 1 February 2017 and the decision is still pending. Moreover, the Company filed a lawsuit versus the Municipality of Paiania with the competent Administrative Court of Athens requesting the reimbursement of the municipal charges imposed for the fiscal years 2010-2012 and already paid to the latter, amounting to €8.8m. • For the fiscal years 2014-2016, which corresponds to municipal charges of €9.7m, deferment of payment has been granted. Pursuant to decisions of the Administrative Courts of Appeals the petitions for the fiscal years 2014-2015 were fully upheld, thus rendering the imposition of municipal charges unlawful. The hearing of the petition for the fiscal year 2016 took place at 2 February 2017 and the decision is still pending. The Municipality of Spata charged the Company with municipal charges for the provision for waste, landscaping, cleanliness and lighting maintenance for the years 2007-2010 amounting in total to €8.6m. The juridical process is still in progress before the Administrative Courts of Appeals as follows: • For the fiscal year 2007, the respective imposition of charges has been annulled both by the Administrative Court of Appeals and the General Secretary of Decentralized Administration of Attica. • For the fiscal years 2008-2010, which corresponds to municipal charges of €6.5m, deferment of payment has been provisionally granted by order of the competent judge of the Administrative Court of Athens until the issuance of a Court Decision on the Company’s petition that took place at 6 April 2017. The Court by its decision cancelled the juridical process, pursuant to decision no. 8889/7425/2014 of the General Secretary of Decentralized Administration of Attica, by which the imposition of charges has already been annulled. Based on the Company’s experts’ opinion by reference to the aforementioned decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeals, no provision has been recognised for all above acts of determination. 46 Annex II Financial Statements Other There are a number of pending legal lawsuits against the Company amounting to approximately €2.5m (2016: €4.9m) for which Management, following consultation with its Legal Counsel, believes that there is sufficient ground to successfully defend these claims. No provision for these claims has been recognised in these financial statements on the basis that no material liability is expected to arise. 5.29 Related parties transactions AIA is a privately managed Company, having as major shareholders the Greek State and AviAlliance Group, each one of them holding more than 20.0% of the shares as at 31 December 2017. The Company during 2017 had undertaken related party transactions with a company controlled by its current Private Shareholder, by receiving specific services. Furthermore, the Company provides either aeronautical or non-aeronautical services to public sector controlled entities and at the same time, receives services from public entities i.e. fire protection, medical etc. The above goods/services/works are based on corresponding market’s terms and conditions. The transactions with the Greek State and the current Private Shareholder have as follows: a) Sales of services and rental fees Sales of services 2017 2016 Greek State 11,742,162 13,490,392 AviAlliance Group 0 5,254 Total 11,742,162 13,495,646 b) Purchases of services Purchases of services 2017 2016 Greek State 5,712,288 5,637,566 AviAlliance Group 30,340 0 Total 5,742,628 5,637,566 c) Year end balances arising from sales/purchases of services and rental fees Year end balances arising form sales/purchases of services and rental fees 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables: Greek State 8,045,622 11,458,543 Trade and other payables: AviAlliance Group 0 0 Total 8,045,622 11,458,543 d) Key management compensation Key management includes personnel authorised by the Board of Directors for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company. Compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services rendered is shown below: 47 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Analysis of BoD and key management compensation 2017 2016 Board of directors’ fees 499,280 481,700 Short-term employment benefits of key management 1,589,686 1,573,496 Total BoD and key management compensation 2,088,966 2,055,196 5.30 Reclassifications In the comparative figures of the Income Statement, an amount of €2,088,470 has been reclassified from “Subsidies received for borrowing costs” to “Other revenues”, to conform to current period presentation. 5.31 Events after the balance sheet date a) The decisions of the Administrative Court of Athens 1988/2018, 1930/2018, 1933/2018 and 1983/2018 regarding the VAT assessments for the fiscal years 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2003 respectively have been issued on 31 January 2018, by which the Court accepted the appeals of the Company and ordered the annulment of the VAT of these years. Furthermore, the same Court with its decision 1910/2018 which has been issued on 31 January 2018, refers the VAT assessment for the fiscal year 2001 to the Administrative Court of Appeals due to lack of competence. For more details, refer to note 5.28, item “Value Added Tax”. b) On 28 January 2018, the Greek State filed annulment petitions before the Conseil d’Etat for the cassation of the decisions 5522/2017, 5524/2017 and 5527/2017 of the Administrative Court of Appeals that concern the cases of property tax for the fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. For more details, refer to note 5.28, item “Property Tax”. c) On 21 February 2018 the decisions of the Conseil d’Etat 390/2018, 391/2018, 392/2018, 393/2018, 394/2018, 395/2018, 396/2018, 397/2018 and 398/2018 regarding the imposition of municipal charges by the Municipality of Paiania for the years 2004-2012, have been issued. With these decisions, all annulment petitions filed by the Municipality of Paiania against the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeals, issued in the favour of the Company, were rejected. For more details, refer to note 5.28, item “Municipal Charges”. 48 Independent auditor’s report To the Shareholders of “Athens International Airport S.A.” Report on the audit of the financial statements Our opinion We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Athens International Airport S.A. (Company) which comprise the statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017, the income statement and the statement of other comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2017, its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union and comply with the statutory requirements of Codified Law 2190/1920. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), as they have been transposed into Greek Law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence During our audit we remained independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) that has been transposed into Greek Law, and the ethical requirements of Law 4449/2017, that are relevant to the audit of the financial statements in Greece. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Law 4449/2017, and the requirements of the IESBA Code. Other Information The members of the Board of Directors are responsible for the Other Information. The Other Information is the Board of Directors Report (but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon), which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Other Information and except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this section of our Report, we do not express an audit opinion or other form of assurance thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Other Information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the Other Information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the Board of Directors Report, we considered whether the Board of Directors Report includes the disclosures required by Codified Law 2190/1920. Based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit, in our opinion: •T he information given in the the Board of Directors’ Report for the year ended at 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements, •T he Board of Directors’ Report has been prepared in accordance with the legal requirements of article 43a of the Codified Law 2190/1920. In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified material misstatements in the Board of Directors’ Report. We have nothing to report in this respect. Responsibilities of Board of Directors and those charged with governance for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union and comply with the requirements of Codified Law 2190/1920, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: •  Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements “With respect to the Board of Directors Report, the procedures we performed are described in the “Other Information” section of our report”. PricewaterhouseCoopers S.A. Athens, 26 April 2018 268 Kifissias Avenue The Certified Auditor – Accountant 152 32 Halandri SOEL Reg. No. 113 Fotios Smirnis SOEL Reg. No. 52861 Appendix: Sustainability Indices Appendix: Sustainability Indices AIA follows a structured reporting framework to foster credibility of the disclosed sustainability information. About AIA’s 2017 Annual & Sustainability Report combines for the first time partners, mitigates environmental impact, respects diversity, this Report the Airport Company’s financial and non-financial performance nurtures employee loyalty and drives public confidence. in a unified report. It is AIA’s In order to enable comparability of 15th consecutive annual edition the information disclosed, previous of non-financial performance, Corporate Responsibility Reports with the previous report printed are available on the company’s in June 2017. Our performance website (www.aia.gr), the GRI supports the Company’s portal (www. globalreporting. reputation for being a prudent and org) as well as in the UNGC CoP responsible operator that ensures Directory (www. unglobalcompact. dependability towards business org/participants). 154 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Purpose & Scope This Report focuses on the management’s constant editions is repeated when necessary for the purpose commitment on the sustainable and socially of a better comprehension. It covers the full spectrum responsible operation and development of Athens of the company’s programmes and activities carried International Airport. With this edition and the out at the Athens International Airport “Eleftherios accurate and validated information it contains, AIA Venizelos” in the Spata region of Athens, Greece. In aims to increase its stakeholders’ interest. The addition, it contains information pertaining to the Report refers to the period of January through wider orchestrating role AIA holds in the Airport December 2017, though certain data from previous business community. Methodology In an effort to lay the foundations of an integrated Disclosures, as appropriate, depending on AIA’s reporting system, AIA now combines the information reported material aspects. Additionally, the Report which was previously included in its two main content is based on the ten principles of the United corporate publications, i.e. the Annual Report and the Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and is aligned with Corporate Responsibility Report. This was achieved by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. maintaining the editions’ core elements, namely detail and transparency in reporting in a comprehensive way, The responsibility for preparing, submitting and with a flowing content. distributing the Report lies with AIA’s Corporate Quality Department, which coordinates the input Report content has been set as defined by AA1000 from the CR Report Team members and from Accountability Principles Standards and the Global other colleagues, with the majority of the Company Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting departments being thus represented. The CR Standards (GRI standards). This report has been Report Team is supervised by the cross-company CR prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Committee, which in turn reports to the CEO and the option, including the GRI Airport Operators Sector Chief Officers. UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress (COP) Since June 2008, AIA committed engagement activities that promote the initiative’s through its CEO, Dr. Ioannis N. character and the company’s support to deepen Paraschis, to embed the UN Global its commitment and actions. To enhance credibility Compact ten ethical principles and towards its commitment to the UNGC principles, AIA accountability within its sphere reports its continuous improvement per principle area of influence. AIA is a companyon an annual basis. UNGC COP is a communication member of the Global Compact tool towards the UNGC Headquarters and AIA’s Network Hellas and participates in multi-stakeholder stakeholder groups. Reference of AIA’s Practices related to UNGC principles AREA UNGC PRINCIPLES PAGE 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights p.20-21, 44, 47, 50, Human Rights 55, 73, 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses 77-79 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Labour 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour p.20, 55, Standards 59, 71-75 5: Business should uphold effective abolition of child labour 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges p. 21-23, Environment 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 60-69 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies p. 20-21, Anti-corruption 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 55, 59 155 Appendix: Sustainability Indices Integrating the UN Sustainable Development Goals in AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy AIA has advanced its materiality analysis by correlating with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), building on its steady commitment on the UN Global Compact. SDGs are integrated in AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy in line with the UN-recommended five-step approach (understanding the SDGs, defining priorities, setting goals, integrating, reporting & communicating) and as foreseen in AIA Corporate Responsibility Policy that was revised in 2017. AIA uses both the GRI Aspects and the SDG structure for describing the sustainability context and for referencing the company’s material issues to broader sustainable development conditions and goals. The 2017 Materiality Exercise was performed in line with the GRI recommended practice for evaluating the impact versus the influence of material issues, considering the scale of impact (boundaries). In 2017, the evaluation of material issues by AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee was based on the following model: MATERIALITY EVALUATION MODEL IMPACT INFLUENCE Evaluation of the issue's significance of Impact, considering Evaluation of the issue's Influence on Stakeholders' economic, environmental & socila aspects of each issue, both assessment of AIA in regards to aiport operation internally and externally Internal Impact (relates to External Impact (AIA's level of Influence evaluation (by the Influence evaluation AIA's Financial and Noncontribution to Sustainable CR Committee) in regards to (by members of airport Financial Performance with Development and the UN the influence to AIA internal community) in regards to significant impact on its SDGs) considering the stakeholders and general the influence to Airport business model, its ability to related scale of impact (a/p society) Community stakeholders achieve objectives and/or its community, national, global) reputation) 4. High impact (current) / Critical issue 4. High influence 3. Medium impact (current) or potentially high 3. Medium influence 2. Low impact (current) or potentially medium 2. Low influence 1. Marginal impact 1. Marginal influence Leading to the identification of Material Issues and the formation of the Materiality Map, as it appears in Chapter 2. 156 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 The correlation among AIA’s list of sustainability Goals and GRI Aspects, from which the 13 Material 23 issues, linking with the Sustainable Development Issues are derived (shaded), are tabulated below: Contribution to Sustainable Development no. Issue Link to UN Sustainable Development Goals Scale of Impact (SDGs) SDG-2 Zero Hunger SDG-5 Gender Equality 1 Economic Performance SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth National SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG-13 Climate Action 2 Market Presence SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth Global SDG-2 Zero Hunger SDG-5 Gender Equality SDG-7 Affordable & Clean Energy 3 Indirect Economic Impacts National SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure 4 Corporate Governance SDG-16 Justice and strong institutions National 5 Responsible Procurement SDG-12 Responsible Consumption National Business Continuity & Emergency 6 SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community Preparedness 7 Service Quality SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community Services and Facilities for Persons with 8 SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community Special Needs SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure 9 Intermodality National SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities SDG-7 Affordable & Clean Energy SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth 10 Energy a/p community SDG-12 Responsible Consumption SDG-13 Climate Action 11 Water SDG-6 Clean Water & Sanitation a/p community 12 Biodiveristy SDG-15 Life on land a/p community SDG-3 Good Health and Well Being SDG-12 Responsible Consumption 13 Emissions and Climate Change SDG-13 Climate Action a/p community SDG-14: Life below water SDG-15 Life on land 14 Effluents & Waste SDG-12 Responsible Consumption a/p community 15 Noise SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities National 16 Employment Practices SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth National SDG-3 Good Health and Well Being 17 Occupational Health & Safety a/p community SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth SDG-4 Quality Education 18 Training & Education a/p community SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth 19 Labour Human Rights SDG-5 Gender Equality a/p community SDG-10 Reduced Inequalities 20 Human Rights in Operations SDG-10 Reduced Inequalities a/p community SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities 21 Community Engagement National SDG-4 Quality Education SDG-3 Good Health and Well Being 22 Customer Health & Safety a/p community SDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 23 Customer Privacy SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community 157 Appendix: Sustainability Indices GRI Standards Content Index for “In accordance” Core General Disclosures Page number(s) External GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE Omission and/or URL(s) Assurance Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the Organization p.14 ✓ 102-2 Activities brands, products and services p.14, 27-31 ✓ 102-3 Location of Headquarters p.14 ✓ 102-4 Location of operations p.14 ✓ 102-5 Ownership and legal form p.14 ✓ 102-6 Markets served p.14, 27-31 ✓ 102-7 Scale of the organization p.15, 71, Annex II: GRI 102: General Financial ✓ Disclosures Statements 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p.71 ✓ 102-9 Supply Chain p.59 ✓ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain p.8-13 ✓ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 20, 60-61 ✓ 102-12 External Initiatives p.23, 61-62 ✓ 102-13 Membership of associations p.25 ✓ Strategy GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p.8-13 ✓ Disclosures Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of p.22 ✓ Disclosures behavior Governance GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance Structure p.16-18 ✓ Disclosures Stakeholders Engagement 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups p.16 ✓ 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements All AIA employees are covered by the minimum ✓ requirements GRI 102: General of the National Disclosures Collective Labor Agreement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p.15-16 ✓ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p.15-16, 161 ✓ 102-44 Key Topics and concerns raised p.19-20,45-46, ✓ 49-50, 74, 77-79 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial p.14 ✓ statements GRI 102: General 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p.22-25, 161 ✓ Disclosures 102-47 List of Material topics p.157 ✓ 102-48 Restatements of information p.41 ✓ Reporting Practice 102-49 Changes in reporting p.25, 154-156 ✓ 102-50 Reporting Period p.155 ✓ 102-51 Date of most recent report p.154 ✓ 102-52 Reporting cycle p.154 ✓ 102-53 Contact Point for questions regarding the report p.163 ✓ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI p.155 ✓ Standards 102-55 GRI content index p.158-160 ✓ 102-56 External Assurance p.164-167 ✓ 158 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Material Topics Page number(s) External GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE Omission and/or URL(s) Assurance Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.36,161 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.36 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.36 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p.36 Performance Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.32,161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.32 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.32 ✓ 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the p.71 local community A01-Total number of passengers annually, broken down by passengers on international and domestic flights p.28 ✓ and broken down by origin and destination and transfer GRI 202: Market passengers, including transit passengers Presence A02Total annual number of aircraft movements by day and by night, broken down by commercial passenger, p.28 ✓ commercial cargo, general aviation and state aviation flights A03Total amount of cargo tonnage p.34 ✓ Indirect Economic impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.41,161 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.41 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.41 GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p.77-78 Economic Impacts Responsible procurement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.59, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.59 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.59 ✓ GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p.59 ✓ Practices Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.61, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.61 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.61-63 ✓ 302-1 Energy Consumption within the organization p.62-63 ✓ GRI 302: Energy 302-2 Energy Consumption outside of the organization p.62-63 302-3 Energy Intensity p.61 ✓ Emissions & Climate change GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.61-63, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.61-63 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.61-64 ✓ GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p.63 ✓ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p.63 ✓ A05 – Ambient air quality levels according to pollutant concentration in microgram per m3 or parts per million p.64 ✓ (ppm) by regulatory regime 159 Appendix: Sustainability Indices Material Topics Page number(s) External GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE Omission and/or URL(s) Assurance Noise GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.64-66, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.64-66 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.64-66 ✓ A07 – Number and percentage change of people residing According to the in areas affected by noise results of the Airport Strategic Noise Map, inhabited areas ✓ included are not exposed to noise levels above the limits set by Authorities Occupational Health & Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 73-74, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.73-74 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.73-74 ✓ GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management Occupational Health – worker health and safety committees p.74 ✓ and Safety Community Engagement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.75, 161 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.75-77 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.75-77 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, p.75-77 communities impact assessments, and development programs A08 – Number of persons physically or economically No persons from displaced, either voluntarily or involuntarily, by the local area or airport operator or on its behalf by a governmental or any other origin other entity, and compensation provided were physically or economically displaces due to airport development Customer Safety (Aviation) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.47-49, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.47-49 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.47-49 ✓ GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health p.47 ✓ Health and Safety and safety impacts of products and services Business Continuity & emergency Preparedness GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.45-46,161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.45-46 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.45-46 ✓ Critical Systems availability p.46 ✓ Service Quality GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.53-55, 161 ✓ Management 103-2 The management approach and its components p.53-55 ✓ Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach p.53-55 ✓ Airport Service Quality Satisfaction Score p.54 ✓ 160 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Boundaries of Material Issues & Engagement In the context of the GRI Standards (101/2.4), the following is a tabulation of the boundaries for each material issue along with corresponding engagement means, identifying where the primary impact occurs. This is a general overview while the detailed involvement of AIA and its stakeholders is described in the related chapters of this Report. Where the impact occurs Stakeholders Outside DescripUsers & Handlers Concessionaires State Authorities tion of Material Primary means Suppliers AIA’s Airlines Issue of engagement inAIA the Airport Community volvement • • • • • Customer Airport Guidelines Safety Ch.5 Aviation Safety Committee (Aviation) Market Presence (Traffic development) Routes Conferences Airline Marketing Workshop Ch.3 • • Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness Emergency Exercises Business Continuity Plans Ch.5 • • • • • • Corporate Governance Code of Conduct Policies Ch.2 • Service Quality Surveys Passenger Comments Ch.5 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Indirect Studies Economic Ch.4 Destination Marketing Impact • • • • Procurement Policy Responsible Code of Relations with Business Ch.5 Procurement Partners • Energy Policy Energy ISO-Certified Energy Management Ch.6 System • • • • • Emissions Airport Carbon Accreditation & Climate Ch.6 Climate Change Action Plan Change • • • Noise Line Noise Noise Studies / Monitoring / AbateCh.6 ment • Occupational Health & Safety Policy Health & Health & Safety Clauses in ConCh.7 Safety tracts Community Engagement Community Engagement Action Plan Meetings with Local Representatives Ch.7 • • 161 Appendix: Sustainability Indices Committees The following committees are responsible for their corresponding aspect of Sustainability, in line with AIA Sustainability Governance Structure: AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee 2017 Annual & Sustainability Report – Chapter Leaders I. Papadopoulou E. Papathanasopoulou Director, Communications & Marketing (chair) Director, Legal Affairs & Secretary to the BoD G. Kallimasias G. Kallimasias Director, Corporate Planning Director, Corporate Planning G. Tzavaras A. Gatsonis Director, Aviation Services Manager Accounting G. Stergiopoulou A. Kontaxis Director, Human Resources Manager, Passenger & Business Marketing M. O’Connor M. O’Connor Manager, Environmental Services Manager, Environmental Services P. Papademetriou P. Papademetriou Manager Corporate Quality Manager, Corporate Quality N. Xirogianni Manager, Corporate Finance M. Papageorgiou Head, Press Office K. Zalavra Head, Corporate Information & Market Intelligence The Report production was coordinated by a joint team of Communications & Marketing and Corporate Quality departments. Text and indicators contained herein was compiled with the contribution of numerous colleagues, representing all AIA Units. 162 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Contact Details Readers’ comments regarding our corporate responsibility performance enable us to improve the structure and quality of information disclosed. We would highly appreciate any suggestions or requests for clarification on any related issue. For AIA Sustainability Reporting matters, kindly For noise-related issues, kindly contact: contact: “We Listen” hotline K. Raftopoulou tel: (+30) 210-3530003 tel: (+30) 210-3536660 e-mail: RaftopoulouC@aia.gr For any other contact within Athens International Airport, kindly contact: For Local Communities issues, kindly contact: AIA / Administration Building Call Centre: A. Kostiani tel: (+30) 210-3531000 tel: (+30) 210-3536493 e-mail: KostianiA@aia.gr AIA Call Center (24 hours): tel: (+30) 210-3530000 163 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 ey.com INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the management of Athens International Airport S.A. The Athens International Airport 2017 Annual & Sustainability Report (“the Report”) has been prepared by the management of Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA”), which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility, in accordance with AIA management’s instructions, is to carry out a “limited level” assurance engagement on the English version of the Report, except for Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM and Annex II Financial Statements of the Report which have been audited by the AIA statutory auditors. Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of AIA and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose, to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk and responsibility. Work scope and criteria Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 (revised) and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement, as defined by AA1000AS, in order to provide a limited level assurance opinion on: 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 158-160), against the GRI Standards “In accordance – Core” requirements. 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. 4. Alignment with United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals according to the guidance found in the “SDG Compass, Linking the SDGs and GRI” document, developed by the GRI, the UNGC and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD). What we did to form our conclusions In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: ► Interviewed certain AIA Executives and Managers to understand the current status of corporate responsibility activities and progress made during the reporting period. ► Reviewed AIA’s approach to stakeholder engagement through interviews with managers responsible for engagement activities at corporate level and reviews of associated documentation. ► Reviewed AIA’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the coverage of material issues within the Report, against aspects found in the “GRI G4 Airport Operators Sector Disclosures”, material issues and areas of performance covered in external media reports, and sustainability reports of selected European peers. 164 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 ► Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing sustainability data reported for internal and public reporting purposes, linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 158-160). ► Reviewed the Report for the appropriate transposition and presentation of the sustainability data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 158-160), including limitations and assumptions relating to how these data are presented within the Report. ► Read information or explanations to substantiate key data, statements and assertions regarding the sustainability disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement. ► Checked the AIA UNGC CoP against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Level of assurance The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance, as set out in ISAE 3000 (revised) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these evidence gathering procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. This is also expressed by the ‘moderate’ level of assurance, under AA1000AS, according to which “the assurance provider achieves moderate assurance where sufficient evidence has been obtained to support their statement, such as the risk of their conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to very low or zero”. Limitations of our review ► Our review was limited to the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version of the Report prevails. ► The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor attending any stakeholder engagement activities. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of research results assigned to third parties, nor Information Technology systems used by third parties. ► Our review did not include financial data and the corresponding narrative text and testing of the Information Technology systems used or those upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by AIA. ► We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. ► We did not review Annex I Reporting by the BoD to the AGM and Annex II – Financial Statements which have been audited by the AIA statutory auditors. Our conclusions Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. Inclusivity: Has AIA been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any key stakeholder groups have been excluded from stakeholder engagement activities, or to conclude that AIA has not applied the Inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. 165 Appendix: Sustainability Indices Materiality: Has AIA provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s materiality determination approach does not provide a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance. Responsiveness: Has AIA responded to stakeholder concerns? ► We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AIA has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 158-160), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements of the GRI Standards. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report linked to qualitative information on GRI General and Specific Disclosures under scope? ► We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements on AIA’s sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under scope? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that quantitative data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under scope has not been collated properly at corporate level. ► We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the Report. Does the Report meet the GRI Standards requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option? ► Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option, as presented in the GRI Content Index, found on pages 158-160. 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Does AIA’s UNGC CoP adhere to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s UNGC CoP is not fairly stated, according to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. 4. Alignment with United Nations’ Sustainability Development Goals according to the guidance found in the “SDG Compass, Linking the SDGs and GRI” document. Is the link of AIA’s material issues to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, as presented in the report, in alignment with the guidance found in the “SDG Compass, Linking the SDGs and GRI” document? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the link of AIA’s material issues to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, as presented in the report, is not in alignment with the guidance found in the “SDG Compass, Linking the SDGs and GRI” document. 166 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Independence We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Assurance Standards, particularly ISAE 3000 (revised), which requires that we comply with ethical standards and plan and perform our assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about the scope described above. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1), and accordingly, we maintain a robust system of quality control, including policies and procedures documenting compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and requirements in law or regulation. We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which establishes the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our assurance team The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services global network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a Global level. Athens, 20 June 2018 For and on behalf of ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. Vassilios Kaminaris Partner 167 Airport Moments Airport Moments 18th AMW AIA’s 18th Airline Marketing Workshop “The PairFUME of the Athenian Spring” Airlines get awarded by Athens International Airport for their development in 2017. 168 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 2nd Plane Pull 2nd Plane Pull in Greece in favour of “The Smile of the Child” Association. 5th ACES The annual Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium “ACES – Athens”, an initiative launched in 2013 by Athens International Airport, takes place for the 5th consecutive year, at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Centre, the new landmark of the city of Athens. ACI Airport Carbon Accreditation Having achieved carbon neutral status, Athens International Airport is certified by the independent carbon management programme Airport Carbon Accreditation. 169 Airport Moments Airport shopping centre's new look The Athens Airport has a new look. Focusing on functionality, services, and modern design, with the synthesis of Greek classical and contemporary elements, AIA’s non-Schengen (9,000 m2) and Schengen (15,000 m2) areas are totally transformed. Flight Academy In cooperation with the Hellenic American University, AIA organises the 2nd Aviation and Flight Academy for students 14-17 years old who are keen on aviation and learning its principles both in theory and in practice. Ouzofest The traditional annual Lesvos Ouzofest started at the Athens airport in July. 170 Annual & Sustainability Report 2017 Scoot flight from Athens Scoot’s first flight connecting Athens with Singapore is one of the highlights of our 2017 network, establishing Athens as the European gateway for the carrier’s flights from/to the Asia-Pacific region. Scoot continues the long and successful history of the Singapore Airlines family in Athens. Apart from being the sole carrier flying nonstop between Singapore and Athens, the flight is also the airline’s first to a European destination and maiden long-haul flight. Emirates flight Athens New York A spectacular development for the Athens market: Emirates commences direct daily passenger service between Athens and New York in March, enhancing its connectivity and presenting the traveling public with new travel options. IATA award Athens International Airport is recognised by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) by receiving the Fast Travel ‘Gold Status’. This status recognises those airports that have implemented the necessary infrastructure to support all six Fast Travel projects, thus achieving significant innovation and improvement in passenger experience: those areas include self-check-in, bags ready-togo, document check, flight re-booking, self-boarding, and bag recovery. 171 This document has been printed on environmentally friendly, high quality paper with the following composition: 40% recycled paper, 55% FSC certified paper pulp (certificate of sustainable forest management) and 5% cotton fibres to improve paper texture and appearance. It is eco label compliant, adhering to all environmental management ISO standards as well as the relevant ISO standard for reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) generation and emissions during manufacturing. It features neutral ph; it is free of heavy metals and is non-chlorinated to avoid contamination of water, the ground water table and the sea. It is durable but also fully self degradable and recyclable. 172
