April 1, 2018 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Antonio Neri President and I am pleased to confirm that Hewlett Packard Enterprise will Chief Executive Officer continue to support and implement the ten principles of the antonio.neri@hpe.com Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption as we have in the past. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Hewlett Packard Enterprise will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes:  A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. 3000 Hanover Street Palo Alto, CA 94304-1112 hpe.com  A description of practical actions (i.e. disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption).  A measurement of outcomes (i.e. the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Antonio Neri President and Chief Executive Officer Sincerely yours, antonio.neri@hpe.com Antonio Neri President and Chief Executive Officer Hewlett Packard Enterprise 3000 Hanover Street Palo Alto, CA 94304-1112 hpe.com Page 2 of 2
