BALANCE Sustainability report, Issue 2018 Cover story Creating value sustainably SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ONLINE lufthansagroup.com/responsibility CONTENT 1 __ About this report 2 __ At a glance 4 __ The Lufthansa Group COVER STORY: CREATING VALUE SUSTAINABLY 8 __ Sustainability along the value chain 10 __ Flying sustainably 14 __ A sustainable job engine 16 __ Traveling sustainably 17 __ Creating value sustainably COMPANY & RESPONSIBILITY CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY 20 __ Strategy and management 40 __ Environmental management 62 __ Diversity and equal opportunities 28 __ Compliance and human rights 43 __ Fuel consumption and emissions 68 __ Employment policy based on 31 __ Sustainability in the supply chain 54 __ Energy and resource management partnership 32 __ Fleet management 57 __ Active noise abatement 70 __ Talent management 36 __ Sustainable innovation, 72 __ Occupational safety and health research and development management 74 __ Corporate citizenship PRODUCT & CUSTOMER SERVICE & INFORMATION 84 __ Service and customer centricity 95 __ Scope of consolidation 88 __ Flight safety and health protection 96 __ Environmental / Personnel data 92 __ Data protection and data security 102 __ Glossary 106 __ GRI Content Index 112 __ Editorial information 113 __ Contact 114 __ Overview: Noise standards 115 __ The operating fleet 117 __ Prizes and awards ABOUT THIS REPORT Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stake­ Additional information on the Internet holders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and In addition to this report, the Lufthansa Group informs readers via the advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, Internet about its activities in the area of sustainability: product and corporate citizenship. It thus complements and expands ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility the information in the Annual Report. Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking statements Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate Responsibility is understood to The data included in this report has been collected and processed with comprise the following dimensions: the utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. Information published in this report with regard to the • Economic sustainability future development of the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries consists • Corporate governance and compliance purely of forecasts and assessments and not of definitive historical • Climate and environmental responsibility facts. Its purpose is exclusively informational, identified by the use of • Social responsibility such forward-looking terms as believe, expect, forecast, intend, project, • Product responsibility plan, estimate, count on, can, could, should or endeavor. These for­ • Corporate citizenship ward-looking statements are based on all the discernible information, facts and expectations currently available. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This publication also serves as a progress report concern­ Numerous factors affect the facts and forecasts published in this report, ing the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which are in large part outside the Lufthansa Group’s sphere of influen­ which the Lufthansa Group joined in 2002 and to which it has been ce. This includes, among others, changes in national and international committed as “Participant” since 2018. The Group determined the most laws and regulations or fundamental changes in the economic or significant topics related to sustainability in 2016 in the context of a political environment. materiality analysis, which is based on the results of a stakeholder survey. In 2017, an internal evaluation was carried out (see page 22). It is possible that the Group’s actual results and development may differ materially from the forward-looking statements implied by the fore­ Scope of consolidation and comparability casts. The Lufthansa Group assumes no obligation for and does not Unless noted otherwise, the data in this report refers to the financial intend to adapt forward-looking statements to accommodate events or year 2017. You will find explanations concerning the scope of consoli­ developments that may occur at some later date. Accordingly, it neither dation and calculation methods used to determine the absolute and expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, nor does it give any guaran­ specific resource consumption at the Lufthansa Group on page 95. This tee for the actuality, accuracy and completeness of this data and report covers the activities of the Lufthansa Group. Under the aspect information. Accordingly, it neither expressly nor conclusively accepts of materiality, reporting primarily focuses on the product of “flying” liability, nor does it give any guarantee for the actuality, accuracy and without upstream and downstream processes. Reporting restricted to completeness of this data and information. individual Group companies is indicated in the text. Due to changes in the portfolio over recent years, the figures for personnel and environ­ mental performance cited in this report are only to a limited extent comparable with those reported for previous years. For example, Brussels Airlines, which has been full part of the Lufthansa Group since January 2017, was included for the first time in this report’s coverage 1 Taken from the Annual Report 2017 of the Lufthansa Group. 2 For the reporting year 2017, the following companies have been included in during the reporting year. There are also certain differences in approach Balance: Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), compared to the Annual Report when calculating passenger numbers SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including and their derivative performance indicators (see explanations relating to Germanwings), Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties, i.e. airlines outside the scope of consolidation the overview on page 2, At a glance). of Balance, but that take over services from Lufthansa, for example in the event of capacity bottlenecks (see page 96, table “Share of third Publication dates of this report parties”). 3 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 4 See page 96 “Fuel consumption”. 5 Balance: segments Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, is published once (operational perspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspec­ a year in German and in English. The preceding edition was published on tive). One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of July 3, 2017. The Group has regularly reported about its environmental stops en route. 6 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual performance since 1994 and has continuously expanded its reporting to Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 7 Companies referred to as in 2, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the other dimensions of entrepreneurial responsibility. the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 3, but including ferry flights, as these represent costs. page 1 AT A GLANCE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE DATA 1 2017 2016 Change Revenue million € 35,579 31,660 + 12.4 % of which traffic revenue million € 28,399 24,661 + 15.2 % EBIT million € 3,310 2,275 + 45.5 % Adjusted EBIT million € 2,973 1,752 + 69.7 % EBITDA million € 5,362 4,065 + 31.9 % Net profit / loss for the period million € 2,364 1,776 + 33.1 % Total assets million € 36,267 34,697 + 4.5 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 5,037 3,246 + 55.1 % Capital expenditure (gross) million € 3,005 2,236 + 34.4 % Equity ratio percent 26.5 20.6 + 5.9 PP PERSONNEL DATA 2017 2016 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 129,424 124,306 + 4.1 % of these, in Germany 69,142 68,181 + 1.4 % of these, outside Germany 60,282 56,125 + 7.4 % Staff costs million € 8,172 7,354 + 11.1 % Revenue / employee thousand € 275 255 + 7.8 % Staff costs / revenue percent 23.0 23.2 – 0.2 PP Average age years 42.2 42.2 ± 0.0 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 28.6 27.4 + 1.2 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.4 14.0 + 0.4 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 45.3 43.4 + 1.9 PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 16.5 16.9 – 0.4 PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 15.1 15.6 – 0.5 PP ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2, 3 2017 2016 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 4 tonnes 9,618,095 9,055,550 + 6.2 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l / 100 pkm 3.68 3.85 – 4.5 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g / tkm 215 224 – 4.1 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 30,296,998 28,524,981 + 6.2 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg / 100 pkm 9.27 9.71 – 4.5 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 151,402 139,008 + 8.9 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 46.1 47.0 – 1.9 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 21,922 19,320 + 13.5 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 7.2 7.1 + 2.4 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,226.1 1,880.4 + 18.4 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 0.7 0.7 + 7.8 % TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE DATA Balance 2, 3 ± 2016 Annual report 7 ± 2016 Flights 5 990,794 + 5.8 % 1,130,008 + 10.6 % Passengers carried 6 thousand 118,964 + 12.3 % 130,040 + 18.6 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 304,916 + 9.2 % 322,821 + 12.7 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 15,344 + 4.8 % 15,619 + 3.3 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 6 million pkm 252,660 + 11.6 % 261,156 + 15.2 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (including third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 10,173 + 9.6 % 10,819 + 7.4 % page 2 “We also want to take a leading role within our industry in the important area of sustainability. Dear Readers, The financial year 2017 was the most successful one in the Lufthansa Group's history; we achieved an all-time best result. All companies within the Group contributed to it. Overall, the airlines of the Lufthansa Group welcomed more than 130 million passengers over the past year and again set a new passenger record. At the same time, we reduced the average kerosene consumption per passenger and 100 kilometers by 4.5 percent to 3.68 liters – also a new record! This is the welcome result of our continuous fleet modernization and efficiency programs. To make our flight operations as environmentally friendly as possible, we will continue to invest in economic, fuel-efficient and quiet aircraft. The Supervisory Board approved an order for up to 16 more aircraft in May 2018. Thus we have about 190 aircraft on order at the moment. The cover story in this issue of Balance, “Creating value sustainably”, shows how we are organizing our core business as well as the upstream and downstream processes in sustainable ways. We also want to take a leading role within our industry in the important area of sustainability. That is why we make sure that our entrepreneurial activities are managed sustainably and responsibly. As a “Participant” in the UN Global Compact, we gain consistent orientation from its ten principles, and we launched further measures during the reporting year aimed at actively implementing these self-commitments in our sphere of influence. For example, in 2017 we adopted our Code of Conduct, which documents our values, principles and standards of conduct in our daily operations. This includes respecting human rights. As a modern and cosmopolitan company we are continuously evolving. Our approximately 130,000 employees worldwide are vital for our business success. Furthering their careers, for example by means of our programs for junior and management staff, is one of the most important tasks of our personnel management. Last but not least, corporate citizenship is part of our sustainable management. We now concentrate on the action areas Education / Enabling and Life / Health. Under the roof of our charitable aid organization help alliance we supported 37 aid projects around the world in 2017 alone. We will further cultivate these activities and associate them more closely with our personnel strategy. I thank you for your interest and wish you a captivating read. Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 3 THE LUFTHANSA GROUP A DAY AT THE LUFTHANSA GROUP The Lufthansa Group is an aviation company with worldwide operations and more than 550 subsidiaries and affiliated companies. The portfolio comprises the Network Airlines, the Eurowings Group and Aviation Services. 1,700 The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to be the aircraft supported first choice in aviation for shareholders, customers, employees and partners, and 3,096 to continue to play a significant role in shaping the global aviation market. In 2017 the Lufthansa Group achieved the flights best result in the Company’s history. The airlines within the Lufthansa Group welcomed more than 130 million passengers and thus set a new record. ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com 356,274 passengers 1.91 million meals AT A GLANCE Corporate Legal form Total revenue 2017 Number of employees Number of nationalities headquarters Stock corporation 35.6 billion euros on 31.12.2017 147 Cologne 129,424 page 4 / Group Portrait THE SET-UP OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP NETWORK AIRLINES EUROWINGS GROUP The business segment Network Airlines comprises the The business segment Eurowings Group comprises the companies Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines. They flight operations of the Eurowings Group as well as offer their customers a premium product and, thanks to the Brussels Airlines and the equity investment in SunExpress. multi-hub strategy, a comprehensive route network combined They offer an innovative and competitive product for with the highest degree of travel flexibility. price-sensitive and service-oriented customers in the ↗ www.lufthansa.com | www.swiss.com | www.austrian.com growing direct-traffic segment. ↗ www.eurowings.com | www.brusselsairlines.com AVIATION SERVICES The Aviation Services are leaders in their worldwide markets and strengthen the portfolio of the Lufthansa Group. They include the business segments Logistics, MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul), Catering as well as other companies and Group functions. Lufthansa Cargo AG, with headquarters Lufthansa Technik AG, with headquarters The LSG Group offers a comprehensive in Frankfurt, is the Lufthansa Group’s in Hamburg, is the world’s leading portfolio of products in all areas of specialist for logistics and Europe’s manufacturer-independent provider in-flight services. With the expertise of leading cargo airline. of maintenance, repair and overhaul the established LSG Sky Chefs brand, ↗ www.lufthansa-cargo.com services for civil commercial aircraft. the largest network of in-flight kitchens ↗ www.lufthansa-technik.com worldwide, it is the industry leader for high-quality in-flight catering. The group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service Holding AG, is headquartered in Neu-Isenburg. ↗ www.lsgskychefs.com 2018 Hubs Number of aircraft Number of passengers Number of destinations Frankfurt, Munich, in the Group’s fleet in 2017 (summer timetable 2018) Zurich, Vienna 728 more than 130 million 343 destinations in 103 countries LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 5 CREATING VALUE SUSTAINABLY Conducting business according to responsible and sustainable principles – in all Company areas and along the entire value chain – is an aspiration that forms the basis for the Lufthansa Group’s business activities and its guidelines day after day. Be it in procurement, flight operations or the customers’ travel experience: Sustainable conduct – with a specific focus on quality, efficiency and innovation – generates added value in the economic, social and ecological spheres. At the same time, applying value-based management and steering approaches ensures that responsible and future-oriented thinking is anchored in all decision-making processes. Long-term value creation on the basis of solid finances is the fundamental prerequisite for the Lufthansa Group to stay on course in the future as well. Follow us along the value chain: On the pages ahead we will show you just how sustainable the “product of flying” is already today. SUSTAINABILITY ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN The following overview illustrates the Lufthansa Group’s value chain in a simplified form. It demonstrates how the Company takes specific aspects of sustainability into consideration, in particular in its core business, but also in upstream and downstream processes. Core business Research & Supply chain & development procurement AIRLINES Participation in research Integration of sustainability and innovation projects in aspects into the procurement cooperation with aircraft process manufacturers, airports, fuel producers and scientific Continuous investments in new institutions aircraft and engine technologies The Lufthansa Innovation Hub develops and tests innovative Four-pillar strategy as the basis for all climate-relevant activities across business models. the Lufthansa Group. This includes the deployment of modern and fuel-efficient aircraft as well as measures to increase the energy and resource efficiency in operations. Deployment of quiet aircraft and additional measures to perceptibly reduce noise emissions in the proximity of airports. Step-by-step expansion of environmental management systems Promoting diversity and equal opportunity at the Lufthansa Group Training and continuing education for employees Comprehensive health management and occupational safety page 8 / Cover story: Creating value sustainably Value-based corporate management with regard to financial, social and Responsible and lawful conduct is a significant element of corporate ecological aspects is a fundamental requirement for increasing Company culture. The Lufthansa Group Code of Conduct summarizes principles value long-term. and guidelines, and is binding for all bodies, executives and employees within the Lufthansa Group. “product of ﬂying” Recycling & AVIATION CUSTOMERS & disposal SERVICES DISTRIBUTION After withdrawal of aircraft from the fleet: • Sale of aircraft and continued operation by new owners – CO2 • Decommissioning of aircraft and recycling or up-cycling Careful use of resources by means of Product offer compatible with sustainable Separation of waste materials effective waste management on board consumption: and use of recyclable materials and on the ground • Customers are able to compensate the CO2 emissions of their flights on Efficient maintenance procedures for a voluntary basis. aircraft and aerodynamic improvements • Lufthansa Express gives customers the option of combining air travel with Promotion of e-mobility across ground rail, bus or car-sharing services. services • Digital processes help reduce paper consumption. Regular measurements of customer satisfaction to increase the level of customer orientation. Flight safety as well as passengers’ and crews’ health have the highest priority for the Lufthansa Group. Commitment to social issues with the help alliance as the central pillar LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 9 FLYING SUSTAINABLY Expert interview JÖRG HENNEMANN Head of Commercial Fleet Management at the Lufthansa Group MR HENNEMANN, WHAT CHARACTERIZES THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S FLEET? Our airlines operate a modern and competitive fleet that covers many different market segments. Aircraft of different sizes are deployed. The spectrum ranges from a 76-seat turboprop to the Airbus A380 with more than 500 seats. The Lufthansa Group is a pioneer when it comes to introducing new, environmentally friendly technologies, the latest example is the Airbus A350-900, which counts among the most modern and environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft worldwide. page 10 / Cover story: Creating value sustainably TOGETHER WITH YOUR TEAM YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WHAT ARE YOUR OPTIONS TO FURTHER IMPROVE THE GROUP FLEET’S SIZE, COMPOSITION AND ASSIGNMENT FOR THE ENTIRE FLEET’S ENVIRONMENTAL COMPATIBILITY? LUFTHANSA GROUP. WHAT IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT IN THIS CONTEXT? My team and I are active in three areas: firstly – and this is the largest lever – the purchase of efficient aircraft. Fleet planning means designing structures a long time in advance. Currently our focus is on two 190 Secondly, measures on aircraft that increase efficiency or decrease noise. And last but not least, we can central themes: we want to further harmonize our AIRCRAFT influence the manufacturers’ development goals Group fleet and strengthen our efficiency. We are CURRENTLY related to new aircraft programs. ON ORDER proud that the about 190 aircraft we currently have on order will allow us to integrate the most environmental friendly models into our fleet that are available on the market at the moment. TO WHICH CRITERIA DOES THE LUFTHANSA GROUP PAY PARTICULAR ATTENTION IN PLANNING FOR AND BUYING NEW AIRCRAFT? WHICH ROLE DOES THE TOPIC OF SUSTAINABILITY PLAY IN THIS CONTEXT? Our decisions concerning the fleet first follow primarily economic decision criteria – only a fleet that can be operated in a Sustainability plays an important role in all decisions concerning sustainably economic way is justifiable from an entrepreneurial the fleet. And incidentally, we are lucky that ecology and perspective. Beyond that, the aircraft needs to fly safely and economy go hand in hand in this case. In the area of fuel highly reliably, meet the customers’ high expectations conconsumption, for example: this remains the single most imporcerning the product aboard and, of course, it needs to fit in tant cost driver of an airline. By operating aircraft with low fuel with the other aircraft in the fleet of the Lufthansa Group. And consumption it is not only our costs that fall, but also CO2 environmental aspects play an important role – we consider emissions. The same is true for noise emissions: new, quieter only especially environmentally friendly aircraft a sustainable aircraft mean not only lower airport fees but also a lessening investment. of the burden on people living around airports. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 11 WHICH IMPORTANCE DOES THE TOPIC RESEARCH & SPEAKING OF “LIFE-CYCLE MANAGEMENT”: ARE OPTIMIZATION DEVELOPMENT HAVE IN SELECTING NEW AIRCRAFT? MEASURES ALSO APPLIED TO THE EXISTING FLEET TO INCREASE THE ECO-EFFICIENCY IN FLIGHT OPERATIONS? This is an important topic. We are in a constant dialogue with aircraft and engine manufacturers concerning current tech­ Yes, improvements on aircraft in the existing fleet are an nology and product developments, to name one example. integral part of our sustainability strategy. This includes optimiThis means we can contribute our requirements concerning zations of engines to reduce fuel consumption, retrofitting the sustainability of new aircraft programs. In the case of the aircraft with sharklets, noise-reducing measures, such as Boeing 777-9, we are the so-called “launch customer”, and vortex generators on the Airbus A320 or specialized linings in have thus taken a role in the front row and been committed the engine air inlets. for many years to helping develop the specifications of this long-haul aircraft. Another example comes to mind: With the C Series and the A320neo, we have actively supported the WHAT HAPPENS TO AIRCRAFT THAT LEAVE THE FLEET? introduction of a new generation of especially quiet and fuel-efficient engines manufactured by Pratt & Whitney. Some aircraft are flown by other operators after leaving the fleet. But most aircraft that leave our fleet are at the end of Plus, I don’t want to leave it unmentioned that Lufthansa their commercial lifespan, while they contain many valuable became the first airline worldwide in 2011 to test the use of parts. These aircraft are usually dismantled and usable parts biofuel under everyday operating conditions. are marketed for further use. The rest of the aircraft is sepa­ rated by material category for recycling. WHICH STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS PROVIDE ORIENTATION CONCERNING THE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF AIRCRAFT? WHEN WILL THE FIRST E-AIRCRAFT FLY FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP? Ordinarily, we take the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) as a reference point. In all importAt current state of technology the operation of large aircraft ant areas, such as noise, emissions and CO2 emissions, there with a pure e-propulsion system is not realistic for the foreare current certification regulations which an aircraft must seeable future. The energy density of batteries is simply too fulfill. In this context, we pay attention not only to currently low for this purpose. But we are observing the increased use of applied limits being met, but also future ones. Another impor­ electrical systems on board. This trend is set to further increase tant criterium for orientation is different local requirements, and help to make aircraft more and more efficient. such as strict noise limits or emissions-related fees. page 12 / Cover story: Creating value sustainably The Boeing 777-9, set to enter service at Lufthansa in 2020, a SWISS Bombardier CS300 and an Austrian Airlines Boeing 777 (from left). New life for old aircraft parts When the Lufthansa Group withdraws an aircraft from its fleet, it is either sold and then operated by another airline – or recycled. A decommissioned aircraft contains numerous valuable materials and parts. For example, up to 92 percent of a jumbo jet’s parts can be overhauled and reused. The components are thoroughly checked, repaired and certified, and then fed back into the component pool. Dismantling of decommissioned aircraft is the task of Lufthansa Technik Component Services (LTCS) in Tulsa, USA. Since 2012, the subsidiary of Lufthansa Technik has taken apart and recycled 37 aircraft: 30 Boeing 737CLs, five Boeing 747-400s and two Boeing MD11s. At the end of the dismantling process only the fuselage is left, which is recycled as scrap metal. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 13 THE LUFTHANSA GROUP – A SUSTAINABLE JOB ENGINE The Lufthansa Group with its roughly 130,000 employees around the world counts among Germany’s largest and most attractive employers. As the figures show, the Group is also a sustainable job engine: in 2018 alone, the Lufthansa Group is planning to hire more than 8,000 new employees, > 8,000 including 4,000 flight attendants at the Group airlines. NEW HIRES IN 2018 Often, stationing new aircraft at a hub is accompanied by hiring new operative employees. The following overview illustrates how significant are the employment effect and economic power of a single aircraft. This is how many jobs are secured by a single aircraft Each new aircraft is comparable to the creation of a company. For example, an Airbus A350-900 long-haul aircraft provides an employment stimulus of a large company. Within the Lufthansa Group, each aircraft of this type secures about 220 jobs. This number increases to as many as 400 jobs for an Airbus A380 long-haul aircraft. In addition, many more jobs are secured at airports, air traffic control, the manufacturer, suppliers and haulage companies. page 14 / Cover story: Creating value sustainably EMPLOYMENT EFFECT ILLUSTRATED BY THE LUFTHANSA AIRBUS A350-900 220 JOBS are secured by an Airbus A350-900 long-haul aircraft operated by the Lufthansa Group. 7 100 Ground operations Cabin 58 24 IT, administration, freight, Cockpit flight training and others 11 20 Catering Maintenance In addition MANY MORE JOBS are secured at airports, air traffic control, the manufacturer, suppliers and haulage companies. An Airbus A350-900 long-haul aircraft has the employment effect of a LARGE COMPANY. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 15 TRAVELING SUSTAINABLY The airlines of the Lufthansa Group always aim at providing their passengers with a perfect travel experience. Therefore, the goal is to continuously monitor services along the travel chain and to develop innovative products at the same time. Digitalization and sustainability considerations play an important role in this context. SMILE CO2-NEUTRAL FLYING ARRIVING IN A RELAXED STATE OF MIND One of the Lufthansa Group’s central Passengers of the Lufthansa Group Be it jet lag, earache or motion sickdigitalization and personalization airlines already fly particularly fuelness, the Lufthansa Group supports projects is SMILE. The program’s efficiently thanks to modern aircraft its passengers with comprehensive task is to make communication with and fuel-efficiency programs. In information in the area of travel each customer along the entire travel addition, the Group already offers its medicine. Customers with an inchain as personal as possible with customers in large part the option of creased need of care benefit from the goal of offering him or her a voluntary CO2 compensation: these additional specific assistance which higher level of added value. This donations are channeled to certified provides them with optimum comfort digital innovation allows the Group to projects that support climate-friendly on the ground and on board. understand even better what each sources of energy. passenger needs in order to enjoy a perfect travel experience (see page 55, Balance 2017). For further information about services along the travel chain see pages 12 f., Balance 2017, and pages 68 f., Balance 2016, as well as page 84 ff. in this report, Service and customer orientation. page 16 / Cover story: Creating value sustainably Development of financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) CREATING VALUE SUSTAINABLY REVENUES (IN BILLIONS OF EUROS) INCREASED BY 12 PERCENT 35.6 In 2017, the Lufthansa Group achieved 30.0 30.0 32.1 31.7 the best results in the Company’s history. This success is based on the trajectory of modernization with cost reductions and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 simultaneous investments in quality. Furthermore, sustainable corporate governance makes a significant UNIT COSTS 1 (IN EURO CENTS) DECLINED BY 0.4 PERCENT contribution to financial, social and 6.5 ecological aspects and, ultimately, to further increasing Company value 6.6 6.5 7.0 6.5 over the long-term. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1.8 BILLION EUROS OF VALUE CREATED (EACC) 2 1,758 323 817 – 338 – 223 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 constant currency CASK excl. fuel Unit costs (CASK) denote the operating expenses divided by offered seat kilometers. 2 EACC = Earnings After Cost of Capital (€m) Key points on COMPANY & RESPONSIBILITY 01 20 __ STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 28 __ COMPLIANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS 31 __ SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 32 __ FLEET MANAGEMENT 36 __ SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Developments in society have a profound inﬂuence on the business activities and sustainability agenda of the Lufthansa Group. Among the worldwide megatrends and challenges are population growth, increasing mobility, technological progress and the advancing digitalization of numerous processes. Concurrently, environmental protection is gaining increasing importance against the backdrop of climate change and resource shortages. For the Lufthansa Group, facing up to these developments means acting sustainably and responsibly. In this context, the Group places the focus on those aspects that allow it to achieve signiﬁcant effects. In particular, this includes limiting environmentally relevant effects from ﬂight operations by making comprehensive investments in new aircraft, technologies and products. The Lufthansa Group is a service company whose economic success depends to a signiﬁcant extent on the commitment and motivation of its employees. Applying a responsible and sustainable approach to dealing with resources, the environment and employees secures not only long-term ﬁnancial stability, but also acceptance for its business model inside and outside of the Company as well as attractiveness for customers, employees, shareholders and partners. This also includes the attentive management of opportunities and risks, consistent supply chain management and a constructive dialogue with diverse stakeholder groups. In this way, the Group underscores the goal of fulﬁlling its role as a leader in the aviation industry, including in the area of sustainability, on a continuous basis. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 19 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT The Lufthansa Group pursues an extensive sustainability Sustainable management allows the Lufthansa Group to seize agenda, which comprises six dimensions and ensures responopportunities that offer themselves, and also to minimize or sible corporate governance in all business segments (see entirely avoid risks, including those that might result from more illustration below). Value-based management is an integral rigorous regulatory requirements. Managing opportunities and component of sustainable governance for the Group. During risks is integrated into all business processes. During the the financial year 2017, the Lufthansa Group revised its finanreporting year, the Lufthansa Group expanded its Group risk cial strategy with the aim of sustainably increasing Company management system by the dimension “effects from nonvalue. At the center of attention are the three dimensions of financial aspects on external stakeholders” (see page 66, increasing profitability, focusing the use of capital, and safe­ Annual Report 2017). guarding financial stability. The concept and the related indicators are presented in detail in the chapter “Financial strategy and value-based management” of the Annual Report 2017 (see Management structure and page 16 ff.). The most important indicators are also shown in this report (see page 2, “At a glance”). organization The highest monitoring body in the area of sustainable man­ agement is the Supervisory Board. The coordination and further development of activities and initiatives relevant for The Corporate Responsibility sustainability within the Lufthansa Group is the task of the Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC). This interdisciplinary dimensions of the Lufthansa Group and Group-wide body was established at the senior management level. The CRC consists of the heads of Group Strategy, Policy, Environmental Issues, Investor Relations, Controlling, Legal, Human Resources, Communications and Corporate Economic Sourcing. Individual managers are responsible for implement­ sustainability ing concrete activities and projects. They bundle and organize the topics within their respective areas of responsibility. Corporate Product During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group interlinked citizenship responsibility sustainability aspects even more strongly with Group strategy: a working group guided by the department now establishes Corporate related control impulses across the entire Group and monitors Responsibility their implementation. It comprises experts from the same departments and staff units that form the CRC. The team meets twice a month and discusses current issues and chal­ Climate and Social lenges in the context of corporate responsibility. During the environmental responsibility reporting year, the working group placed its emphasis on two responsibility areas: reporting in compliance with the CSR directive and the importance of human rights in entrepreneurial environments. Corporate governance and Given the significance of this topic, a separate project group compliance was set up (see page 30, Respect for human rights). page 20 / Company & responsibility Four questions for CLAUDIA HÜGEL Senior Director Group Strategy/ Sustainability Claudia Hügel headed the production of the first non-financial report at the Lufthansa Group in accordance with the CSR Directive Implementation Act. The success of our sustainability work also depends decisively on all employees and their involvement. This is another reason why it is important for us to create a motivating working environment, where employees can contribute their ideas and projects. HOW IS THE LUFTHANSA GROUP POSITIONED WITH REGARD TO SUSTAINABILITY? WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS IN THIS CONTEXT? Our commitment to sustainability has many facets: from the We have worked for some time in the context of a matrix start, climate protection and active noise abatement have had organization within the Group. Tasks and topics are steered in a particular importance for us. Apart from the ecological aspects, a process-oriented manner. We take advantage of this approach we want to give even more attention to our supply chain. As to optimize the Group-wide management of non-financial a globally active company we want to act responsibly and aspects, based on the current form of organization. We have lawfully within the Group and along the supply chain, and we noticed an increased level of interest among our customers, want to make sure that human rights are respected. Our Code shareholders, employees and other stakeholder groups conof Conduct and our participation in the UN Global Compact cerning sustainability topics over the past years. This confirms have already created a good basis. Now our task is to further our approach and spurs us on to become even more active in develop the management approach and to raise awareness for this area and, above all, to seize the associated opportunities corporate responsibility within the industry together with other more consciously. companies. WHAT IS THE IMPORTANCE OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP IN PARTICIPATION IN THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT? CONCRETE TERMS? We have been active in the UN Global Compact for more than We already have a broad know-how and a network concerning 15 years. Respecting its ten principles – and since 2015 also issues relating to corporate responsibility. We want to improve supporting the Sustainable Development Goals – is part of our the steering of these two elements and further develop the entrepreneurial activities. In 2018, we have again confirmed our existing organizational structure. By doing so, we can advance commitment in this area by adopting the new “Participant” sustainability topics even more effectively and further sharpen option. The next step is to assess intensively how we can align the Lufthansa Group’s profile as a leading company within the our sustainability strategy even more clearly with the global airline industry – including in the area of sustainability. development goals of the Agenda 2030. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 21 Stakeholder dialogue In 2017, the Group thus gathered information on key topics and ↗ GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 important employee concerns through the Company-wide employee survey “involve me!”. Employees provided a total of The continuous exchange with stakeholders makes an im­ about 31,200 open-ended comments on topics such as work­ portant contribution to the further development of the ing conditions, leadership, health and the Company as an Lufthansa Group, its sustainability strategy and the annual employer. The analysis provides insights into possible action reporting on significant topics related to corporate responsibility. areas. For example, the action area “feedback / error culture” The spectrum of stakeholders ranges from customers and was derived from “involve me!” results in 2015. The measures em­ployees, investors and suppliers to politicians, municipalities, taken by the Group in this area are effective. Also in the area of neighbors, NGOs and scientists, among others. The Group corporate citizenship, the Lufthansa Group takes stakeholders’ places great emphasis on an open, continuous and trusting wishes and opinions seriously: the Group revised its initially dialogue with its internal and external interest groups, and reduced commitment to crane protection – a decision in favor actively seeks exchanges with them by using diverse formats of focusing on social and humanitarian topic areas – given the (see page on the right, Stakeholder dialogue: The most impor­ broad range of stakeholder feedback and decided to continue tant activities in 2017 at a glance). its support (see page 81, Further commitment). This dialogue allows the Group to gain a better understanding of needs, expectations and wishes held by different interest groups and enables it to incorporate these in its entrepre­ neurial activities. The stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group Customers Investors Governments Neighbors Consumers Shareholders Legislators Publicity Analysts Politicians Social networks Rating agencies Authorities Nongovernmental organizations Science Employees Suppliers (NGOs) Research & Employee representatives Contractual partners Organizations Education Consortia page 22 / Company & responsibility Stakeholder dialogue: The most important activities in 2017 at a glance CUSTOMERS INVESTORS, SHAREHOLDERS AND ANALYSTS • Continuous, worldwide passenger surveys • Continuous and intensive shareholder dialogue • Customer events, customer forums and participation in discussion • Beyond the quarterly conferences, Executive Board and Supervisory forums Board members, and Investor Relations presented the Group’s latest • Monthly published customer onboard magazine and regular newsletter developments in 2017 to institutional investors through 34 roadshows, • Lufthansa InTouch Service Centers ensure 24-hour reachability for all 24 investors’ conferences as well as other event formats. In this context, questions concerning flight reservations about 400 personal one-on-one and group discussions were held • Digital Aviation Forum 2017 • Five forums specifically aimed at private investors • Event “Lufthansa Cargo in Dialogue” with more than • “Shareholder information” for private shareholders 160 representatives from the logistics industry • In addition to annual and interim reports, the capital markets are • Format “Lufthansa FlyingLab”: on selected flights passengers informed monthly about the latest traffic developments at the airlines can experience innovative products and services live onboard, of the Lufthansa Group test them and provide feedback (see page 37) • All publications, financial reports, presentations, background informa• Visitor service “Discover Lufthansa” assumes important function of tion and speeches, current news and relevant dates can be consulted customer care at largest location, Frankfurt. Tailor-made programs for at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations German and international top customers as well as for airports’ neigh­ bors, associations, research institutions and the Lufthansa Group’s LAW MAKERS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS partner universities • Continuous and intensive exchanges with representatives from politics and administrations as well as participation in numerous events and EMPLOYEES panel discussions • Group-wide employee survey “involve me!” (see page 69) • “Policy Brief” and “Aeropolitics” are published by the Lufthansa Group • Customer Centricity Days (see page 84) and SWISS respectively to inform decision-makers in politics, media • Cabin Air Quality Forum and business about developments in the aviation industry and topics • New format “Pilots’ Convention” – pilots in a dialogue related to aviation policy with represen­tatives of management • Continuous communication via the formats pooled in the product SCIENCE AND RESEARCH group “One”: every two months employee magazine “One”, news app • Numerous cooperations with scientific research institutions “One”, “eBase One” (intranet news), “Connection One” (community on • Participation in panel discussions and conferences the social intranet) and the newly introduced large screens at central locations, “Screens One” NEIGHBORS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Continuation of dialogue forums for cabin and cockpit employees • Regular information events and discussion round-tables with • Continuation of CabCons: dialogue events for flight attendants representatives of state and municipal governments at the at Lufthansa Lufthansa Group’s hubs • Continuation of the dialogue series “Speaking openly ...” with the • Participation in the “Forum Airport and Region” in Frankfurt as Lufthansa Group’s CEO at varying Company locations and live well as in the “Vienna Airport Dialogue Forum” transmission on the intranet • Participation in the German aircraft noise commissions • Live chats, web casts and other personal dialogue events for different • Since May 2015, LSG Sky Chefs has been a member of “LEEN 100” employee groups and managers in different business segments (Learning Energy Efficiency Network) initiated by the city of Frankfurt to • Continuation of the event format “Market conferences”: dialogue events help reduce CO2 values in the Rhein-Main area and increase the share of with managers and the Lufthansa Group’s CEO in different business renewable energies regions (2017 in Delhi, Brussels and Chicago) • Lufthansa CityLine has been a member of the fifth “Environmental Pact Bavaria” since September 2015. Its goal is to give incentives to sustainable development and continuous improvement of corporate environmental protection in Bavaria • Participation of Lufthansa Technik and LZ-Catering in “Environmental Partnership Hamburg” and of Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt in “Environmental Alliance Hesse” LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 23 Materiality analysis ↗ GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-49 In 2016, the Lufthansa Group carried out a broad-based stakeholder survey, whose findings were used for drawing up a comprehensive materiality analysis (see page 22 f., Balance 2016, and page 19, Balance 2017). It serves the Group as a basis for the strategic further development of corporate responsibility management. In addition, the Company uses the materiality analysis to define or adapt the contents of the sustainability report and the non-financial report (see insert to the left). COMBINED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group subjected the results of the materiality analysis to an internal verification. In accordance with the CSR Directive Implementation As a result, the topic “data protection and data security” was Act (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz – CSR-RUG) added to the list of significant topics, given its increasing passed on April 19, 2017, Deutsche Lufthansa AG has importance. The topics of flight safety and respect for human published in its Annual Report a separate combined rights were supplemented. They were not included in the non-financial report in accordance with Sections materiality analysis in 2016 because the Lufthansa Group 315b and 315c German Commercial Code (HGB) in regards them as basis of business activities. The topics sensiconjunction with Sections 289c to 289e HGB for the bilizing employees for sustainability, comprehensible political first time for the financial year 2017 and thereafter involvement and local value creation are not significant topics annually. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has published a with regard to sustainability reporting in 2017 according to GRI. separate non-financial report at the Company level and a separate non-financial Group report together Corporate Responsibility: as a combined non-financial report. It combines The most important topics at a glance 1 reporting on the following five key issues: environmental concerns, employee concerns, • Flight safety anti-corruption and bribery, human rights and social • Profitability concerns. In addition, measures and initiatives taken • Sustainable innovation, research and development by the Lufthansa Group that demonstrate the • Anti-corruption Company’s wide-ranging engagement to corporate • Sustainability in the supply chain responsibility are described in other passages in the • Human rights combined management report. References to these • Climate protection passages are made in this report. The combined • Energy and resource management non-financial report was the subject of a voluntary • Active noise abatement limited assurance engagement in accordance with • Service and customer orientation ISAE 3000 (revised). It is based on the Sustainability • Data protection and data security Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting • Employer attractiveness Initiative (GRI Standards 2016). Additional, • Occupational safety and health management comprehensive reporting on non-financial topics is • Corporate citizenship presented in this sustainability report. ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations 1 For further information about the most important topics (Approach, Effect, Goals) refer to the sustainability report Balance, Issue 2017, page 20 f. page 24 / Company & responsibility Values and standards of conduct With the aim of continuing the corporate culture based on THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE trust and integrity, and to secure the Company’s sustainable UN GLOBAL COMPACT success, the Lufthansa Group introduced a binding Code of Conduct for all bodies, executives and employees in 2017 (see Already since 2002, the Lufthansa Group has page 28 f.). The Group has supported the ten principles of the participated in the UN Global Compact, the largest UN Global Compact for sustainable and responsible corporate initiative worldwide for responsible and sustainable governance since 2002. The initiative’s goal is to help shape corporate governance. The participating companies globalization in socially and environmentally compatible ways. commit themselves to aligning their business Since 2018, the Lufthansa Group has been committed to the activities and strategies with ten principles from the “Participant” tier in this alliance between United Nations and areas human rights, labor standards, environmental businesses. In this way, the aviation group confirms again its protection and anti-corruption measures. self-commitment of aligning its business strategy with the ten globally recognized principles covering the areas human rights, HUMAN RIGHTS labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption 1. Businesses should support and respect measures. The Lufthansa Group participated in the yearbook the protection of internationally proclaimed “Global Compact Deutschland 2017” with a good-practice human rights; and example in the subject area of “Digitalization supports sustain­ 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human able development”. The Group shows in it how digitalization rights abuses. programs contribute to the UN Agenda 2030. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Sustainable Development Goals association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The central element of the Agenda 2030 is a set of 17 global 4. the elimination of all forms of forced sustainability goals, which were adopted in September 2015 and compulsory labor; by the United Nations’ members (Sustainable Development 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and Goals, SDGs, see ↗ www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment). 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect The SDGs are reflected in the important action areas of the of employment and occupation. Lufthansa Group. A large part of the global sustainability goals is relevant for the Group, even though intensity and shaping vary. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Of particular importance for the entrepreneurial activities of approach to environmental challenges; the Lufthansa Group are support for climate goals (13) and 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater responsible use of resources (12). These are the areas where environmental responsibility; and the Company sees the greatest opportunities for applying 9. encourage the development and diffusion its influence in order to make a measurable contribution. The of environmentally friendly technologies. same is true for promoting female employees (5) and the continuous improvement of working conditions (3, 8). In the ANTI-CORRUPTION context of innovation and digitalization projects (9) the 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all Lufthansa Group also pays increased attention to social and its forms, including extortion and bribery. ecological compatibility. Among others, this applies to paperless aviation, the promotion of intermodal solutions, electro↗ www.unglobalcompact.org mobility at airports and active noise abatement. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 25 In addition to its entrepreneurial activities, the Lufthansa Group’s Communications and commitment includes its registered charity help alliance, which was given a new base effective January 1, 2017, whose emphasis sensibilizing employees is the areas of education and enabling (4). For a long time, highquality training and continuing education programs have been of particularly high importance across the entire Company. Beyond this, the Group supports the SDGs by means of co­ operations with science and research as well as its active participation in numerous national and international committees and workgroups (17). Some examples are its participation in econsense, German industry’s forum for sustainable developUnder the motto “Travel.Enjoy.Respect.” the United Nations ment and its support for climate research (see page 36 f., and the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) declared 2017 Sustainable innovation, research and development). An overthe “International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development”. view of the most important sustainability related memberships The Lufthansa Group supported the campaign and its goals as is available at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility “Friend of the International Year”, for example in the social media as well as in other internal and external communication channels. During the reporting year, the Group made more use of communications than previously to inform its employees, raise their awareness and communicate sustainability topics, for example through explanatory videos, interviews, background information and topic weeks. Beyond these, employees are also made aware of relevant topics related to sustainability by means of voluntary, and sometimes obligatory, training opportunities. “Communication makes an important contri­ bution to conveying the Lufthansa Group’s standards of sustainable business practices in a continuous and transparent way. Steffen Milchsack Head of Corporate Responsibility Communications, Lufthansa Group page 26 / Company & responsibility External evaluation The Lufthansa Group received the following ratings in 2017: Sustainability analysts and rating agencies regularly assess the CDP: scoring result “A-” activities of the Lufthansa Group according to criteria of In the 2017 climate change reporting of CDP, the international responsible corporate governance. In 2017, the Lufthansa share charitable rating organization, the Lufthansa Group reached was again represented in the following sustainability indices: leadership status in the global ranking, with the Climate Scoring Result “A-” (previous year: “B”). The aviation group FTSE4Good thus not only ranks again among the best in its industry in The Lufthansa share has been listed in the FTSE4Good index Germany, Austria and Switzerland according to the CDP since 2001. It includes only those companies that meet the evaluation, but is now also listed in the highest ranking seginternationally accepted standards of entrepreneurial ment. Moreover, the Lufthansa Group also received the ranking responsibility. “A-” in the “CDP Supply Chain Information Request for Climate Change 2017”, in which approximately 4,800 companies MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series worldwide participated. The MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series has listed the Lufthansa share since 2015. The index family depicts oekom Corporate Rating: “Prime” status companies with a particular commitment to environmental, In the oekom Corporate Rating of November 2017 the social and governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa Group again received “Prime” status. It thus belongs to the group of “Industry Leaders” among a total of 69 aviation ECPI companies evaluated. The rating process evaluates the social The Lufthansa share is listed in the sustainability indices ECPI and environmental compatibility of companies against more EMU Ethical Equity, ECPI Euro Ethical Equity, ECPI Euro ESG than 100 selected industry-specific social and ecological Equity and ECPI World ESG Equity. ECPI has offered a seleccriteria. tion of ESG indices since 1997 and uses its own evaluation method that is based on exclusion criteria as well as positive criteria in the categories environment, social issues and corporate governance. Only a few hundred companies are included in these indices, which depict suitable, sustainable investment according to ECPI’s assessment. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 27 COMPLIANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS Compliance and respecting human rights are significant eleIn addition, the Lufthansa Group is listed in the joint transpar­ ments in the entrepreneurial activities of the Lufthansa Group. ency register of the European Commission and the European For the Company it is self-evident to comply with applicable Parliament. The goal of this register with public access is to law as well as voluntary self-commitments, and to actively increase the transparency of decision-making processes on a consider ethical principles, too. voluntary basis. Simultaneously, it aims at ensuring that interactions between EU institutions and organizations, associations The Lufthansa Group Code of Conduct, which was adopted and corporations are conducted in conformity with current laws in 2017 and internally and externally communicated in 2018, and carried out on the basis of ethical principles. contains the principles and guidelines that are binding for all bodies, executives and employees in daily business life. The code also serves as an aid to orientation for business partners. Fighting corruption and bribery The Lufthansa Group expects that they will also adhere to the principles defined in it. The Code of Conduct has been Corruption risks may occur in companies worldwide, including published in nine languages and can be accessed on the within the Lufthansa Group or at its business partners. Group’s intranet and Internet. Therefore, the issue of anti-corruption is significant for the Group as it makes an important contribution to strengthening Further self-commitments for the Lufthansa Group result from fair competition, integrity and responsible conduct. The its participation in the UN Global Compact (see page 25), its Lufthansa Group’s goal is to further increase awareness of the membership in the anti-corruption organization Transparency issue of anti-corruption throughout the Company and to ensure International, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and conduct in conformity with applicable law and regulations. the four core work standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Its global operations mean that the Lufthansa Group is obliged to comply with national anti-corruption legislation around the The Lufthansa Group endeavors to manage the Company world and in some cases with anti-corruption laws that have effectively, as required by the principles of good corporate extraterritorial application. Infringements may not only result in governance. In particular, they imply integrity on the part of the criminal and civil penalties for the individuals and companies employees as a prerequisite for the Company’s sustainable involved, but may also result in incalculable reputational success. damage. Combating and preventing corruption and bribery is also an integral part of the Lufthansa Code of Conduct and is The Lufthansa Group reflects these principles by applying essential for the business operations of the Lufthansa Group. corporate leadership and control focused on responsibility and sustainable value generation in accordance with high internaTo ensure this outcome, the Lufthansa Group’s Compliance tional standards. Corporate governance is of vital importance Management System aims at keeping employees and the in maintaining transparency vis-à-vis the Company’s share­ Company from breaking the law and supporting employees in holders and continuously increasing trust in the Company’s applying laws correctly. The Compliance Management System top management. consists of the modules Competition, Capital Market, Integrity (anti-corruption) and Embargo Compliance (see page 25, An essential legal base for these principles are the German Balance 2017). Stock Corporation Act and the German Corporate Governance Code. The Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code was updated in December 2017 and has been published on the Internet at ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations page 28 / Company & responsibility Corporate Compliance Office Automated IT processes ensure that all employees and memThe Group-wide implementation, development and commu­ bers of bodies of the Lufthansa Group regularly take part in the nication of the Lufthansa Group Compliance System is the web-based compliance trainings that are relevant for them. The responsibility of the Group Compliance Office, which is part of Group companies’ employees have access to these e-learning the central Legal Department. It is supported by a worldwide courses and are in part already linked to automated mailings network of compliance managers at the Group companies. or participate in corresponding company-specific processes. Continuous self-audits and audits ensure the effective impleAs a complement, the Corporate Compliance Office conducts mentation of the compliance program. worldwide classroom training and offers workshops. During the reporting year, the Corporate Compliance Office conducted The head of the Legal department and Chief Compliance Officer 110 trainings and workshops with more than 1,300 participants. reports directly to the Executive Board member for Human The training offers are directed at managers as decision-makers Resources and Legal Affairs and presents two Compliance and multipliers as well as at employees who need in-depth Reports a year to the Executive Board. The Corporate compliance knowledge to handle their tasks. Compliance Office is supported by a worldwide network of compliance managers at the Group companies. Furthermore, Risk-based third-party due diligence the Steering Committee of the Supervisory Board is informed A risk-based, third-party due diligence process is intended to twice a year about compliance-relevant developments within ensure the integrity of suppliers and service providers. In the the Group. course of the review, the employees in the Corporate Compliance Office carry out compliance screenings. First of Anti-corruption training all, this entails determining the identity of the business partner All managers, team leaders and employees from relevant areas in order to then carry out a check against databases in the participate in obligatory two-year cycles of an IT-based anticompliance, embargo, sanctions, PEP (politically exposed corruption training to make them aware of potential risks. person) and watch lists categories, ensuring that there are no Code of Conduct The principles anchored in the Lufthansa Group’s Code of Conduct are the basis for fair competition and help to avoid legal risks and to identify and avoid reputational risks. In addition to the Code of Conduct, a number of Company-internal guidelines complement the Code’s binding principles and standards of conduct. In particular, this includes the Lufthansa Group Compliance Program, which consists of the following components: COMPETITION INTEGRITY CAPITAL MARKET EMBARGO To allow for confidential information concerning potential crimes or violations of laws or regulations, the Lufthansa Group set up an ombudsman system. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 29 relevant entries. Depending on the result, various measures The necessity to understand human rights as part of responsiproposed jointly by the Corporate Compliance Office and ble corporate governance is gaining further importance, and in Corporate Security may be necessary to deal with the business particular for internationally active companies. Germany’s partner. federal government has anchored the expectations concerning the implementation of measures for humanitarian diligence Review for corruption risks within companies by adopting the National Action Plan for In addition to the measures mentioned above, all companies in Business and Human Rights (NAP) on December 21, 2016. the Group are currently being reviewed for corruption and antitrust risks by means of a compliance risk assessment (see The Lufthansa Group’s overarching goal is to avoid human page 26, Balance 2017). Final results with recommendations rights breaches by means of organizational and process-based for further improvements were available in April 2018 for all measures. The Group’s procurement policy (see page 31) states reviewed units. After the completion of the compliance risk that the Lufthansa Group expects its suppliers to respect human assessment and based on the resulting recommendations, the rights, too. Contracts should therefore include the possibility of Lufthansa Group will begin with the implementation of recompenalties up to and including the immediate termination of the mendations concerning measures to mitigate the identified business relationship. and evaluated risks. A Human Rights working group was established within the Ombudsman system Human Resources and Legal Affairs board function in 2017 and The Lufthansa Group set up an ombudsman system in 2008 comprises representatives of all relevant head office functions to enable information to be provided confidentially about as well as Group companies that are potentially at risk. It has suspected criminal offences, particularly potential breaches of incorporated the standards resulting from the CSR Directive anti-corruption legislation and regulations. An external, indeImplementation Act and the National Action Plan for Business pendent lawyer, Dr. Rainer Buchert in Frankfurt, acts as the and Human Rights into a management concept and ensures ombudsman. He is fully bound by the legal professional obligathe continuous further development of this program. Based on tion of secrecy. Informants can give information by telephone, an analysis carried out by Maplecroft, an advisory company, an in writing or personally to the ombudsman. He communicates overview of all Group companies operating in high-risk and any information he receives to Lufthansa while respecting extreme-risk countries was drawn up, i.e. countries where the absolute confidentiality concerning the name and identity of risk of human rights violations is particularly high. Managers the informant. In this way, the disclosure of an informant’s and Human Resources departments at these companies identity to the Company or to third parties without his or her should be made aware of their duty of care to avoid human consent is ruled out. rights violations. One instrument to achieve this is an internally developed Respect for human rights training tool, which is to be implemented in the course of 2018. Furthermore, the companies concerned are called on to identify As a global company, respect for human rights is self-evident human rights risks and to report them centrally. Individual and forms an integral part of the corporate culture of the complaints may be addressed to managers or to the Human Lufthansa Group. This is also reflected in working conditions, Resources department. The ombudsman system is also avail­ freedom of association and assembly, rules to ensure gender able to third parties. The Executive Board is to be notified equality and inclusion of minorities as a matter of course. The annually of the type and number of suspicious incidents. An Company’s participation in the UN Global Compact since the internal complaints procedure is already in place at the end of 2002 and the Code of Conduct, adopted in 2017, are Lufthansa Group and is governed by a works agreement for other commitments that express the importance of human employees in Germany. It is already used for many different rights for the Lufthansa Group. kinds of complaints and is to be extended to complaints about human rights violations. page 30 / Company & responsibility SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN The Lufthansa Group has more than 40,000 suppliers. The The Group procurement policy includes the obligation to annual procurement volume is about 18 billion euros. assume social and ecological responsibility. It is to be under­ stood as an overriding specification for all procurement guide­ To meet the standards it sets for the sustainability of its own lines at the Group companies. In addition, it serves as a handproducts, the Lufthansa Group relies on close cooperation with book for buyers and all employees with contacts in the suppliers who share and implement these standards. This procurement markets. Among other considerations, it requires approach is also part of the Lufthansa Group’s Code of that these obligations be included in contracts with suppliers: Conduct. The Group expects from its suppliers that they fully comply with current law, guidelines and regulations concerning • to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global fair competition, integrity and responsible practices (see page Compact (see overview on page 25); 28 ff., Compliance and human rights). • to comply with the four basic principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO); A transparent supply chain allows the Lufthansa Group to • to consent to announced and unannounced audits by manage procurement processes in a targeted manner. companies of the Lufthansa Group; Bottlenecks and weak points can thus be identified quickly • to accept the termination of the contract in the event and counter measures can be taken. Therefore, setting up that these contractual obligations are breached. and expanding a sustainable supply chain is of strategic importance for the Lufthansa Group. By imposing these obligations, the Lufthansa Group endeavors to ensure responsible practices by its direct suppliers and thus Since October 2017, the purchasing units in the Lufthansa Group meet its own standards for corporate responsibility. have been organized within a single reporting line under the Chief Financial Officer. They inform the Executive Board about The Lufthansa Group is currently reviewing its Group procurecurrent developments on a regular basis. In some cases, the ment policy. At the same time, a Group-wide, standardized and purchasing units are centralized, especially for airline-specific structured supplier screening, which is integrated in the purprocesses such as purchasing aircraft or kerosene. In other chasing process, is being implemented. cases they are decentralized throughout the Group companies (for more specialized products). Reporting lines are based Binding regulations for chemicals on responsibilities for different product groups and Group For the Lufthansa Group, product responsibility in the supply companies. Defining product groups optimizes the purchasing chain also includes the safe use of chemicals. To this end, at function in the procurement markets. Reporting on the basis the beginning of 2017 Lufthansa Technik adopted a compreof Group companies ensures the security of the supply. hensive policy concerning chemicals: the Restricted and Declarable Substance List. With these binding regulations the The introduction of a process-based matrix organization makes Group company obliges its suppliers to declare substances in it easier to establish sustainability standards because it means their products delivered to Lufthansa Technik that are of very that standardized processes and IT systems are increasingly high concern – and to replace them as far as this is technically used. The goal is also to improve the enforcement of sustain­ possible, and permissible under aviation law. With this listing, ability standards. The restructuring of the organization that Lufthansa Technik also ensures that its products do not contain came into effect on October 1, 2017 serves to increase efficienso-called conflict minerals. cy, cut costs sustainably and avoid risks in the supply chain by means of strict process management. In addition, confidential information concerning potential criminal conduct or violations of laws or regulations are made possible by the Group’s ombudsman system. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 31 FLEET MANAGEMENT The Lufthansa Group counts on a modern, efficient and approAt the Lufthansa Group, Fleet Management steers the Grouppriately structured fleet and continues to invest in the latter’s wide fleet planning process and is thus responsible for the fundamental modernization. By following this approach, the fleet’s size and composition, and assignments of aircraft to aviation group will be able to offer leading-edge product quality individual flying companies (see page 10 ff., interview Jörg in the future and at the same time fly increasingly economically Hennemann). The internal matrix structure ensures that the and quietly. In addition, unit costs can be further reduced in Company optimally bundles the technical knowledge available this way. In 2017, the passenger airlines’ exchange-rate adjusted in the Group airlines. On the basis of market analyses and unit costs before fuel expenses declined by 0.4 percent (see defined parameters, experts select a type of aircraft and deter­ page 33, Annual Report 2017). mine the number to be ordered. The process from deciding on a particular type of aircraft to taking delivery takes about three In 2017, the Lufthansa Group took delivery of 29 new aircraft, to five years. At the same time, Fleet Management calculates including seven long-haul aircraft (see page 20 ff., Annual the optimum point in time for deploying an aircraft, which Report 2017). Thus, the Group fleet comprised 728 aircraft at increases planning security for distribution, network planning the end of 2017, with an average age of 11.4 years (see page 35, and technical services. table: The Lufthansa Group fleet). The increase of 111 aircraft when compared to the preceding year is entirely due to the The Group’s network airlines essentially grow when older aircraft consolidation of Brussels Airlines and the acquisition of aircraft are replaced by modern models with larger seat capacities and from the Air Berlin Group. improved fuel efficiency – without a significant increase in the total number of aircraft. At the same time, the Lufthansa Group’s Currently, the Lufthansa Group has firm orders for a total of 192 fleet strategy has for some years aimed at reducing the number aircraft, with delivery dates by 2025 (as of May 7, 2018). During of aircraft types, so that complexity declines and efficiency the financial year 2018, the Group expects to take delivery of increases. Fleet harmonization helps reduce maintenance and up to 30 new aircraft. The aircraft on order will primarily replace operation costs, and increase synergies, from pilot and cabin older aircraft. crew licensing to more standardized processes on board and stocking spare parts. After leaving the fleet, aircraft are either As before, by far the largest part of the fleet remains in the sold or recycled (see info box page 13 and page 56, Balance unrestricted ownership of the Lufthansa Group. This is com­ 2016). The majority of the aircraft in the fleet are now manu­ plemented by a small share of leased aircraft. The majority of factured by Airbus and Boeing. In addition, on shortand aircraft is to remain financially unencumbered in the future and medium-haul routes the Group airlines also operate aircraft in the unrestricted ownership of the Group. Similarly, the produced by manufacturers Bombardier and Embraer, while Lufthansa Group will continuously invest in the modernization Fokker and BAE Systems aircraft have no longer been oper­of the fleet, the onboard and ground products as well as the ated since the end of 2017. infrastructure. For new acquisitions the aviation group considers both new and used aircraft. In this way, the Company is able to Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group advances the standardization react flexibly to demand fluctuations and increase or reduce of its Airbus A320 fleet with the goal of obtaining more flexibility capacity at short notice, while maintaining its high degree of and synergies (see info illustration page 33). Austrian Airlines, financial flexibility. Brussels Airlines, Eurowings, Lufthansa and SWISS are currently developing a standard specification for the Airbus A320 fleet, which maintains the airlines’ brands by means of different corporate identities. This applies to aircraft of the A320 family that will be delivered to the Group from 2019. page 32 / Company & responsibility In the future, the aircraft will be configured and standardized Lufthansa from the start so as to allow conversions within a short time and with little effort when they are transferred between Group In 2017, Lufthansa put five A320neo aircraft into service. airlines. This allows the Lufthansa Group to react more swiftly The A320neo is much more fuel-efficient than comparable and flexibly to current developments, and to move aircraft predecessor models and thus stands out by producing and capacities more simply and efficiently between its airlines correspondingly lower CO2 emissions (see page 28 f., Balance and hubs. 2017, and page 30 f., Balance 2016). In addition, the 85-decibel noise footprint of an A320neo taking off is only about half as An overview of the Group airlines’ fleet development: large as the comparable footprint of an A320 in the existing fleet (see page 58, Balance 2016). For operations on all continental routes Lufthansa counts on a fleet that consists exclusively of aircraft from the Airbus A320 family and comprised a total of 170 aircraft of the types A319, A320 and A321 as of December 31, 2017. Lufthansa Group airlines to standardize A320 fleet Uniform specification for all aircraft of the Airbus A320 family, which will be delivered to the Lufthansa Group from 2019 onwards GALLEY CABIN DESIGN A modular standard configuration Uniform design (side walls, color), simplifies the conversion of but defined areas for brand-specific airline-specific features when SEATS elements. the operator changes. One seat for all Lufthansa Group Airlines; the seat cover has different color accents to make it brand-specific. FREIGHT COCKPIT SYSTEMS A standardized modular cargo loading A uniform standard of system representing the needs of the equipment, technology airlines is being developed. and functionality enables consistent safety standards, procedures and training processes. SAFETY EQUIPMENT As far as possible uniform equipment taking into account all airline-specific congestion locations. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 33 A Boeing 777-300ER operated by SWISS. An Airbus A320 operated by Eurowings. For long-haul routes, Lufthansa stationed the first Airbus SWISS A350-900 aircraft in Munich. They consume about 25 percent less fuel, produce correspondingly lower CO2 emissions and In 2017, SWISS continued the largest fleet modernization proare significantly quieter during takeoff and landing than comgram in its history. On long-haul routes two Boeing 777-300ER parable types of aircraft (see page 57 ff., Active noise abate­ aircraft replaced another two Airbus A340-300s during the ment). In addition, the airline moved five of its 14 Airbus A380 reporting year. In the course of the previous year, the airline had aircraft from Frankfurt to Munich. Since the summer timetable incorporated six B777-300ERs into its fleet, also as replace2018, these aircraft fly to Los Angeles, Hong Kong and Peking ments for A340-300s (see page 30, Balance 2017). On shortto provide further growth opportunities at the Munich hub. haul routes, SWISS put three Bombardier CS100 and seven CS300 aircraft into service, all of which replaced Avro RJ100 From 2020, Lufthansa is also set to receive the first, highly aircraft. On August 15, 2017, the airline withdrew the last of efficient Boeing 777-9 long-haul aircraft, on which the new originally 21 Avro RJ100s from scheduled operations. Thanks Business Class will be deployed for the first time. The latter is to the latest technologies, the C Series aircraft set new stand­ characterized above all by new seats that will offer passengers ards with regard to comfort, efficiency and environmental a lot of privacy and optimum sleeping comfort. compatibility. By early 2019, another two Bombardier CS100, 13 Bombardier CS300 and two B777-300ER aircraft are to be Meanwhile, Lufthansa CityLine has successfully flown the integrated into the fleet. Bombardier CRJ series for 25 years. The CRJ900 aircraft represent fuel efficiency, low emissions values and low noise burdens. Currently, the 35 CRJ aircraft, which are comple­ Austrian Airlines mented by Embraer 190 and 195 aircraft, represent the most significant part of the fleet. During the reporting year, Austrian Airlines concluded replacing its Fokker fleet, a process begun in 2015, with 17 modern shortAfter roughly 30 years the Lufthansa fleet is receiving a new haul Embraer 195 aircraft. By the end of December 2017, the livery. The first aircraft made their appearance featuring the new last Fokker 100 left the fleet. The Embraer consumes about brand design in the beginning of February 2018, which makes 18 percent less fuel per seat mile than the Fokker and is thus the airlines’ modernization visible to the outside as well. significantly more environmentally friendly. In addition, in 2017 Austrian Airlines took over five Airbus A320s from Air Berlin. page 34 / Company & responsibility Eurowings Eurowings is Europe’s fastest-growing airline. The fleet has grown significantly compared with the previous year. Eurowings has become the market leader at the four German LUFTHANSA AVIATION TRAINING locations Cologne / Bonn, Stuttgart, Hamburg and Düsseldorf. A contribution to this development came from fleet changeThe flying school of Lufthansa Aviation over from 23 Bombardier CRJ900 aircraft to the same number Training in Phoenix, Arizona, is in the of Airbus A320s, which was successfully concluded in the process of replacing its existing Bonanza first half of 2017. fleet with single-engine Cirrus SR20 aircraft. It has a total of 25 of these propeller aircraft on order, the first six of which were Brussels Airlines delivered at the end of October 2017. The Lufthansa Group has been the sole shareholder of Brussels Moreover, since the end of 2017 a new Airlines since January 9, 2017. The Belgian airline was assigned A320neo full-flight simulator FT75 has to the Eurowings Group business segment (see page 5). At the been available for training sessions at the end of October 2017, Brussels Airlines decommissioned its last Lufthansa Aviation Training Center in Avro RJ100. As a result, the fleet consists only of Airbus A330Frankfurt that can be used both as an 300, A330-200, A320-200 and A319-100 aircraft. A320neo simulator with Pratt & Whitney engines and as an A320 simulator with CFM engines. The FT75 is the 16th simulaLufthansa Cargo tor of the Airbus A320 family operated by Lufthansa Aviation Training. Six of these are At the end of 2017, Lufthansa Cargo operated five Boeing 777F located in Frankfurt, and two each in freight aircraft. This aircraft is considered the quietest and most Munich, Berlin, Essen, Vienna and Zurich. fuel-efficient freighter in its class and is characterized by a high level of reliability and a long range. The fleet also includes 12 Boeing MD-11F aircraft. THE LUFTHANSA GROUP FLEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 (changes compared to 2016) In possession ¹ In operation 2 Number Age Number Age Lufthansa (including regional partners) 357 (+ 7) 10.9 (+ 0.8) 337 (+ 7) 10.9 (+0.7) Eurowings (including Germanwings) 136 (+ 58) 10.4 (– 0.9) 87 (– 9) 10.2 (-0.4) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) 91 (+ 2) 11.0 (– 1.3) 91 (+ 2) 11.0 (-1.3) Austrian Airlines 83 (+ 2) 13.7 (– 1.2) 83 (+ 2) 13.7 (-1.2) Brussels Airlines (new from financial year 2017) 44 (+ 44) 15.3 – 44 (+ 44) 15.3 – Lufthansa Cargo 17 (– 2) 14.1 (+ 0.6) 17 (± 0) 14.1 (+1.0) Lufthansa Group fleet 728 (+ 111) 11.4 (+ 0.1) 659 (+ 46) 11.5 (+0.2) 1 Aircraft in the possession of the Lufthansa Group 2 Operated by companies of the Lufthansa Group LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 35 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Lufthansa Group and its Group companies continuously opment of increasingly personalized offers, which are guided work both individually and across business segment lines on by flight status, locations, interests and needs (see page 16, product innovations as well as research and development Sustainable travel). The same applies to the open and neutral projects. These activities are in part centrally coordinated. platform AVIATAR, developed by Lufthansa Technik, offering However, the largest part of these projects is managed decendigital MRO solutions (see page 9, Balance 2017). trally within the business segments, given the differences in emphasis of activities (see page 42 ff., Annual Report 2017). Beyond that, Lufthansa Technik is the most important generator of ideas within the Lufthansa Group. The world’s leading In the digital age, the ability to innovate is more than ever a provider of technical aviation services saves about 40 million fundamental prerequisite for economic success. For a company euros per year by applying creative improvement suggestions such as the Lufthansa Group, this means thinking and acting from employees working in hangars, workshops and offices. strategically in a highly competitive environment. Therefore, The company aims to take even greater advantage of this digitalization is the central innovation and future-oriented topic potential by means of “my ideas”, the new idea management, in all of the Group’s business segments. It allows the developwhich was implemented during the reporting year. ment of new business models, solutions and products. For example, all Lufthansa Group companies are thus able to In order to identify and manage opportunities resulting from redesign their customer interfaces and better address differ­ industry changes and digitalization trends in an even more entiated customer needs. The aviation group actively takes structured manner, the Lufthansa Group set up an Innovation advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalization in order Hub in Berlin in 2014. Its goal is to further develop the Group’s to create added value for customers and to support the quality pronounced innovative culture and capabilities, and to take strategy. This also includes SMILE, the initiative for the devel­ advantage of opportunities in focused ways. “The sustainable strengthening of the ability to innovate is of central importance for the Lufthansa Group. Digitalization is the key to a successful future in this context. Dr. Christian Langer Head of Digital Strategy, Innovation and Transformation, Lufthansa Group page 36 / Company & responsibility The Lufthansa Group annually confers the Innovator Awards Lufthansa tested a humanoid robot equipped with artificial for outstanding innovation projects. intelligence for the first time. Another established part of the Group-wide culture of innovaTo secure its worldwide pioneering role in the area of digital­i­ tion is the Innovator Award. This internal honoring for preemization and innovation within the aviation industry, the nent innovation projects, which is given once a year in different Lufthansa Group 2018 provides 20 million euros from the new categories, supports the development of new ideas and proLufthansa Digital Fund (LDF) for digital business models as motes the spirit of innovation within the Lufthansa Group. well as technology and venture capital projects. The goal is to Since the launch of the Innovator Awards in 2014, more than be able to scale plans and projects more quickly in this way, 500 projects have been submitted; 128 during the reporting which often go beyond the existing structures in the Lufthansa year alone. business segments. Thus, the number of successful digital business models can be increased significantly. Moreover, since 2014 projects of different Group companies can receive support from an internal innovation fund. The The Lufthansa Group also cooperates with aircraft manufac­ largest share of innovations is related to the digitalization turers, airports, fuel producers and scientific organizations in environment, followed by those that are dedicated to new order to advance innovation on the basis of sound data and to business model approaches. continuously improve its own environmental commitment. For more than 25 years, a fixed component in this context has In January 2017 at Frankfurt Airport, the first Lufthansa Digital been the commitment to climate research, with which the Aviation Forum took place, with the goal of facilitating exchanges Group makes an important contribution to improve climate on topics, trends and questions concerning the advancing models and weather forecasts (see page 51, Balance 2017). digitalization in everyday (travel) situations. During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group operated three aircraft equipped with specialized measuring instruments that In addition, with the format “FlyingLab” the Lufthansa Group record data concerning trace atmospheric substances and has created an open innovation platform. On selected cloud particles on a global basis. The data captured are read Lufthansa flights, passengers have the opportunity to expeout after each landing, processed and analyzed by research rience innovative products and services on board first-hand, institutions. test them and give feedback. In 2017, four “FlyingLabs” took place. For example, on March 9, 2017 on the way to the world’s largest digital conference, “South by Southwest” (SXSW) in Austin, eight speakers gave insights into digitalization topics. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 37 Key points on CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT 02 40 __ ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 43 __ FUEL CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS 54 __ ENERGY AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 57 __ ACTIVE NOISE ABATEMENT Global aviation is a growth industry and for the foreseeable future, it will require the use of fossil fuels. The primary environmental impacts of ﬂight operations are therefore primarily climate effects due to the CO₂ emissions produced by burning kerosene and the noise caused by aircraft taking off and landing. In addition, upstream and downstream activities consume resources such as energy and water, and generate waste materials. Against this background, climate and environmental responsibility are key concerns for the Lufthansa Group. The Company has been committed to limiting the environmental effects of its business activities for many years. This approach also has an economic motivation as both the consumption of fuel and the purchase of CO2 certiﬁcates and noise-related fees generate costs. In line with the consideration of materiality, the Lufthansa Group concentrates its commitment above all on the core business of the “product of ﬂying”. Central action areas are the reduction of emissions, active noise abatement, energy and resource management as well as commitment to research and the implementation of environmental management systems according to ISO 14001 or EMAS (European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme). The Lufthansa Group aspires to conducting business in sustainable and responsible ways in all its business segments. The Company’s goal is to meet increasing mobility needs with environmentally compatible products and to increase the eco-efﬁciency of ﬂight operations on a continuous basis. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 39 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT As early as 1996 the Lufthansa Group firmly anchored rules care is to be interlinked even more strongly with Group strategy. concerning environmental care in Environmental Guidelines. Concurrently, the department Group Environmental Issues In 2008, the Executive Board approved the strategic environ­ switched the existing environmental database to a more effi­ mental program valid until 2020. It establishes the continuous cient and more flexible system during the reporting year. The expansion of the environmental management systems in the environmental experts intend to further expand this database Group companies as well as significant action areas concerning in 2018 to be even better able to meet increasing reporting fuel efficiency and climate protection, active noise abatement, requirements in addition to documentation and control needs. and energy and resource management. The implementation of the environmental strategy thus unfurls its effects in all The Lufthansa Group links entrepreneurial risks related to areas of the Lufthansa Group – from operative activities and climate change and noise emissions into multidisciplinary, technical maintenance to procurement, facility management Group-wide risk management processes. They are also summa­ and administration. rized in a risk chart that is updated regularly. The Group steers the environment-related opportunities and risks by means of The Group was intensively concerned with further developing the Environmental Strategy 2020, environmental programs its environmental strategy in 2017: an interdisciplinary working and the environmental management systems. group has already defined the significant action areas of the Lufthansa Group. In the next step the experts involved are to With regard to climate and environmental responsibility, the define the target values and target contributions of the individ­ companies of the Lufthansa Group take their bearings from ual business segments, and assign the related measures to voluntary external guidelines and participate in various sustain­ be taken. In this context, further control parameters are to be ability initiatives. The resulting obligations in large part exceed implemented at the Group level if possible and environmental legal requirements. The department Environmental Issues reports to the Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO, and is responsible for the Lufthansa Group’s definition, coordination and implementation of Group-wide goals and measures with environmental rele­ vance. In addition, all larger subsidiaries have their own envi­ ronmental departments, an environmental commissioner or coordinator. The environmental commissioners and coordina­ tors meet at least once a year at the Group-wide Environmen­ tal Forum to coordinate strategies, measures and processes, and to exchange experiences. In addition, new or planned legal requirements and their effect on the Lufthansa Group are discussed at the forum. Impression of the Lufthansa Group’s Environmental Forum 2017. page 40 / Climate & environment Environmental management systems Lufthansa Cargo has been certified at its Frankfurt location since 2008 according to the environmental management stan­ To support the systematic control and continuous optimization dard ISO 14001 and worldwide since the end of 2015. The of environmentally relevant processes, the Lufthansa Group worldwide recertification took place in 2017, for the first time steadily advances the implementation of environmental in accordance with the more stringent requirements of the management systems according to ISO 14001 or EMAS at the revised standard. The latter include the detailed compilation Group companies. This is an overview of the current situation: of environmentally relevant risks and opportunities as well as a materiality analysis and a life-cycle evaluation including sup­ The Group’s pioneer is Lufthansa CityLine with its long-stand­ plier management. After the certificate’s validity had been ing experience in environmental protection: in 1999, it became extended to Jettainer GmbH, it was successfully widened to the first airline worldwide to launch a professional environmen­ include another subsidiary, time:matters GmbH. tal management system and pass the most rigorous European certification system, EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Lufthansa Technik has been certified according to ISO 14001 Scheme). Since then, the program has been validated annually. since 1999. The MRO specialist has also operated a job safety Lufthansa CityLine is also certified according to the interna­ management program validated in accordance with the inter­ tional environmental standard ISO 14001. national specification OHSAS 18001 since 2008. In 2017, the certification of Lufthansa Technik Philippines in Manila was The Lufthansa location Munich was validated according to concluded successfully. Thus, of all non-European locations of EMAS and certified in accordance with ISO 14001 for the first the Lufthansa Technik Group, those in the Asia-Pacific region time in January 2018. After this successful EMAS validation in have been certified. The certifications at the locations Tulsa, Munich, the airline is considering to extend the validated and Sun Valley and Puerto Rico will be continued in 2018, and the certified environmental management system to other locations. engine overhaul locations in Wroclaw (XEOS) and Jasionka (EME Aero), which are being set up, are already preparing for certification in 2019 and 2020, respectively. “Our environmental management approach produces not only ecological but also eco­nomical improvements. Our employees strongly identify with the concept of sus­tain­ ability and get involved enthusiastically with our environmental goals. Peter Taubitz Environmental Officer at Lufthansa Hub Munich, Deutsche Lufthansa AG LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 41 Opening workshop for the environmental coordinators to mark the introduction of an environmental management system at the Lufthansa location Munich. The LSG Group has operated an in-house environmental LZ-Catering is preparing the introduction of an environmental management system since 2008, which comprises significant management system. The company is an “environmental part­ portions of core elements from ISO 14001. All locations world­ ner” of the City of Hamburg and has been a member of Öko­ wide that are fully owned by the airline caterer are covered by profit since 2010. In 2017, LZ-Catering introduced reusable this system. The system’s components are continuously cups at its Bartesse coffee shops to help reduce the quantity supported by short-term and long-term goals, activities and of waste. At a majority of its company restaurants LZ-Catering programs. Furthermore, each region of the LSG Group has a has offered at least one daily “CO2-friendly” main course since Regional Environmental Manager (REM), who works together July 2014. Individual special dishes and regionally-sourced with the regional management team on implementing and ingredients complement the meal offers at the different res­ monitoring the local environmental programs. taurant locations. On the basis of its strategic environmental program, the Lufthansa Group pursues the goal of establishing certified environmental management systems step by step at the large Group companies. The airlines SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Air Dolomiti, Austrian Airlines, Eurowings and Brussels Airlines have currently not implemented certified environmental management systems. page 42 / Climate & environment FUEL CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS The CO2 emissions of civil aviation currently account for about ment concepts, projects and processes in flight operations – 2.7 percent 1 of all CO2 emissions caused by human activities, with the goal of continuously improving the Lufthansa Group’s according to the International Energy Agency (IEA), and count fuel efficiency (see page 48, interview Jörg Pikolin). In addition among the industry’s significant global environmental effects. to the projects and processes steered by this department, the Given that increasing demand for mobility is foreseeable, air modernization of the fleet is a fundamental building block within transport and its related emissions will continue to increase in the concept of resource conservation (see page 32 ff., Fleet the future. The aviation industry has reacted to this develop­ management). ment and in 2009 adopted the following goals with worldwide validity: Specific fuel consumption: 1. Fuel efficiency is to be increased by 1.5 percent per year by 2020. A new efficiency record 2. From 2020, growth in civil aviation is to be realized in CO2­neutral ways. The Lufthansa Group established a new efficiency record in 3. By 2050, the net­CO2 emissions of civil aviation are to the reporting year: in 2017, the aircraft of the passenger fleets decline by 50 percent, compared with 2005. needed only 3.68 liters of kerosene on average to transport one The Lufthansa Group had a significant role in this approach and passenger over a distance of shares the industry’s goals. The Company participated in 100 kilometers (2016: 3.85 numerous working groups of the International Air Transport l / 100 pkm). This is an 3.68 l / 100 pkm Association (IATA), such as the Environmental Committee and improvement of 4.5 per­ the Industry Affairs Committee as well as the Board of cent compared with the EFFICIENCY INCREASE BY Governors. previous year. It is parti­ 4.5 PERCENT COMPARED WITH THE PREVIOUS YEAR cularly welcome that all In addition, the Lufthansa Group has set its own goals to passenger airlines within reduce its specific CO2 emissions by 25 percent by 2020, the Lufthansa Group im­ compared with 2006 values. It achieved 64 percent of this goal proved their specific fuel by the end of 2017. Against the background of responsible consumption (see page 96). The mobility, fuel efficiency and climate protection in flight opera­ most efficient Group airline was again SWISS with an average tions are fundamental for the Group, both from an economic specific fuel consumption of a mere 3.19 liters per 100 passen­ and an ecological perspective. In this way, effects on environ­ ger kilometers – an improvement of 7.3 percent compared with ment and society can be reduced as well as operational costs 2016. The absolute fuel consumption, and thus the absolute – important preconditions for ensuring the Company’s long­ CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group, increased by 6.2 percent term success. Simultaneously, the Lufthansa Group fulfills the during the reporting year, compared with the preceding year. (transparency) requirements of its stakeholders and meets This increase is largely due to the expanded scope of consoli­ national, regional and industry­specific energy and emissions dation following the complete acquisition of Brussels Airlines. regulations. This was contrasted by positive effects from the implementa­ tion of operative measures to reduce fuel consumption and All projects concerning the subject of improving fuel efficiency further efficiency improvements due to the operation of new are managed by the department Flight Operations Efficiency & aircraft models. Innovation. The experts’ task is to identify, develop and imple­ 1 Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2017, 2015 values LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 43 PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION 2017 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION AND SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS Values for specific fuel consumption in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) Values for specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) LUFTHANSA GROUP Share of fuel consumption by traffic areas 1 Total Long­ Medium­ Short­haul Long­haul Medium­haul Short­haul 60 % 28 % 13 % 3.68 3.36 3.88 5.52 9.27 8.46 9.78 13.91 LUFTHANSA 68 % 22 % 10 % 3.76 3.53 3.83 6.27 9.46 8.89 9.66 15.79 SWISS 67 % 26 % 7% 3.19 2.91 3.74 5.33 8.04 7.33 9.42 13.44 AUSTRIAN AIRLINES 39 % 38 % 23 % 3.83 3.04 4.15 5.58 9.64 7.65 10.46 14.07 1 Definitions of traffic areas: Long­haul more than 3,000 km | Medium­haul SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including 800 to 3,000 km | Short­haul under 800 km 2 All scheduled and charter Germanwings), Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding services flights operated by Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine und Air Dolomiti), of third parties as the Company cannot influence their performance. page 44 / Climate & environment EUROWINGS Share of fuel consumption by traffic areas 1 Total Long­ Medium­ Short­haul Long­haul Medium­haul Short­haul 4.18 –– 3.85 4.55 50 % 50 % 10.53 –– 9.71 11.47 BRUSSELS AIRLINES 44 % 56 % 3.62 3.19 4.05 –– 9.13 8.05 10.21 –– DECOUPLING OF TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE AND FUEL CONSUMPTION 2 SINCE 1991 Changes compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group +407 % 400 Transport performance 350 300 250 Efficiency gain +207 % 200 Fuel consumption 150 100 50 0 1991 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 For further environmental ratios refer to the chapter Service & Information, page 96 ff. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 45 CO2 emissions according to GHG Protocol The Lufthansa Group determines its CO2 emissions on the basis of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which divides emissions into three main categories (scopes). All direct emissions from flight operations, which are shown in the illustration as “Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group”, were determined and verified on behalf of the aviation group in accordance with the European emissions trading scheme. Beyond that, for some years the Group has also recorded indirect emissions caused by its business activi­ ties. All recorded and calculated direct and indirect CO2 emis­ sions were verified externally (see page 99, Verification state­ ment). The so-called CO2 footprint helps the Lufthansa Group to identify and evaluate its significant environmental effects with greater precision, pursuing the goal of developing more effective options for reduction as the next step. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group 2017 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 1 0.6 % 256,232 tonnes 72.6 % Indirect CO2 emissions of electricity 28,949,145 tonnes and energy purchases for ground operations, including catering and Direct CO2 emissions from the maintenance. Lufthansa Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of own vehicles SCOPE 3 as well as own energy-generating facilities. 26.8 % 10,678,859 tonnes Further indirect CO2 emissions along the supply chain and from purchased services, here essentially the emissions from the kerosene supply chain and those related to the manufacturing of aircraft and engines. 1 Audited with the result High Assurance. Without Scope 1 – emissions of the aircraft fleet of Brussels Airlines NV / SA. These were audited by another auditor with the result Limited Assurance and are therefore not shown in this depiction. page 46 / Climate & environment Four pillars for climate protection The aviation industry intends to reach its goals concerning fuel efficiency and reduction of CO2 emissions by pooling different measures implemented by different players (manufacturers, airports, air traffic control, airlines, politics). These were classed at the IATA assembly in 2007 in the industry’s four-pillar cli­ mate protection strategy (see overview below). This strategy also forms the basis for the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-efficiency activities. Furthermore, the Group draws orientation in the area of climate and environmental responsibility from the environ­ mental principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustain­ Lufthansa was the launch customer of the Airbus A320neo, which flies able Development Goals of the United Nations (see page 25). more efficiently and quietly than preceding models. Pillar 1: Technological progress The most important lever for reducing CO2 emissions from flight operations is to invest continuously in modern and Moreover, the Lufthansa Group has participated for a number especially fuel-efficient aircraft and engine technologies of years in researching and testing alternative fuels in flight (see page 32 ff., Fleet management). The airlines within the operations. This includes the research project “airegEM”, which Lufthansa Group took delivery of 29 new aircraft in the analyzed the properties of biofuels with support from Germa­ course of the reporting year. For example, five further Airbus ny’s Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. Before A350-900s were put into service, whose CO2 emissions are the aircraft of the Group airlines can use alternative fuels, a about 25 percent lower than those of comparable types of number of basic requirements must be fulfilled. They include aircraft. above all reliable quality specifications, sustainability in pro­ duction and along the supply chain, and economic efficiency, of course. Four pillars for climate protection 1. Technological progress 2. Improved infrastructure 3. Operational measures 4. Economic measures Innovation in aircraft and Better use of airspace Efficient aircraft sizes A global, sensibly designed, engine technologies market-based system for reducing Needs-based Optimal flight routes and speeds emissions to complement the Alternative fuels airport infrastructures other three pillars Optimized processes on the ground LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 47 Four questions for JÖRG PIKOLIN Head of Flight Operations Efficiency & Innovation Group Airlines HOW IMPORTANT IS THE COOPERATION WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS? Cooperation is fundamentally important for us because other departments often implement measures independently. For this reason, we always develop our initiatives in cooperation with the departments concerned across the Lufthansa Group. YOU AND YOUR TEAM ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR “OPERATIONS Apart from developing solutions affecting fuel efficiency in the EFFICIENCY”. WHAT DOES THIS IMPLY? working group set up with the other Group airlines, we also work with Lufthansa Technik on innovation projects, for instance. For us, “Operations Efficiency” means further developing the optimization process, which until recently was purely focused on fuel burn. Of course, flying fuel­efficiently will remain one HOW IMPORTANT ARE TOPICS SUCH AS DIGITALIZATION AND of our primary goals. But in addition, we want to shift our focus INNOVATION FOR YOUR WORK? from optimizing individual flights to the bigger picture, meaning we consider all resources used in context. Both are of central importance for us. Digitalization gives us access to data that were not available in digital formats in the past. It also allows us to expand classic post­flight analyses WHICH MEASURES ALLOW THE GREATEST FUEL SAVINGS? using methodologies such as “predictive analytics”. For exam­ ple, today we can estimate a flight’s arrival time with much We achieve the greatest savings by means of new aircraft greater precision because we combine weather, airport and technologies, such as those featured on the Airbus A320neo. general traffic data as well as other data sets. We concentrate on those areas we can influence actively. Weight reduction remains an important measure to effectively Innovations are important for meeting our goal of assuming a reduce fuel consumption and we have already implemented leading position in the airline industry, which also includes af­ many of these steps. In the future, our focus will be more and firming a pole position in flight operations again and again. For more on optimizing and shortening flight routings. Every mile this reason, we closely cooperate with universities and a num­ flown less means lower fuel consumption and emissions as ber of centers of excellence within the Group. We also always well as shorter flying times. keep an eye on developments in other industries. Every day we receive ideas from employees on how to improve small things or, sometimes, for doing things in a completely different way. page 48 / Climate & environment Pillar 2: Improved infrastructure PROJECT PROFILE The largest climate protection project in European aviation is to establish a standardized airspace above Europe, the so­called PROJECT NAME: Single European Sky (SES). In this way, airlines could burn AAL 2 (AUGMENTED APPROACHES TO LAND 2) 10 percent less fuel, according to Eurocontrol, the European air traffic control organization, and reduce their CO2 emissions proportionally. In Europe, there are still about 61 air traffic con­ trol centers with responsibility for air safety in 28 different In the follow­up project of AAL (see pages 42 and national systems, which means that aircraft can rarely follow 50, Balance 2017) experts are optimizing current an optimum route to their destinations. navigation procedures in order to demonstrate more efficient and emissions­reduced approach The goal of SES is to manage air traffic flows substantially more procedures. In addition, they are working to test efficiently than is currently the case. An important milestone on the usability of the Ground Based Augmentation the path toward this goal is the standardization and moderni­ System (GBAS) for approaches during low­visibility zation of the European aviation infrastructure. For this purpose, conditions. Furthermore, the use of the Continuous the European Commission set up the SESAR (Single European Descent Approach procedure is to keep approach Sky ATM Research) program. SESAR is to develop, test and traffic longer at higher altitudes and thus quieter. implement Europe­wide new technologies, procedures and The design of the procedures that are to be standards that contribute to harmonizing and optimizing Euro­ implemented by January 2019 is already complete. pean air traffic management. TOPIC AREA The Lufthansa Group is committed to SESAR with the clear SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research) expectation that measurable operational improvements in the demonstration area of air traffic management will turn into reality. The goal is to create direct advantages for customers and the environment, FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY and to reduce the cost of air traffic control over the long­term. This project makes a contribution to the pillar “improved infrastructure” in particular, but also to The implementation of these technologies in everyday opera­ the pillars “technological progress” and “operational tions is coordinated under the roof of the industry consortium measures”. SESAR Deployment Manager (SDM). The Lufthansa Group is a member of this consortium and provides experts on site. Cur­ PARTICIPATING EXPERTS rently, the SDM coordinates 299 projects across Europe. The System partners from the aviation industry participate different airlines of the Lufthansa Group and Lufthansa Systems in this interdisciplinary project, including airlines, as an IT provider actively participate in the SESAR research and aircraft manufacturers and air traffic control. A total demonstration projects as well (see profile on the right). of more than 300 test flights with the aircraft types A320, B 737NG and B 747­8 are to take place. In addition to the improved use of air space, the goal is to opti­ mize conditions on the ground too. Here, more than anything it GOAL is airport infrastructure adapted to actual needs that allows AAL 2 is to prove that modern satellite navigation in efficient flight operations. combination with advanced approach procedures produce economic and ecological advantages. Another contribution to reducing environmental burden is pro­ vided by intelligent links between different modes of transport. DURATION OF THE MEASURE The Lufthansa Group is also active in this area and develops February 2018 to February 2020 intermodal transport concepts that systematically interconnect air, rail and road transport. The current offer includes connec­ tions to airports by high­speed train, modern long­distance bus and car sharing. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 49 PROJECT PROFILE Pillar 3: Operational measures Operational measures taken by the Lufthansa Group include PROJECT NAME: the deployment of efficiently sized aircraft; the improved utili­ GLOBAL DISPATCH NETWORK (GDN) zation, testing and introduction of new flight procedures; and the determination of optimum flight routes and flight speeds (see profile on the left). These are complemented by programs for long-term weight reductions, the increased use of flight The project Global Dispatch Network (GDN), operations data and software (see profile page 51) and more including Mission Support, offers new planning efficient processes on the ground that contribute to reducing options and principles that significantly reduce fuel kerosene consumption. Two examples are the IT systems consumption. New software allows the more efficient OMEGA at Lufthansa and Socrates at SWISS, which support use of runways for takeoffs and landings as well as pilots with improved, digitally edited information (see page 44, more flexible flight routings, among other options. It Balance 2017). In addition, OMEGA’s systematic analysis capa­ also helps pilots to react even more effectively to bilities contribute to further increases in efficiency and safety. changing weather conditions in flight (see page 47, Balance 2015). Moreover, SWISS will provide the application PLATON (PrefLight AnalyTics On demaNd) on each personal device TOPIC AREA used by its cockpit crews. PLATON is an interactive operations Operations efficiency, evaluation and implementation efficiency briefing tool for pilots, which displays historical flight of optimization measures in the flight operations of data such as fuel consumption, delays, distance to destination the Lufthansa Group airlines – the spectrum of and detours as dashboards for a selected city pair. The goal is approaches ranges from weight reductions, technical to give pilots decision-making support so that they can plan efficiency optimizations and efficiency-improving their flights optimally and carry them out efficiently. engine washes to optimizations of flight routings by means of the OMEGA tracks. Lufthansa Cargo has also developed a broad-ranging catalogue of measures aimed at reducing the CO2 emissions of its freighter FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY fleet. Thus, the logistics specialist has made it possible for its This project makes a contribution to the pillar clients to reduce the specific CO2 emissions of their shipments “operational measures”. every year – cumulatively by 17.5 percent since 2005. For example, a shipment weighing 5 tonnes transported aboard a PARTICIPATING EXPERTS Lufthansa Cargo freighter from Frankfurt to New York caused The operations efficiency departments of all Group emissions of 17.03 tonnes of CO2 in 2005. By 2017, the freight airlines regularly exchange information. An additional airline had been able to reduce this quantity for the same partner is Lufthansa Technik for projects aiming at weight and route by almost 3 tonnes to 14.05 tonnes of CO2. increasing technical efficiency. With support from OMEGA, Lufthansa Cargo implemented further measures in the first year of use in order to again reduce GOAL CO2 emissions per tonne transported; a cumulative effect of This project helps the Lufthansa Group to avoid more than 10,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. 40,114 tonnes of CO2 emissions in a sustainable manner. DURATION OF THE MEASURE This project ran from 2014 to 2017. page 50 / Climate & environment After switching to more lightweight containers (see page 42, PROJECT PROFILE Balance 2017) Lufthansa Cargo is also testing the use of more lightweight pallets for loading freight. While a standard pallet PROJECT NAME: currently in use weighs about 100 kilos, lightweight variants FUEL ORDER MODEL weigh about 20 to 30 kilos less. Considering a stock of about 18,000 pallets, a conversion would produce significant effi­ ciency gains. Among other initiatives, six pallets from two manufacturers are being tested on flights between Budapest The project Fuel Order Model is to support pilots on and Vienna. Another option for saving weight aboard freighters the basis of comprehensive information and an is opened up by SquAIR-timber materials, which are to replace improved user interface in calculating the optimum the wooden boards used as loading devices with cardboard. quantity of reserve fuel while taking safety and economic aspects into account. An important In the framework of the research project FAMOS, Lufthansa consideration is to make the empirical values Technik – together with its partners Bremer Werk für Montage­ available after a flight to other pilots for the benefit systeme (bwm), Airbus Operations GmbH and the subcontrac­ of their future fuel decisions. tor Fraunhofer IFAM – is working to develop a highly automated system to apply low-drag micro-structured surfaces for TOPIC AREA commercial aircraft. The so-called riblets resemble the fine Innovation and digitalization – the spectrum ribs on the scales of fast-swimming sharks and are therefore of projects ranges from fuel quantity calculations referred to as artificial sharkskin. Thanks to a reduction of air and flight procedures to better capacity utilization resistance, this innovative technology is expected to help at airports and in air space infrastructure to conserve up to 1.5 percent of fuel and avoid a corresponding optimizations on fuselages and engines. quantity of pollutants emitted. FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY In 2017, the company and its partners presented a directing This project makes a contribution to the pillar system, which automatically coats the multifunctional surfaces “operational measures”. of commercial aircraft with a low-drag “shark skin” structure. The riblet plates and patches were tested last year on the PARTICIPATING EXPERTS Lufthansa Airbus A330 “Cuxhaven”, which is stationed in Experts from Flight Operations and Operations Munich. Currently, the insights gained are being analyzed by Control, the department responsible for planning the system partners with the aim of reaching market maturity flight routings and operative support, are active with this product in the near future. in this project. In addition, experts from Lufthansa Technik and the Ground Operations Group-wide, the Company implemented a total of 34 projects function are active in other projects. aimed at fuel conservation in 2017, which lowered CO2 emis­ sions by about 64,400 tonnes over the long-term. The quantity GOAL of kerosene conserved amounted to 25.5 million liters – this Reduced takeoff weights are to lower Lufthansa’s corresponds to the fuel consumption of about 250 return flights CO2 emissions by approximately 4,500 tonnes per between Munich and New York with an Airbus A350-900. The year. positive financial effect of the measures reached 7.7 million euros. DURATION OF THE MEASURE The Fuel Order Model is to be introduced step by step at the Group airlines from 2018. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 51 Pillar 4: Economic measures Today, the Lufthansa Group already offers the majority of its With the agreement on climate protection (CORSIA – Carbon customers the option of voluntary CO2 compensation. The Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation), latter is provided through renowned agencies that apply the which was adopted in October 2016 in the context of the Inter­ highest standards in selection and implementation (see page national Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), growth-related CO2 67, Balance 2016). In 2017, many customers of the Group air­ emissions in international civil aviation are to be compensated lines again took advantage of the possibility of traveling in a CO2from 2020 by CO2 savings achieved by climate protection proj­ neutral way. The passengers of the Network Airlines Lufthansa, ects. As a result, the Lufthansa Group will have to pay the cor­ SWISS and Austrian Airlines as well as AirPlus customers com­ responding CO2 compensation costs from 2020 for increases pensated a total of 16,900 tonnes of carbon dioxide during in CO2 emissions of included international flights within the the reporting year. As a result, more than 333,000 euros were aviation industry, should it not be possible to limit these CO2 donated to climate protection projects. To make even more emissions appropriately. In the EU emissions trading system passengers aware of the option of voluntary CO2 compensa­ for civil aviation, CO2 emissions have been steered and limited tion, the Lufthansa Group is planning to further optimize its by trading certificates since 2012. The Lufthansa Group is corresponding Internet offer 2018 / 19. covered by this system for all flights within Europe. These flights emitted about 7.6 million tonnes of CO2, of which about 60 percent have to be covered by purchasing emissions certifi­ cates. Thus, the goal of CO2-neutral growth has effectively been more than fulfilled within Europe. page 52 / Climate & environment Measures taken by the Network Airlines to reduce fuel consumption and thus also CO2 emissions (selection) Expected annual CO2 savings in metric Project duration / Airline Measure tonnes implementation period • The Trent 500 engines of the aircraft type Airbus A340 are to be 34,062 2012 – 2020 modified by the installation of optimized components. Lufthansa • The OMEGA software displays historical flight routings (so­called 26,937 2015 – 2017 “tracks”) in flight on pilots’ electronic maps, allowing them to identify shortcuts early on and to plan more efficient approaches. • The Trent 700 engines of the aircraft type Airbus A330 are to be 13,227 2012 – 2019 modified by the installation of optimized components. • Global Dispatch Network (GDN), including Mission Support, 40,114 2014 – 2017 offers new planning options and policies that will reduce fuel burn substantially. SWISS • In the CFM56­5B engines of the aircraft type Airbus A320 the existing 6,600 2014 – 2017 combustion chambers were replaced step by step with more fuel­ efficient combustion chambers. • The analysis software SOCRATES (OMEGA at Lufthansa) allows the > 1,134 2016 – 2017 identification of different optimization potentials based on statistical analysis and their targeted implementation. • A weight saving is realized on the entire Boeing long­haul fleet with 2,100 2017 – 2018 the introduction of Premium Economy Class seats. • An upgrade in the high­pressure turbine of the PW4060­3 engines in 1,398 2015 – 2017 Austrian Airlines the B767­300ER fleet (improved clearance) reduces fuel consumption. • Print media on all Austrian Airlines flights were sustainably reduced. 622 2014 – 2017 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 53 ENERGY AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT It is part of the entrepreneurial DNA of the Lufthansa Group to For Lufthansa Technik, specific environmental protection solu­ keep air transport’s effects on the environment as environmen­ tions for customers and appropriate measures concerning its tally friendly as possible. The Group consistently applies this own work processes and locations are of central importance. standard not only in flight operations, but also in its activities The company operates a certified environmental management on the ground. The Group’s corresponding guidelines and goals system (see page 41). A proprietary building standard with result from the strategic environmental program 2020, which company-wide application helps the leading provider of MRO was implemented in 2008 (see page 36, Balance 2015). Its services (Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul) to increase the 15 guidelines outline how the Lufthansa Group is to continu­ energy efficiency of its locations worldwide. Moreover, the ously optimize its energy and resource management, among Lufthansa Technik Group has launched a carbon-save program. other considerations, by 2020. This approach also takes into Its goal is to lower the company’s CO2 emissions by 30 percent consideration energy-saving and resource-conserving aspects by 2018 when compared with those of 2012. At the end of related to planning, modernizing and constructing buildings 2017, more than 70 percent of this goal had already been used by the Lufthansa Group. Input for optimizing buildings achieved. with regard to energy consumption is above all provided by the results of energy audits in accordance with the EU Energy In recent years, the LSG Group has launched numerous pro­ Efficiency Directive (see page 45, Balance 2017). grams aimed at conserving energy and water, and continued these during the reporting year. For 2018 it also set itself the To generate sustainable potentials for the sparing use of elec­ goal to increase its recycling rate – waste per meal in grams tricity and water, and to develop suitable solutions, is as impor­ – in a measurable manner. In addition, the catering specialist tant for the Lufthansa Group as its efforts to optimize waste checks the key performance indicators (KPI) concerning energy management in catering. Within the new matrix organization, consumption and waste quantities every year, and defined new the aviation group therefore intensifies the cooperation of its KPIs per region for the period 2017 to 2020 (see page 46, subsidiaries in the area of energy management with the goal Balance 2017). The LSG Group works with its own environmen­ of generating synergies and deepening exchanges on besttal management system that follows ISO 14001 (see page 42). practice cases. Group-wide monitoring makes it possible to Regional Environmental Managers (REM) responsible for indi­ implement energy-saving measures in an exacting manner and vidual areas implement environmental programs together with to obtain an overview of savings potentials. Against this back­ the regional management teams and also accompany monitor­ drop, since March 2017 Lufthansa at its Frankfurt location has ing. Further components of this process are employee training participated in the Business Energy Efficiency Network and local workshops on the subject of sustainability. In addi­ of energy provider Mainova. tion, the LSG Group is a member of “LEEN 100” (Learning Energy Efficiency Network), which was jointly initiated by the For energy-intensive service companies Lufthansa Technik and City of Frankfurt and business consultancy Arqum with the LSG Group, the topic of energy management has a particularly goal of improving CO2 values in the Rhine-Main area. high significance. Therefore, these companies use their own concepts and systems that are geared to their particularities and business activities. page 54 / Climate & environment Waste and recycling management Permanently reducing waste quantities on board or increasing its recycling ratio are important considerations for the Lufthansa Group’s waste management. Beyond legal requirements, the internal initiative “Flygreener” contributes to reaching this goal Group-wide. Its objective is to help The fully electrified catering lift truck “eLift” is reduce waste volumes continuously, especially in flight operated by the LSG Group in Frankfurt. operations, and to improve the related processes on board. In recent years the aviation group has implemented numerous measures on this basis. Specially trained flight attendants act as “Ambassadors on Board” and support crews with their know-how on how to recy­ cle more effectively and cut waste quantities on board. Fur­ thermore, the Company regularly makes its flying personnel E-mobility projects at more aware of this issue by setting up information stands. Over the mid-term, practice-related training, such as web-based the Lufthansa Group courses for existing employees are planned. Moreover, close cooperation between the LSG Group and the Lufthansa Group’s Fuel-efficient and quiet aircraft are the central, but not the only Network Airlines create synergies. regulating possibilities that can be used to make air transport more environmentally compatible. On the ground, there are During the reporting year, Lufthansa and LSG Group employees also numerous opportunities, in particular in ground handling again initiated a so-called empty-out campaign. This time, they processes as well as taxiing and towing processes of aircraft. analyzed the waste material from 15 long-haul and 20 shortAt Frankfurt Airport, the Lufthansa Group places an emphasis haul flights in Munich and Frankfurt. Their objective was to on advancing projects aimed at reducing the consumption of assess progress in reducing non-recyclable waste at the gasoline or diesel related to ground traffic. Switching individual Munich hub and to evaluate the potential of recyclable mate­ vehicle types step-by-step to electric propulsion technologies rials at the Frankfurt hub. Furthermore, in Frankfurt the com­ is the ambitious goal of the initiative E-PORT AN at this loca­ plete load of service items from seven long-haul aircraft was tion. In addition to the Lufthansa Group, Fraport AG, the State sorted and analyzed to find out if there might be overcapacities of Hesse and the Rhine-Main Model Electromobility Region are in beverages on board and how these can be avoided. In addi­ committed to this project. The partners’ investments in these tion, a project group was set up in 2018 with the task of devel­ future-oriented electromobility projects are supported by Ger­ oping a specialized recycling trolley aimed at establishing alter­ many’s Federal Ministry for Transport and Digital Infrastructure native options for discarding liquids. with an amount of several million euros. The initiative is scientif­ ically accompanied by the Technical University Darmstadt and the Technical University Berlin. In this way, the LSG Group developed the fully electrified cater­ ing truck “eLift” in close cooperation with external partners, whose operation at the Frankfurt hub causes no CO2 emissions and significantly reduces noise too. The individual components LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 55 In 2018, Lufthansa LEOS took delivery of the second “eTug” in Frankfurt. of the catering lift truck of the future, such as the truck’s chas­ improvement potentials were taken into account that had been sis or the box body can be controlled independently of each identified in the context of operational experience with the first other. Another particularity is the fully electrified bridge “eTug”. The electric vehicle with four-wheel drive and steering mechanism that allows the front platform to be shifted. The is supplied with energy from a lithium-ion battery and charged “eLift” does not differ from conventional lift trucks in the externally from the electricity grid. If necessary, the batteries vehicle’s technical and operational characteristics. The LSG can also be charged during operation by means of an integrated Group integrated the “eLift” into everyday operations in the diesel engine, the Range Extender. The diesel power unit thus third quarter of 2017. fulfills merely a back-up task. The “eTug” by Swedish manufacturer Kalmar Motor AB is the The TaxiBot aircraft tug, which was further developed at first such vehicle of its kind worldwide and has been operated Lufthansa LEOS together with the manufacturer in the context by Lufthansa LEOS since 2016. Its operation allows the avoid­ of the initiative for more electromobility at Frankfurt, was tested ance of up to 75 percent of emissions when compared to intensively under operational conditions over the past years a conventional, diesel-powered aircraft tug. It is in particular and evaluated concerning its operational readiness. While the suited to environmentally friendly maintenance and positioning vehicle is operationally ready, the commercial concept is not tows of large passenger aircraft such as the Airbus A380 or viable – one significant reason among others is the short dura­ Boeing 747, and is capable of moving aircraft with a maximum tion of taxiing in Frankfurt. Therefore, the decision was made takeoff weight of 600 tonnes. A second vehicle has been in not to continue the TaxiBot project at Lufthansa under the cur­ operation since February 2018. In its construction, smaller rent framework of conditions. page 56 / Climate & environment ACTIVE NOISE ABATEMENT Operating aircraft causes noise, especially during takeoffs and successful: in 2017, 99.5 percent – and thus almost the entire landings. As a result, it is mostly people living in areas surround­ operative Group fleet – fulfilled or exceeded the strict minusing airports who are affected by aircraft noise. At higher alti­ 10-decibel criterium of the ICAO Chapter 4 standard (see over­ tudes, such as during cruising flight, aircraft noise is without view page 114). The aircraft noise experts from the Group’s dif­ consequence. The noise-related effects of the Lufthansa Group’s ferent departments are closely connected within a network. In aircraft operations mostly affect hub locations. addition, they are active in aircraft noise commissions, dia­logue forums and research projects, which in some cases they initiated The Lufthansa Group supports numerous activities and mea­ and have coordinated. For example, this includes participation sures over the long-term in order to decrease aircraft noise in test projects under the umbrella of SESAR (Single European perceptibly. The primary goal is to sustainably lower noise at Sky ATM Research, see page 49). the source and to develop optimized flying procedures in cooperation with system partners. In addition, the activities The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to active noise abatement concerning noise protection also have an economic compo­ comprises five dimensions (see graphic below). In addition to nent: by flying quiet aircraft, the Group may prevent possible this issue of Balance, the Lufthansa Group also published this restrictions on operations. approach in its Annual Report 2017 as part of the combined non-financial report (see info box page 24). Therefore, the Lufthansa Group has been working with deter­ mination on operating the quietest aircraft possible and on making its existing fleet even quieter. These efforts have been Active noise abatement 1. Investments 2. Noise-reducing technolo-­ 3. Participation in noise 4. Optimization of approach 5. Dialogue with residents in quieter aircraft gies for the existing fleet research and departure procedures near airports and other stakeholders Introduction of the latest Retrofitting of noise-reduc­ Continuous collaboration and Cooperation with system Continuous exchanges with aircraft such as the ing vortex generators to the exchange with partners from partners residents as in the Airport Airbus A320neo and existing fleet research and industry and Region Forum Airbus A350-900 Development and testing of Development and analysis of new methods Active participation to Retirement of older models new noise-reduction aircraft noise commissions measures Use of new navigation technology LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 57 1. Investments in quieter aircraft The most effective lever for reducing aircraft noise is fleet modernization. In this area the Lufthansa Group cooperates closely with aircraft manufacturers and actively influences the shaping of specifications and the technical status of new aircraft (see page 10 ff., interview Jörg Hennemann). In 2017, the avia­ tion group put 29 new aircraft into service, including five further Airbus A320neo and ten Bombardier C Series aircraft, both of which are equipped with modern engines (see page 32 ff., Fleet management). The same applies to the Airbus A350-900, which counts among the most modern and environmentally friendly long-haul aircraft, and flies significantly more quietly Noise contours compared than comparable types of aircraft (see illustration on the left). A350-900 vs. A340-300 / 600 In return, a total of 36 older aircraft left the Group fleet. Compared to previous models, the Airbus A350-900 2. Noise-reducing technologies for the existing fleet shows a 40–50 percent lower noise contour. The 85 In addition to modernization measures, retrofitting the existing dB(A) maximum noise level contours are shown for a fleet can also produce measurable reductions of aircraft noise. takeoff with Lufthansa standard takeoff procedures At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa was the first airline world­ and maximum takeoff weight (MTOW). wide to start operations with an Airbus A320 equipped with By comparison, a maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) noise-reducing vortex generators, thus setting an industry is produced by a truck passing at a distance of five standard (see page 49, Balance 2017). Aircraft with vortex meters (16 feet) in city traffic. generators are up to 4 decibels quieter during the approach phase. In the meantime, the Group has retrofitted all aircraft of the A320 family operated by Lufthansa and SWISS with these 40-50 % vortex generators. The retrofit of Austrian Airlines’ A320 family LOWER NOISE CONTOUR is expected to be completed in 2019. Retrofitting aircraft with vortex generators is another example that shows how economy and ecology go hand in hand for many measures. With this project, the Lufthansa Group makes 8 km progress in active noise abatement and in particular lessens the noise burden on people close to airports. On the other 6 hand, there is a positive economic effect as noise-related fees at Frankfurt Airport are reduced in the context of calculating 4 noise charges for aircraft equipped with vortex generators compared with charges for comparable aircraft without these 2 parts, for example. In an environment with intensified competi­ tion, the economic efficiency of such measures will gain Runway increasing importance. 0 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km Airbus Airbus Airbus A340-300 A340-600 A350-900 MTOW: 271 t MTOW: 368 t MTOW: 268 t Source: Airbus, information as of: 11 / 2016 page 58 / Climate & environment 3. Participation in noise research 5. Dialogue with residents near airports and For many years, the Lufthansa Group has been committed to other stakeholders noise research via projects such as MODAL (Models and Data Since 2001, the Lufthansa Group has actively and continuously for the Development of Active Noise Abatement Measures in participated in measurement packages aimed at noise abate­ Aviation), which help create the foundations for successful ment in the framework of dialogue forums, in Frankfurt and active noise protection. Vienna among other locations. One example is the “Alliance for Noise Abatement” in Frankfurt, in which the state govern­ In 2017, the project “EffFlug” (Efficiency increases in flight ment of Hesse, Fraport AG, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the Air­ operations) was added. Its goal is to analyze efficiency mea­ port and Region Forum (FFR), Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) sures more precisely with regard to their noise reduction and the aviation association BARIG participate. Moreover, the potential compared with previous solutions. To this end, the Lufthansa Group also works actively in some of the German existing evaluation methods are to be expanded and deepened. aircraft noise commissions stipulated by Germany’s Civil Digitalization makes it possible to analyze flight operations Aviation Act. data even more intensively and to link them with intelligent analytic tools. The prerequisite for the participation in “EffFlug” In January 2018, the FFR presented 17 additional measures to is a high degree of expert knowledge and cockpit experience. reduce the noise burden in the areas surrounding Frankfurt In this project, the Lufthansa Group closely cooperates with the Airport or to enable an improved political and legal framework German Aerospace Center (DLR), Fraport AG and Flughafen for the expedited implementation of measures. Those involved München GmbH. took the first steps in this context in 2017. The package of mea­ sures “Active Noise Abatement” builds on the 12 noise protec­ Continuous research and development work, in particular by tion measures that were implemented in the past in standard manufacturers, produce quieter aircraft and engine generations operations, and also opens up new perspectives, such as the as well as desired optimizations on the aircraft in the existing precision navigation system. fleet. Therefore, it is of great importance for the Lufthansa Group to help shape this steady cycle of intensive research as well as Simultaneously, Hesse’s Ministry for Economic Affairs and new technologies and products in order to achieve further effi­ Transport, the Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Commission, Lufthansa, ciency improvements in aircraft and engines. Condor, BARIG, Fraport and the FFR agreed on a voluntary upper noise limit at Frankfurt Airport. This agreement gives the 4. Optimization of approach and departure procedures airlines an additional incentive for flying even more quietly: Optimizing flight procedures and flight routings also contrib­ doing so is the only way to increase the number of their aircraft utes to noise reductions. The Lufthansa Group is active in this movements. The Lufthansa Group welcomes such a reliable, area in numerous ways by cooperating with international part­ clear and long-term regulatory framework that creates invest­ ners such as Eurocontrol. For example, in July 2017 Deutsche ment and planning security for future growth and fleet decisions. Flugsicherung (DFS, air traffic control), Lufthansa and Fraport In May 2016, the state of Hesse and the aviation industry had successfully tested and implemented new navigation technol­ already sealed the voluntary introduction of noise breaks in an ogy on the so-called southern circumnavigation in Frankfurt in “Alliance for Noise Breaks” (see page 60, Balance 2016, and the context of SESAR. The newly used Radius-to-Fix (RF) page 55, Balance 2015). functionality allows flying highly-precise circular-path seg­ ments with fixed radius and fixed origin at a quality level that so far is unique in Germany. For people living in the region, this is likely to produce correspondingly positive effects on noise burdens. Operations will be accompanied by comprehensive monitoring in cooperation between DFS and the Environment and Neighborhood House. The outlook is that the DFS intends to use the procedure on other departure routes from Frankfurt as well. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 59 Key points on EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY 03 62 __ DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 68 __ EMPLOYMENT POLICY BASED ON PARTNERSHIP 70 __ TALENT MANAGEMENT 72 __ OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT 74 __ CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Working at the Lufthansa Group has many facets. But the individual is always at the center of attention. The employees’ know-how and diverse talents are a central variable that directly inﬂuences the Company’s entrepreneurial success. Therefore, the Group’s goal is to establish itself as an attractive employer over the long-term while meeting its social responsibility. The Lufthansa Group places the greatest emphasis on offering its employees an attractive working environment with transparent structures and processes in order to meet future requirements and strengthen the innovative forces within the Company. Custom-ﬁt offers for continuing education, a realistic framework of conditions to promote balance between working and private life, a comprehensive approach to equal opportunity and diversity in all its dimensions, and intensive support for talent – all of these are signiﬁcant action areas for the aviation company to meet its selfdeﬁned benchmark for treating employees fairly and as partners. By using modern information technology the Group takes into account the fact that the working world is global, digital and networked. In addition, the Group meets its responsibilities for its employees by means of its tried-and-tested health and safety policies. With regard to society as a whole, the Lufthansa Group also acts responsibly. As a corporate citizen it engages in a dynamic process supporting social issues and has ﬁrmly anchored speciﬁc employee involvement in its HR strategy. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 61 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES For the Lufthansa Group, diversity and equal opportunities are Today, the Lufthansa Group already represents the central idea central elements of the Company’s strategic alignment. They of diversity: the 147 nationalities who are represented world­ are indispensable in positioning the Group as an attractive wide throughout different age levels among managers and employer in a global and inter­generational setting – today and employees within the Group are visible in the future. Diversity in all its dimensions is also a fundamen­ proof of applied diversity. These tal prerequisite for being able to innovate and change, and to employees contribute an enor­ secure a leading competitive position over the long­term. mous variety of points of view and competencies to the 147 Systematic diversity and the appreciation of all employees Company. Among other advan­ NATIONALITIES associated with it make an organization more agile, flexible and tages, this perspective results in creative. Diversity management incorporates the life situations a differentiated understanding of of all employees actively into entrepreneurial conduct and needs, which, in turn, makes a makes a significant contribution to being better able to discern significant contribution to customer­ the needs of stakeholders and optimizing services. Against this centric development of products and background, the hallmark of the Lufthansa Group’s corporate services. This is especially important against the background culture is pronounced diversity, which makes the Company of the Lufthansa Group with its different business segments more open for different values, attitudes and life situations at offering a broad spectrum of products and serving correspond­ the same time. For the aviation company, diversity is a decisive ingly varied customer groups. foundation of its modern service philosophy and customer centricity. In addition, diversity helps to minimize risks, as in mixed teams different points of view are contributed to de­ velopment and decision­making processes. “For the Lufthansa Group, diversity is the lever that sets agility, creativity and innovation in motion. Juliane Grauer Equal opportunity officer, Lufthansa Group page 62 / Employees & society Welcome Diversity! Organizational anchoring For more than 20 years, the Group has had an officer responsi­ ble for equal opportunities, whose task and role is the strategic The Lufthansa Group pursues a comprehensive management further development of this topic within the Group. In addition approach, which understands diversity in the sense of variety to the reporting responsibility by the process owner and the with regard to gender, demography and internationality, crea­ head office function, the Lufthansa Group set up a project to tivity and mixing of perspectives. Diversity and equal opportu­ promote women in management positions in 2016; it initiates nities are firmly anchored in the current personnel strategy and and implements measures to increase the share of women in simultaneously in the Group-wide organizational structure by management (see page 66, Balance 2017, Three questions for: means of clear responsibilities. Simone Marshall). The process-oriented matrix organization defines so-called process owners across the Group. They are responsible for Goals and central action areas developing and implementing measures that are suitable for reaching defined goals. In 2017, a “Diversity” process owner The Lufthansa Group pursues several goals with its diversi­ was named in this context. He is responsible for the Groupty-oriented personnel policy. The Company wants to better wide development of diversity and monitors the implementa­ take advantage of the enormous potential of the diversity that tion of goals in the relevant processes. Regular reporting, for already exists among its roughly 130,000 employees, while instance concerning the gender quota, allows the verification simultaneously further increasing diversity in profiles, compe­ of the effectiveness of the management approach and the tencies and experience up to the management level. In addi­ related measures. Additionally, exchanges in networks or with tion to its explicit goal of strengthening and expanding its other DAX-30 companies allow comparisons of developments attractiveness as an employer, the aviation group aims at using by means of external benchmarks. Furthermore, such compari­ diversity management to secure its competitiveness and future sons provide insights on how effective specific measures are. viability, increase its ability to innovate, facilitate access to potential employee groups on the global labor market and boost its distinctive customer orientation. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 63 On the occasion of International Women’s Day 2018, all-women crews at the Lufthansa Group again took off on flights to a number of international destinations. The Lufthansa Group approaches the task of realizing diversity Increasing the share of women in the cockpits of the and equal opportunities in accordance with defined goals from Lufthansa Group airlines is also one of the goals of personnel several directions. For example, the Company wants to increase strategy. In 2017, the share of female pilots was 6.1 percent the share of women in management and improve the com­ (2016: 5.5 percent). The prospects are positive: currently, the patibility of work and family – two central goals in the area of share of female junior pilots already stands at 15 percent. gender diversity to ensure equality between men and women. Further items on the agenda are an even stronger international­ The Lufthansa Group avails itself of a broad portfolio of ization of staff and the inclusion of people with disabilities. measures and activities to increase the share of women in management positions. For example, since 2015 a transparent job advertisement process for management positions has Gender diversity been used and diversity criteria have been applied in filling vacancies. Company-wide, the Lufthansa Group employs nearly as many men as women. In management positions 1 too, women have The internal development and mentoring program “GoAhead” long been well-established. Nevertheless, it is especially at the was already in its fourth year in 2017; it is addressed at women management level that their numbers should be increased. At who aim at a management position (see page 77, Balance the end of the reporting year, 15.1 percent (2016: 15.6 percent) 2015). From 2018, selections will be made for “GoAhead of managers worldwide were women. Despite Group-wide re­reloaded”. The program will be on the starting blocks twice in organization measures and the simultaneous suppression of one 2018 and will thus allow twice the number of female talents management level, merely a (temporary) stagnation or rather to participate as before. Another innovation: from 2019 a slight decline of this share was recorded during the reporting “GoAhead reloaded” is to be offered once a year for female year, when compared with the preceding year. Numerous team leaders and top performing managers. For many years, targeted measures were effective in preventing a more marked the Lufthansa Group has also supported female junior em­ decline; renewed increases are expected for the future. ployees on their path to management positions with crossindustry mentoring. A recent addition is special coaching for female talents who take parental leave and plan their reentry. 1 In addition to the legal gender quota, which applies to the first and second management levels below the Executive Board, gender data concerning the entire management and all supervisors with responsibility for personnel are regularly monitored and reported. page 64 / Employees & society In the context of a pilot project, the Lufthansa Group examined the influence of gender-neutral language on applicants’ behavior EMPLOYEES IN THE and the selection of applicants. Concretely, job advertisements and the selection of applications for the “ProTeam” Generation LUFTHANSA GROUP 2018 were scientifically administered. The Company is already KEY DATA 2017 1 taking advantage of the insights thus gained for the selection of the next generation of this program. 129,424 Since the middle of 2016, the Lufthansa Group has been active in the initiative “Chefsache” (“A Matter for the Boss”), a network of managers from business, science, the social sector, the public sector and media, who feel personally committed to EMPLOYEES Group total equal opportunities between men and women. On the occasion of International Women’s Day 2018, all-women crews again took off on flights operated by Lufthansa Group 46.1 % airlines – as they did the previous year – to a number of international destinations. To put down another marker on this day, Lufthansa showed “FlyingLab” presentations from female digital experts during an in-flight conference on its flight to FEMALE EMPLOYEES Group total Houston. The Group also participated actively in the 5th German 35.0 % Diversity Day by having a presence in the intra-company Diversity Film Nights. These campaigns were intensively communicated to increase awareness. SHARE OF WOMEN with staff responsibility Within the Group, the concept of equal opportunities has been 15.1 % anchored in collective bargaining agreements for a long time. SHARE OF WOMEN in management positions 6.1 % The principle of “same pay for same performance” was applied within the Lufthansa Group as long ago as the 1970s. Collective wage agreements that can be consulted by all SHARE OF WOMEN in the cockpit employees and company-wide non-tariff remuneration systems are proof of this approach. The “Report on equality and equal pay” was produced in accordance with § 21 and 22 of 1,101 the Remuneration Transparency Act (EntgTranspG) for Deutsche Lufthansa AG and published on the Internet. Apart from a statistical part, it contains information concerning measures to promote equality between men and women as APPRENTICES well as their effect, and measures to ensure equal pay for men and women. ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility An important topic for internal communications remains sensiti120,000 zation concerning the topic of “unconscious bias”. The Group intends to increase awareness of this phenomenon of unconscious thinking patterns and their effect on personnel processes in 2018 as well. Therefore, each manager watches a short JOB APPLICATIONS video on the subject before making a selection decision. This measure was developed jointly with the companies represented in the initiative “Chefsache” (“A Matter for the Boss”). 1 as of December 31, 2017 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 65 The individual companies within the Lufthansa Group also Internationality vigorously pursue the goal of gender diversity and equal opportunity. For example, the LSG Group has supported Given its diverse business segments with international locations female talents since the end of 2017 with the program “Female and global business links, a broad range of cultural and linguis­ Leadership”. At SWISS, the “Girls & Women Coding Event” tic diversity exists within the Lufthansa Group. The goal is to aimed to get more young women interested in IT jobs. Against further strengthen this diversity, as it supports the Company’s the same background, Lufthansa Systems participated in the business strategy with regard to future developments. Therefore, Berlin hackathon “Hack like a girl” as a partner company. the Group aims at an even higher degree of internationalization Austrian Airlines makes diversity and equal opportunities a among its employees. Currently, a number of measures serving subject of discussion at the “Impulse” presentations, which this purpose are being implemented, such as the development are given twice a year. At Lufthansa Cargo, the initiative of a Group-wide employee transfer guideline or even more “Gender Balance”, which was introduced in 2012, has led internationality in trainee and internship programs. Outside to the near-doubling of the share of female managers. of Germany, the Lufthansa Group specifically hires local em­ ployees and supports them adequately in order to enable the sharing of know-how between regions and business segments Work-life integration by means of selective transfers on the one hand, and to pro­ mote employees’ individual development and the creation of Traditional family and work models are undergoing change. The inter-cultural competencies on the other. Lufthansa Group supports its employees and managers by offering flexible work-time models, which accommodate this development and the related varying needs in different life Inclusion phases, for example with part-time and home-office options. This allows not only a better equilibrium between professional For the Lufthansa Group, employment and inclusion of people and private demands, it also promotes employees’ motivation with disabilities is not only a legal obligation, it also fulfills a and health. The Group provides detailed information about the social responsibility and is thus an important goal of personnel concrete options available on the intranet and in the context of policy. The Group is committed to promoting people with various events. The range of communication measures has disabilities professionally and treating them fairly and caringly. increased the offers’ transparency and stimulated demand. Measures designed to include people with disabilities are discussed and advanced in regular dialogue events involving For example, the Group offers the options of filling managerial top management, HR management and representatives of the positions in tandem (shared leadership) or taking limited time severely disabled. off work (sabbaticals). In Frankfurt, Lufthansa Group employees together with their children have the use of two parent-child At the end of 2017, the employment rate for people with disab­il­ offices when there are difficulties with child care; in Hamburg ities at the Lufthansa Group in Germany stood at 4.3 percent. one such office is available. Offers such as the summer school While some Group companies, such as LSG Sky Chefs, reach vacation care program “Luftikusse” in Frankfurt and Munich, employment rates of more than 20 percent and thus overfulfill “pme Familienservice” at all German locations or the network the legally defined minimum quota of 5 percent, the relevant “Väter gGmbH” (“Fathers, Inc.”) were continued during the employment at the passenger airlines is significantly lower, in reporting year as well (see page 86 ff., Balance 2016). part due to legal requirements. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group also takes advantage of other ways of supporting people with The topic of compatibility of work and caring for family mem­ disabilities, such as placing orders with Werkstätten für bers also plays an important role. In 2015, the Lufthansa Group Behinderte Rhein-Main (see page 79, Further social projects signed the “Charter for care” in the state of Hesse and in 2017 within the Group companies) or the cooperation with the emphasis was on a series of internal events with presenta­ the National Paralympic Committee Germany (DBS). tions and webinars. In addition, the Group offers regular care consultation hours in Frankfurt. This service will also be offered in Hamburg and Munich from 2018. page 66 / Employees & society Four questions for CLAUDIA RAUTENBERG Head of Cultural Transformation and of Lufthansa Group CAMPUS This means that business transformation needs to be imple­ mented both in effective and responsible ways. Managers in particular are forced in a way not known earlier to initiate transformation, steer this process together with their teams, and ensure operative stability at the same time. This is why we accompany and accelerate this process, and thus ensure that changes take place in a way that is as comprehensible as possible for managers and employees, and unfolds without YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AREA OF CULTURAL significant frictional loss. TRANSFORMATION AT THE LUFTHANSA GROUP. DOES THE COMPANY’S CORPORATE CULTURE NEED A NEW WHICH PROGRAMS AND TOOLS HELP TO DRIVE ORIENTATION? CULTURAL CHANGE? “New” is often understood to mean that everything needs to On the one hand, we promote cultural development by making be changed. And yet, today there are companies and areas structural changes. For example, we replaced our bonus sys­ within the Lufthansa Group that work together highly success­ tem based on individual performance with a collective bonus, fully while their cultural identities have evolved very differently. which rewards the collective performance. On the other hand, We want to strengthen and expand this ability. At the same last year we fundamentally expanded and changed our mana­ time, we need to evolve culturally at the same speed as we gerial programs because cultural development takes place evolve structurally. Our business model is today challenged by above all when managers give a corresponding behavioral new competitors and in entirely new ways. That is why we example. The focus is on measures that support the managers’ need to become faster, further expand our ability to innovate, role, agile work performance within the matrix, and process and focus on the customer more than ever. For the Group this orientation. means shedding unnecessary organizational complexity. Equally, each individual employee needs to assume responsibility, to remain flexible and to learn continuously. HOW IMPORTANT IS IT TO ADOPT IMPULSES FROM EMPLOYEES AND WHAT ROLE DOES THE GROUP-WIDE EMPLOYEE SURVEY “INVOLVE ME!” PLAY? “CHANGE MANAGEMENT” IS ONE OF HR’S CENTRAL BUZZWORDS. WHY IS THIS SO IMPORTANT? Impulses given by employees are very important. The results of the employee survey show us very clearly whether our The world around us is changing rapidly. Because of this initiatives gain traction. In addition, the survey gives us impor­ change the Lufthansa Group needs to further evolve as well tant input for further measures and change projects. This type – structurally, but also with regard to its attitude and conduct. of feedback is a self­evident component of any modern error­and­ In dealing with this kind of volatility we need professionalism. dialogue culture and thus essential for our ability to innovate. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 67 EMPLOYMENT POLICY BASED ON PARTNERSHIP ↗ GRI 102-41 The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, In December 2017, the Lufthansa Group and the Vereinigung enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the Cockpit pilots’ union signed an agreement on all outstanding aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing matters for Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo and Germanwings. The its employees with an attractive work environment and appro­ agreements conform substantively to the fundamental settle­ priate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition always ment reached in March 2017. They include new wage and to balance the economic interests of the Group with the collective agreements, as well as agreements on retirement expectations and needs of its employees. By developing and transitional benefits, which will remain in effect until at appropriate standards in personnel policy, the Lufthansa Group least June 2022. These collective agreements with the labor positions itself as an employer acting with integrity and in union partners represent a long-term solution to the risk of responsible ways. Within the Group, its successful personnel strikes. On February 7, 2018, the Lufthansa Group and the policy is characterized by a proactive approach in an environ­ trade union ver.di concluded long-term wage agreements for ment characterized by increasing digitalization, rising flexibility the around 28,000 ground staff employed by Lufthansa, and agile structures. Taking into account the dynamic develop­ Lufthansa Cargo, Lufthansa Technik and the LSG Group in ment of social and legal frameworks is indispensable in this Germany (see page 31, Annual Report 2017). context, while integrating social requirements. The goal is to ensure sustainable and future-oriented work structures, and tailor-made resource management at the Lufthansa Group. Active pay and social policy abroad Internationalization and globalization offer a broad range of Partnership in collective agreements opportunities for the Group’s business and personnel proces­ ses. As a company with international operations, Lufthansa’s It is tried-and-tested Company policy to settle clashes of pay and social policies are guided by conditions in the various interests between Company management and the bodies countries. The focus is on the long-term definition of the representing employees in a transparent manner. A fair ap­ conditions of employment, which depend on the needs of the proach to coexistence in all areas creates the balance needed employees, operational requirements, and the local labor to advance the Lufthansa Group’s position in the market. market – with the inclusion of compensation rules, working The Lufthansa Group employs its staff under conditions that conditions, and pension schemes. The Lufthansa Group defines guarantee them social and material security not only during but these agreements in cooperation with internal labor commit­ also after their working years. These are established on the tees and employee representatives. The Company is a party to basis of collective agreements that the Company negotiates collective wage bargaining with employees in about 25 count­ with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerkschaft ries. In all countries where Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), and Unabhängige Company uses benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as Flugbegleiter Organisation e. V. (UFO). In Germany, almost all inflation figures to review salaries usually once a year on the Group companies are party to collective wage agreements basis of market and competitiveness criteria. In countries with (nearly 100 percent). very high rates of inflation, this assessment, which usually leads to pay increases, is performed more often, in accordance The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to conclude long-term and with circumstances. In this way the Lufthansa Group offers economically viable agreements with its union partners. This continual review and adjustment of working conditions for its allows sustainable success, the ability to plan, and security, for locally employed staff. As a signatory to the UN Global the Company and its employees alike. The guidelines for this Compact, the Lufthansa Group has documented its support for joint effort are flexibility and the ability to react with sensitivity. freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining page 68 / Employees & society for all of its employees worldwide (see info box page 25). The results of “involve me!” also serve as basis for the calcula­ Employees in any country where Lufthansa companies are tion of the “Engagement Index” (EI). This ratio indicates to active are free to lawfully organize themselves and become which degree employees feel committed to the Group, to involved in defining their working conditions. For the reporting which degree they are willing to lend their support to their year 2017, it is assumed that no business activity within the employer, and how much they are inclined to recommend the Lufthansa Group jeopardized the free exercise of employees’ Company to others. It also gives insights into the Group’s rights concerning their freedom of association and right to attractiveness as an employer and allows comparisons with collective bargaining. other employers across industry lines. The result is indicated on a scale from 1 (best value) to 5 (lowest value). During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group achieved an Engagement Index of 2.3. While this corresponds to a slightly below-average value for German companies, it also marks an improvement of 0.1 points compared with the previous year. In the years ahead, the Engagement Index is to improve annually and reach the average level of comparable companies in Employee survey “involve me!” Germany by 2020. Regular employee surveys have for a long time been an impor­ The Lufthansa Group is aware of the fact that merely measur­ tant instrument for the Lufthansa Group to measure employee ing employee commitment is not enough. The greatest chal­ commitment, identify action fields and initiate change where lenge comes after the survey is completed. Progress can only needed (see page 67, interview Claudia Rautenberg). be achieved if concrete measures are derived from the survey results and employees can thus see that the Group takes their In 2015, the Lufthansa Group conducted “involve me!”, its first responses seriously (see page 22 f., Stakeholder dialogue). group-wide standardized, voluntary employee survey, which was extended to the significant Group companies (including In parallel to determining the Engagement Index, the LSG Germany) in 2017. On the basis of the results of this Lufthansa Group again calculated the Leadership Index (LI) survey, management is able to directly compare data from the in 2017 from data collected through “involve me!”, which is individual Group companies and engage in a transparent, oriented by the Group’s five Leadership Principles (see page Group-wide dialogue. In 2017, employees had the opportunity 73, Balance 2015). During the reporting year, the LI stood at to respond to questions from 11 topic areas. With a return rate 2.1 points and thus 0.1 point higher than the previous year. of 50 percent, participation was at about the same level as in the preceding year. Furthermore, in 2017 the Group calculated the Health Index on the basis of data generated by “involve me!” for the first time The results of the employee survey are also reported to the (see page 72 f., Occupational safety and health management) Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. At management and thus received a third significant ratio. level and broken down for individual teams, the results are communicated and discussed in order to derive and implement strategic measures for the entire Lufthansa Group and individual organizational units. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 69 TALENT MANAGEMENT The fascination for jobs within the Lufthansa Group is unabated: (see page 83 f., Balance 2015). It gives all employees the during the reporting year, about 120,000 applications were opportunity to shape their own careers in the Group according received and the Group has received top positions in renowned to their individual talents and interests. A standardized Group­ employer rankings for many years. Talent management has a wide potential identification process and subsequent training key role in the Group’s HR strategy for gaining qualified and programs help them to do so. This both increases transparency motivated personnel for all management and employee levels. and brings talents to the fore. Employees are thus encouraged It is one of the support pillars in the Lufthansa Group’s efforts in their own responsibility and managers are able to identify of establishing itself long­term, both internally and externally, potentials and support these in concrete ways. as an attractive employer and to secure the Company’s future. In this way, the Group also counteracts the increasing lack of Within the organization, talent management is anchored by qualified personnel and is able to secure competencies that are means of responsibilities that were clearly defined in the in demand within the Company. context of the Group’s process­oriented reorganization in 2017. This comprehensive approach, which also includes training and In 2014, the Lufthansa Group implemented its talent manage­ continuing education, is applied Group­wide by means of an ment philosophy under the motto “Every employee has talent!” extensive catalogue of measures. Its goal is to promote talents “Spotlight on Talent” process 1. OUTCOME 2. CONTACT The “Profile” performance and talent Talents and those responsible at job process supplies the target group of families make contact and get to know “Spotlight on Talent”. each other in a meeting. AN ANNUALLY RECURRENT PROCESS 4. EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION 3. SPOTLIGHT CONFERENCE A tool / e­mail distribution list enables an The “Spotlight on Talent” conference is held: exchange of information about available talents are presented and the talent situation posts and communication with talents. in each job family discussed. page 70 / Employees & society and increase not least the Company’s ability to innovate by In the Group-wide trainee program “ProTeam”, the means of different employee competencies, experiences and Lufthansa Group introduced two new modules in 2017: perspectives. In this context, the Lufthansa Group places great “ProInnovation” and “ProSocial”. The module “ProInnovation”, emphasis on diversity and equal opportunities. It is one of the which is to be expanded in 2018, is based on a tandem concept. Group’s special concerns to support the career development It combines the knowledge of selected employees (experienced of female talents (see page 62 ff., Diversity and equal specialists and managers from different hierarchical levels opportunities). across the Group as well as members of the employee re­ presentative committee and the Supervisory Board) with The topic of talent management is regularly on the agendas of employees from different trainee programs. The goal of com­ the Executive Board, HR board and Supervisory Board; these munication at “eye level” established in this way is the shared, committees can thus initiate adaptations and complementary responsible shaping of the future by means of diversity in age, actions when needed. Beyond that, regular exchanges within education, hierarchy and specialist knowledge. networks ensure the validation of such measures. The second new “ProTeam” pillar, the “ProSocial” module, Meaningful data on the development of the Lufthansa Group’s includes a four-week stint in a social project. It aims at employees is provided annually by the internal performance strength­ening the participants’ social and intercultural compe­ and talent assessment instrument “Profile”. Based on this data, tencies, team spirit and sense of responsibility. In October the Group is able to evaluate the effectiveness of talent man­ 2017, the Lufthansa Group realized the program for the first agement measures and to which degree set goals have been time in cooperation with its charitable aid organization help reached. During the reporting year, about 12,000 employees alliance (see page 75 ff., help alliance). within the Lufthansa Group completed or started the perfor­ mance and talent process. The related platform “eProfile” is The Lufthansa Group also aims to increase its attractiveness being rolled out step by step for additional employee groups for external talents on a continuous basis. Using innovative and thus allows a Group-wide overview of the talents within employer branding, it positions itself as an attractive employer the Company. in the applicants’ market and emphasizes the variety and specific strengths of individual Group companies. Those interested can find paths into the Group’s working world via Promoting internal talents the career portal ↗ www.Be-Lufthansa.com (see page 9, Balance 2016). For modern personnel recruitment the Group The different formats and initiatives used in the Lufthansa Group’s also uses active sourcing via external recruiting platforms. In talent management are addressed at all employees and are not conjunction with other social media channels the Group takes only limited to vertical promotions. Their goal is also both to advantage of the opportunities offered by (inter)active com­ support defined competencies and to identify and broaden munication with potential qualified employees and managers. talents for specific job families and different career paths. The To have an additional recruiting resource available, the options range from trainee programs to initiatives at the top Lufthansa Group maintains contacts with former employees management level. In this context, strategic personnel planning on the formats “Talent Hub” and “Alumni Network” (see page always takes the employees’ different life phases into account. 71, Balance 2017). An important format is the visibility platform “Spotlight on Talent”, introduced in 2016 (see page 70, Balance 2017). During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group expanded this format significantly. The annual process aims at giving talents in specific job families more visibility – across all boundaries of companies within the Group (see illustration on the left). At the same time, this format is designed to give the Lufthansa Group an overview of the talent situation in the individual job families. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 71 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT Occupational safety and health protection are central action areas for the Lufthansa Group, jointly managed by the Medical Services (including psychosocial counseling), health and safety Health Management officers, and the health management function. To promote employee health, the areas involved have implemented various measures through which the Group not only fulfills its duty of Health Management care, but also makes an important contribution to being an attractive employer. To further develop health protection Group-wide, the Company successfully launched the program Health Management@ Megatrends such as globalization, competition and digitaliza­ Lufthansa Group in 2016. The goal is to maintain the employees’ tion are particular challenges for organizations such as the health and ability to perform long-term and sustainably, and to Lufthansa Group and its employees. In addition, there are encourage employees to treat their health as a personal respon­ internal challenges such as an increasing need for flexibility, sibility (empowerment). Health Management@Lufthansa Group restructuring and lack of qualified staff. The Lufthansa Group’s creates a strategic and structural framework that has particular comprehensive approach to health and safety accompanies influence on the development of the organization and the megatrends in society and internal changes to safeguard its leadership skills of managers. This includes integrating health employees’ health and motivation. Consistently, the Group aspects into existing, comprehensive processes and instru­ rated health protection as “very important” in its 2016 materi­ ments. Specific action areas concerning targeted measures ality analysis. are partly developed from the results of the employee survey “involve me!” (see page 69). Health Management coordinates and manages the central steering committee “Health” (see page 72, Balance 2017), a forum which meets at regular intervals and includes represen­ tatives of the largest Group companies, employee representa­ tives, occupational safety and disabled employees’ representa­ tives as well as experts from the medical and psychosocial areas. page 72 / Employees & society Health Index Psychological and psychosocial factors also have a significant The Health Index was compiled for the first time in 2017 as the influence on health, safety and performance levels in work set­ primary performance indicator for measuring the employees’ tings. Since 1985, the Lufthansa Group has therefore offered its overall health level; it is based on relevant questions in the employees, teams and organizational units individual counseling “involve me!” survey. The results serve to identify aspects of and mediation services under the obligation to maintain confiden­ work that require adjustment, to develop focused measures to tiality, as well as different services of psychosocial organizational strengthen individual health resources and minimize the risk of counseling. occupational hazards. As with the Engagement Index, they are communicated to top management, team managers and the Beyond the obligatory features in the area of health protection, entire workforce. the Lufthansa Group offers its employees a wide range of preven­ tive measures on a voluntary basis, both for administrative and The Health Index uses a scale from 1 (best) to 5 (worst). In 2017, flying personnel. These measures and campaigns are widely it stood at 2.3, which corresponds exactly to the external communicated within the Company. benchmark for the region including Germany, Austria and Switzerland and for each individual country in this region. To be able to determine more exact indications of need for action, Occupational safety characteristics of healthy work culture were drawn from the results of “involve me!” Based on these factors of influence, Another important contribution to employee health comes the Group companies are better able to analyze their individual from the function of occupational safety, which has existed for health-related results in a differentiated way and identify action many years and consistently implements measures to prevent areas aimed at improving the Health Index. Therefore, the focus accidents, health risks and occupational illnesses. By means of for 2018 is on deriving need-oriented, target-group-specific risk assessments and regular safety inspections, the Group’s measures and activities across the Group. occupational safety experts check all professional activities in the Group companies in Germany. Medical Service Low numbers of work-related accidents and occupational illnesses are a measure of success for medical and technical The Medical Service has a key role in the Lufthansa Group’s aspects of occupational safety and occupational hygiene. concept of occupational safety and health protection (see page 92, Balance 2016). Its permanent core task is to secure the Group The Occupational Safety Committee (OSC) is the central employees’ ability to perform and thus ensure reliable business steering unit for all issues related to job safety within the activities and flight operations. Lufthansa Group; meeting at regular intervals, it pools all issues of job safety Group-wide and monitors their The Medical Services at Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines implementation. are holistic centers of excellence, permanently offering the full range of services for aviation and occupational medicine, vaccina­ In Germany, occupational safety committees with employer tions and travel medicine, outpatient care, a comprehensive social and employee representation are active at all relevant locations and medical advisory service, and other preventive and healthcare of the Lufthansa Group. They optimize processes and agree on treatments. Beyond these individual treatments, the Medical measures to improve job safety. Services provide advice to decision-makers, committees and employee representatives concerning all issues of occupational health and safety. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 73 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The Lufthansa Group’s stakeholders expect a comprehensive Another significant component of the Lufthansa Group’s social commitment that reflects the Group’s importance and approach to corporate citizenship is the selected social size, and that is transparent, credible and comprehensible at commitment of its employees. For this reason, the corporate the same time. To meet this expectation, responsible thinking volunteering activities and other participation formats are and practice go far beyond the aviation group’s operative closely connected to the HR strategy. The Lufthansa Group business activities. continuously develops the concepts of these offers. For exam­ ple, the Group complemented the trainee program ProTeam As the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to social causes has with the new module “ProSocial” (see page 76, interview traditionally grown over the years and is characterized by Andrea Pernkopf and Susanne Kotysch). changes, the Company had its commitment portfolio verified internally in 2016 and all action areas analyzed and evaluated In the fall of 2017, employees of the Lufthansa Group again also by external experts (see page 75, Balance 2017). As a participated as coaches in the so-called “Impact Weeks” with result, the Lufthansa Group now focuses its social commitment an emphasis on Design Thinking (DT). The Impact Weeks above all on the core topics Education/ Enabling and Life/ follow a dual concept consisting of a learning and a practical Health. The goal is to bundle the varied activities within the experience phase: Following their training to become DT Group by themes and increase their level of effectiveness. coaches, the employees pass their knowledge on to students at local universities. The local DT coaches trained in this way The emphasis in the topic area Education / Enabling is on are then able to support people on location in setting up their helping disadvantaged people to be able to lead successful, own company. During the reporting year the focus was on healthy and self-determined lives. This is above all facilitated Nigeria, Rwanda and Columbia. by educational offers, which are bundled and coordinated by the help alliance, the Lufthansa Group’s charitable aid organi­ Since 2002, the Lufthansa Group has supported zation (see page 75 ff.). This commitment is complemented by business@school, an educational initiative of The Boston a number of additional aid projects supported by the Group Consulting Group (BCG), a management consultancy firm. airlines and service companies, such as Cargo Human Care Every year the project offers more than 1,500 high-school (see page 78). students in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland and the USA an opportunity to acquire business knowledge and key qualifi­ In the context of the topic area Life / Health, the Group has for cations over a period of ten months in a practice-oriented many years provided swift and professional emergency aid in manner and develop their own business ideas. Launched in the event of humanitarian crises by means of aid flights. 1998 with two schools, the program now has more than 23,500 Lufthansa Cargo cooperates with renowned emergency aid participating students. Currently, about 20 employees of the organizations for this purpose. This ensures fast and uncompli­ Lufthansa Group are committed to business@school. For the cated aid in the area of initial logistical supply (see page 80, fifth time already, the Group awarded a special prize in 2018 Humanitarian emergency aid). for the best corporate analysis in Phase I of the initiative – an “adventure day” at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at the Beyond that, the aviation group respects the wish of its stake­ Frankfurt hub. ↗ www.business-at-school.net holders to continue its support for the protection of the crane – the Lufthansa Group’s heraldic bird (see page 81, Further commitment). Further selected partnerships are maintained in the socially relevant areas of culture and sports. page 74 / Employees & society Lufthansa flight attendants visiting the help alliance project iThemba. Closer to the world. Closer to its people. interview Andrea Pernkopf and Susanne Kotysch). Predefined criteria ensure that the supported projects are sustainable. The focus of corporate citizenship activities is on social and The decision to focus on social and humanitarian projects in humanitarian projects around the world. These are pooled the core areas of Education / Enabling and Life / Health has and managed under the umbrella of the help alliance, the made it possible to harmonize the charitable initiatives of the Lufthansa Group’s nonprofit aid organization. The help alliance Group companies. At the same time, it enables the efficient was founded by Lufthansa employees in 1999 as a registered and targeted use of available funds. Fundraising models can association. Effective from January 1, 2017, it was restructured thus be made more systematic and donations can be acquired as a nonprofit limited liability company (gGmbH) with head­ more effectively. quarters in Frankfurt and under the umbrella of the Lufthansa Group. Prior to this, the Lufthansa Group had provided both For the financial years 2017 and 2018, the Lufthansa Group in-kind and financial support, and sponsorship for the work of fully covers the costs of administration, project monitoring, the employee initiative help alliance e. V. The importance of the fundraising and communications for the help alliance gGmbH. help alliance is emphasized by the fact that it belongs to the This ensures that all other donations can be fully used as funds department of the Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO. for aid projects. This also includes voluntary salary donations from employees of the Lufthansa Group. The option of the The help alliance acts as a catalyst for greater social commit­ so-called payroll giving, introduced in April 2017, is initially ment, combining proven projects initiated by employees with open to about 80,000 employees and retirees who are covered the strength and network of the Lufthansa Group (see page 76, by the Lufthansa Group’s joint payroll system. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 75 Four questions for ANDREA SUSANNE PERNKOPF KOTYSCH Managing Director of Managing Director of help alliance help alliance gGmbH gGmbH and Head of Corporate Responsibility Communications & Events, Lufthansa Group WHAT IS THE IMPORTANCE OF CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROJECTS FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP AND WHAT IS THE ROLE OF THE AND HOW DO YOU MEASURE SUCCESS? HELP ALLIANCE? Andrea Pernkopf: In the context of the transformation from Susanne Kotysch: Corporate citizenship (CC) is an important association to charitable limited liability company we also pillar for us in the overall concept of corporate responsibility. sharpened our profile. The emphasis is now on the areas This voluntary commitment is aimed at making a contribution education, job creation and income generation. There are clear to solving social problems and challenges around the world. guidelines and criteria that form the basis on which we decide The Lufthansa Group pools all initiatives and aid projects that which projects we will support. We take a close look at a pursue these goals under the umbrella of the help alliance. project’s goals and check regularly if and how these have been reached. The allocation of funds is linked to these checks. The underlying conditions are also of particular importance, such as IN 2017, THE ASSOCIATION HELP ALLIANCE WAS TRANSFORMED the current situation in a country or in which way the local INTO A CHARITABLE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. WHAT HAS community is included. After all, our goal is to provide sustain­ HAPPENED SINCE? able development cooperation. Andrea Pernkopf: Quite a lot! A closer interlinking with the Lufthansa Group opens up new opportunities for us; for fund­ THE EMPLOYEES’ SOCIAL COMMITMENT IS TO BE FURTHER raising, for example. By cooperating with the Human EXPANDED. WHICH FORMATS OF PARTICIPATION EXIST AND Resources department, we became the ninth DAX 30 compa­ WHAT IS BEING PLANNED? ny to introduce the so­called payroll giving. Employees have had the option to donate part of their salaries to the help Susanne Kotysch: Our employees have the option of participart­ alliance since April 2017 and thus give children and young ing as volunteers, suggesting projects actively and subsequently people new educational opportunities and the possibility of sharing the responsibility. We want to expand these and other better lives. Furthermore, for the first time 11 participants of the participation options further and implement them together with trainee program ProTeam of the Lufthansa Group have joined a the Human Resources department as a central instrument in help alliance aid project for four weeks. For many ProTeamers the CC “tool kit”. This distinguishes the help alliance from many the perspective of being able to work in a social project was a other aid organizations and thus makes it so special. decisive factor for their application. page 76 / Employees & society Areas of emphasis in 2017 and outlook for 2018 During the reporting year, the help alliance was responsible for 37 aid projects with a financial volume of 2 million euros. One area of emphasis for the help alliance’s commitment was on the project iThemba in South Africa, which offers children in a Cape Town township a high­quality pre­school education. Continuous monitoring and regular evaluations 37 of projects according to a prede­ fined catalogue of criteria ensure AID PROJECTS WORLDWIDE that the supported projects and programs improve the life situati­ ON-BOARD COLLECTION PROGRAM ons of children, their families and “SMALL CHANGE – IT’S A BIG HELP” the community in an effective and sustainable way, and that project funds With the goal of creating a bridge towards a better are used effectively and efficiently. life for people in need, the help alliance launched the on­board collection program “Small Change – The construction of the iThemba primary school in the It’s a Big Help” in 2001. It offers passengers aboard Capricorn township is the help alliance’s largest project so far Lufthansa Group long­haul flights the option to with an investment volume of more than 1 million euros. Since donate coins and banknotes in any currency. Small, its inauguration in January 2018, 105 children can be taught in sealable donation envelopes are available in the seat three classrooms. As soon as construction is completed, pockets for this purpose, which are collected by 700 disadvantaged boys and girls will receive a high­quality flight attendants and forwarded to the help alliance. education and thus a perspective for a better future. Remaining currency can also be deposited in donation pillars placed in employee areas, Lufthansa lounges With this project, the help alliance makes a determined com­ at German and selected international airports as well mitment to attaining the “quality education” goal on the United as the public areas at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. Nations’ Agenda 2030 for sustainable development (see page 25, Sustainable Development Goals). To realize a comprehensive approach, the construction of a Community College open to all DEVELOPMENT OF DONATION family members is planned for the mid­term. It will also offer VOLUMES IN EUROS evening classes and sports activities for young people. 283,127 The help alliance set another milestone together with Fraport AG 2017 by installing 40 new donation pillars at Frankfurt Airport. These 2016 283,605 are intended to collect donations of up to 100,000 euros to 2015 362,662 support social aid projects. While half of the donation revenues benefit education initiatives in Africa supported by the help 2014 497,823 alliance, 25 percent benefit the project “Ocean Clean Up” at 2013 301,566 the suggestion of Fraport and 25 percent the association “Wings of Help”. October 2002: Start of Condor’s participation July 2012: Start of Austrian Airlines’ participation November 2017: Start of Edelweiss Air’s participation LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 77 In addition to participating in the on-board collection program The Executive Board of Lufthansa Cargo has supported the “Small Change – It’s a Big Help” (see page 77), Lufthansa aid project from the start. The CHC has currently more than passengers can also do a good deed when shopping. Between 550 members. One central pillar of the development aid November 1, 2017 and February 28, 2018, the airline donated work is the sponsorship program: the funds generated on a one euro to the help alliance project “Child Sponsoring Circle regular basis in its framework currently benefit more than India” for each purchase made on board. Revenues from this 250 children, youths and young adults who receive medical campaign reached about 80,000 euros. A mere 20 in-flight care in addition to a solid education and vocational training. purchases make it possible for a child in the Indian state of Over the past ten years, the CHC has received donations of Madhya Pradesh to attend a boarding school for one month, about 3 million euros. which includes nutritious meals, clothing, medical care and a school education. To provide medical care for the inhabitants Cargo Human Care provides both the coordination work in of remote villages as well, the aid organization additionally sets Germany as well as the medical care in Kenya on a volunteer up health camps. basis. In addition, the aid association assumes the costs of the Kenyan personnel at the Mothers’ Mercy Home and the CHC ↗ www.helpalliance.org Medical Center as well as those for treatments and operations in the local Nazareth Hospital. The association works highly effectively because a mere 0.6 percent of all costs are assigned to administrative tasks. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo finances the physicians’ flight tickets and provides transport capacities for medical equipment free of charge. Currently, Cargo Human Care operates the Mothers’ Mercy Ten years of Cargo Human Care Home for 120 orphans in Kianjogu as well as the John Kaheni Residence, a residential and educational center for young In May 2007, employees of Lufthansa Cargo, together with adults, which looks after up to 70 school-leavers while they German physicians, founded the humanitarian aid association follow further education courses (see page 103, Balance 2016), Cargo Human Care (CHC). The basic idea was – and remains among others. At the Cargo Human Care Medical Center in – to help destitute people as well as impoverished and underNairobi, 50 German physicians provide about 2,000 treat­ privileged orphans in Kenya in uncomplicated, professional and ments a month. During the reporting year, the center looked sustainable ways. The focus of this charitable commitment is after approximately 7,000 patients and provided more than on providing medical care, education and accommodation. 25,000 treatments. Furthermore, Cargo Human Care is actively involved in many other areas and projects, and continuously expands its com­ mitment. For example, in September 2017 the association signed the contracts for the construction of the Happy Child Education Center, to be located in a slum area of Nairobi. This school is to provide classrooms for 100 children. The CHC, help alliance and the Regine Sixt Kinderhilfe Stiftung each finance one-third of this project. The building was to be completed in the second quarter of 2018, a date that had to be postponed until the end of 2018 due to the difficult political situation in Kenya. ↗ www.cargohumancare.de Cargo Human Care, together with the help alliance and Regine Sixt Kinderhilfe Stiftung, makes the construction of an education center in a slum area of Nairobi possible. page 78 / Employees & society Further social projects within the Group companies SWISS BRUSSELS AIRLINES • The airline has supported SOS Children’s Villages Switzerland since • During the reporting year, employees of Brussels Airlines again took its foundation – among other measures with flight tickets and on-board part in “Bike for Africa”. This mountain bike event is an initiative of collections of funds in coins. “b.foundation for Africa”, a program launched by Brussels Airlines in • Funds donated benefit projects located at SWISS destinations. 2010. Revenues benefit humanitarian projects on the African continent • In 2017, 20 renovated family houses were formally inaugurated at and in Belgium. the SOS Children’s Village in Bawana, India, for 118 children and their • In addition to the social commitment of its employees, the airline also families. The comprehensive renovation was made possible by supports several nongovernmental organizations. SWISS passengers who donated coins on board with a total value of 370,000 Swiss Francs. LUFTHANSA CARGO • In cooperation with the Foundation ProJuventute, SWISS made it pos­ • A close cooperation has existed for more than 35 years with the regis­ sible for children and adolescents from the Zurich region to experience tered association “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main e. V.” (Work­ the airline and airport first-hand during the summer vacation. The Foun­ shops for the Disabled, WfB Rhein-Main) in producing lashing straps dation’s goal is to support adolescents energetically in their develop­ used for loading cargo aboard aircraft. WfB Rhein-Main’s goal is to give ment towards becoming self-confident and responsible adults. people with disabilities an opportunity to participate in working life and • In its procurement process, SWISS takes special suppliers into con­ to integrate them into the job market. sideration: every year, SWISS orders about 1,900 Business Class and • With a current order volume of almost 1.2 million euros Lufthansa Cargo 290 First Class clothes hangers from the Foundation “Orte zum Leben” is the largest manufacturing customer at WfB Rhein-Main. (“Places to Live”). The foundation offers people with disabilities a place • The association was certified in 2016 by the European Aviation Safety to live and work, and operates a carpenter’s workshop, among others. Agency (EASA) as development company and by Germany’s Federal The Foundation Pigna, a workshop for people with disabilities in Kloten, Aviation Office (LBA) as manufacturing company. WfB Rhein-Main looks after cleaning and readying for use about one million onboard is thus one of only six manufacturers worldwide that produce lashing headphones a year for SWISS. straps certified according to these standards. AUSTRIAN AIRLINES LUFTHANSA TECHNIK • Concentration on social projects in central and eastern Europe. • Supports sports events at Group’s corporate headquarters in Hamburg, • The focus is on renowned organizations such as “Global 2000”, for example the “Airport Run” and “Cyclassics”. “Help for Children from Belarus”, and “Alliance for Children”. • Made arrangements for a concert in the framework of the renowned • In 2017, 1,800 blankets were donated to “Caritas”. Schleswig-Holstein Music Festival for the benefit of work developing young musical talents and supports the foundation “phönikks”, which aids families affected by members ill with cancer. LSG GROUP • Its regionally varying commitment includes educational projects, health promotion and sports events, among others. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 79 On September 30, 2017, Lufthansa Cargo operated an aid flight from Frankfurt to Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. Emergency humanitarian aid water, clothes and food, which were for the benefit of the roughly 400 employees of Lufthansa Technik Puerto Rico Acting swiftly and applying professional logistical know-how (LTPR) and their families at this location and in neighboring are decisive factors in helping victims of natural disasters and municipalities, who were suffering from the effects of humanitarian crises immediately and effectively. Thanks to its Hurricane Maria. Simultaneously, the help alliance launched expertise as an aviation group with international activities, the a call for donations. Lufthansa Group is able at any time to provide transport capacities aboard its freight aircraft in such extreme situations The Lufthansa Group closely cooperated with local and U.S. – a commitment that is part of the pillar Life / Health of the administrations to organize the far-reaching aid campaign in Group’s corporate citizenship program (see page 74, Corporate the unincorporated U.S. territory as effectively and efficiently citizenship). in all relevant details. In Germany, the LSG Group participated with in-kind donations in this humanitarian support measure, The Lufthansa Group’s emergency humanitarian aid also bene­ among others. fits from its freight airline Lufthansa Cargo long-term experience with charters. Thanks to “network-on-demand”, aid shipments In the past, Lufthansa Cargo supported humanitarian can be transported quickly, professionally and flexibly to all campaigns again and again by transporting aid supplies (see destinations within and outside the network served by the illustration on page 98 f., Balance 2016). To ensure that initial Lufthansa Group airlines. relief can be launched in an unbureaucratic and swift manner in the event of crises or catastrophes, the Lufthansa Group’s On September 30, 2017, Lufthansa Cargo operated such an logistics specialist closely cooperates with renowned aid emergency aid flight from Frankfurt to Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. organizations. It carried about 80 tonnes of aid supplies, including potable page 80 / Employees & society This includes Germany’s Red Cross (DRK), with which It is a particularly important concern for its stakeholders that Lufthansa Cargo signed a cooperation agreement at the end of the Lufthansa Group will support the sustainable protection 2016. The goal of this cooperation is to accelerate and simplify of the crane, its heraldic bird, in the future as well. The aviation the preparation of aid flights in measurable ways. This coopera­ group responded to this wish immediately: the Lufthansa Group tion sustainably improves the effective support and provision continues its proven cooperation with Naturschutzbund for people in need in crisis and catastrophe situations. In Deutschland e.V. (NABU) and extended the long-standing addition, the freight airline has been a member of Airlink since partnership with NABU’s subsidiary Kranichschutz Deutschland the end of 2016. This noncommercial humanitarian aid organi­ gGmbH (Crane Protection Germany). zation was founded in 2010 by employees of the International Society of Transport Aircraft Trading Foundation (ISTAT). At the In the future, NABU and the Lufthansa Group will interlink their beginning of 2013, Lufthansa Cargo entered into a long-term existing potentials even more closely. partnership agreement with the emergency aid association ↗ www.kraniche.de “Aktion Deutschland Hilft”. Under the motto “Helping faster, together” the preconditions were set up to be prepared for In the cultural area, the Lufthansa Group has cooperated with humanitarian emergency situations at any time and to allow the the Gürzenich Orchestra in Cologne for many years and is its implementation of a swift worldwide logistics chain (see page First Global Partner. One of the highlights for the orchestra 81, Balance 2017). The aid association’s logo on the fuselage of during the reporting year was again a charitable concert at one of the MD-11F freighters in Lufthansa Cargo’s fleet symbol­ Cologne’s Philharmonie. The revenues of 20,000 euro were izes this solidarity pact visually as well. equally divided between the help alliance and the children’s aid association “Wir helfen” of Cologne-based publishing house DuMont Schauberg. The cooperation with the Gürzenich Further commitment Orchestra comes to an end at the close of the 2017 / 18 season. The Lufthansa Group has redefined the strategic alignment of The Lufthansa Orchestra, which was founded in 2011, currently its social commitment and now concentrates essentially on counts more than 65 employees from all Group companies, social and humanitarian subject areas. In addition, it supports representing a wide range of professional groups. The ensem­ – as in previous years – selected projects in the areas of nature ble gave two concerts in spring and fall 2017 in Langen near and species protection as well as culture and sports. Frankfurt. The Lufthansa Choir was founded in 2016 and unites about 60 singers from the Group companies and different Company locations. In 2017, the choir gave a spring concert in Wiesbaden, and also appears together with the Lufthansa Orchestra, for example in April 2018 with the Brahms Requiem in Frankfurt. Both ensembles receive financial and organiza­ tional support from the Lufthansa Group. Another good tradition at the Lufthansa Group is supporting sports. The Company has been a National Sponsor of the German Sports Aid Foundation since 2007 and for many years the official airline of the German Olympic teams, copartner of the German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB) and cosponsor of the National Paralympic Committee Germany The Lufthansa Group will continue its support for crane protection. (DBS, see page 105, Balance 2016). LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 81 Key points on PRODUCT & CUSTOMER 04 84 __ SERVICE AND CUSTOMER CENTRICITY 88 __ FLIGHT SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTION 92 __ DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY Customers are always the center of attention at the Lufthansa Group. Their satisfaction is a primary concern at all times. The aviation company aims at providing its passengers with perfect service and making ﬂying in all its facets a sustainably positive experience. Against this background, the goal is to assess the Company’s offers and products along the entire travel chain on a continuous basis with the aim of optimizing them. Flight safety and health protection always have top priority in this context. To implement this fundamental standard without qualiﬁcation, all airlines within the Lufthansa Group operate comprehensive safety management systems. In addition, the Group has a leading position in researching the quality of cabin air. Equally important are data protection and data security as a basis for trusting business relationships. Customer orientation and a focus on quality are the Lufthansa Group’s strategic cornerstones. Regular surveys and a continuous dialogue with passengers help learn as much as possible about customer needs and to include them in the development of innovative offers. Signiﬁcant investments in a modern and efﬁcient Group ﬂeet, more comfort on board, numerous product innovations, and digital offers ensure that ﬂying is becoming more and more attractive and sustainable for the Lufthansa Group’s customers. And the high level of commitment to product responsibility is being honored: in 2017 the airlines and service companies again received numerous prizes and awards. Lufthansa distinguished itself, above all, by becoming Europe’s ﬁrst airline to receive the coveted 5-star Skytrax airline rating, world aviation’s highest-ranking quality seal. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 83 SERVICE AND CUSTOMER CENTRICITY A high level of customer centricity, innovative services and a While Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines pursued their focus on quality are essential for a service company such as own procedures to measure customer satisfaction in the past, the Lufthansa Group because they increase the flying companies’ this process was harmonized in 2017 with the goal of offering attractiveness. Therefore, “customer centricity and quality focus” even better service. The Network Airlines’ standardized satis­ is one of the strategic action areas at the Lufthansa Group. In faction tracking was launched in January 2018, which makes the materiality analysis of 2016, stakeholders and management the resulting values directly comparable for the first time with rated service and customer orientation as being very important regard to questions asked, survey methodology and invitations (see page 20 ff., Balance 2016). Negative quality judgments in to participate in surveys. In the second quarter of 2018 the the core business of flight operations might have a correspond­ Lufthansa Group adapted the invitation process to the General ing effect on reputation and also affect the Group’s earnings Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European Union (see performance over the long-term. page 92 f., Data protection and data security). The systematic approaches to the continuous optimization Every day, the three Network Airlines establish – by means of and improvement of service, quality and customer orientation online surveys – how satisfied passengers are with the different serve the purpose of ensuring the Lufthansa Group’s long-term products and services along the travel chain. The collection of success and supporting its ability to create value. The focus is data and reporting are centrally steered at Group level. The on further sharpening the Group brands and the promises team responsible comprises experts from all Network Airlines associated with them. An additional goal is to understand and is supported in its work by a renowned market research customer needs even better, to identify optimization potentials institute. To obtain representative results, the Lufthansa Group on a continuous basis and to realize related performance ensures that the surveys include all service classes, traffic improvements. It comprises making employees more aware in areas and passenger segments. In addition, complex statistical this respect and including them in the process. During the random sample logic based on monthly updated timetable Customer Centricity Days in June 2017, employees of all Group data ensures that the values generated have both a high level companies had an opportunity to participate actively and of meaning and statistical stability. The airlines compile the discuss approaches leading to an even higher level of customer evaluations of individual products and services to formulate orientation. satisfaction indices concerning the onboard and ground products, and concurrently generate a higher overall satisfac­ tion index. The departments responsible as well as manage­ Harmonization of passenger ment receive monthly reports. satisfaction measurements The satisfaction ratings allow differentiated insights into how elements such as adaptations in catering, lounge modern­ To obtain insights that are as differentiated as possible about izations, new seat concepts, the introduction of new in-flight passengers as well as their wishes and expectations, the entertainment systems or changed service sequences influence airlines of the Lufthansa Group count on tracking satisfaction passenger satisfaction. They can also be used as indicators for on a regular basis and conducting additional detailed surveys. implementing improvements of services and products. Thanks to these worldwide surveys, possible starting points for improving customer orientation continuously can be identified. page 84 / Product & customer In 2017, Lufthansa became the only European airline to receive the Skytrax five-star seal for premium service and top comfort. In a parallel move and dependent on the relevant target vari­ New programs and services able (for example satisfaction or recommendation), Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines collect data for additional central In 2017 / 18, the Lufthansa Group again introduced new aircraft, performance indicators such as the loyalty index. Furthermore, programs and services that are aimed at further improving the there is the Net Promoter Score (NPS®) 1 which has been travel experience and customer satisfaction along with it. generated since 2014 and places the focus on the travel experience as the airlines’ central product or service category. For example, the new Airbus A350-900 offers passengers Its calculation was also harmonized in 2017 by the three more comfort thanks to its wider cabin and its innovative light Network Airlines. To establish the NPS®, the airlines continu­ concept (see pages 29 f. and 54, Balance 2017). Furthermore, ously survey their customers, asking if they would recommend Lufthansa is planning to introduce a completely new Business the company concerned to friends or acquaintances, based on Class when the innovative Boeing 777-9 will join the fleet from their travel experience. 2020, offering optimum sleeping comfort and generous priva­ cy. These improvements will be provided above all by a new The fact that the Lufthansa Group continuously improves seat, which was tested by more than 500 customers during the quality and service was acknowledged numerous times in 2017. development process. In this context, the most prominent of all awards came from British consulting firm Skytrax, which specializes in aviation: it SWISS is planning to equip its five Airbus A340-300 aircraft made Lufthansa the first European airline to receive the cov­ with a new cabin product in 2018 in all three service classes, eted five-star seal for premium service and top comfort. In the with First Class resembling the existing cabin aboard the Business Traveller Awards 2017, the Lufthansa Group’s Network Boeing 777. Austrian Airlines has been integrating the new Airlines also took the first three places in the category “Best Premium Economy Class since 2018 aboard all its long-haul airline for business travellers on German and European routes” aircraft. And at the start of the summer timetable 2018, (see page 115, Prizes and awards). Eurowings became the first low-cost airline to offer the BIZclass on selected long-haul flights. 1 NPS® – Net Promoter Score, a registered service mark of Bain & Co., Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 85 Four questions for JOHANN-PHILIPP BRUNS Senior Director Customer and Product Strategy, Lufthansa Group attention. We are convinced of being able to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty long­term in this way. This adds value to the Lufthansa Group. WHICH ASPECTS HAVE A PARTICULAR INFLUENCE ON EVALUATIONS OF PRODUCT AND PASSENGER EXPERIENCE? CUSTOMER CENTRICITY AND QUALITY FOCUS ARE CENTRAL People appreciate nothing more than personal contact. This VALUES FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP. WHAT DO PASSENGERS will remain the same in a digital world as well. Simplicity is EXPECT IN THIS RESPECT? another quality feature. For example, an app that makes my trip easier or a reservation system that takes my personal A simple reservation process, a quick check­in, tasty food, preferences into account because it already knows them. These reliability and comfort. All these are basic features that our are factors that shape the quality of the travel experience. In customers expect while traveling. At the top quality level we addition, there is the wish for transparency and self­determina­ call this “brilliant basics”. This is where we want to get. To do tion. Therefore, we have identified five areas with which we will so, we need even stronger customer centricity to remain particularly align our actions in the future: simplicity, enjoyment, competitive in the market over the long­term. The travel personalization, humanity and consistency. experience of our guests begins at the moment of inspiration for a journey and does not end at landing. It extends to sharing experiences on social media platforms or using our loyalty TO WHAT EXTENT DOES THIS NEW STRATEGIC APPROACH program. ALSO TAKE SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS INTO ACCOUNT? The efficient use of resources has always been a part of our CUSTOMER NEEDS CHANGE CONTINUOUSLY. WHAT DOES THIS product and service development, and the strategic approach MEAN FOR THE COMMERCIAL STRATEGY OF THE NETWORK shifts it even more into the focus of our attention. This is AIRLINES? another customer need that is gaining more importance. For example, since the middle of 2017 we have used new, more Each customer is unique and has a very personal taste. For this environmentally­friendly tableware on all Lufthansa long­haul reason we have redefined the framework for our strategy under flights. We avoid disposable items to a large extent, which the concept of “New Premium”. Today, the notion of “premium” reduces waste quantities significantly. The construction of new no longer means only champagne and caviar. The decisive lounges also involves the latest technologies concerning water element is what a customer perceives as premium. “New and electricity consumption. And since 2007, we have offered Premium” very clearly puts our customers at the center of our customers voluntary CO2 compensation for their flights. page 86 / Product & customer Before departure, the passengers of the Group airlines benefit ing, communications and campaign activities. SWISS added from newly opened lounges and improved services for lounge the Family Check-in in Zurich during vacation periods to its visitors. An example: on March 5, 2018, the new 650-squarefamily concept as well as special fares for families and children. meter SWISS First Lounge in Terminal A at Zurich Airport opened its doors. It offers not only the highest levels of service and More and more digital services improve the passengers’ travel comfort, but its construction also involved the latest techno­l­ experience from planning to arrival (see page 12 f., Balance ogy standards concerning water and electricity consumption. 2017). For example, the Lufthansa Group further expands its Since the beginning of 2018, the Lufthansa Group has imple­ eJournal offer. Digital baggage services also contribute to mented a new lounge concept: in the future, new or remodeled traveling in a relaxed manner. Thanks to these, passengers now lounges will feature more individual designs than is currently know where their baggage is at any given time and on which the case and offer a “local touch”. carousel it will be delivered. Since January 2018 there has also been the electronic baggage tag “BAGTAG”. After checking in On board, Lufthansa has served meals and beverages to its their baggage with the Lufthansa app, passengers can transmit passengers traveling on all intercontinental flights in Economy the data from the digital boarding pass to their suitcase with a Class on new tableware since the middle of 2017. The latter click on “BAGTAG”. features a timeless design and is more environmentally friendly. New materials and the innovative anti-slip coating make Meanwhile, Lufthansa and the Lufthansa Cargo subsidiary serving easier for cabin crews. Jettainer have sustainable luggage produced by upcycling: air freight containers, container tarps, freight lashing straps and Furthermore, the Group airlines continued to expand their life jackets withdrawn from service are made into trendy bags services for families during the reporting year. Thus, Lufthansa produced in limited editions. launched a new platform that pools all family-relevant market­ LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 87 FLIGHT SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTION The Lufthansa Group’s success depends primarily on safe and Organization and responsibilities reliable flight operations. The health and safety of passengers, crews and employees have the highest priority for the aviation Within the Lufthansa Group, independent departments monitor group. Therefore, all Lufthansa Group airlines operate a com­ compliance with regulations and processes related to flight prehensive Safety Management System (SMS). operations. At every Group airline, the safety management system is the responsibility of a safety manager. The safety This includes continuous monitoring of flight operations: The manager reports both to the airline’s management and to the Group airlines’ experts track performance ratios, carry out Group Safety Pilot, who has Group-wide responsibility for audits and inspections, evaluate risks, analyze flight data and evaluating and developing procedures and standards relevant investigate incidents. All these measures serve the purpose of to flight safety. He reports directly to the Chairman of the identifying and steering safety-relevant trends at an early Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, stage, and guarding against possible undesirable develop­ Carsten Spohr. ments. Beyond the legally required reporting systems, the Lufthansa Group operates a low-threshold confidential report­ ing system that is open to all employees. Areas of emphasis in 2017 With regard to their safety management systems, the In 2017, the Lufthansa Group began to organizationally merge Lufthansa Group’s airlines take their bearings from legal re­ the areas Security (protection from external hazards) and quirements such as EU guidelines, as well as regulations Safety (safe operations and flight safety), which had been issued by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and separate entities. Furthermore, the Group concentrated on the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). In addition, adapting its safety structures to the new internal matrix organi­ they fulfill all standards and recommendations of the zation. In this context, the Company also strengthened the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Every two position of the Group Safety Pilot and expanded his authority. years, independent experts audit the safety standards applied On September 1, 2017, Andreas Flaig took over this responsi­ Group-wide in an IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). All bility from Werner Maas. The new Group Safety Pilot has since Group airlines fully apply the internationally accepted IATA initiated several projects aiming at even faster communications standards for air safety. These external benchmarks are sup­ about safety-related subjects with employees. At the same plemented by the Lufthansa Group with internal guidelines, in time, he strives for innovations that promote the employees’ particular the Executive Board’s Safety Commitment. These organization-related learning. guidelines are compiled in the aviation group’s Safety Management Manual (SMM) and are additionally included in Another focus in 2017 was on developing a uniform Grouphandbooks concerning flight operations, training, maintenance wide training standard for the dispatchers and transport man­ and ground handling services. The Executive Board and all agers at the Group airlines that includes clear structures and managers and employees affected by operator regulations regular courses which employees must attend in person. fulfill their tasks in accordance with the SMM. According to IOSA regulations, airlines have to provide con­ tinuing education courses to these employees every three years. In addition, the Lufthansa Group developed a humanfactors training unit that addresses individual competencies such as problem-solving abilities, mental flexibility, judgment and decision-making abilities. page 88 / Product & customer Spot check In addition, on the basis of the revised Air Traffic Act, so-called The Lufthansa Group airlines withdrew the two-person rule in ADM controls have been carried out at German flight operations the cockpit in 2017. A comprehensive safety review had shown since April 21, 2017. The checks, which are independent of that this rule, which had been introduced as a precaution after suspicion, are applied to pilots before their shifts begin as a the Germanwings accident in 2015 (see page 74 f., Balance sample taken at random. As an additional safety mechanism, 2016), does not increase safety. The Group airlines also fulfill pilots selected randomly by an algorithm are checked for the all requirements of the EU air safety authority EASA that are consumption of alcohol, drugs and certain medications. necessary for the rule’s withdrawal. In the meantime, EASA had analyzed the evidence gathered and revised its recommen­ dation in summer 2016. As a result, airlines may now decide themselves if they wish to withdraw or uphold the two-personcockpit rule. GERMANWINGS FLIGHT 4U9525 Three years after the crash of the Germanwings aircraft on March 24, 2015, crash site, and the accompanying sun portal at the visitors’ platform on the the unity between all employees of the Lufthansa Group and the bereaved Col de Mariaud. In the meantime, a space for commemoration and a room around the world remains as strong as ever. It is an important concern for for retreat have been set up for relatives in Le Vernet. The latter offers them the Group to keep alive the memory of the people who lost their lives in the a place to rest and pause during their visits. It was designed according to accident that occurred in the Alps in southern France, and to support the the family members’ wishes. next of kin. For this reason, a Post Emergency Organization (PEO) was set up immediately after the crash. It maintains contact with relatives, and Restoring the crash site to its natural condition was concluded in 2015. coordinates all tasks related to the accident. This includes close coordina­ While soil and water samples continue to be taken regularly at the accident tion with national authorities and local institutions in France. site, no conspicuous results have been observed so far. Relatives continue to receive support in dealing with the effects of the The aid fund set up immediately following the crash to support social and accident through numerous voluntary forms of assistance and can reach cultural projects commemorating the victims (see page 74, Balance 2016) contacts within the Company at any time through a Care Center. The had already supported more than 40 projects by spring 2018. A particular Center also organizes visits to the accident location. The continuous, close priority is giving support to young people who lost one or both parents in dialogue with relatives gives those responsible at the PEO a picture of the crash. Independent of claims for damages, an aid fund of more than individual needs, so that offers of ongoing assistance can be adapted in 5 million euros was made available for them to give financial support for an accordance with a family member’s personal situation, origin, cultural academic education or professional training in accordance with their environment and faith. To allow space for mourning, a number of private preferences and abilities. and public places of remembrance have been created since 2015. They include the commemorative sculpture “Sun Sphere” created by German The aid fund’s board of trustees, in which the relatives have seats and artist Jürgen Batscheider, which was unveiled in September 2017 at the voting rights, decides on all support initiatives. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 89 Cabin air quality Current studies prove that the air aboard aircraft is innocuous and sometimes even of better quality than in offices. For The Lufthansa Group has actively participated in investigating example, on March 23, 2017 the European Aviation Safety so­called smell events aboard aircraft for many years. In co­ Agency (EASA) presented its final report on a study of cabin operation with national and international authorities, associa­ air quality aboard commercial wide­body aircraft, in which it tions, research institutes and manufacturers, the aviation group continues to draw the conclusion that there is currently no supports research on the composition of cabin air and its provable correlation between cabin air and health problems. effects on the human body. Over the years, the Group has Rather, the air quality on measuring flights was comparable to invested about 2 million euros in investigations and information the air quality found in ordinary indoor spaces, such as class­ as well as related projects. rooms or offices (see page 57, Balance 2017). Earlier measuring sequences yielded the same result (see page 71, Balance 2016). In addition, the Lufthansa Group set up a Cabin Air Quality Review Board as early as 2012, whose Special HEPA/ carbon ﬁlters being tested members represent flight operations, Additionally, the Lufthansa Group runs its own process tests the Medical Services, Lufthansa with technical adaptations. For example, since May 2016 the Cabin Air Technik, technical operations aviation company has been testing the use of special HEPA/ Quality management and Group occupa­ carbon filters. These cabin air recirculation filters are equipped tional safety. This interdisciplinary with an additional layer of activated carbon and are intended committee decides which steps to further increase cabin air quality by removing volatile sub­ and measures are to be taken in stances and compounds from recirculated air more quickly. this area within the aviation Lufthansa has already equipped numerous aircraft of the company. Airbus A320 family with these filters for test purposes, and analyzes cabin air quality before and after installation. If the filters’ performance turns out convincingly, the Lufthansa Group will install them on additional aircraft. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group is in discussion with a number of manufac­ turers concerning a total­air filter technology and sensor systems. “The Lufthansa Group is the only aviation company worldwide to research and monitor the issue of cabin air quality in such a comprehensive manner. Karl-Hermann Brandes Vice President Flight Operations Lufthansa Airline page 90 / Product & customer Information booth on cabin air quality addressing flying personnel. Detailed communications and information Furthermore, cockpit and cabin crew representatives from all The Lufthansa Group covers the topic of cabin air quality flying companies within the Lufthansa Group as well as the comprehensively in its internal and external media. Experts from airlines’ personnel and union representatives met on November the relevant Group departments regularly inform employees in 21, 2017 for the first Group-wide Cabin Air Quality (CAQ) Forum operational areas at different company locations about mea­ in Frankfurt. The goal of this internal event was to provide and surement and research results as well as technical analyses exchange information about measures implemented and and innovations. The Group has presented the HEPA/ carbon insights gained so far, as well as on current developments filters several times at product stands in Frankfurt and Munich. concerning cabin air issues. More CAQ Forums are to take place in the future. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 91 DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY The Lufthansa Group companies collect, process and use Guidelines and organizational personal data of customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers on a daily basis. For the business processes of the foundations passenger airlines in particular, the Group depends on personal information about customers. The Lufthansa Group protects The legally required responsibilities are implemented by the and secures all data according to the highest standards. Lufthansa Group in an integrated data protection organization on all levels. The department Group Data Protection ensures The secure handling of data is the basis for trusting business the application of Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act relations and an increasingly important factor for the Group’s (FDPA) across the entire Lufthansa Group. It familiarizes success. In addition, handling personal data in conformity with employees with the law’s guidelines and provisions, and data protection legislation safeguards the rights of those regularly conducts data protection audits. In addition, data whose data is involved and protects the Lufthansa Group protection experts advise individual departments concerning against violations of legal requirements as well as sanctions, the introduction of new systems and the design or change of fines and reputational damage that might result from such processes. cases. The framework for data protection within the Lufthansa Group is provided by the Group Data Protection Guideline which is based on laws such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) and the FDPA as well as recognized Konzerndatenschutz principles. It also provides rules that ensure conduct in accor­ dance with data protection requirements across the entire Digitaler Fußabdruck Group, make data protection risks transparent and guard WISSEN SIE, WER BEI against them. Data protection is the responsibility of the IHREN DATEN SEINE FINGER Executive Board member responsible for Finance and Aviation IM SPIEL HAT? Services of Deutsche Lufthansa AG and the management of the respective Group company. In assuming this responsibility, they are supported by the Corporate Data Protection depart­ ment. All companies that are required by law to appoint a data protection commissioner have done so. Additionally, data protection coordinators were installed in companies and process areas. The Group Data Protection Commissioner defines and establishes standards, and the required core processes such as guidelines, sample contracts and forms with regard to data protection for the entire aviation group. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group has established a notificati­ on process for data protection and data security incidents. Complaints and information requests from concerned parties Data are processed in a timely and comprehensive manner within Protection internally set deadlines. As in 2016, the Lufthansa Group did not record a registrable infringement against data protection in Group Data Protection regularly makes employees aware 2017, according to FDPA rules. of the importance of data protection. page 92 / Product & customer International data protection In 2017, the Lufthansa Group conducted a broadly­designed internal data protection campaign with numerous information regulations events and launched the new web­based training “Principles of data protection according to the EU General Data Protection Data protection regulations in other countries play an increasing Regulation” in October. In this way, the Group implements the role for the Lufthansa Group due to its international operations. EU­GDPR’s requirement to make employees familiar with the Conflicts arise in the airline industry in particular because law’s regulations. The comprehensively revised training tool foreign authorities increasingly request passenger data. replaces all previous web­based training units concerning data However, providing such data would often be contrary to protection. It includes a supplementary chapter for special European data protection rules (see page 67, Balance 2015). target audiences such as managers, HR staff and employees Since June 2016, the “EU­US Privacy Shield” has regulated with customer contact. All employees, and in particular those data transfers between the EU and the USA (see page 73, who work with personal data, must participate in the new Balance 2016, and page 59, Balance 2017). training. Additionally, the Group offers specialized trainings online for specific target audiences (see page 72, Balance In the European Union, the new EU General Data Protection 2016) and offers continuing education in sessions with required Regulation has been in effect since May 25, 2018. The personal presence on the topic of data protection when the Lufthansa Group adapted its existing data protection manage­ need arises. ment system to this Europe­wide standardized data protection law and carried out related projects necessary for its introduc­ tion within those Group companies affected. Nevertheless, IT security individual national deviations from this norm will continue to be in application for the aviation group, such as those concerning The increasing digitalization of business processes within the the obligations to appoint data protection commissioners and Lufthansa Group also increases the necessity of prevention with regard to employee data protection. In the context of her against cyber risks (see page 74 f., Annual Report 2017). At the legal supervision function, the Group Data Protection Commis­ Group level, the department IT Strategy & Security is responsi­ sioner will regularly monitor the implementation of the ble for implementing requirements concerning data protection EU­GDPR. and IT security. This includes the development of appropriate concepts and measures such as e­mail encryption, a cyber crime awareness campaign, and protection from criminal Employee sensibilization and activity over the Internet (see page 59, Balance 2017). The risk and security management systems as well as selected mea­ targeted training sures are regularly checked by internal auditors. The Group Data Protection Commissioner supports employees In 2017, the Lufthansa Group again implemented numerous and managers by means of web­based training programs and projects in order to meet the increasing risks from information comprehensive communication in understanding data protec­ technology with adequate means. Among other initiatives, the tion, its necessity and its principles within the Lufthansa Group. Group continued the PROTECT campaign which was launched This includes important concepts, the organization of data in fall 2016 and increases the Company’s cyber resistance; it protection and specific aspects concerning certain areas. The was concluded at the end of the first quarter of 2018. The bug Group Data Protection Commissioner plans the necessary bounty program, which was successfully launched at the training measures as a recommendation, informs those respon­ beginning of 2017 and aims at identifying and removing securi­ sible about their training obligations and supervises – as much ty vulnerabilities in IT systems with help from invited hackers as this is technically possible – by means of an automated and research centers, will be continued in 2018 and expanded monitoring system and concrete controls that these training step by step. obligations are met. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 93 Key points on SERVICE & INFORMATION 05 95 __ SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 96 __ ENVIRONMENTAL / PERSONNEL DATA 102 __ GLOSSARY 106 __ GRI CONTENT INDEX 112 __ EDITORIAL INFORMATION / CONTACT 114 __ OVERVIEW: NOISE STANDARDS 115 __ THE OPERATING FLEET Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions ↗ GRI 102-45 ↗ GRI 102-48 Scope of consolidation are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and Reporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and passenger transport in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attributed emissions from flight operations in 2017 is – unless noted other­ on the basis of its share of the total payload to calculate the wise – based on the following scope of consolidation: passengerand freight-specific figures. • Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), Since 2013, the DIN EN 16258 standard has provided a guide for SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings standardized calculation of greenhouse gas emissions for transport (including Germanwings), Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa processes. This guide uses the same estimates for calculating Cargo. Not included are services performed by third parties, payload as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled distances are as their performance is beyond our control. calculated, 95 kilometers must be added to the great-circle • Types of flight service: all scheduled and charter flights. distance according to the guidelines of the EU emission allowance trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) Methodology of calculations has separately developed its own calculation proposals, which deal Kerosene in absolute terms with the division of fuel consumption between freight and passenKerosene consumption is calculated on the basis of actual flight gers and attribute a larger share of fuel consumption to passengers operations (i.e. using actual load factors and flight routings) because of the passenger-specific infrastructure. Although this according to the gate-to-gate principle. This covers all phases of method has no effect on the overall efficiency of a flight, it changes a flight, from taxiing on the ground to flying detours and holding the apportionment between passengers and freight. There are still patterns in the air. divergences between the two methods (including from the method used up to now by Lufthansa). We would welcome a standardized, Emissions in absolute terms internationally harmonized and accepted method. The emissions from flight operations are calculated on the basis of actual transport performance and hence on actual load factors and Environmental database the actual absolute quantity of kerosene consumed in the reporting The environmental data for this report were compiled by the year. Transport performance is measured in tonne kilometers; i.e., Lufthansa Group by means of its central environmental database. payload transported over a distance. For passengers and their All Lufthansa Group companies are encouraged to feed their luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is the standard estimate; for environmentally relevant performance and consumption data (such freight, it is its scale weight. Each aircraft / engine combination as fuel consumption) into the Group’s environmental database. present in the fleet is considered separately, and the associated Data used for the calculation of the Lufthansa Group’s carbon values are calculated with the aid of computer programs provided footprint (Scope 1 – 3 emissions) were additionally checked by an by the aircraft and engine manufacturers. The annual average flight external auditor for completeness and correctness according to profile for each subset of the fleet is then fed into these programs. accepted verification standards and verified with High Assurance This allows us to determine emissions in relation to flight altitude, (Scope 1) and Limited Assurance (Scope 2 and 3) respectively. distance flown, thrust, and load. This approach is necessary for nitrogen oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and unburned Accuracy hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions For presentation purposes the figures in the charts and tables are do not require special calculation methods, as they are generated rounded. Changes from the previous year’s figures and share in a fixed ratio to the quantity of kerosene burned. The combustion percentages refer in each case to precise figures, however. For of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. this reason it is possible that a reported value may remain the same from one year to the next even though a relative change is Specific consumption and emission values reported. Because of the rounding of share percentages, it is also Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing possible that the sum of their addition may differ from the sum of absolute values in relation to transport performance. For example, the unrounded percentages. For example, as a result of rounding, the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100pkm) is calcu­ share percentages may not add up to 100 percent even though it lated on the basis of actual load factors along with the quantity of would be logical to expect them to. kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 95 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA FUEL CONSUMPTION 1, 2 FUEL CONSUMPTION 1 2017 in tonnes 9,618,095 in tonnes Passengers Freight Total Share 2017 Scheduled flights 2 2016 9,055,550 Lufthansa 4,730,854 1,587,438 6,318,291 62.5 % 2015 8,947,766 SWISS 1,157,214 439,511 1,596,725 15.8 % 2014 8,825,774 Austrian Airlines 603,934 96,721 700,654 6.9 % 2013 8,764,774 Eurowings 514,200 1,139 515,339 5.1 % Brussels Airlines 427,775 59,311 487,086 4.8 % 9,618,095 95.1 % SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION COMPARED 2017 Third parties 4 466,284 8,502 474,786 4.7 % in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) Other flights 5 19,327 0.2 % 2017 2016 Changes in % All flights 10,112,208 100.0 % Group fleet 2 3.68 3.85 – 4.5 Lufthansa 3.76 3.88 – 3.2 SWISS 3.19 3.44 – 7.3 EMISSIONS 2, 6 2017 in tonnes Austrian Airlines 3.83 4.04 – 5.2 Passengers ± 2016 Freight ± 2016 Total ± 2016 Eurowings 4.18 4.46 – 6.3 CO2 23,417,023 + 6.5 % 6,879,975 + 5.2 % 30,296,998 6.2 % Brussels Airlines 3.62 n.a. n.a. NOX 116,461 + 9.4 % 34,940 + 7.3 % 151,402 8.9 % CO 18,250 + 14.3 % 3,672 + 9.7 % 21,922 13.5 % UHC 1,849 + 20.3 % 377 + 9.9 % 2,226 18.4 % FUEL DUMPS 2 2017 Changes compared 2017 to 2016 Events, total 26 +2 SHARE OF THIRD PARTIES 4, 7 2017 of which medical reasons 12 +2 Flights 9.1 % technical reasons 11 –2 Passengers 7.8 % other reasons 3 +2 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT (tkm) 4.1 % Quantity, total 3 737 t – 35 % Fuel consumption (tonnes) 4.7 % CO2 emissions (tonnes) 4.7 % 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all Balance, but operating services on behalf of Lufthansa, for example in the flight events under the respective operative flight number. Recorded are event of capacity bottlenecks. 5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground, test flights, aborted flights. 6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from holding patterns and detours in the air. 2 For the reporting year 2017, the flight operations (all scheduled and charter flights). Recorded are consumpfollowing companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (including tion values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground, holding Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), patterns and detours in the air (see notes on page 95). 7 Excludes road Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including Germanwings), Brussels Airlines and feeder services and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties as the Company fuel consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. cannot influence their performance (see table “Share of third parties”). 8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both 3 In part projections 4 Airlines outside the scope of consolidation of cargo and passenger aircraft. page 96 / Service & information SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION LUFTHANSA GROUP PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION LUFTHANSA in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.68 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.76 3.91 3.84 3.84 3.85 3.95 3.88 3.86 3.88 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION AUSTRIAN AIRLINES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION SWISS in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.83 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.19 3.93 3.87 3.92 4.04 3.54 3.48 3.53 3.44 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION 2, 8 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION EUROWINGS in liters / tonne kilometers (l / tkm) 0.268 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 4.18 0.278 0.276 0.282 0.280 4.65 4.50 4.45 4.46 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 97 DIRECT AND INDIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP COMPARED in tonnes 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 1 28,949,145 29,250,821 28,601,347 72.6 % 76.4 % 77.4 % Scope 2 256,232 275,161 343,438 0.6 % 0.7 % 0.9 %1 Scope 3 10,678,859 8,774,231 8,005,651 26.8 % 22.9 % 21.7 % PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION 2 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION 2, 3 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions in kilograms / 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) 9.27 in kilograms / tonne kilometers (kg / tkm) 0.68 2017 2017 2016 9.71 2016 0.70 2015 9.69 2015 0.71 2014 9.69 2014 0.70 2013 9.84 2013 0.70 NOX emissions NOX emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 46.1 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 3.4 2017 2017 2016 47.0 2016 3.5 2015 46.3 2015 3.5 2014 45.8 2014 3.4 2013 46.7 2013 3.3 CO emissions CO emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 7.2 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 0.4 2017 2017 2016 7.1 2016 0.4 2015 7.1 2015 0.4 2014 7.3 2014 0.4 2013 7.4 2013 0.3 UHC emissions UHC emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 0.73 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 0.04 2017 2017 2016 0.68 2016 0.04 2015 0.67 2015 0.04 2014 0.72 2014 0.04 2013 0.74 2013 0.04 1 Audited with the result High Assurance without Scope 1 – emissions Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), of the aircraft fleet of Brussels Airlines NV / SA. These were audited by Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including Germanwings), Brussels Airlines and another auditor with the result Limited Assurance and are therefore not Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties as the Company shown in this depiction (see page 99). 2 For the reporting year 2017, the cannot influence their performance (see table “Share of third parties”, page following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (including 96). 3 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. page 98 / Service & information VERIFICATION STATEMENT SCOPE 13 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 99 PERSONNEL DATA EMPLOYEES IN TOTAL 1 JOB THROUGHOUT THE WORLD Lufthansa Group, employees Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2017 as of December 31, respectively 129,424 Frankfurt 38,199 2017 Hamburg 9,886 2016 124,306 Munich 12,383 2015 120,652 Cologne 2,038 2014 118,781 Berlin 1,302 2013 118,214 Rest of Germany 5,334 Total of Germany 69,142 Rest of Europe 28,088 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY PROFESSIONAL GROUP AND GENDER1 of which Vienna 6,417 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2017 of which Zurich 8,574 Female employees Male employees Africa / Middle East 2,265 Female 46.1 % 59,602 North / Central Male 53.9 % America 18,281 69,822 South America 3,190 Apprentices 19.7 % Asia / Pacific 8,458 1,101 80.3 % Ground 2 38.2 % 86,044 61.8 % PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT 6 Flight 3 62.8 % Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively 42,279 37.2 % Female employees Male employees Total Cockpit 6.1 % 10,018 93.9 % 50 Cabin 80.4 % 40 32,261 19.6 % 30 DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES 20 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, respectively 10 2017 2016 Change Group employees 129,424 124,306 + 4.1 % 45.6 45.0 45.7 43.4 45.3 28.1 28.0 28.8 27.4 28.6 of which Network Airlines 4 50,190 49,984 + 0.4 % 14.1 14.3 14.9 14.0 14.4 of which Point-to-Point Airlines 5 7,501 3,493 + 114.7 % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of which Logistics 4,511 4,568 – 1.2 % of which MRO 21,502 20,839 + 3.2 % of which Catering 34,563 35,530 – 2.7 % of which Additional Businesses and Group Functions 4 11,157 9,891 + 12.8 % page 100 / Service & information AVERAGE AGE 7 AGE STRUCTURE 7 Lufthansa Group, in years as of December 31, respectively Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2017 Female employees Male employees Total 60 and older 4.6 55 – 59 9.8 45 50 – 54 16.8 45 – 49 15.1 40 40 – 44 13.6 35 – 39 12.9 30 – 34 11.3 42.7 43.1 43.3 43.4 43.5 41.9 42.3 42.3 42.2 42.2 25 – 29 9.4 40.9 41.3 41.3 40.9 40.9 20 – 24 5.6 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 18 – 19 1.0 15 – 17 0.1 SHARE OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS SHARE OF WOMEN WITH STAFF RESPONSIBILITY Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 14.5 14.2 14.9 15.6 15.1 34.1 35.1 33.9 34.1 35.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Scope of application: Group scope of consolidation; calculation according Leasing Ltd., time:matters GmbH, time:matters Spare Parts Logistics to HGB guidelines (without board members, including temporary workers, GmbH, time:matters Holding GmbH, LH Technik Philippines Inc., LH including employees with Lufthansa employment contracts at other Technik Puerto Rico LLC, LH Technik Shannon Ltd. Co., LH Technik Malta companies). 2 Without apprentices 3 Consists of cockpit and cabin. Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Leasing Ltd. Co., LH Technik Budapest 4 Previous year’s figures adapted due to restructuring of business Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace (US), Aerologic GmbH (25 percent segments. 5 The business segment “Point-to-Point Airlines” was renamed partially consolidated), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet “Eurowings Group” in the first quarter of 2018. 6 Scope of application: International Sales & Support Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Group scope of consolidation; shares in percent; part-time including Corp., LH Technik Sofia OOD, LH Technik Component Services LLC, LH age-related part-time (sabbatical blocks included); from 2014 including Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Corporate Finance Ltd., LHAMIH LIMITED, Aerologic (partially consolidated at 25%). 7 Scope of application: Group LH Malta Finance Holding Ltd. scope of consolidation, without parts of LSG abroad, LH Malta AircraftLUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 101 GLOSSARY A years to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from Aerosols the combustion process. Currently, about 2.69 percent of the Aerosols are solid and / or liquid particles that are suspended CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global air in the air. They reach the atmosphere by means of natural traffic. (Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2017, 2015 processes (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human values) activities (combustion of biomass and fossil fuels). The most important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (biologiCarbon monoxide (CO) cal) particles, soot, organic compounds, and sulfates. From a Chemical compound consisting of one carbon and one oxygen climatic perspective, aerosols are the opponents of greenhouse atom, formed in the incomplete combustion process of subgases, as they can reflect incident light and thus have a cooling stances containing carbon. For aircraft engines, the level of CO effect. emissions depends greatly on the thrust level: The emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are higher at idle settings, while aireg e. V. – taxiing, and on approach than during the climbing and cruising Aviation Initiative for ­Renewable Energy in Germany phases. aireg is a registered association of leading German research institutions, the Lufthansa Group and other companies in the CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) aviation industry, and bioenergy producers. The goal of this The CDP is an independent nongovernmental organization with initiative, which was founded in 2011, is to advance the dea current membership of more than 800 institutional investors velopment and introduction of regenerative aviation fuels in worldwide. Every year this initiative, which was founded in Germany and to inform the public at large about this topic. 2000, gathers data and information on CO2 emissions, climate ↗ www.aireg.de risks as well as reduction goals and strategies on a voluntary basis from corporations and organizations on behalf of invesATM – Air Traffic Management tors by means of standardized questionnaires. In 2017, 6,300 Air traffic management ensures both the safe and the efficient companies and organizations published their greenhouse gas movement of aircraft in all phases of operations. emissions and other environmentally relevant performance ratios in this way. Today, CDP administers the world’s largest Atmosphere database of its kind. Investors use this data to assess longMass of air surrounding the Earth. It is divided into various term opportunities and risks for the companies in their portfolayers, which are separated from one another by significantly lios, to determine their investment strategy and to develop different vertical temperature distributions. Important for air investment products and indices. ↗ www.cdp.net traffic are the two lower layers: the troposphere and, above it, the stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper boundaries vary Chapter 4 and Chapter 14 aircraft depending on season and latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to The ICAO distinguishes between different noise standards, 18 kilometers above sea level at the equator, and at eight to which are defined in related chapters of Annex 16 to the 12 kilometers above sea level at the poles. The temperature in Convention on International Civil Aviation. The Environmental the tropopause, the transition layer between troposphere and Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on the Chapter 4 noise stratosphere, drops to about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises standard in September 2001, according to which all aircraft again in the stratosphere. newly certified since 2006 must remain cumulatively below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 decibels or more. In 2014, the ICAO agreed on the new Chapter 14 noise standard, which C requires that aircraft must cumulatively remain 17 decibels below the Chapter 3 noise levels. This standard is initially Carbon dioxide (CO2) applied to new aircraft with a maximum takeoff weight of more Gas resulting in nature from the burning or decomposition of than 55 tonnes that are certified after December 31, 2017. organic substances (e.g. plant material). The greenhouse gas For aircraft below this weight the new certification values are CO2 remains in the atmosphere for about 100 years. Scientists applied from December 31, 2020. attribute the increase in atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 page 102 / Service & information CO – see “Carbon monoxide” Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq) The Leq is a measure for the energetic average of all sound CO2 – see “Carbon dioxide” pressure levels over a defined period of time. All sound events that differ in intensity and duration are summarized according to mathematical rules. The resulting average value is an D accepted and proven measurement of the noise quantity occurring over an observed time interval. Decibel (dB) Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. The difference in intensity between the softest sound the human F ear can perceive and the pain threshold is 1 : 10 trillion. To depict this enormous range objectively, acoustics uses the Freight performance (FTKO / FTKT) logarithmic decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0” is as­ Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered signed to the perception threshold (for a sound of 1,000 Hz) (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight and the pain threshold at the value “130”. An increase of 10 dB performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported). corresponds to a tenfold increase in sound intensity. For the See also “Tonne kilometers”. perceived volume, a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half or double the volume. However, the human ear is not equally Fuel dump sensitive across the entire range of frequencies. Low and high Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency situations to sounds are not perceived as being equally loud even at the reduce a long-haul aircraft’s weight to the maximum permissisame intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized ble landing weight before unscheduled landings (e.g. in the and noted accordingly. The best known such notation is the event of technical problems or serious passenger illness). A value, marked by the index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, Special air space is assigned to the aircraft, if possible above the EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually dumped internationally. at altitudes of 4 to 8 kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,800 meters and a minimum speed of 500 km / h are required. The Diversity aircraft may not fly a fully closed circle. The dumped kerosene In a corporate context, diversity refers to all characteristics that is released from outlet vales and forms a fine mist behind the distinguish employees from one another. Diversity offers aircraft. So far, no contamination has been detected in plant approaches for handling human differences for the benefit of or soil samples after fuel dumps. company and employees alike. G E Great-circle distance EBIT The shortest distance between two points on the Earth’s Financial indicator; it denotes earnings before interest and surface, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or taxes. From financial year 2015 it has been used as the central nautical miles. The center of a great circle is the center of earnings indicator. It is calculated from total operating income the Earth. minus operating expenses plus the result from equity investments. Greenhouse gases Gaseous substances that contribute to the greenhouse effect EMAS – Environmental Management and Audit Scheme and have both natural and human (anthropogenic) causes. European regulations concerning environmental management The most important natural greenhouse gases are water vapor and certification; colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most regulations. important anthropogenic greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels and methane, primarily LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 103 from agriculture and industrial livestock farming. Other artificial MTOW greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs Acronym standing for maximum takeoff weight of an aircraft. and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). N H Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Chemical compounds consisting of one nitrogen and several Hub oxygen atoms. NOX is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point or an airline’s compounds. Natural sources include lightning and microbes in transfer airport. Passengers and freight are transported from the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also generated in combustion their point of departure to one of the airline’s “home airports” processes under high pressures and temperatures. Both of (hub). From there, they are carried to their destination by a these parameters have been increased in modern aircraft second flight alongside passengers and freight from other engines to significantly reduce fuel consumption as well as departure points, but with the same destination. emissions of carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons. However, future combustion chambers of an advanced design could help reduce NOX emissions by 85 percent. Air traffic I contributes 2 to 3 percent of man-made NOX emissions. IATA – International Air Transport Association Climate models show that nitrogen oxides have increased the The umbrella organization of international commercial aviation. concentration of ozone at cruising altitudes by a few percentage ↗ www.iata.org points. ICAO – International Civil Aviation Organization Noise-related charges A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding Airports charge noise-related fees in the context of their tariffs. norms for civil aviation. ↗ www.icao.int These reward airlines for operating quiet aircraft, while there are significant surcharges for noisy aircraft. In Europe, noiseILO standards related charges have become an important noise reduction Work standards of the International Labor Organization, which instrument for areas surrounding airports. include, among others, the bans on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination as well as the fundamental right of freedom NOX – see “Nitrogen oxides” of association for employees. ISO 14001 – O International environmental management system Companies thereby receive an effective instrument that allows OHSAS 18001 – them to take environmental aspects into consideration in Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series decisions relating to corporate policies and to continuously Job safety management system developed by the British improve the situation of environmental care in relation to all Standards Institution in cooperation with international daily tasks. ↗ www.iso.org certification organizations. Ozone M Molecule formed in the stratosphere and consisting of three oxygen atoms. The ozone layer located in the stratosphere has MRO an important protective function, as it absorbs harmful ultraAcronym standing for maintenance, repair, and overhaul of violet light. While ozone at higher altitudes is broken down aircraft. massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), it develops close to the ground under the influence of sunlight from numerous page 104 / Service & information precursor substances (summer smog) and irritates the mucous W membranes. At current levels, nitrogen oxide emissions from air traffic at cruising altitudes cause an increase in atmospheric Water vapor ozone, analogous to the generation of summer smog, esti­ The most important greenhouse gas, even ahead of carbon mated by scientists at 3 to 4 percent on the heavily-flown dioxide. Without water vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s North Atlantic routes. surface would be around 22 degrees Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor responsible for two-thirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of P kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released. Concerns that air traffic might increase the concentration of Passenger kilometer (PKO / PKT) water vapor in the stratosphere and thus change the climate Measure for transport performance in passenger carriage have been refuted by scientific research. The German Aerospace (number of passengers multiplied by distance flown). A Center (DLR) concluded that even a one hundred-fold increase distinction is made between available transport performance in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic would not (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, or, synonymously, SKO, result in a detectable climatic signal. seat kilometers offered) and actual transport performance (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). S Seat kilometer Measure of the transport capacity available (SKO, seat kilometers offered). T Tonne kilometer (TKT/ TKO) Measure of transport performance (payload multiplied by distance). A distinction is made between available transport performance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual transport performance (TKT, tonne kilometers transported). In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into account by means of a statistical average weight. U UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that results from the incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the evaporation of fuel. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 105 GRI CONTENT INDEX ↗ GRI 102-55 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and was submitted to the GRI before publication to have the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service applied. The correct placement of the “Materiality Disclosures” 102-40 to 102-49 within the report and in the GRI content index were confirmed by the GRI. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016 Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the company Deutsche Lufthansa AG GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services page 4 f. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Deutsche Lufthansa AG is filed in the Commercial Register of Cologne District Court under HRB 2168 and has its headquarters in Cologne, Germany. The majority of Group functions are located in Frankfurt and Munich. GRI 102-4 Location of operations page 4 f. The airports served by Lufthansa Group airlines during the reporting year are located in 100 countries. For important locations pertaining to the service companies see Annual Report 2017, pages 57 and 60. GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 2017, page 10 The shareholder structure, updated quarterly, can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations GRI 102-6 Markets served page 4 f. Annual Report 2017, page 21 ff. Given their materiality, the information presented in the sustainability report refer to the worldwide route network of the Lufthansa Group airlines. GRI 102-7 Scale of the company page 2, page 4 Annual Report 2017, overview of performance indications, front cover page. For the Group consolidated balance sheet see page 104 f. GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers page 100 f. No separation by gender and by region, as this data is not control relevant. No description of staff by employees and staff subject to directives, and no indication of the share recognized as permanent freelance employees, and employees and staff subject to directives of contractual partners. GRI 102-9 Supply chain page 8 f., page 31 In this report, the primary focus is on the product “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply page 1 chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach The management of opportunities and risks is integrated in all business processes, see Annual Report 2017, page 64 ff. In order to meet its corporate responsibility as a large, globally-active company, the Lufthansa Group extended the scope of its risk management system in 2017 to effects of non-financial aspects on external stakeholders. GRI 102-12 External initiatives page 27 An overview of the most important, voluntarily supported initiatives can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility GRI 102-13 Membership of associations An overview of the most important memberships can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility page 106 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker page 3 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report 2017, page 64 ff. Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior page 28 f. The Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG adopted a Code of Conduct in 2017 that serves as a basis for the Lufthansa Group’s value system. It is binding for all bodies, executives and employees of the Lufthansa Group. Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report 2017, S. 13 The assignment of responsibilities for business areas within the Executive Board did not change in comparison with the preceding year. Further committees with regard to economic, ecological and social subjects are on page 20, page 40, page 63 and page 72. Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups page 22 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements page 68 In Germany, almost all companies are subject to collective agreements (close to 100 percent). For the entire Lufthansa Group this statement is not possible at the moment. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders page 22, page 24 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement page 22, page 24 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised page 22, page 24 The Lufthansa Group considers the results of passenger satisfaction surveys as confidential information. Balance 2017, page 19 ff. Report profile GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial page 95 statements Annual Report 2017, page 174 A list of major subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated companies can be found in the Annual Report, page 189 ff. GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries page 24 Balance 2017, page 19 ff. Balance 2016, page 22 ff. GRI 102-47 List of material topics page 24 Balance 2017, page 19 ff. Balance 2016, page 22 ff. GRI 102-48 Restatements of information page 95 For the reporting year 2017, the company Brussels Airlines was included for the first time. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting page 24 GRI 102-50 Reporting period page 1 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report page 1 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle page 1 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report page 113 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI page 1, page 106 Standards GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index page 106 ff. GRI 102-56 External assurance page 99 In this report, the Scope 1-3 emissions data were subjected to an external audit. In addition, for the first time the Lufthansa Group published a combined non-financial report for the financial year 2017 in its Annual Report. This combined non-financial report was the subject of a voluntary limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised). The management approaches and concepts published in it were adopted for this report and complemented with supplementary information. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 107 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Material Topics Economic performance GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 19 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Annual Report page 16 ff. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed page 2 Annual Report 2017, notes to the consolidated financial statements, page 108 ff. Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 28 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption page 30 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption page 29 policies and procedures No further breakdown available. Sustainable innovation, research and development GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 36 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / The Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries, both individually and across Evaluation of the management approach business segment boundaries, continuously work on product innovations as well as research and development projects. Energy GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 39 ff., page 43 ff., page 54 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization page 96 f. In line with the aspect of materiality, the product of “flying” is primarily considered without upstream and downstream processes. Therefore, the focus of reporting is on the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group airlines. In addition, there is comprehensive reporting on the participation in the CDP climate change report, see: www.cdp.net GRI 302-3 Energy intensity page 95 The performance indicator for carrying a passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers is: liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm). GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption page 51 ff. GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and page 43 ff. services The Lufthansa Group increased the fuel efficiency (l / 100 pkm) by 4.5 percent compared to 2016. Emissions GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 43 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions page 46, page 98 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions page 46, page 98 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions page 46, page 98 page 108 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity page 44 f. Values for specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions page 51 ff. Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 31 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / An evaluation of the management approach is planned in the medium term. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using page 31 environmental criteria Active noise abatement GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 57 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Number of aircraft that meet or exceed the 10-dB page 114 criterium of the ICAO Chapter 4 standard. Employment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 61 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 401-3 Parental leave The compatibility of work and private life is an important element for the Lufthansa Group to provide long-term support to employees to maintain their ability to work and perform. During the reporting year, 28.6 percent of the Lufthansa Group’s employees worked part-time, 72.9 percent of whom were women. Furthermore, numerous employees took family leave. A nuanced analysis of return rates is currently not yet possible, but is targeted for the future. Labor / management relations GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 68 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 402: Labor / management relations 2016 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational In accordance with the stipulations of Industrial Relations Law and in the changes sense of an active social partnership, the responsible bodies of code­termination and the Company’s publics are informed at an early stage. Engagement Index (EI) page 69 Leadership Index (LI) page 69 Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 72 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– page 72 worker health and safety committees In Germany, work protection committees that include representatives of employees and employer are active at all relevant locations of the Lufthansa Group. They jointly optimize processes and agree on measures to improve work protection. All employees in Germany are represented in work protection committees. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 109 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal page 72 agreements with trade unions Occupational safety is regulated in Germany by the Occupational Health and Safety Act and other legal stipulations. Within the Lufthansa Group, occupational safety is regulated within the Company’s own responsibility and in cooperation between the divisions Occupational Safety and Corporate Medical Services, and the employees’ representations. Employment agreements were concluded concerning a number of subjects. The continued evolution in this area is ensured. The Medical Services and occupational safety provide comprehensive advice to employer and employee representations, for example in the context of implementing legal requirements or concluding collective agreements. They represent the employee representations in numerous health-related committees of the different Lufthansa companies. Health Index page 73 Training and education GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 70 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 404: Training and education 2016 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforpage 70 f. mance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 62 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees page 64 f., page 100 f. The composition of the governance bodies is monitored with regard to the share of women and used for targeted control. An extension of this view to further diversity criteria, such as age and internationality, is planned as a perspective for management positions and the Executive Board / top management. Further differentiation is currently not control relevant for the Lufthansa Group. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men page 65 Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 68 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom For the reporting year it is assumed that no business activity of the of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Lufthansa Group posed a risk for the employees’ free exercise of their rights concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 25, page 28 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / An evaluation of the management approach is planned in the medium term. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights page 30 reviews or impact assessments page 110 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 31 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / An evaluation of the management approach is planned in the medium term. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using page 31 social criteria Customer health and safety GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 88 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of page 88 ff. product and service categories Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 92 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of In 2017 the Lufthansa Group did not record a reportable violation of data customer privacy and losses of customer data protection as defined by Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act. Service and customer centricity GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 84 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Corporate citizenship GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 74 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / An evaluation of the management approach and the development of KPIs Evaluation of the management approach are planned in the medium term. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 111 EDITORIAL INFORMATION Published by Photo credits Deutsche Lufthansa AG Cover: Lufthansa Group Communications GettyImages: coolbiere photograph; Volker Nothdurft; Senior Vice President: Andreas Bartels Gregor Schläger; GettyImages: Dieter Meyrl Insides: Concept and editors Oliver Rösler (pages 3, 10, 21, 26 41, 42, 47, 48, 55, 56, 62, 67, Lufthansa Group Communications 72, 76, 85, 86, 90, 91) Corporate Responsibility Communications & Events Jens Görlich (pages 5, 6, 11, 15, 16, 18, 27, 49, 50, 51, 52, 87) Director: Susanne Kotysch Aerobrand / David Noble (page 12) SWISS (pages 13, 34, 79) Steffen Milchsack Austrian Airlines (page 13) Claudia Walther Jan Brandes (page 13) Dominik Mentzos (page 16) Design and production Eurowings GmbH (page 34) organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH in cooperation Sonja Brüggemann (page 36) with DennerleinBrands GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Patrick Kuschfeld (pages 37, 80) Dr. Günter Nowald (pages 38, 81) Copy deadline Christian Straub (page 40) June 1, 2018 Sabine Hanke (page 42) GettyImages: Philipp Nemenz (page 60) Paper Neumann & Rodtmann (page 63) Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from 100 percent Retha Ferguson (page 75) recycled paper. Produced without optical brightening agents or Franka Doyen (page 78) chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue Angel environmental GettyImages: PhotoMelon (page 84) label – RAL-UZ 14. Cover: Profibulk, FSC-certified Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Reprints, including excerpts, only with written permission from the publisher and by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and images). In this case we ask that you send us a copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany ISSN 1612-0906 Note The terms Lufthansa Group, Group, Aviation Group, Company, and aviation company are used synonymously in this report. page 112 / Service & information CONTACT Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Susanne Kotysch Head of Corporate Responsibility Communications & Events FRA CI/B Lufthansa Aviation Center Airportring D-60546 Frankfurt/Main balance@dlh.de Please note that ↗ www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service. Under the header “Help & Contact” you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa. You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2017: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 113 MOST STRINGENT NOISE STANDARDS FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S FLEET MARGINS BELOW THE NOISE LIMIT OF ICAO CHAPTER 3 AND CHAPTER 4 The Lufthansa Group determines the effect of fleet modernizaActive fleet of the Lufthansa Group on October 27, 2017, in EPNdB tion concerning noise abatement by means of the performance indicator “number of aircraft that meet or exceed the minus0 – 10.0 * 10dB criterium set by the ICAO Chapter 4 standard”. This standard defines noise limits and stipulates that all aircraft A330-200 SN – 13.9 / – 14.0 newly licensed from 2006 to the end of 2017 must cumulatively A330-200 EW – 12.8 A330-300 LH – 18.4 fulfill the older Chapter 3 noise limits by a margin of 10 decibels A330-300 LX / WK – 18.3 / – 18.4 or more. This so-called “minus-10EPNdB criterium” (Effective A330-300 SN – 14.0 / – 18.4 Perceived Noise dB) is signified by the vertical broken line in A340-300 LH / CL – 22.7 the overview to the left. In 2017, 99.5 percent of the aircraft – A340-300 LX / WK – 22.1 thus virtually the entire operational Group fleet – met this A340-600 LH – 23.0 criterium. A350-900 LH – 32.1 A380-800 LH – 25.8 / – 26.7 The limits depend on the aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight B747-400 LH – 13.6 and number of engines. The bar chart indicates the sum of the B747-8 LH – 25.6 differences between the measured value and the threshold B767-300 OS – 16.5 / – 16.9 B777-200 OS – 20.9 / – 21.1 value at the three measuring points by type of aircraft B777-300 LX – 16.0 (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the values based on the B777F LH – 17.0 reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight operations MD-11F LH – 13.4 are indicated. The individual noise certificate data of all Group A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 aircraft is included in the evaluation methodology. Different A319-100 LX – 18.2 versions of an aircraft and its engines by year of construction A319-100 EW – 18.2 are thus better taken into account. Accordingly, the value A319-100 OS – 19.3 ranges from the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are A319-100 4U – 17.5 / – 19.4 indicated for many fleets. The analysis also takes into account A319-100 SN – 18.0 / – 21.2 any modifications to aircraft or engines that have been made in A320-200 LH – 13.5 / – 29.8 A320-200 LX – 14.4 / – 16.0 the meantime, thereby leading to modified noise data and A320-200 WK – 14.3 / – 14.4 cumulated margins in certain cases. Furthermore, additions A320-200 OS – 15.0 / – 16.0 and withdrawals in individual fleets lead to changes in the A320-200 4U – 13.5 value ranges reported. A320-200 EW – 16.4 / – 17.3 A320-200 SN – 14.9 / – 15.0 The data to calculate the indicator is gathered on the qualifying A321-100 LH – 15.5 date “end of summer timetable”, starting in the reporting year A321-100 LX – 10.0 / – 10.8 2017. Due to seasonal requirements, the fleet is largest at this A321-100 OS – 11.5 point, which makes the measurement of the largest noiseA321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 15.1 A321-200 LX – 14.4 related “footprint” possible. Accordingly, all aircraft in the A321-200 OS – 9.3 possession of the individual flight-operating companies at the Bombardier CS100 LX – 28.3 qualifying date are taken into account for the calculation of the Bombardier CS300 LX – 26.6 performance index. Simultaneously, the rounding of intermediary Bombardier CRJ900 CL – 16.6 values was adapted to the ICAO’s systematology, so that there Bombardier DHC8-400 OS – 23.9 / – 25.9 are changes of +/0.1 for individual fleets compared with the Embraer 190 CL – 15.2 previous year. Embraer 195 CL – 14.8 Embraer 195 EN – 14.8 Embraer 195 OS – 14.8 / – 15.3 Fokker 100 OS – 16.2 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW (maximum takeoff weight): • under 50 t • 50 to 150 t • more than 150 t * New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new This division generally corresponds to a grouping of regional, aircraft since 2006: – 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. continental, and intercontinental aircraft. LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo CL = Lufthansa CityLine EW = Eurowings OS = Austrian Airlines SN = Brussels Airlines 4U = Germanwings EN = Air Dolomiti LX = SWISS WK = Edelweiss Air THE OPERATING FLEET OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP 1 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 Lufthansa and regional partners Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 14 aircraft, 509 seats, 12,400 km range Embraer 195 CL: 6 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range EN: 11 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Boeing 747-8 LH: 19 aircraft, 364 seats, 13,000 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,500 km range Bombardier CRJ900 CL: 35 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 13 aircraft, 371 seats, 11,850 km range SWISS and Edelweiss Air Airbus A340-600 LH: 17 aircraft, 297 seats, 12,900 km range HB JNA Boeing 777-300ER LX: 8 aircraft, 340 seats, 13,650 km range Airbus A350-900 LH: 6 aircraft, 293 seats, 12,650 km range FRAUENFELD HB JMA MA Airbus A340-300 LX: 7 aircraft, 219 seats, 13,000 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 12 aircraft, 283 seats, 11,800 km range CL: 6 aircraft, 300 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A330-300 LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 19 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A321-100 /200 LX: 9 aircraft, 219 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LH: 63 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km / 4,150 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 21 aircraft, 180 seats, 2,700 km range Airbus A320neo LH: 10 aircraft, 180 seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 67 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,200 km range LEGEND LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo EN = Air Dolomiti OS = Austrian Airlines Range indicated in general with maximum number of 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings SN = Brussels Airlines passengers or payload, respectively. CL = Lufthansa CityLine LX = SWISS WK = Edelweiss Air In part, different versions are in operation. 1 Operated by companies of the Lufthansa Group. HB JCA Bombardier Q400 OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range Bombardier CS300 LX: 7 aircraft, 145 seats, 4,250 km range HB JBA Kanton Zürich Bombardier CS100 LX: 8 aircraft, 125 seats, 2,850 km range Eurowings and Germanwings Airbus A340-300 WK: 2 aircraft, 314 seats, 11,850 km range Airbus A320-200 EW / 4U: 44 aircraft, 180 seats, 4,000 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 2 aircraft, 315 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A319-100 EW / 4U: 43 aircraft, 150 seats, 2,900 km range Airbus A320-200 Brussels Airlines WK: 8 aircraft, 174 seats, 4,050 km range Austrian Airlines Airbus A330-300 SN: 6 aircraft, 288 seats, 7,700 km range Boeing 777-200ER OS: 5 aircraft, 308 seats, 12,100 km range Airbus A330-200 SN: 4 aircraft, 264 seats, 10,400 km range Boeing 767-300ER OS: 6 aircraft, 214 seats, 10,250 km range Airbus A320-200 SN: 12 aircraft, 180 seats, 3,700 km range Airbus A321-100 /200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km / 4,150 km range Airbus A319-100 SN: 22 aircraft, 141 seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 23 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,100 km range Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Boeing MD-11F LH: 12 aircraft, 89.4 t, 6,700 km range Embraer 195 OS: 17 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Fokker 100 OS: 1 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,100 km range Boeing 777F LH: 5 aircraft, 103 t, 8,900 km range LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 116 PRIZES AND AWARDS 2017 / 18 Every year, the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries receive numerous • The SESAR project iStream, in which Lufthansa and SWISS prizes and awards. Here is a selection: participated together with others, received the IHS Jane’s ATC Award in the category “Enabling Technology”. 2017 • The SESAR project Optimized Descent Profile (ODP), in which • Carsten Spohr is named “Manager of the year 2017”. Germany’s Lufthansa and SWISS participated together with others, was “manager magazin” honored the Chairman of the Executive honored with the IHS Jane’s ATC Award in the category Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG for his successful “Environment”. restructuring of Europe’s largest aviation group. • The demonstration project Augmented Approaches to Land (AAL), • Lufthansa became the only European airline to be awarded the in which Lufthansa and SWISS participated together with others, five-star seal by Skytrax for premium service and top levels of won the Single European Sky Award 2017 in the category comfort. “Innovation and Technology”. • In a Skytrax survey, 18 million passengers selected Lufthansa • Lufthansa Cargo was rated by DHL Global Forwarding with four as Europe’s best airline. The airlines of the Lufthansa Group “green aircraft” as preferred carrier and awarded the GoGreen received a total of four of the renowned Skytrax World Airline Carrier Certificate. Awards. • Lufthansa Cargo’s project “OMEGA – CO2 Reduction on the Basis • In the context of the World Airports Awards 2017 of London-based of Big Data” won the German Award for Excellence given by DQS Skytrax Institute, Terminal 2 at Munich Airport was elected the best in the category “Environmental Responsibility”. passenger facility worldwide. Terminal 2 is operated by Flughafen • At the German CSR Prize, Lufthansa Cargo reached the final München GmbH and Deutsche Lufthansa AG in a ratio of 60:40. with OMEGA in the category “CO2 Avoidance as Contribution • At the Business Traveller Awards 2017, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and to Climate Protection”, together with two other companies. Lufthansa took first, second and third prize in the category “Best • At the Payload Awards Asia 2017, Lufthansa Cargo received the Airline for Business Travellers on German and European Routes”. Corporate Social Responsibility Award. Furthermore, the readers of Business Traveller put SWISS in second • Lufthansa Systems received the German Mobility Prize for the place in the category “Best Airline for Business Travellers on digital obstacle database Lido / SurfaceData, which was intro­duced Worldwide Routes”. And ↗ www.lufthansa.com won the first prize in the market at the beginning of 2017. in the category “Best Internet Offer for Business Travellers”. • SPIRIANT, a subsidiary of the LSG Group, was honored at the • At the ceremony of National Tourism Awards in China, TravelPlus Awards as Supplier of the Year for its amenity kits. Lufthansa Group airlines won three prizes: Lufthansa was honored • At the Corporate Art Awards 2017 in Rome, the Lufthansa Aviation as “Best European airline”, while SWISS received the prize for “Best Center was honored for its art collection. Its prizes are bestowed Economy Class”. Austrian Airlines won in the category “Best under the patronage of Italy’s Ministry of Culture. Onboard Service”. • For its mobile self-services, Lufthansa received the Fast Travel 2018 Platinum Award of the International Air Transport Association • At the Business Travel Awards 2018, Lufthansa received first prize (IATA). The Fast Travel program’s goal is to make passenger in the category “Best Long-haul Airline”, while the Group company travel more pleasant and to reduce waiting times. AirPlus was honored for the “Best Corporate Payment Product”. • The Lufthansa Innovation Hub was honored by business magazine • The International Air Transport Association (IATA) honored the “Capital” as Germany’s best innovation laboratory. The underlying mobile self-services of Austrian Airlines with the Fast Travel study compared 34 German digital laboratories and accelerators. Platinum Award. • SWISS has borne the label “Friendly Work Space” since 2015. In • SWISS was recognized with the Randstad Award 2018 as 2017, the airline was recertified accordingly. Switzerland’s most attractive employer. • The apprentice workshop of Austrian Airlines was honored with the • Lufthansa received a total of 15 prizes at the most amaZone Award in the category “Large Corporations”. This award is important Deutscher Werbepreis ADC Award (Art Directors given to companies that give particular support to women enrolled Club für Deutschland e. V.), including for the campaign in apprenticeships for technical professions and skilled trades. #LifeChangingPlaces. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2018 / page 117 DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: balance@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © June 2018
