TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the UNITED NATIONS Managing Partner Human Rights GLOBAL COMPACT Labour Environment Anti-Corruption About NJORD Law Firm REPORTING ON PROGRESS 2018 CEO STATEMENT NJORD Law Firm has been a proud member of the United Nations TABLE OF CONTENT Global Compact since 2016. When we joined the United Nations Global Compact, we incorporated the ten principles into our Code of Conduct. Therefore, the principles are a big part of our values Message from the and the way we run our business. Managing Partner We are continuously working to uphold our existing initiatives taken Human Rights the recent years, but we are also taking new actions to abide by the ten principles. Labour In 2016, we joined the Association of Danish Law Firms’ codex (advokatKODEKS) and formulated NJORD Law Firm’s Code of Environment Conduct. Anti-Corruption With this report, we are proud to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative covering Human Rights, Labour, the Environment, and AntiAbout NJORD Law Firm Corruption. 2 August 2018 Lars Lokdam, managing partner, CEO NJORD Law Firm I 1 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human internationally proclaimed human rights; and rights abuses. ACTIONS: TABLE OF CONTENT • NJORD Law Firm safeguards diversity as it is one of • Openness, respect and tolerance together with our fundamental values. NJORD respects and diversity are our core values, which is why we Message from the acknowledges our employees’ differences and the ensure a healthy and safe work environment, Managing Partner individual’s identity. We see diversity in the where discrimination, bullying and harassment are composition of employees as our strength, as each not tolerated. employee enriches NJORD with his or her culture, Human Rights experience, nationality, religion and sexuality. • We want a healthy and attractive workplace, where physical and psychological well-being and Labour • NJORD Law Firm takes digital and social safety are in focus. We are continuously working responsibility. We fight for those whose voices are to maintain a good work environment, where Environment not heard in cases about digital criminal offences. employees can expect to be treated properly and respectfully by the management and colleagues. Anti-Corruption About NJORD Law Firm OUTCOMES • We enforce our Human Resource Policy and employee satisfaction surveys to ensure that everyone can be happy at work. • Since 2016, NJORD Law Firm has made a serious effort to combat and create attention to digital criminal offences in Denmark. We have worked pro bono and assisted in a number of cases within this field and worked with the government to tighten the minimum and maximum sentences for digital sexual offences, as well as worked to set higher compensations to the victims. Furthermore, NJORD Law Firm has participated in establishing the member association – Digitalt Ansvar – which is working for up-to-date legislation, effective investigation, better knowledge, data and purposeful education. NJORD Law Firm I 2 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association the effective abolition of child labour; and and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory the elimination of discrimination in respect of TABLE OF CONTENT labour; employment and occupation. Message from the ACTIONS: Managing Partner • NJORD Law Firm ensures a safe and healthy work • Employees at NJORD Law Firm have an influence Human Rights environment by continuously taking a number of on the development of the business. They measures for the improvement of the physical and participate in the strategy processes and psychological work environment. continuously provide input to improvements and Labour new initiatives. • We set out to securing a good work life for Environment everyone – and not just for employees in NJORD, but also for those who have difficulties in gaining a Anti-Corruption foothold in the Danish workforce. About NJORD Law Firm OUTCOMES • We have an annual satisfaction survey, a workplace assessment (APV) every third year, regular job satisfaction surveys, and action plans to handle employees’ stress, absence due to illness and occupational accidents. • Every year, we take in multiple interns and trainees, and we have employees with salary subsidy with a view to full-time employment. We dare to see opportunities in new employees with special profiles. • We offer our employees health insurance and a collective accident insurance in order to help the employees to a better life, if the damage has occurred. NJORD Law Firm I 3 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to encourage the development and diffusion of environmental challenges; environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the Managing Partner ACTIONS: Human Rights • NJORD Law Firm contributes to a sustainable environment by making environmental savings and reductions. Labour Environment Anti-Corruption OUTCOMES • NJORD Law Firm takes a number of measures for the improvement of the environment, such as reducing air About NJORD Law Firm travels by prioritizing international meetings in online meeting rooms, reducing waste in general and recycling, reducing the use of paper and printing, and reducing food waste by optimizing every purchase. • NJORD Law Firm books hotel rooms through the sustainable Goodwings.com. Every booking made through Goodwings.com releases proceeds that go to charity. • We have replaced plastic water bottles with cold tap water, which is available to employees and served at business meetings. • We have a number of office bikes, which are used for transportation to meetings nearby in order to reduce short-distance driving. NJORD Law Firm I 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TABLE OF CONTENT ACTIONS: • NJORD ensures a high ethical level. • None of NJORD’s employees give or receive undue Message from the advantages to or from Danish or international Managing Partner • As a law firm, we are obliged to prevent money officials. laundering and corruption. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption OUTCOMES About NJORD Law Firm • All employees have pledged to respect and abide by the rules of the Danish Bar and Law Society. • NJORD Law Firm has drawn up a memorandum that specifies the demands pursuant to the Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. All employees are obliged to observe the rules of this act and ensure to be updated on any changes and amendments. • We have a policy on how to entertain clients and business partners internally and externally. • In all cases including cross-border activities, we advise and recommend clauses to fight and prevent corruption. NJORD Law Firm I 5 ABOUT NJORD LAW FIRM TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the NJORD Law Firm is a leading full-service law firm with a strong presence in the Nordic and Baltic Managing Partner Sea regions. NJORD has many years’ experience in advising national and international clients, from multinationals to start-ups, taking pride in knowing our business and combining our Human Rights knowledge with a deep understanding of the legal practice. Labour One entry across borders. We cover the Scandinavian countries, the Baltic states, and Germany with offices in Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia. To our clients, the Environment right professional expertise means more than a postal address and a brass plate on a door. Anti-Corruption Expertise. We cover legal and tax services within all corporate and commercial legal areas with an emphasis on cross-border M&A and intellectual About NJORD Law Firm property in the Nordic region. International culture and mindset. Whether the assignment is a Danish transfer of business or a Pan-Nordic trademark protection, it will be solved with open-mindedness, regional span, and an international vision. Profound business sense and direct counselling. We represent a broad practical experience, and we know very well that cases are not always solved in the best way behind a desk. We combine profound professional expertise with distinct and direct counselling in an intelligible language. NJORD Law Firm I 6
