CSR Report 2017 Changing for the Better CONTENTS Message From the Founders 3 About This Report 4 Who We Are 9 External Commitments 16 Our Team 21 Ethics 32 Corporate Citizenship 40 Protecting the Environment 47 Our Supply Chain 56 Our Indirect Impacts on the Society 58 Our Responsibility as a CSR Rating Agency 62 Looking forward 64 Appendix 66 Message From the Founders EcoVadis continued to grow rapidly throughout 2017. By the end of the year, we had offices in several regions of the world, we reached a milestone figure of 500 employees and carried out 17,000 assessments, including 9,300 new ones. We believe that now more than ever we need to demonstrate our commitment to a sustainable world. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative continue to be the foundation for our CSR commitments. As a CSR rating agency, business ethics remains a priority topic, and, although our impact is somewhat constrained due to the nature of our business activity, we are also working hard to implement the best working conditions for our employees as well as trying to limit our impact on the environment. To achieve our goals, we have formalized the procedures driving our CSR strategy. We are working to increase transparency and accountability and try to engage all of our employees in our sustainability initiatives. The formula is simple and straightforward: We aim to make our company a role model for sustainability practices and for this we need to make sure that our teams work together and every individual takes pride in the job they do. At the same time, we have seen an unprecedented rise in sustainability factors being taken into account by leading corporations in today’s data-driven world. Initiatives integrating SDGs into business strategy, new sector collaborations, and sharper regulations are becoming the norm. It is becoming clearer and clearer that sustainability creates value. The effects of our work have not gone unnoticed. We see how our customers take action prompted by our cooperation and we continue to onboard new customers every year. We see how companies are continuously looking for ways to reduce risks in their supply chain. And we are here to help them. It is wonderful to see the positive changes brought about by our efforts. It is for this reason that we will continue to develop our tools and services which help us, as a unified team, to make a difference in our society. Fred Trinel Pierre-François Thaler Co-CEOs, EcoVadis Co-CEOs, EcoVadis EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 3 About this Report The path to sustainable business is long and not without its challenges. Now, after over a decade of commitment, we, at EcoVadis, are taking another step closer to a cleaner and greener future. In a world of ever-faster connections, transparent communication is key. We want to make our CSR activities more accessible to internal and external stakeholders and our CSR policies more robust to make sure we lead the trends in sustainability. It is for this reason that we have published this CSR Report. General Disclosures on Reporting This CSR Report, used also as our Communication on Progress to support our commitment to the UNGC principles, covers the timeframe of January 2017 to December 2017. Our previous report was published in 2017 and covered the reporting period of January 2016 to December 2016. We have been following an annual reporting cycle thus far. We have now increased our ambitions and progressed towards being a more environmentally and socially responsible and engaged entity. The transit from 2016 to 2017 also includes an extended participation in corporate citizenship. For example, in this year’s report, we have used an international reporting standard for the first time. We have decided to follow and apply some of the basic GRI standards to ensure higher quality reporting and better transparency. Contents of the Report Following our company's introduction, we present our external commitments and our policies, measures and reporting in relation to our CSR strategy for all our offices. You will find here a presentation of our human rights and labor practices, i.e. what we do to ensure a healthy and safe work environment free of discrimination and harassment, and how we continuously strive to improve our working atmosphere; we also describe our commitments to ethics and fair business practices and the measures in place to ensure good corporate citizenship. As an intellectual services provider, EcoVadis is based in offices which have relatively small impact in terms of carbon or waste emissions. Despite this, we are dedicated to decreasing the impact of our business activities. This report goes into detail about our actions in place to ensure transparency and sustainable practices throughout our own supply chain and our own contributions toward a more sustainable future in terms of our impacts on society. More detail on our material topics is provided below. Contact Point If you have any questions regarding this report, contact Yograz Alluck, Global CSR Coordinator, at yalluck@ecovadis.com. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries The materiality assessment carried out for this CSR report was based on the support tool that we use for our clients to better understand the CSR related risks associated with their purchasing categories. This category profile tool aims to assist a company in developing appropriate corrective action plans within their operations. In order to list out the material topics that impact EcoVadis’ CSR management system, some internal sources and external sources have been used. Internal sources are the noteworthy practices in relation to our company sector or industry peers as well as a resource database which is a collection of external research sources for the sector of consultancy. The list of external sources includes the SASB Materiality Map of Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and Standards Map of the International Trade Center. Material Topics: A List With Explanations and Boundaries This report covers the material topics related to EcoVadis’ sustainability performance as illustrated in the table below. For a complete list of GRI disclosures, please see the GRI table at the end of the report. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT EcoVadis Material Topics Energy Important Lighting systems, space heating and space cooling are the main sources of energy Consumption & consumption which are mainly used in an office environment. The utilization of the GHGs natural resources leads to the generation of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide ENVIRONMENT and methane. Another source of emissions comes from air travel, a very recurrent activity in the EcoVadis operations since it is a global company. Waste Important In our daily operations, waste is mostly composed of organic and electronic waste. Management In line with our policy of being a paperless company, we strive to reduce material consumption and promote recycling, which subsequently decreases our overall waste generation. Promotion of Important As an integral part of our main business activity, we are committed to promoting Sustainable sustainable consumption to our customers and also to their supply chains. Consumption Employee Very We believe that providing the best work conditions to our employees will reflect Health & Safety Important both on our business’ reputation and its profitability. We try our best to prevent repetitive strain injury, work-related stress, and fatigue. We also offer managerial support to our employees to reduce or inhibit any kind of issues that affect their health and safety through formalized policies, communication with employees, collecting feedback about their daily tasks, and seeking advice from experts in the sector about preventive and protective measures. Working Conditions Important As a fast growing business, we have a high demand of workload and we do not to reflect that load on our employees. We aim for an improved work-life balance such as flexi-time, and other benefits that would attract and retain employees. To bridge gaps, we distribute employee surveys to better understand their needs. SOCIAL Social Dialogue Important A sound and structured social dialog is necessary and of high importance, especially in the context of a highly-skilled workforce like EcoVadis. We have a process of selection of employee representatives who can help achieve a strong two-way dialogue between the management and the employees. This channel facilitates the understanding of the management regarding employees’ issues and concerns, while at the same time enabling the disclosure of company management plans. Career Important A strong workforce provides the basis for a successful company. In order to Management & fulfil our commitment, EcoVadis consistently offers employee training for skill Training development and productivity enhancement. Discrimination & Important We are committed to a harassment-free environment and do not tolerate any Harassment form of discrimination. This applies to all employees and is reinforced by antidiscrimination awareness trainings. We strive to make every office a welcoming environment for people of all colours, creeds, genders, and lifestyles. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT Corruption Important EcoVadis manages its business operations through unfailing integrity as & Bribery well as being fair and honest, both internally and externally, as this defines ETHICS our identity. Responsible Important One of our fundamentals is to assure customers’ and also employees’ data Information protection and privacy as we process confidential information in our daily Management business. We have implemented robust policies and actions that involves protection of data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. Important Sustainability in the supply chain is naturally of particular importance to us. SUSTAINABLE We strive to procure all of our products and services from sources that are ecologically and socially sustainable. PROCUREMENT Important As a corporation, we have the responsibility to give back to the community CORPORATE in which we operate. Engaging in community activities not only builds up relationships and brand awareness, but it also helps to improve employee CITIZENSHIP engagement. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 8 Who We Are Who, Where and What EcoVadis SAS is a global sustainability rating agency that delivers CSR assessments, thus helping companies improve their practices, manage risks, and increase transparency in relations with their business partners. EcoVadis is headquartered in Paris, France, and has offices in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Mauritius, Poland and Tunisia. Offices in France, the U.S., Canada, Hong Kong, Mauritius and Poland deliver a full scope of operations (CSR evaluation service, customer management, and customer support service); the U.K. and German offices are sales locations, while Tunisia provides mainly IT development and production operations. EcoVadis is committed to driving improvements in sustainable supply chain management through continuous collaboration between business partners, suppliers and their customers. EcoVadis’ core tool is an online collaborative platform, which allows companies to get assessed on their sustainability practices and share these results with their business partners. In 2017, EcoVadis introduced an innovative tool for cybersecurity assessments called CyberVadis. These two offerings are complementary as they enable global purchasing organizations to make educated choices of their business partners worldwide. CyberVadis team is present in France, the U.S., U.K., Mauritius and Poland, and keeps expanding. Below is EcoVadis’ organization structure showing the different subsidiaries it has. Included in this, is also the opening date of each office as well as their respective number of employees on 31 December 2017. Mauritius 164 Poland 140 France 94 USA 34 Tunisia 23 Hong Kong 22 Canada 8 Germany 5 UK 3 Argentina 1 Belgium 1 Italy 1 497 The Netherlands 1 Total: EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 10 WHO WE ARE EcoVadis Milestones 2015 2016 2017 Company reaches 250 EcoVadis receives €30 million of London and Toronto offices employees globally; institutional funding via Partech open; Ventures; Partnerships with CSR Cybersecurity Management consultancy and procurement Spend Matters “2016 Provider to Rating is launched through platforms: Tradeshift, Pool4Tool, Watch;” CyberVadis; State-of-Flux; EcoVadis opens an office in Synergies between CSR and Railsponsible initiative launched Hong Kong. cybersecurity assessments of in the rail sector; business partners; Conference partner and official Spend Matters “Company to sponsor of COP 21 in Paris. Know.” 2014 2012 2013 EcoVadis opens offices in Poland Together for Sustainability EcoVadis Inc. opens in New York; and Tunisia. (TfS) chemical sector initiative launched; Company reaches 100 employees globally; 20,000 companies in the database. Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GESI E-TASC) for ITC supply chains launched. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 EcoVadis SAS (HQ) EcoVadis joins the United EcoVadis partners with Carbon EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd. established in Paris. Nations Global Compact Disclosure Project (CDP). opens; (UNGC); 4,000 companies in the First 100 companies assessed. database. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 11 WHO WE ARE Ownership & Legal Form, Markets, Scale EcoVadis is a privately held company. In 2016, EcoVadis raised €30 million from Partech Ventures. Legal Entity Name Country France (HQ) EcoVadis SAS U.K., Germany, San Francisco EcoVadis Inc. U.S., Canada EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd. Mauritius EcoVadis Ltd. Hong Kong EcoVadis Sarl Tunisia EcoVadis Sp z o.o. Poland EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 12 WHO WE ARE EcoVadis’ CSR evaluation service and CSR performance monitoring platform are accessible to companies worldwide. By the end of 2017, the EcoVadis database included 40,000 companies worldwide. We have worked for companies located in 120 countries and belonging to 150 business sectors, and these figures continue to evolve. EcoVadis business model connects business partners around CSR excellence. EcoVadis was initially created to allow procurement organization to assess their suppliers. With the growing weight of CSR issues in business, the initial model of “buyer-supplier” relationships evolved into providing businesses with a tool to assess their business partners’ sustainability performance. Geographically and in terms of business activity, EcoVadis serves companies in the following markets: Top-5 Procurement organizations industries: Consumer Goods Chemicals Rail transport ICT Beauty Top 5 countries of the location of companies undergoing the EcoVadis assessment: France China USA Germany Italy EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 13 WHO WE ARE EcoVadis Performance Performance Table (December 2017) 490 2,257K Total Number of Total capitalization (EUR): Employees Debt 17,199 10,968K 21,268K Number of CSR Assessments Total capitalization (EUR): Net sales (EUR) (26% of total number for 2007-2017) Equity Cybervadis Along with delivering the CSR assessment service under the EcoVadis brand, a complimentary cybersecurity assessment solution, CyberVadis, was developed, starting from 2016. By end of 2017, CyberVadis teams have set up in France, Poland, Mauritius, the U.K. and the U.S. operating under the CyberVadis brand and counting 36 team members. CyberVadis is the first scalable solution for managing the full third-party cybersecurity risk assessment process. It is complementary to the CSR monitoring solution and facilitates the process of vendors selection for large companies, aiming to ensure digital security and compliance throughout their entire supply chain. The CyberVadis platform is based on a methodology that maps to major international compliance standards and combines automation with the effectiveness of a team of experts. The process includes engaging vendors in the assessment, validating results with an in-house team of security analysts, and issuing standardised cybersecurity ratings that the assessed companies can share with others, along with an improvement plan for implementing better practices. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 14 Governance Structure Audit Committee Compensation Committee Ethics Committee Board Integrated Q & IS Espresso committee Executive Committee committee Scientific Strategic Advisory committee Board The company is governed by the executive committee that meets on a monthly basis to discuss and make key strategic decisions. The EcoVadis Executive Committee Frédéric Trinel Pierre-François Thaler Co-Founder and Co-CEO Co-Founder and Co-CEO Sylvain Guyoton Wim Peeters Valerie Touchon Senior Vice President Vice President Business Vice President Customer Research Development Success Richard Bourne Emily Rakowski Engagement Services Director Chief Marketing Officer Sameer Bahadoor Hamza Sibai Production Manager IT Director EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 15 External Commitments External Initiatives and Membership of Associations Given that CSR and sustainability are the core of our business, we endorse external CSR principles and participate in external CSR initiatives to collaborate with peers. United Nations Global Compact La Charte de la diversité (French Diversity Charter) The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to The Diversity Charter is a written commitment aligning their operations and strategies with that can be signed by any company, regardless ten universally accepted principles in the areas of its size, which aims to ban discrimination in of human rights, labor, environment and antithe workplace and is commited to diversity. It corruption. EcoVadis became a signatory of the expresses a company’s willingness to improve UNGC in 2008, about one year after the founding the degree to which their workforce reflects the of the company. As a signatory of the Global diversity of French society. EcoVadis has been a Compact, we publish an annual Communication signatory of the French Diversity Charter since on Progress in the form of this report. 2013. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 17 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable Purchasing (GRI) Leadership Council (SPLC) GRI is an independent international organization, The Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council providing sustainability reporting guidelines is a leadership community made up of and since 1997. EcoVadis is a GRI GOLD Community funded by member organizations of all size and member, which is made up of companies and types, including businesses, governments, higher organizations across civil society, business, education institutions and non-profits, whose mediating institutions, academia, labour, public mission is to support and recognize purchasing agencies, and intergovernmental agencies. leadership that accelerates the transition to a GOLD Community members demonstrate prosperous and sustainable future. leadership, collaborate with peers, and form a global community of practice and knowledge sharing. Business for Social Responsibility Ressources Humaines Sans Frontières (Human (BSR™) Resources Without Borders) BSR is a global nonprofit organization that works RHSF is an independent NGO working to prevent with its network of more than 250 member child and forced labor for more than 12 years. companies and other partners to build a just Given the complexity of the issue, RHSF set up a and sustainable world. From its offices in Asia, fund in December 2017 with the aim of gathering Europe, and North America, BSR develops a force for preventing child and forced labor. sustainable business strategies and solutions EcoVadis joined this force together with other through consulting, research, and cross-sector companies, such as Crédit Agricole, Maisons du collaboration. Monde, Petzl, and Total. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 18 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS Our Partnerships EcoVadis participates in CSR related initiatives as a partner, helping other companies and organizations to promote CSR. These initiatives include sector initiatives, which is a type of collaboration among companies in the same sector on the topic of sustainable supply chain. Observatoire de la responsabilité sociétale Carbon Disclosure Project des entreprises (CDP) (Observatories of CSR) (L’ORSE) CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, L’ORSE is a multi-stakeholder organization, runs the global disclosure system that enables which supports the transformation of CSR in companies, cities, states and regions to measure companies. L'ORSE works together with the main and manage their environmental impacts. CDP actors of CSR and SRI in Europe and in the world. developed the most comprehensive collection EcoVadis is a partner of L’ORSE. of self-reported environmental data in the world. EcoVadis and CDP have been in a partnership since 2012 to offer an enhanced service to both EcoVadis and CDP Supply Chain customers, as well as to reduce the requests for companies in the supply chains of large purchasing corporations to report on how they are managing carbon. Clean Cargo Working Group The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) is a global, business-to-business initiative dedicated to improving the environmental performance of marine container transport. CCWG members create and use practical tools for measuring, evaluating, and reporting the environmental impacts of global goods transportation. EcoVadis is a knowledge partner of CCWG. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 19 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS Sector Initiatives AIM-PROGRESS Responsible Beauty Initiative (RBI) AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of leading Fast Moving RBI is an industry initiative focused on sustainable Consumer Goods (FMCG) manufacturers and procurement. It was founded in 2017 to improve common suppliers, assembled to enable and sustainability throughout the entire beauty promote responsible sourcing practices and supply chain, through sharing best practices sustainable supply chains. It is a global initiative and processes, driving a common understanding supported and sponsored by AIM in Europe across the industry, using and sharing common and GMA in North America. The goal of AIMtools and thereby creating higher efficiency. PROGRESS is to positively impact people's EcoVadis is RBI’s official partner to evaluate the lives through combined leadership of robust Corporate Social Responsibility practices of responsible sourcing practices throughout their supplier network. Through this joint effort, supply chains. A number of AIM-PROGRESS members will contribute to a more responsible member companies have joined forces to beauty industry supply chain. leverage EcoVadis to support in this mission by streamlining the process and minimising supplier fatigue. Railsponsible Together for Sustainability (TfS) Railsponsible is a sector initiative focused TfS is a joint initiative of chemical companies, on sustainable procurement, with the aim to founded in 2011. It has developed and continuously improve sustainability practices implemented a global program to assess, audit throughout the railway industry supply chain. and improve sustainability practices within the The initiative is open to all railway operators and supply chains of the chemical industry. TfS aims companies across the railway industry value to build the industry’s standard for sustainable chain, along with key industry associations, supply chains and has established a standard that share its vision, mission and commitments. approach for evaluating and improving the Railsponsible is facilitated by BSR, with the sustainability performance of suppliers within support of EcoVadis, who together bring strong chemical industry supply chains. Moreover, expertise in collaborative industry sustainability TfS assessments and audits are conducted to initiatives, as well as sustainable procurement a predefined set of criteria and then shared collaborative platforms. across TfS members, improving efficiency for all involved. One element of the TfS approach is the sustainability assessment TfS selected EcoVadis as its partner for supplier sustainability scorecards. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 20 Our Team Our People At EcoVadis, our commitment to our people is quite simple: To be the employer of choice. Our employees are our greatest asset and we are dedicated to ensure their well-being and safety by providing the best working conditions in a risk-free environment. We aim to empower EcoVadis employees to make an impact. This reflects the company’s intention of doing business in the most ethical way possible. Working Conditions We are convinced that the most dedicated and productive employees are those who enjoy a good work-life balance. To retain our workforce, it is crucial that the job remains challenging and fulfilling, without being a hurdle to their personal lives. For this reason, EcoVadis provides several employee benefits across its offices worldwide. Employees are provided with flexi-time and work from home opportunities. Employees work for the same number of hours but they are free to plan their working hours according to personal commitments they may have. Compensation is another important aspect in retaining employees. For this reason, EcoVadis provides stock ownership plans to permanent employees as well as bonuses that stand in direct relation to personal and company performance. Our motto at EcoVadis is ‘Work Smart. Have Fun. Make a Difference’. Through this, we try to promote a more efficient work culture by encouraging employees to work smarter rather than harder while not forgetting to have fun. We have also established an Employee Welfare Committee, who organize events and team buildings to ensure the social welfare of employees and make sure that we all have some fun with our colleagues from time to time. Our committed team strives to continuously improve the working environment. Feedback and concerns are gathered by performing Employee Satisfaction Surveys twice a year. In 2017, 66 percent of employees participated in the satisfaction survey. Employment 2017 Female Male Number 113 of Hires by gender 105 Total number of employee 24 turnover during 2017 24 EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 22 OUR TEAM Parental Leaves 2017 Female Male Total number of employees 10 that took parental leave (F/M) 5 Total number of employees that returned to work in 5 2017 after parental leave ended (F/M) 5 Percentage of employees covered by working benefits in 2017 Healthare Plan 91% Disability and invalidatity Plan 100% Retirement Plan 86% Stock ownership Plan 3% Flexitime 100% Work from home 100% Wedding Leave 82% Bereavement Leave 83% Participation in satisfaction survey 66% Occupational Health and Safety Policy It is our foremost priority to ensure our employees work in a safe and healthy environment. Although the nature of our business is not prone to significant work-related injuries and accidents, we acknowledge that there may be other kinds of risks. Most of our employees spend the majority of their working hours sitting at a desk in front of a computer in a controlled environment. We are aware that this type of job can cause some health constraints on the long term and it is our responsibility to mitigate these risks. This priority is embodied in our Health Policy, which was most recently reviewed in 2017. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 23 OUR TEAM Health and Safety Guidelines and Achievements for 2017 These, amongst others, include: EcoVadis continues to align, develop EcoVadis always ensures legal and implement policies, procedures, compliance in all the countries it activities and efforts within health and operates, and strives to fulfil its own safety; voluntary goals tailored to each office; EcoVadis aims at establishing safety EcoVadis continues to provide a clean, responsibilities for employees by well-ventilated and well-lit working providing them with training; environment. Examples of Formalisation of Strategies in the Mauritius office With 119 permanent employees, the Mauritius office remains one of the biggest EcoVadis offices. A Health & Safety Committee with joint management has been implemented, whose target is to create and maintain a safe and enjoyable working environment every day. • The Health and Safety Committee concentrates on eliminating any occupational illness or accident, with regular meetings every two months as per legal requirements; • Our work spaces are designed with employee health and safety in mind we provide ergonomic equipment such as foot rests and proper office chairs; • We carry out occasional training on ergonomics, posture and physiotherapy as well as health and safety at work during induction of new recruits and throughout the year; • Our health and safety officers conducted risk assessments and audits (last reviewed in November 2017) and keep of a clear record of work-related injuries. In the unlikely event of an incident, a thorough investigation is carried out and results are reported to management to avoid recurrence; • A fire drill is also conducted twice a year and elected office fire wardens are trained accordingly. The office obtained a Fire Certificate in 2016; • A group of employees is provided with first aid training with rotation occurring every year; • In July 2017, EcoVadis employees in Mauritius were offered a free eye test in partnership with a local ophthalmologist; EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 24 OUR TEAM • EcoVadis Mauritius also partnered with Vélo Vert, an organic farm, wich delivered fresh organic produce once a week, in an effort to encourage employees to adopt a healthier diet. The kitchen also provides nutritional choices such as flaxseed, himalayan salt, fresh ginger and lemon during winter months. Moreover, water stations are available across all departments; • We also encourage our employees to practice sport activities on a regular basis for their overall wellbeing but also to boost morale, mood and motivation in an office environment. We offer gym benefits consisting of compensating half of the monthly gym membership fee. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 25 OUR TEAM Health and Safety Performance 2017 The group monitors the accidentology of all offices on a continuous basis and the results are formally reviewed every year. The KPIs monitored relate to the accident and occupational disease rate and lost day rate for all EcoVadis staff. These are shown below. Performance Indicator Global result Number of injuries 1 Occupational disease rate 0% Lost day rate 0% The total percentage of employees covered by a formal Health and Safety Committee is 29 percent, with 100 percent in both Mauritius and Paris offices. The total percentage of employees covered by collective agreement on health and safety totalled up to 14 percent (100 percent in Paris), taking into consideration that collective agreement does not apply to all office locations. In 2018, we will continue to promote the mobilization of all staff on health and safety issues. A Healthy Social Dialogue EcoVadis is committed to social dialogue by allowing employees to form groups and designating employee representatives to advocate for their needs and rights. Complying with French law, our office in Paris has six employee representatives selected by employeevote the most recent vote took place in May 2017. Additionally, the Paris office has signed a sector specific collective agreement for all local employees. No other office is required by law to have a union or employee representatives, however, EcoVadis supports the freedom of employees to create representative bodies. As such, our Mauritius office has created their own employee representative body, with three employee representatives, who are elected by all of the Mauritius office team members. Professional Growth EcoVadis’ constant growth would not be possible without our employees’ outstanding work. We strive to create an environment where employees can grow professionally and develop their careers. All employees are hand-picked and thoroughly trained at the beginning of their career, following up with a robust performance management system. This way, we ensure that each of our employees can enhance their personal skills and realise their own individual potential. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 26 OUR TEAM Performance Assessment and Open Dialogue We believe dialogue is essential for professional growth and for achieving our company’s goals. We are committed to giving our employees all tools required for them to tap into their potential and to perform at their highest standard, whilst constantly improving their ability to deliver quality in all aspects of their professional life. Twice a year, employees go through a conscientious performance assessment, where team leaders engage in an open and frank conversation on the performance, expectations and objectives of the team member. The structure of the appraisal session is set so as to gather feedback from the employee, their colleagues and management. The performance assessment in 2017 covered 100 percent of permanent employees in Warsaw and 72.91 percent in Mauritius. Developing Skills EcoVadis is fully committed to developing employees’ skills and capabilities. We have developed a comprehensive online and in-person training programme to make sure that all employees can perform at their best. All newcomers go through an individualized training period during their first months. Our training programme offers a base induction to the general processes of EcoVadis this ensures that all EcoVadians understand the work culture of each department. Supplementary and more focused training sessions, tailored to the specific requirements of a business unit, are then undertaken by our team members. For example, our sustainable development analysts are intensely trained for at least three months, before entering an in-depth debriefing system the purpose of which is to gradually immerse newcomers into practice. In 2017, a total of 1,395 debriefs for trainees were carried out. After the initial trainings are concluded, we follow up with periodical info sessions and refreshers. Each office has appointed an individual in charge of identifying training needs and organizing training sessions. Special attention is given to the training needs and requests which result from the individual performance assessments that take place at least annually, with each office taking up the topics that are the most relevant for its activities. Our Warsaw office has carried out trainings on management, IT development, CSPO, Excel and other technical development trainings. A total of 20 percent of employees participated in skill development trainings. In addition, EcoVadis offers all its employees an opportunity to take part in language classes (French and Polish). These classes are aimed both at developing our employees’ capacities, and also at helping them integrate more easily in their respective countries of work. In 2017, a total of 22 employees participated in French lessons, covering 23 percent of all employees in the office1. The Mauritius office carried out trainings covering topics such as leadership, IT development, labour law, sales, human management, time management, self-development and soft skills. A total of 372 hours of training were provided. 1. Warsaw office saw an intense growth in the number of employees. At the beginning of 2017 there were 27 employees, while at the end of the year the total count was 140. For this report, we considered the average number of employees as 65. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 27 OUR TEAM Cultural Exchange and Career Mobility Mobility is a key aspect of EcoVadis’ professional environment. We have an internal mobility programme through which all employees who have been with the company for at least one year have the opportunity to visit and temporarily work from one of our other offices. This allows them to discover and experience firsthand different environments and cultures – a great opportunity to develop soft skills such as communication, adaptability, teamwork and empathy. During 2017, Mauritius office welcomed 17 employees from other offices and sent 15 employees on exchange to other offices. Career mobility opportunities are also granted to those who would prefer to stay closer to home. In addition to our constant interdepartmental projects, employees can temporarily join other business units to carry out specific tasks, depending on business needs. This scheme has already led to a wide range of skills development for our employees and may even lead to a career change opportunity for some as the experience in other business units can result in taking a new job function permanently. Strong in Diversity EcoVadis’ diverse workforce is a valuable asset. It provides us with a wide range of perspectives necessary to interact with global stakeholders. We are fully committed to maintaining such diversity. In 2013, we made our commitment public by signing and becoming a member of the French Diversity Charter (Charte de la Diversité). We are convinced that diversity and equality are essential for building a stronger company. In 2017, EcoVadis had a total of 496 employees from more than 40 different nationalities. In the same year, 42 percent of top managers were female, as well as 45 percent of managers and 48 percent of team leaders. female female top female 43% 45% 48% team managers managers leaders EcoVadians hail from across the globe, all regions of the world are represented in our employee base. This ethnic mosaic serves to reinforce our corporate culture, and the pluralistic atmosphere in each of our offices serves to contribute to the global push toward tolerance. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 28 OUR TEAM Where our workforce is based Mauritius 164 Poland 140 France 94 USA 34 Tunisia 23 Hong Kong 22 Canada 8 Germany 5 UK 3 Argentina 1 Belgium 1 Italy 1 497 The Netherlands 1 Total: Eliminating Discrimination and Harassment Maintaining a workplace free of discrimination is of utmost importance to us. We hire, train, promote and compensate employees based solely on merit, without consideration of race, colour, religion, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, genetic characteristics, political opinion, trade union affiliation, pregnancy, sexual orientation or physical appearance. Our Code of Ethics outlines these values and we carry out trainings for our newcomers. During 2017, there were nine training sessions, with a total participation of 160 new employees. This equals to nine hours of training on discrimination and anti-harassment, covering 67 percent of our newcomers. We are also committed to providing a work environment free of any forms of harassment. We have enhanced our commitments to a fair and friendly culture by training all our employees on diversity, antidiscrimination and non-harassment. To ensure a point of contact in case of questions or complaints, there is a dedicated ethics referent appointed at each of our offices. We have also put in place a dedicated whistleblowing email (ethics@ecovadis.com), where employees can report any case of discrimination or harassment, seek advice or voice their concerns anonymously if preferred. We always guarantee our employees confidentiality and will never retaliate against a report made in good faith. In 2017 we registered two reports on discrimination or harassment, which are being thoroughly investigated. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 29 OUR TEAM Having fun at EcoVadis We are always seeking ways to improve life at EcoVadis, this includes hosting a range of events for our employees to improve work-life balance and get to know one another in a more informal environment. These events range from regular, casual gatherings to company wide events such as Christmas and Divali parties. Paris Office Mauritius Office EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 30 OUR TEAM Similarly, to celebrate our birthday in July many of our offices host a party for employees. 2017 marked our 10th birthday and so many of our offices held an extra special birthday event to celebrate this important milestone. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 31 Ethics Values, Principles, Standards EcoVadis’ core belief is that innovation is driven primarily by fostering transparency and trust between stakeholders. This belief is the cornerstone of our values which constitutes the foundation upon which EcoVadis defines its vision for the world of tomorrow. Our prime ambition is to contribute to creating a global businesses environment where companies are measured and rewarded as much by their sustainability as by financial or other measures. We see immense power in leveraging responsible business to make a better world, and the job of every EcoVadian is to to help our customers to make meaningful and lasting improvements in their global footprint. We aim to: 1 2 3 Make sustainability Make transparency a Facilitate continuous performance measurable scalable and efficient improvement and and benchmarkable; process for both suppliers innovation. and buying organizations; Integrity  Teamwork  Commitment to customers  Trust  Drive to success Raising any Ethical issue We have an open door policy and employees are encouraged to voice any concerns or issues that they face. If any employees come across an ethical issue they are encouraged to raise it first with their direct manager. If this is not appropriate, there are two other possible solutions: Employees can contact the ethics officer or referents either by email or schedule a face-to-face meeting. Alternatively, they can send an email on ethics@ecovadis.com, which is our dedicated email address and only the ethics officer has access to it. All complaints received are confidential. The company also has a strong non-retaliation policy for reports made in good faith. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 33 ETHICS Managing Conflict of Interest within our operations A conflict of interest arises when employees’ personal interests or activities interfere with their ability to act in the best interests of the company. It is EcoVadis’ policy that personal relationships must not result in preferential treatment for suppliers, clients or any other external stakeholders. We recognize that employees have personal relationships with suppliers, clients, and other external stakeholders. In case of potential conflict of interest, employees must disclose this to their business unit managers. The following measures have been implemented to address potential conflicts of interest:  Business ethics training for all employees;  A hiring process that recognizes that relationships can influence the judgment of merit;  Employee remuneration structure that enables independency of supplier analysis. Also, EcoVadis has an integrity guideline whereby analysts are responsible for opting out of an analysis when their integrity and/or independency is potentially compromised. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to:  Personal relations with the company being assessed, e.g. family members, friends etc., who currently work for the company or have worked for the company within 12 months prior to the evaluation;  Personal interests in the company assessed, e.g. holding stocks;  Professional relations with the company assessed, e.g. employment or consulting services provided within 12 months prior to the evaluation. , When analysts identify circumstances similar to those listed above they are required to contact the Vice President of Research. Moreover, to avoid any perception of corruption, EcoVadis has to ensure that key employees know the boundaries for which gifts and entertainment can be given or accepted. We have developed a Gifts & Entertainment Policy and Procedure for reporting such transactions. As a global company, we operate in a diverse environment, where certain activities are an expression of politeness or a reflection of societal and cultural practices. We respect cultural EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 34 ETHICS norms to the extent possible under the local laws and regulations by which we are governed, but those activities cannot violate this code. Allowed Items Prohibited Items • Promotional items • Meals • Cash, loans, stock • Gifts given in the (pens, mugs, or stock options, gift form of services memo pads, etc.) certificates or any or other noncash equivalent. cash benefits (e.g. the promise of employment or • Items prohibited favourable CSR by law (e.g. illegal ratings). substances). • Gifts prohibited by the gift giver’s • Any gift that can organization. damage EcoVadis reputation. Only the Executive Committee members, Customer Success Managers and Sales and Marketing Departments are allowed to receive gifts. Members of all other departments are prohibited to give or receive any sort of gifts which might appear or give rise to potential conflicts of interest. All gifts received or given have to be disclosed and reported to the Ethics Team via a reporting form if exceed the thresholds identified below (depending on the location). Paris EUR 50 Hong Kong HKD 500 Mauritius MUR 1000 New York USD 50 Warsaw EUR 50 Corruption and Bribery EcoVadians are expected to behave as per the highest norms of ethical behaviour, and as such all newcomers are systematically receive training on the code of conduct irrespective of which location they are based in. The Ethics Team keeps track of all employees who have been trained. Refresher training sessions are also organized. In 2017, 160 new-comers out of 237 were trained on the code of conduct, which represents 67 percent. Whilst we did not perform a corruption risk assessment, we are proud to disclose that no confirmed corruption incidents were reported in 2017. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 35 ETHICS Fair Play for a Healthy Competitive Environment Price-fixing and anti-trust practices were considered a risk factor and the following measures have been implemented to manage it:  Training for relevant employees on procedures related to membership pricing and processes;  Allow price adjustments only as a result of committee decision making meeting to ensure that all due diligence is carried out to uphold highest standards of ethical behaviour. We were not subject to any legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices for 2017. Quality Control and Client Feedback Mechanism We like to think of our solution as elegant. We take the requirements of the buyer and approach all of their suppliers in their procurement portfolio. The suppliers are provided with a streamlined process, which allows our team of dedicated CSR experts to gather the required data, analyse and produce actionable information for the buyer in the form of the EcoVadis scorecard. Our solution is mainly an intellectual one and the intangibility of the services we provide presents a risk when it comes to consistency in its delivery. We have tackled this issue head on and mapped out our product lifecycle and defined discrete boundaries between each step. Committee regrouping the various aspects of our operations work congruently to develop solutions for our clients. We realize that our customers (be it buyers or suppliers) may feel aggravated by certain issues. To address this, we have implemented a Corrective and Preventive Action system to cater for perceived and real deviance from our quality standards. The corrective aspects of the system encouraged us to develop a dedicated complaints process to allow our clients to voice their concerns through dedicated channels. All complaints are handled by our dedicated team of experts and solutions presented to the complainant are always comprehensive and practical. The complaint process ensures that the information pathway between the registration of the complaint to the resolution of the latter is as streamlined as possible. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 36 ETHICS The Trust Centre provides our stakeholders with an overview of the mechanisms which we have put in place to ensure the quality and security of our processes. We believe that prevention is better than cure. Spotting quality issues upstream of the production chain ensures that our scorecards always reflect the facts of the situation at hand. Our system of Quality Check Forms is in place to ensure that our downstream analysts identify and record quality issues at the earliest stages of the analysis process. Once identified, the quality issues are systematically dealt with. Focus trainings are offered to analysts to enable them to polish their quality levels on identified weak areas. The main metrics utilized for measuring quality levels are:  An analyst debrief is a quality tool which ensures feedback is given to new analysts on their work, so as for them to increase their quality levels upstream on the production line;  Supplier debriefs are private sessions led by our CSR experts at the request of suppliers. Supplier debriefs are organized to explain the EcoVadis assessment methodology in more detail and to justify the supplier's allocated score on an aspect of their CSR management system;  Supplier inquiries, which are instances when suppliers need clarification on specific issues related to their on-boarding and assessment process. Our team of senior analysts and customer service advocates provide our clients with personalized debrief sessions, where each issue raised is discussed and resolved. For the year 2017 we had an increase of 30 percent in the number of supplier inquiries compared to the previous year. We managed to keep our quality levels within our annual target, i.e. less than 1 percent correction rate on our scorecards. The increase in supplier inquiries and the fact that we exceeded our quality target demonstrates the effectiveness of our Trust Centre and solidity of our Quality Management System. 2017 Product Quality KPIs 1800 700 80 99.2% Analyst Debriefs Supplier Inquiries Supplier Debriefs Overall Quality level The nature of our activities require us to operate with the highest integrity when it comes to information security. All information provided to EcoVadis is kept safe and confidential. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 37 ETHICS Information Integrity and Security Our activities require us to handle information of highly confidential and sensitive nature. Protecting the confidentiality and privacy of the information provided to us by our customers is an intrinsic component of our corporate culture. Our Data Privacy statement is available on our website. Our commitment to information security was made evident when we were awarded the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certification in mid-2016. Our certified locations Site Name Country Certification (s) EcoVadis SAS France ISO 9001, ISO 27001 EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd. Mauritius ISO 9001, ISO 27001 EcoVadis Sp z o.o. Poland ISO 9001, ISO 27001 EcoVadis Inc. US ISO 9001, ISO 27001 EcoVadis Ltd. Hong Kong EcoVadis Sarl Tunisia (Click here to view the ISO 27001 certificate and here for the ISO 9001 certificate) EcoVadis adheres to the set of data protection principles developed by Commission Nationale de L’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) under the French Data Protection Act. Our Information Security Management system is founded on extensive sets of policies and procedures, as well as our administrative controls which effectively provides the assurance that information provided to us is protected from unauthorized access and disclosure. Our ISMS system works in tandem with our certified QMS system to form an integrated system which maintains the availability, integrity, confidentiality and traceability of information at all times. As with all systems the most prominent risk factor is human error. EcoVadians are expected to integrate the principle of vigilance as part of their work ethics. All employees are provided with regular ISMS trainings to ensure that they understand the concepts of ISMS, and more importantly have a practical and holistic attitude towards implementing the concepts in practice. Each business unit of EcoVadis has Information Security referents who act as the first point of contact for team members to voice their concerns and asks for clarification on specific IS issues. As many as 500 of our employees participated in the annual IS refresher course, and 10 percent of the participants were required to attend an additional focus training as they demonstrated some gaps in their understanding of the IS culture of our company. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 38 ETHICS Whilst the ISMS requires a certain degree of rigidity from our employees, EcoVadis core values allow for our employees to maintain their work-life balance. With a certain degree of freedom comes responsibility and our IT charter establishes the minimum norms of behavior we expect our team members to follow. Our work-from-home benefit is regimented by our Mobile Device/BYOD Policy for EcoVadians. Having set high standards for ourselves, EcoVadis also expects the best from our suppliers. We have incorporated specific IS clauses in our service agreements with our cyber service providers. EcoVadis outsources its data storage services to certified data centers at geographically separated locations within the European Union. Our General terms and conditions show our customers the expectations we put upon ourselves and those which we expect from users of our platform to ensure the integrity of our information service system. Our Security Incident Management procedure ensures the quick detection of security events and weaknesses, and quick response to security incidents. All of information handled by EcoVadis is done through strict information classification labels to ensure that no unauthorised access or disclosure of information occurs. No information is kept for an indefinite time on our systems and a schedule for file retention has been established for each business unit as per operational requirements. We require the submission of a certificate of secured disposal from our subcontractors. The total recordable Information Security incidents for 2017 amounted to 32. The average number of IS incident averages to 3.5 reported cases per month. It is noteworthy that this figure does not discriminate between low level and high level incidents. Additionally, in 2017 EcoVadis did not breach any standards with regards to marketing communication and received no substantial complaints concerning our client base's private information. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 39 Corporate Citizenship We believe that innovation is driven primarily by fostering transparency and trust between stakeholders. This belief is the cornerstone of our values: integrity, teamwork, commitment to customers, trust and the drive to achieve success. We nurture a virtuous cycle at the management level, illustrated below. The first step is to engage our stakeholders to understand the priorities and how best we can contribute to the betterment of society. The next step is to raise awareness within our sphere of influence and encourage our stakeholders to integrate our objectives in their thought and action processes. The third and final stage of the cycle is the logical conclusion of the previous stages, and that is to mitigate the impact of the externalities to which we contribute to the creation of. In addition to the systemic change, which we aim to achieve through our management approach, we encourage EcoVadians to take responsibility in everything they do. Reduce any negative impacts on society we may have Engage with society to increase our positive impact Raise awareness to increase resposible behaviour & adoption of our policy Our thriving online community takes pride in communicating their various efforts to fellow EcoVadians through our specially created #CSR4EV hashtag. The #CSR4EV is essential for our team members to keep in touch with all the activities being carried out across our various offices. This push toward the nurturing of the ideal corporate citizen has enabled us to enrich lives by providing opportunities to many underserved members of societies and communities within which we operate. EcoVadians are provided the opportunity to build their capacity to become actors of sustainable change, and role models for the communities in which we operate. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 41 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP EcoVadis, with all its global entities, undertakes its daily operations with respect for the environmental and socio-economic development of local communities as one of its priorities. We believe that creating conditions for local communities to improve their quality of life is part of our CSR growth and are confident that we are able to add value, directly and indirectly, to the standards of living of the local population. We are not aware of any significant negative effects on local communities corresponding to our activities. Our Community Involvement Initiatives Our Community Involvement program has been set up to allow EcoVadians to put their charitable and participative spirit to good use. The Sustainable Development Goals provide us with the overarching themes which we want to address through our program. To achieve our strategic goals, we focus our efforts on three main pillars: human well-being, animal well-being and environment protection. Environmental Animal Human Protection Wellbeing Wellbeing 4 1 7 December is a festive time for many cultures and an opportunity for us to remember those who are less privileged than us and contribute our fair share to make the world a better place. Our Warsaw office provided their support to a family in need as part of the “Noble Box” action. The Polish winter can be unforgiving and EcoVadians banded together to collect necessities which the family needed the most. This included furniture, winter boots, clothes, school supplies, food and household goods. One of the most important gifts of all was a box of Lego, which was sent to the children as an early Christmas present. On December 5, also known as International Volunteer Day, EcoVadians at the New York office offered their time to prepare the equivalent of 1500 meals at the Food Bank in New York. The meals were then distributed to those who needed them the most. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 42 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP EcoVadians are encouraged to adopt a healthy lifestyle. We participate in charity runs, organised in the locations where we operate. Below is a list of events we participated in 2017: Heritage Southern Peak Trail, in support of Haemophilia Association of Mauritius; PUMA Night Run, in support of Cancer Association Mauritius; EKIDEN relay in Warsaw, Poland. The Society for Aid to Children Inoperable in Mauritius (S.A.C.I.M) is one of the most robust NGOs in Mauritius. It caters for children afflicted with life threatening and maiming congenital issues. EcoVadians donated their time helping collect donations and some even participated in the on-field collection at the Bagatelle Mall of Mauritius. The Spinal Injuries Rehabilitation Centre (SIReC) is an NGO, which addresses the limited resources available to those suffering from spinal injuries. Too often those suffering from spinal injuries find themselves crippled for life due to a lack of local medical knowhow and/or support services. The SIReC offers its beneficiaries the hope to regain some mobility and continue striving towards a life of achievements and contentment. This is why EcoVadis supported the SIReC for the second year in a row in 2017. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 43 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Le Vélo Vert is an NGO sponsored by the Small Grant Program of the Global Environmental Fund of the UNDP. Le Vélo Vert missions is to build the capacity of local farmers to provide fresh and organic produce to the customers. EcoVadis supports their initiative by having regular grocery hauls with the NGO which results in a win-win situation for both parties, as the NGO covers some of its operational costs whilst we provide ourselves with some quality and ethically grown produce. The Children’s Foundation is an non-governmental association focused on providing children from underprivileged socio-economic background a safe and stable environment where they can expand their academic and life skills. EcoVadis has a long standing history of helping this NGO. In 2017 EcoVadians donated their personal time to organize a Christmas party for the beneficiaries of the Children’s Foundation. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 44 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The European Refugee Crisis has been a major issue since 2015. Amidst all the headlines it is easy to lose sight of the humanitarian aspects of this tragedy and EcoVadis deemed it necessary to provide our employees with the opportunity to gain a first-hand experience with the realities of this modern conundrum. SINGA is a citizen action group which works towards the integration of refugees. EcoVadians attended a session, where several refugees recounted their peculiar and incredible life stories. Mixed teams of refugees and EcoVadians also engaged in a friendly soccer match, the game broke down cultural and language barriers and allowed us to band together as a team and have fun. In addition, the film My Escape, made up of video clips filmed by refugees with their phones, was shown. The critically acclaimed movie Before the Flood was shown to our employees to further raise awareness of what business-as-usual philosophy may lead to. What followed was Zero Waste Week. As the name implies, a full working week was filled with activities, talks and initiatives to promote a of zero waste philosophy among our employees. Recent years have seen a drastic overshoot in the numbers of stray dogs in Mauritius, so much that the local population perceives dogs as pests. To combat this issue EcoVadis sponsored Protection of Animal Welfare Society, which runs a conscientious effort for the sterilization of stray dogs. EcoVadis effectively contributed to the sterilization of 20 dogs. Our Mauritian team took matters in their own hands and joined the initiative of the African Network for Policy Research & Advocacy for Sustainability (ANPRAS). ANPRAS organized a clean-up of the Ebene Cyber City, where the EcoVadis office is located, and aims to promote environmental citizenship amongst young professionals in Mauritius. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 45 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP All our initiatives are guided by the principle of mutual growth and exchange between our various stakeholders around the world. We aim to navigate the community dynamics within which we operate to provide maximum value and change. Our involvement relies as much on the initiative of our team members as collaboration between NGOs and citizen organizations at the trenches of social, forefront and economic issues. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 46 Protecting the Environment Environmental Commitment Even though we do not operate in business sectors that produce or cause significant pollution, we are conscious that our actions have an impact on the environment. EcoVadis has committed itself to enhance its environmental performance and protect the environment to the best of its ability. In an effort to meet our objectives, we will focus on the following areas: Energy, Water and Material Consumption, Green House Gas Emissions and Waste Generation. Energy Consumption Our core business relies on the continuous availability of energy, mainly for the functioning of IT equipment. In order to limit energy use in our offices, we promote energy efficiency by placing posters and reminders in offices as well as through training. In an effort to reduce the consumption of energy related to transportation, EcoVadis provides online communication and teleconferencing tools during meetings and training sessions conducted between different EcoVadis locations and customers. Other energy reduction engagements include:  Switching off all office lighting after working hours;  Making maximum use of natural light during the day;  Minimizing the use of air conditioning whenever possible by favouring direct fresh air circulation;  Use of energy efficient lighting and IT equipment;  Configuring all desktops/laptops so that sleep mode is activated within 15 minutes of inactivity;  Purchasing of renewable energy from local power grids whenever possible;  Installation of motion sensor activated lighting systems in the office in specific places like restrooms. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 48 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Global energy consumption in kWh 2 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 3,653 3,752 2,601 2,601 2,506 2,506 1,374 1,494 2,059 2,059 24,603 Mauritius 10,324 10,488 10,140 10,311 7,626 7,979 7,456 7,618 7,217 8,501 9,335 8,435 105,430 Warsaw n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total 13,977 14,240 12,741 12,912 10,132 10,485 8,830 9,112 9,276 10,560 9,335 8,435 130,033 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 6,018 6,018 6,018 5,263 5,263 5,263 5,931 4,237 5,817 5,817 6,175 6,175 67,994 Mauritius 13,363 9,253 12,759 10,860 10,166 8,779 8,814 7,520 7,823 7602 8453 8453 113,845 Warsaw 2,253 2,054 2,233 2,253 2,364 2,361 2,058 2,391 2,352 3,550 3,437 4,134 31,439 Total 21,634 17,325 21,010 18,376 17,793 16,403 16,803 14,148 15,992 16,969 18,065 18,762 213,278 Heating energy consumption in GJ in Warsaw office Jan 58.43 Feb 44.03 Mar 32.57 Apr 27.31 May 47.09 Jun 42.46 Jul 35.26 Aug 48.71 Sept 33.00 Oct 50.01 Nov 60.31 Dec 83.76 2. Paris office consumption for some months was received bimonthly or trimonthly. Data divided by respective months to be presented monthly. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 49 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions The main source of greenhouse gas emissions at EcoVadis is from employees commuting to work and business travel between offices located around the globe. We aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the use of dedicated teleconferencing software for meetings, the promotion of carpooling and public transportation usage by employees. Where applicable, EcoVadis encourages employees to make use of carbon neutral means of transportation for their daily commutes, such as cycling to work. As a last resort, we will offset our carbon emissions for business travels. GHG equivalent emissions from energy consumption 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 51 26 18 18 18 18 10 10 14 14 198 Mauritius 2,787 2,832 2,738 2,784 2,059 2,154 2,013 2,057 1,949 2,295 2,520 2,277 28,465 Warsaw n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Total 2,838 2,858 2,756 2,802 2,077 2,172 2,023 2,067 1,963 2,309 2,520 2,277 28,663 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 42 42 42 37 37 37 42 30 41 41 43 43 476 Mauritius 3,608 2,498 3,445 2,932 2,745 2,370 2,380 2,030 2,112 2,053 2,282 2,277 30,732 Warsaw 1,746 1,592 1,731 1,747 1,833 1,830 1,595 1,853 1,823 2,752 2,664 3,205 21,166 Total 5,396 4,132 5,218 4,716 4,615 4,237 4,017 3,913 3,976 4,846 4,989 5,525 52,374 Water Consumption Although our activities do not make significant use of water, EcoVadis recognizes that water is an important natural resource. EcoVadis is thus committed to making responsible use of water through increased employee awareness. Drinking water and general water consumption General water (m3) 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Warsaw 35.67 4.05 20.13 21.48 25.92 29.99 25.45 25 29.82 51.06 53.27 48.87 370.71 Drinking water (lt) Mauritius Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total 2016 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 0 0 8 8 26 2017 9 8 8 9 10 17 8 16 10 8 10 10 123 EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 50 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Material Consumption and Waste Generation We try as much as reasonably possible to reduce the utilization of raw materials and to manage waste sustainably. We encourage each of our business units to implement sustainable waste management practices such as waste segregation and recycling and by making use of all available waste management resources in their respective locations. We have also pledged to reduce our paper consumption and have focused our efforts on making improvements in paper intensive activities. For example, we have invested in photocopying machines that offer double sided printing. We also try to ensure that the printing paper we use has been manufactured from recycled paper. Moreover, being a company which relies mainly on IT equipment for our daily activities, our objective is to recycle all IT equipment with the help of recycling partners when they reach their end-of-life in order to reduce electronic waste to landfills. Paper (no. of sheets) consumed and recycled 2016 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 0 3,900 3,020 3,720 6,060 4,280 4,220 3,260 3,440 4,700 5,900 2,080 44,580 Mauritius 500 0 5,000 0 0 0 100 0 2,500 0 3,000 11,100 Total 500 3,900 8,020 3,720 6,060 4,280 4,320 3,260 5,940 4,700 5,900 5,080 55,680 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Paris 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mauritius 0 0 2,500 1,500 0 2,500 2,500 1,500 2,500 0 0 2,500 15,500 Total 0 0 2,500 1,500 0 2,500 2,500 1,500 2,500 0 0 2,500 15,500 Waste recycled in Paris office Printer Printer Electronic Paper (kg) Cans (kg) Cans (no.) Bottles (kg) Bottles (no.) cartridge (kg) Cartridge (no.) waste(kg) 2016 222.9 25.8 864 63.6 3185 27.7 42 2017 276 28 933 137 6850 22 29 22 EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 51 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Number of PET bottles with capacity between 0.25l – 5l recycled in Mauritius office YEAR Capacity/L Number of PET bottles 2016 2017 0.25 5 1 0.275 2 1 0.33 10 38 0.40 3 0 0.50 299 325 0.75 0 71 1.0 150 214 1.5 145 276 2.0 11 13 5.0 1 1 Promotion of Sustainable Consumption We provide supplier sustainability rating services and our aim is to continuously improve the sustainable services and solutions provided through regular updates of our own internal processes and methodology based on new research and development in the industry. We want to make sure that the companies we assess are continuously improving their CSR performance, thus making this world a better place to live in. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 52 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental Approach at EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd Promotion of efficient and effective environmental activities is one of the many actions conducted by EcoVadis. Environmental Awareness Environmental awareness training is conducted for all newcomers in the Mauritius office. The CSR environment referents are responsible for ensuring that environmental awareness training has been provided to new-comers. Training includes waste management, energy conservation measures. A guided office tour is also conducted to familiarize employees with all measures in place. Energy Light Management Air Conditioning Procedure In our attempt to reduce electricity consumption, all Procedures have been adopted to minimize the fluorescent lights in the office are gradually being energy consumption of air conditioning (AC) replaced by newer energy-efficient electronic units in the office and at the same time provide a ballasts. Furthermore, window blinds are adjusted comfortable ambient temperature conducive for a to make maximum use of daylight. Work stations are work environment. All AC units operate at the same categorized as shown in the diagrams and employees settings in order to maintain a uniform temperature have the responsibility to switch off the lights of their throughout the office. AC units are operated during respective clusters if they are last person leaving the hours when the largest numbers of employees are office. at work. We also aim to increase the use of natural ventilation by opening the doors through the office Posters are placed in meeting rooms, training rooms where possible before the AC is turned on. and phone booths to remind employees to turn off lights when leaving. The last person leaving the office is required to turn off all the lights by switching off the main switch located in front of the main entrance. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 53 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT IT Equipment Paper In order to minimize energy consumption of the all The Mauritius office has invested in photocopying IT equipment in the office all personal computers machines that offer double sided printing. Paper and laptops in the office are automatically set on recycling bins are available to employees and paper sleep mode, activated after two minutes of inactivity, is recycled through a local company, Paper Link’s. and hibernate mode, activated after two hours of inactivity. Employees are advized to turn off their computers at the end of the working day. Employees are encouraged not to use screensavers on PCs. Kitchenware A common source of waste is single-use tableware. Water Use Instead of purchasing and providing disposable tableware, EcoVadis provides reusable mugs, plates We only use water for consumption (drinking, washing, and cutlery along with on-site washing facilities. washrooms) and general office cleaning activities. We encourage employees to use reusable takeout Posters are placed near taps to sensitize employees containers. to water waste in the kitchen and washrooms. PET Bottles Recycling Efficient Material Use PETE1, HDPE2, LDPE4, PP5 plastics bottles are Below is a summary of the environmental procedures recycled through partnership with Mission Verte. associated with material management operations at EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd: Disposal of Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Used computers are donated to NGOs or sold to employees. Ink and toners are recycled through partnership with Cartridge world; a recycling company in Mauritius. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 54 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental Approach at EcoVadis SAS Environmental Awareness Funding Renewable Energy production Paris office organized Zero Waste Week, a week-long Paris office purchases electricity from Enercoop, an event to raise awareness of through different events. electric utility cooperative company. By doing so, The events included: EcoVadis is financing small producers of electricity and supporting renewable energy sources.  Lunch session with a French eco-designer In addition to renewable energies, our Paris office has (Katell Gélébart); LED lights to make sure we are reducing our energy use.  Information session on recycling by Les Joyeux Recycleurs, our recycling service Waste Management provider; The following wastes are segregated for recycling:  Documentary projection (THE CLEAN BIN PROJECT); 1. Metal cans;  Disco Soup: collection of food from 2. Plastic bottles; nearby supermarkets to make salads and soups. This food is completely edible and 3. Paper/carton waste (milk/juice cartons, paper, nutritious but the team saved it from going newspapers, magazines, cereal packets); to waste 4. Electronic waste. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 55 Our Supply Chain Being an office based Software As A Service (SaaS) company, we do not have significant risks emanating from our supply chain. However we are aware of the important link between our procurement practices and its impact on society and the environment. We always strive to give preference to suppliers who truly share the same sustainability commitments as us and whenever possible we favour eco-friendly products such as by purchasing recycled office supplies, FSC/PEFC certified paper, sustainable food commodities and energy efficient IT equipment. Below are some examples. Sheltered Workshop Reusable Commodities By procuring from sheltered workshops, we know We encourage the purchase of reusable that we are promoting equal opportunity in our dishware. For example, in the Mauritius office, supply chain for anyone regardless of his or her everyone has a mug with their name on it. We disability. In our Paris office, for example, we work also offer plates and silverware for all employees with the sheltered workshop “ESAT Arcade” to and guests in cases of events. purchase office supplies. Buying Local Paper Use EcoVadis encourages purchases from local Although not intensively used, we procure paper vendors. This enables us to reduce greenhouse on a regularly basis. We always make sure to gas effects by extensive transportation networks purchase recycled or FSC/PEFC certified paper. as well as promoting local vendors in the community. Tea and coffe Our Supplier Code of Conduct EcoVadis has a stated preference for organic products with a Fair-Trade Label which is the We drafted our first Supplier Code of Conduct case for our Paris office coffee beans. Our team which covers key sustainability issues. This members can consume these with peace of mind Supplier Code has been prepared together in knowing that the coffee beans originate from collaboration between the Procurement Team regions where farmers receive better trading and some CSR Analyst, and is being formalized so conditions. that all new suppliers receive a copy of this code. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 57 Our indirect impact on society Our Indirect Impact How does the work carried out by EcoVadians in Paris for a customer in London help to improve living standards of people and even protect the environment in Mexico? We rate the CSR performance of companies down the supply chain of their clients. The EcoVadis CSR rating methodology measures the quality of a company’s CSR management system which should comprise of its policies, actions and results. These three management layers are further broken down into seven management indicators, namely; policies, endorsements, measures, certifications, coverage (Deployment of Actions), reporting (Key Performance Indicators) and 360° news monitoring. POLI ENDO Policies, objectives, Endorsement targets, governance of external CSR initiatives and principles POLICIES 360 LI END PO O Standpoints of stakeholders, MESU SU ME e.g. 360 administrative action and judicial implemented ACTI S authorities, LT (e.g. procedures, SU O O CE EP R training, trade unions, E T R R NS equipment) NGO'S COVE REPO CERT Quality of Certification, labels, reporting readily 3rd Party Audits available to stakeholders COVE Level of deployment of certifications or actions throughout the company EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 59 OUR INDIRECT IMPACTS ON THE SOCIETY When assessing a company’s CSR management system, it is important to define which CSR issues (for example energy, water, employee health and safety) are material for the business activity of the company being evaluated and thus should be covered by the CSR management system. The assessment considers a range of CSR issues, which are grouped into four themes. The issues covered in each assessment are based on the relevance of the 21 CSR issues to the supplier context, such as industry, size, and geography. The 21 CSR issues are based upon international CSR standards such as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s standards, the ISO 26000 guidelines, the CERES Roadmap, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, also known as the Ruggie Framework. SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ETHICS PROCUREMENT Operations Human Resources • Corruption & Bribery • Supplier • Energy & GHGs • Employee Health & • Anti-competitive Environmental • Water Safety Practices Performance • Biodiversity • Working Conditions • Data Security • Supplier Social • Pollution • Social Dialogue Performance • Materials & Waste • Career Management & Training Products • Product Use Human Rights • Product End of Life • Child & Forced Labor • Customer Safety • Discrimination & • Advocacy Harassment • External human rights issues The final product of the evaluation process is a CSR scorecard detailing the overall CSR score by themes, and also showing the strengths of the CSR management system and also the improvement areas classified by priority to be addressed. What Does This Mean? By offering such a service, we are making sure that the concept of corporate social responsibility is being communicated to all the companies we assess and at the same time, helping the companies to integrate CSR into their daily operations and core business strategy. When companies are able to understand and apply the notion of sustainability, it means that • The environment is being protected with less resources used, less greenhouse gases emitted, waste properly managed, recycled or treated, companies are responsible for the end-of-life of the products they sell; • Employees are safer, healthier, and have a better work-life balance. Their career is properly managed with adequate skills development training offered and basic human rights are respected; EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 60 OUR INDIRECT IMPACTS ON THE SOCIETY • Leaders and employees start applying ethics when making decisions. They are aware of the impacts of corruption, anti-competition, misuse of third party information and misleading advertisements; • Companies start looking more closely at the sustainability practices of their supply chain. Average Score Increase/Decrease Between 2015 and 2017 Over the last years, we have seen a slight increase in the average overall score and the score per theme from 2015 to 2016 and a slight decrease from 2016 to 2017 despite a significant increase in new companies (suppliers) we assess. This means companies are making efforts to become more sustainable by at least addressing loopholes areas in their CSR management system. 2015 2016 2017 Number of clients 128 149 185 Number of companies assessed (scorecards published) 10712 14232 17201 Average score Overall 42.4 43.8 43.8 Environment 43,8 44.9 44.9 Labour Practices 44,0 45,4 45,4 Fair Business Practices 39,3 41,2 41,2 Sustainable procurement 36,9 38,6 38,6 Number of supplier/client inquiries answered 345 550 666 Number of debriefs carried out 61 87 103 Number of clients trained 3 Number of suppliers seeing their score increased following a re-evaluation 2489 3922 4834 EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 61 Our Responsibility as a CSR Rating Agency Our Responsibility as a CSR Rating Agency As a CSR rating agency we understand we have a responsibility toward the companies we rate. We are aware that our ratings can directly impact a procurement decision being made at the other end of the world. This is why we rely on our unique and robust methodology, which is based on the following seven critical principles: 1. Evidence based Supporting documents are a must. We collect data and documentation directly from evaluated companies and validate it. 2. Industry sector, country and size taken into account Ensuring relevance and materiality of the assessment, as well as comparability. 3. Diversification of sources Ensuring a rich and reliable evaluation, with input from the evaluated company, the professional 3rd parties and the stakeholders. 4. Leverage technology is a Must Applied to ensure the process is secure, confidential, and to accelerate the cycle time as well as provide in-depth content. 5. Assessment by international CSR experts From around the globe, rigorously trained and keeping track of the latest best practices. 6. Traceability and transparency of documentation Our proprietary back-end platform ensures a high-quality process is followed. Documentation is provided on the website library describing the overall process and scoring calculation. 7. Excellence through continuous improvements An internal governance committee as well as an external Scientific Committee of international experts continuously review and improve the methodology to keep up with sustainability trends. EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 63 Looking Forward A Decade of Success Corporate sustainability is almost, if not already, at an intersection. Many improvements have been made and goals have been achieved – but is it enough? Are we, corporates, going in the right direction? On top of this, the progress made within sectors is not evenly distributed, and while SDGs are building up momentum to achieve the ultimate sustainability objectives of our world, many companies are still not aware of the impact of their business activities. Yet, we are optimistic. EcoVadis celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2017 and this marked our impressive growth. We were born to make to make the world a better place, and we know that change starts from within. 2017 was a new start for our own Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy, when we began changing for the better, and 2018 is the year where we are building a connection within and amongst offices to engage more people. What started as a small CSR program is now gradually forming part of our daily activities and 2019 will be the year of raising the bar higher and exceeding expectations. Yograz Alluck Global CSR Coordinator EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 65 Appendix Global Compact 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 67 APPENDIX The 17 Sustainable Development Goals Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts* Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 68 APPENDIX GRI Reference table EcoVadis has prepared its CSR report 2017 based on the principles of United Nations Global Compact, the Sustainable Development Goals and some disclosures from the GRI Standards. The table below provides the details of each indicator discussed in this report, the corresponding reference points with the standards used and where to find the information in the report. Report title UNGC SDGs GRI Disclosure covered 102-46, 102-47, 103-1, 102-50, 102-51, About This Report 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, Who We Are 102-7, 102-8, 102-18, 102-20, 201-1 External Commitments 102-12, 102-13 401-1 403-1 403-2 403-4 3 401-2 1 4 401-3 2 5 Our Team 102-41 3 8/ 404-1 6 8.8 404-2 10 404-3 412-2 405-1 406-1 102-16 102-17 102-25 12 205-1 Ethics 10 16 205-2 205-3 206-1 418-1 Corporate Citizenship 413-1 302-1 302-4 3 305-2 6 305-3 Protecting the Environment 9 7 305-5 8 305-5 12 301-2 306-2 Our Supply Chain 102-9 Our Indirect Impacts on the Society 12 Our Responsibility as a CSR Rating Agency Looking forward EcoVadis CSR Report 2017 69 About EcoVadis EcoVadis is the first collaborative platform providing sustainability ratings and performance improvement tools for global supply chains. EcoVadis’ easy-to-use CSR scorecards help companies to monitor suppliers’ environmental, ethical, and social practices across 150 purchasing categories and 120 countries. Over 200 industry leaders such as Nestlé, GSK, Heineken, Michelin, Johnson & Johnson, Schneider Electric, L’Oréal, BASF, and Subway, and over 40,000 of their trading partners use EcoVadis to reduce risk and drive sustainability and innovation. www.ecovadis.com
