2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FROM BUD TO GLASS ABOUT TWE A GLOBAL LEADER IN WINE Treasury Wine Estates (TWE) is one of the world’s largest wine companies, listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. With a rich heritage and diverse portfolio of outstanding wine brands and viticultural assets, the Company’s commitment to delivering shareholder value is underpinned by its passion for crafting, marketing and selling quality wine for consumers, as well as building sustainable partnerships with customers, globally. TWE employs approximately 3,500 winemakers and viticulturists, along with marketing, sales, distribution and support staff across four key regions, with wine sold in more than 100 countries around the world. CONTENTS Our Locations / 1 Message from the CEO and CR Council Chair / 2 Performance – Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Governance / 4 Planet – Environmental Sustainability / 11 People – Human Rights, Labour, Community Engagement, and Health, Safety and Wellbeing / 17 Product – Product Responsibility and Quality / 25 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress / 31 Key Performance Indicators / 32 References / Inside Back Cover Contact / Back Cover IMPORTANT INFORMATION This 2018 Sustainability Report is TWE’s inaugural Sustainability Report (Report). The Report has been prepared to provide a general overview of TWE’s performance with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. It should be read in conjunction with TWE’s 2018 Annual Report, which provides a detailed overview of TWE’s financial and operating performance for F18. The Report contains certain forward looking statements. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘likely’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘intend’ and other similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of TWE, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Whilst TWE has, where appropriate, verified the source and accuracy of the information contained in the Report, no independent assurance has been obtained in relation to it. The information in this Report is current as at 30 June 2018 unless otherwise stated. References to ‘TWE’, ‘Company’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ are to Treasury Wine Estates Limited and/or except where the context otherwise requires, its subsidiaries. References to ‘F18’ and ‘F19’ are to the time periods 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 and 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 respectively. All currency referred to in the Report is in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. OUR LOCATIONS 1 TWE EUROPE TWICKENHAM, UK TWE AMERICAS NAPA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA TWE ASIA TWE EUROPE SHANGHAI, CHINA TWE AMERICAS TUSCANY, ITALY OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA TWE ASIA SINGAPORE TWE ANZ MARLBOROUGH TWE MAGILL, SOUTH AUSTRALIA TWE ANZ MELBOURNE, VICTORIA AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND2 AMERICAS2 AUSTRALIA | Corporate head office: Melbourne, Victoria US | Regional head office: Napa Valley, California US | Regional head office: Oakland, California 72 8,607 7 46 3,894 7 vineyards planted hectares wineries vineyards planted hectares wineries NEW ZEALAND | Country head office: Marlborough EUROPE 2 UK | Regional head office: Twickenham, Middlesex ITALY | Country head office: Gabbiano, Tuscany 9 492 1 vineyards planted hectares wineries 2 148 1 vineyards planted hectares wineries ASIA SOUTH EAST ASIA | Regional head office: Singapore NORTH ASIA | Regional head office: Shanghai, China 1. Locations marked on the global map represent corporate and regional head offices. TWE also maintains other major operations across all regions of its business. 2. Information is current as at 30 June 2018. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AND CR COUNCIL CHAIR The success of our business is indeed underpinned by being sustainable in everything we do. Welcome to the inaugural 2018 Sustainability Report In F18, a substantive review of TWE’s CR program for Treasury Wine Estates Limited (TWE). was undertaken, including a comprehensive CR materiality assessment, resulting in realignment The success of our business is indeed underpinned by of the program’s focus under a framework of four key being sustainable in everything we do. TWE therefore pillars – Performance, Planet, People and Product – has an enduring commitment to operate sustainably, as represented in Graphic 1. safely and responsibly as we continue our journey to realising our vision of being the world’s most We are proud to be delivering the refreshed program celebrated wine company. from F19 onward. In support of this, we have decided to illustrate Through this program, we remain driven to how the Company and its people contribute to this achieving our mission of creating long term value commitment through the production of a clear, concise for TWE and everyone who touches our company, and accessible document – the Sustainability Report. and recognise the challenges and opportunities this presents. This Report is a milestone in TWE’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) journey. It outlines how we work Finally, in F19, TWE will continue to support to create long term value through our CR program, the UN Global Compact and its ten principles as well as through effective management of relating to human rights, labour, environment environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics, and anti-corruption. We will participate in which range from the consideration of climate change the UN Global Compact Local Network as a impacts to supporting and promoting the responsible means of engaging, sharing and learning from consumption of our wines. other Global Compact signatories. Our strategies and activities to mitigate potential We thank you for your interest in our Company risks posed by ESG topics, while at the same time and we hope you enjoy reading this Report. leveraging the opportunities these may create, are described throughout the Report. Kind regards, Each section outlines TWE’s key achievements in F18, with respect to specific ESG topics. Particular highlights include: • the identification of the Company’s priority Michael Clarke Tim Ford United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Operating Officer Goals (SDGs); & CR Council Chair • the launch of the Sustainable Future framework, driving environmental best practice across our supply business; • enhanced commitment to human rights through updated policies and embedding an ESG review system in the Company’s supplier on-boarding process; and • upholding product quality and safety standards and certifications to produce high quality wine. 2 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Graphic 1 TWE’s Corporate Responsibility framework VISION To be the world’s most celebrated wine company MISSION Create long term value for TWE and everyone who touches our Company by being sustainable in everything we do TWE STRATEGIC PARTNERS MODEL PEOPLE BRANDS IMPERATIVES MARKETS CR PILLAR formance Planet People Product Per GUIDING Be transparent Be sustainable and Respect and enhance Create quality wines PRINCIPLE and hold ourselves HIÀFLHQWZKHQVRXUFLQJ the lives of our people that are consumed and to account DQGSURGXFLQJRXUZLQH and our communities promoted responsibly and safely AMBITION 2XUVWDNHKROGHUV Our environmental Our peoples’ human Our wines are believe in and impact is sustainable ULJKWVVDIHW\DQG SURGXFHGPDUNHWHG trust our Company DQGUHGXFLQJRYHUWLPH ZHOOEHLQJLVSURWHFWHG and consumed to operate sustainably responsibly PRIORITY UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 3 PERFORMANCE GUIDING PRINCIPLE formance Per Be transparent and hold ourselves to account AMBITION Our stakeholders believe in and trust our Company to operate sustainably F18 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS CR program reviewed Identified seven priority formance Planet Per 4 People Product CR materiality assessment completed Commenced 2017 Tax membership UN Transparency Global Compact Report published Local Network (Australia) ¢ $ 4 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Corporate Responsibility Program Corporate Responsibility Governance In F18, the Council oversaw a review of TWE’s CR program, including its pillars, guiding principles, In F18, the Global Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategic priorities, and governance framework. Council (the Council) continued as the CR program’s governing body, with oversight of the CR program and The review considered the Company’s vision, its strategy. The Council’s role is to: strategy and business priorities, and was supported • determine the strategic direction of the CR program; by a comprehensive CR materiality assessment2. • identify CR related risks and opportunities and A range of internal and external stakeholders, determine how they may be managed; including employees, suppliers, customers, consumers, • make CR related policy decisions for the business; investors and members of the public sector participated in the CR materiality assessment. These stakeholders • report CR matters to management and the Board, were asked to provide views on a range of ESG topics, and other business areas as required; and in terms of the significance of these topics to them, • assist in the execution of CR activities. and to TWE. Stakeholders were also surveyed on their views of CR and sustainability, reporting, The Council comprises several members of the and communication. A sample of respondents Company’s Executive Leadership Team, including participated in follow-up interviews to further the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and senior expand on their views. representatives from regional and functional areas of the business. The Council is chaired by Tim Ford, Several international frameworks, and regulatory TWE’s Deputy Chief Operating Officer1. and quasi-regulatory schemes were incorporated into the review, and considered in light of the CR A visual representation of TWE’s CR program materiality assessment results. TWE will continue governance is represented in Graphic 2. to consider relevant reporting frameworks, including the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Graphic 2 Corporate Responsibility Governance BOARD LEVEL BOARD MANAGEMENT LEVEL RISK, COMPLIANCE AND CR related risks GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CR COUNCIL REGIONAL AND FUNCTIONAL CR TEAM REPRESENTATIVES LEGAL AND PEOPLE AND MARKETING SALES SUPPLY GOVERNANCE COMMUNICATIONS FINANCE 1. Tim Ford’s position as Deputy Chief Operating Officer commenced on 1 July 2018. 2. The CR materiality assessment was a process undertaken to inform TWE of its stakeholders’ views on ESG topics. Priority ESG topics identified through the CR process are therefore not necessarily the business’s material risks. TWE’s material business risks are outlined in the Operating and Financial Review (OFR) of TWE’s Annual Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 5 PERFORMANCE The review informed the identification of the TWE’s F18 Communication on Progress (COP) Company’s priority ESG topics. These topics were is submitted as an integrated part of this report. grouped, resulting in the establishment of four key pillars – Performance, Planet, People and Product, as shown in Graphic 3. The four key pillars are TWE’s F18 UN Global Compact COP, aligned to the business’ strategic imperatives. is found on page 31. Previous COPs are published on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/responsibility. Graphic 3 CR Pillars and priority ESG topics PERFORMANCE PLANET United Nations Sustainable Development • Corporate • Environmental Goals (SDGs) responsibility management, In F18, following the CR program review and program governance including: the CR materiality assessment process, the Company • Corporate governance • Water identified seven priority SDGs. These SDGs were • Energy identified as having the most impact on TWE, whilst • Reporting and • Climate change also being closely aligned to the Company’s vision disclosure • Emissions and strategy, and are: • Waste • Packaging PEOPLE PRODUCT • Human rights • Product responsibility, and labour including: • Diversity and inclusion • Marketing and sales • Community donations • Consumption and volunteering • Product quality • Health, safety and safety and wellbeing United Nations Global Compact In F18, TWE continued to support and be a signatory to the UN Global Compact. TWE is committed to integrating the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into its business operations and supplier base. In F18, the Company joined the local membership chapter Global Compact Network Australia, and throughout the year participated in the chapter’s activities. 6 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TWE’s Corporate Governance Statement Good corporate governance and transparency Each year, TWE prepares a Corporate Governance in corporate reporting are a fundamental part Statement, which is submitted to the ASX and of TWE’s culture and business practices and published on the Company’s website alongside Board are vital in supporting TWE’s vision of becoming charters and key policies that underpin the the world’s most celebrated wine company. Company’s corporate governance practices. Effective governance practices and processes The F18 Corporate Governance Statement outlines are critical to creating and delivering value to the corporate governance framework established by our shareholders; promoting investor confidence; TWE and its compliance with that framework for the and underpinning effective decision-making, period ended 30 June 2018. In particular, the accountability, and transparency across our business. Corporate Governance Statement provides a detailed overview of TWE’s governance practices in relation to: TWE complies with the ASX Corporate Governance • the Board, its role and responsibilities, including Principles and Recommendations, which set out the division of responsibility between Board recommended corporate governance practices for and management; ASX listed entities. • Board composition; TWE’s Board is responsible for the overall corporate governance of the Company and is assisted by its • Director independence; committees, as shown in Graphic 4. • risk management and internal controls; • TWE’s commitment to promote ethical and At a high level, the Board’s main objectives are to: responsible behaviour; • provide strategic guidance for the Company • TWE’s commitment to diversity and inclusion; and and effective oversight of management; • market disclosure and communication • optimise TWE’s performance and shareholder value with shareholders. within a framework of appropriate risk assessment and management; and • recognise TWE’s legal and other obligations to all legitimate stakeholders. Graphic 4 TWE’s Board and Committees SHAREHOLDERS TWE BOARD AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE Oversees: Financial reporting, Oversees: Board composition, Oversees: Training, development risk management and internal performance of the Board, and succession planning for controls, external and internal Board Committees and senior management, Company’s audit, capital management, individual directors, as well diversity policy, evaluation and compliance. as succession planning. of senior executive performance and remuneration, and non-executive directors’ fees. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The TWE Board delegates powers to the CEO via a Board approved delegated authority framework for all matters except those reserved for the Board and Board Committees. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 7 PERFORMANCE In addition, TWE’s 2018 Annual Report includes a corporate governance summary, which provides an overview of the Board’s F18 key governance areas of focus. The 2018 Annual Report also contains information on the Company’s ownership and its shareholders. TWE’s 2018 Annual Report, FEATURE as well as an archive of prior year Annual Reports, are available on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/investors. Key TWE Policies Key policies are periodically reviewed and approved by senior management and where appropriate, the Board or relevant Board Committee. The review and approval process ensures that the policies comply with relevant regulatory requirements, are consistent with market practice, and reflect current business PROMOTING ETHICAL priorities. A list of TWE policies referenced in this AND RESPONSIBLE document can be found on the inside back cover of this Report. BEHAVIOUR TWE supplements key policies and programs TWE’s commitment to promote ethical and with mandatory online training and education responsible behaviour is governed by several on workplace behaviour, health and safety, key policies, which are also outlined in the competition and consumer protection, and Corporate Governance Statement. These anti-bribery, fraud and corruption, amongst other include the: topics. Every TWE new-starter must complete • Code of Conduct, which recognises that a suite of training within the first three months TWE’s reputation is one of its most valuable of employment. This training is repeated every assets, founded on the ethical behaviour two years thereafter. of the people who represent TWE. Non-desk based employees receive training within the • Disclosure Policy, which recognises the first three months of starting on site. This training is importance of timely disclosure of TWE’s managed through each site’s administration team and activities to shareholders and market is repeated every two years. participants so that trading in TWE’s shares takes place in an informed market. Information on TWE’s group and regional policies, and supporting initiatives, is communicated through • Fraud and Corruption Policy, which confirms various internal communication channels and can TWE’s commitment to a zero tolerance be accessed by employees on the Company’s intranet. approach to bribery and corruption. • Potential Conflicts of Interest Policy, which Senior leaders are responsible for reinforcing the guides the disclosure and management contents and spirit of all TWE policies within their of potential conflicts of interest. teams, whether they be conducting business internally or engaging with external stakeholders. • Whistleblower Policy, which promotes and supports TWE’s culture of honest and ethical Breach of any TWE policy may result in disciplinary behaviour by encouraging the reporting action, up to and including dismissal in serious cases. of instances of unethical, illegal or fraudulent behaviour or any other matter that may contravene TWE’s Code of Conduct, policies or the law. • Share Trading Policy, which prohibits trading in the Company’s shares by directors and employees if they are in possession of ‘inside information’ and also during ‘blackout’ periods, and provides additional restrictions that specifically apply to directors, Executive Leadership Team members and certain employees who have been notified by the Chief Legal Officer or Company Secretary. 8 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE Political Donations TAX TRANSPARENCY TWE participates in policy-making processes TWE places significant importance on maintaining in priority markets, and accordingly engages with high standards of tax governance and compliance, government officials and members of political parties. and supports the work on tax transparency performed In line with relevant company policies, TWE does not by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and provide cash donations to political parties, and our Development, the Group of Twenty, the Australian government engagement occurs within the boundaries Taxation Office, and other organisations. set by internal policies, including the Delegated Authority Limits Policy; the Corporate Gifts, TWE considers the greater transparency of corporate Entertainment and Unacceptable Payments Policy; tax affairs to be an opportunity to share relevant and the Fraud and Corruption Policy. tax information with stakeholders to assist them in understanding our tax profile and to demonstrate RISK MANAGEMENT our commitment to transparency in the communication and management of tax affairs. Effective risk management enhances the likelihood of TWE achieving its business objectives whilst Tax is considered in the context of TWE’s Risk improving stakeholder value, confidence and trust. Management Framework. In addition, TWE has a Board approved Tax Governance Framework and To oversee and manage risk, the Board and Tax Risk Framework, which provides greater detail its Audit and Risk Committee have approved regarding the management of tax risks. a Risk Management Policy and an enterprise Risk Management Framework, both of which TWE’s 2018 Annual Report details the value of income are reviewed annually. taxes paid by the Company in F18. The Risk Management Policy provides guidance and direction on the management of risk in Tax Transparency Report the Company and states our commitment to the TWE produces an annual Tax Transparency effective management of risk to reduce uncertainty Report, which outlines the Company’s: in the Company’s business outcomes. • tax governance and strategy; The Risk Management Framework explains the • income tax reconciliation; philosophy and structure required to recognise • Australian federal tax contribution; and business improvement opportunities through the • international related party dealings. effective management of risk. It describes the systems You can view the most recent Tax that are necessary to manage risk, and the supporting Transparency Report on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/responsibility. management disciplines in place to bring these systems to life. The Company’s material business risks and how those risks are managed, are set out in the Operating and Financial Review (OFR) contained in the Company’s 2018 Annual Report. Table 1 is an extract from the 2018 OFR, summarising a number of the material business risks and mitigating actions that relate to ESG topics. This Report does not include a full description of all of TWE’s material business risks or the relevant mitigating actions undertaken by the Company. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 9 PERFORMANCE Table 1 Extract from TWE’s 2018 material business risks as it relates to priority ESG topics INFORMATION ON SUMMARY OF ESG RELATED MITIGATING ACTIONS MATERIAL BUSINESS RISKS SUMMARY OF MITIGATING ACTIONS FOUND IN THIS REPORT Constrained grape supply, which • Long-term vintage planning and ongoing PLANET: can be impacted by climate change, integrated business planning processes. Water agricultural and other factors, • Strategic climate change remediation PLANET: such as disease, pests, extreme investment plan and vineyard capital Climate Change weather conditions, water scarcity, investment plan. biodiversity loss and competing land use. • Balanced grape intake between owned/leased vineyards and third party suppliers. • Multi-regional growing and sourcing. • Innovative agronomic practices. • Strong grower relationships and defined service level agreements. • Innovation investment, including collaboration with research institutes on climate change adaptation and water efficiency research, development and extension projects. • Environment Policy and Standard, monitoring and reporting systems. Loss of key leadership/talent, • Strategically aligned and targeted learning PEOPLE: TWE’s ability to deliver on strategic and development programs. Performance, targets is reliant on attracting • Talent review and succession Leadership and and retaining experienced, skilled planning processes. Development and motivated talent in core PEOPLE: functions such as winemaking, • Employee safety (including health and wellbeing) program. Health, Safety sales and marketing. and Wellbeing It also requires strong, resilient and effective leaders as the business grows at pace. Brand reputation/damage, • Code of Conduct, Responsible Marketing PERFORMANCE: which can be impacted by social Guidelines, Responsible Consumption program, Corporate and environmental risks, Responsible Procurement Code, Environment Responsibility unsatisfactory supplier performance, Policy and Standard, Media Policy and Social PLANET: supplier environmental or social Media Policy and incident management Environmental incidents, product quality issues, procedures. Risk Management amongst other things. • Corporate Responsibility program. PEOPLE: Supply Chain Management PRODUCT: Responsible Marketing and Consumption PRODUCT: Product Quality and Safety Changing laws and government • Company-wide policies, standards and procedures. PERFORMANCE regulations, TWE operates in a • Crisis and Business Continuity Plans. PLANET highly regulated industry in many of the markets in which it makes • Specialised and experienced resources and teams. PEOPLE and sells wine. Each of these • Executive Leadership Team oversight via the PRODUCT markets have differing regulations Risk, Compliance and Governance Committee. that govern many aspects of TWE’s • Relationships and engagement (where relevant) operations. with key government, industry advocacy and regulatory bodies. Significant business disruption • Crisis and Business Continuity Plans, training PLANET: and/or catastrophic damage and resources. Environmental or loss, TWE’s scope of operations • Dedicated health and safety team oversight, Risk Management exposes it to a number of business audit programs and training. PEOPLE: disruption risks, such as Health, Safety environmental catastrophes, • Preventative repair and maintenance program. and Wellbeing natural and man-made hazards • Multi-regional and global sourcing and and incidents, or politically production capability. motivated violence. 10 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET GUIDING PRINCIPLE Planet Be sustainable and efÀcient when sourcing and producing our wine AMBITION Our environmental impact is sustainable and reducing over time F18 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Launched Achieved 100% Decreased water use per 9LE 3 sustainability certification of vineyards and wineries Decreased energy Reduced carbon use per 9LE emissions by 3 Diverted 10.85% from F15 95.98% to F18 of waste from CO2 landfill TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 11 PLANET ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT Third-party Sustainability Certification Environmental risks are identified and managed Fundamental to ensuring TWE’s production at a global, regional and site level. is sustainable is the Company’s independent third-party sustainability certification of its owned Global and regional risks are identified through or leased vineyards and wineries. In F18, TWE the Company’s Risk Management Framework with attained 100% sustainability certifications of its a risk owner and risk mitigation actions assigned vineyards and wineries. to each. A summary4 of the material business risks that relate to the environment include: These certifications are in addition to local regulatory requirements. The certification programs attained for • constrained grape supply; each region are below: • brand reputation/damage; • changing laws and government regulations; and Australia Entwine Australia • significant business disruption and/or catastrophic New Zealand Sustainable Winegrowing New Zealand damage or loss. Italy VIVA Sustainable Wine and ISO 14001 – Environmental Management Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed in this section. Americas Sustainability in Practice, Certified California Sustainable Winegrowing, Group and regional material risks differ from Fish Friendly Farming, or Napa Green site-level environment risks, which are identified by the local teams, reflecting on the unique Environment Policy and Reporting environment and resources attributable to each vineyard, winery and packaging centre. As a result, At a global level, TWE’s Environment Policy outlines site-level environmental considerations are identified the Company’s commitment to understanding and and managed through a site-run process, which minimising any adverse impacts its operations and includes a separate risk assessment. products have on the environment. It is designed to proactively mitigate and manage environmental Environmental management plans and action risks that have the potential to damage the trackers are informed by the outcomes of this process. environment, TWE’s reputation, and our brands. The site environmental management plans have Its objectives include: a person and time frame assigned to each identified • Compliance with environmental regulation action so that issues are managed and opportunities are leveraged in a timely manner. • Reducing and/or optimising resource use • Monitoring environmental risk Crisis and Incident Management In the event of an environmental incident, emergency • Waste reduction or crisis, TWE applies its global Crisis and Incident • Biodiversity protection Management Plan (the Plan). The Plan addresses • Innovation for sustainability a range of incidents, emergencies and crises, inclusive of those that impact the environment in which • Environmental reporting TWE operates, such as natural disasters, smoke • Environmental management systems and processes taint, frost, and pest control. • Building business capacity to drive sustainability In F18, the Napa Valley and Sonoma County • Long-term partnerships experienced wildfires, which necessitated the use of the Plan to minimise risk to employees In F18, TWE developed an Environment Standard, and TWE infrastructure. which connects the global objectives of the Environment Policy to activities at each of our Environmental incidents of varying severity are vineyards, wineries and packaging centres. recorded internally via TWE’s Vintrak incident It specifies the Company’s minimum requirements recording system. Significant environmental incidents with regard to energy, water, waste water, waste, are escalated to senior management as required. chemicals, soil, air, light, noise and nature conservation (biodiversity). In F18, there were zero findings5 of non-compliance with environmental regulations, and TWE was not required to report any environmental incidents to an external body. 3. Compared with F17. 4. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2018 Annual Report. 5. A finding refers to a determination by the responsible external body. 12 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET TWE’s Environment Standard forms the basis Not all office and cellar door carbon emissions, of regulatory compliance, risk assessment and energy and water usage is captured as segregated environmental action plans across our sites, data availability is limited. Office and cellar door as well as supporting compliance with regional environmental impacts are minor compared sustainability certifications. to overall usage. TWE complies with relevant local, state and federal environmental regulation. Each year regional teams report to the numerous local and national agencies regarding environmental management. These include, but are not limited to: • California Regional Water Quality Control Boards FEATURE and California State Water Resources Board (United States of America (US)) • California Air Resources Board; the Bay Area Air Quality Management District; and San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District (US) • California Department of Pesticide Regulation (US) • National Pollutant Inventory (Australia) • National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Australia) SUSTAINABLE • Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (Australia) FUTURE • CONAI Consorzio Nazionale Imballaggi (Italy) In F18, TWE launched Sustainable Future, the Company’s globally aligned approach to driving TWE has previously reported on key environmental action against the Environment Policy objectives metrics through its Annual Reports, however this through the creation of TWE’s Environment information will now be reported in this Report. Standard, a Best Management Practice Energy and water usage reported includes all wineries, framework, and increased opportunities to packaging centres and company-owned or leased collaborate, communicate, and learn from each vineyards. It does not include all offices and cellar doors. other’s best practice and achievements. Carbon emissions reported include emissions from Sustainable Future builds on regional the Company’s direct operations, being Scope 1 and 2 viticulture, winery and packaging centre emissions, from all wineries, packaging centres and environmental management practices and company-owned or leased vineyards. It does not certifications. It encourages environmental include emissions from all offices and cellar doors, resource reductions and efficiencies by engaging wastewater treatment plants, refrigerants or Scope 3 sites to better monitor and share success and emissions (indirect emissions). best practice across the business. Energy and water efficiencies, and our carbon The program will continue to be embedded emission intensity ratio, include TWE’s wineries across the regional supply business in F19. and packaging centres, including packaging undertaken for third-parties, but do not include company-owned or leased vineyards, or all offices and cellar doors. While TWE undertakes a number of activities to reduce energy and water used in vineyards, the agricultural nature of operations at vineyards means that operations need to respond to local climatic conditions, resulting in potentially widely varying and non-comparable efficiency rates. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 13 PLANET WATER Naturally, TWE relies on water to grow our grapes and make our wine. We consider water to be a WATER EFFICIENCY6 precious and fundamental resource, and we are L/9LE committed to managing its use carefully. We recognise that water availability, use and 25.18 000 conservation are ongoing challenges for the wine 23.46 23.35 22.36 industry and other industries that use this precious resource in production. We rely on water from varied 7.27% sources, depending on the vineyard and winery location, local regulation and available infrastructure. improvement in ZDWHUHIÀFLHQF\ Sources include: from F15 to F18 • Municipal mains • Groundwater F15 F16 F17 F18 • Surface water (rivers, creeks and dams) • Rainwater • Recycled water As outlined on page 10, water scarcity contributes to the material business risk of constrained grape supply. We are working to mitigate the impact of water scarcity through a combination of actions. Actions taken to FEATURE reduce water use and improve efficiency include: • Improvement to process in our vineyards and wineries. In our vineyards, TWE uses drip TWE’S WATER irrigation to ensure water is applied in minimal amounts and only when needed. In addition, TWE STEWARDSHIP uses select drought-resistant rootstocks and grape IN THE COMMUNITY varieties appropriate for the environment; uses recycled municipal water where available; and places compost and mulch under vines to retain soil TWE acknowledges that water is a shared moisture, as required. Across our winery network, resource amongst communities, the environment we closely manage winery wastewater and reuse and our own operations. For this reason, we it for vineyard irrigation when quality permits. contribute to environmental and community • Investment in innovation and technology in water projects. Significant examples include: our vineyards, wineries and packaging centres. • Donation of 794.74 ML of water during At selected vineyard sites TWE has the capacity 2012–2016 to the Markaranka floodplain to monitor soil moisture and visualise water rehabilitation project in the Riverland region stress through analytical processes that take into of South Australia, and continued collaboration consideration climatic conditions, vine requirements with the Natural Resources South Australia and soil moisture levels. We are trialing the use of Murray-Darling Basin Management Board. thermographic cameras, hyperspectral imaging and • Ongoing wetland rehabilitation projects in pond real-time evapotranspiration monitoring to enhance and stream waterways close to the Company’s these processes. Marlborough vineyards in New Zealand. Across selected winery and packaging sites, sub• Dedication of 5.1 acres to the ‘Oakville to metering and real-time monitoring technology has Oak Knoll Reach restoration project’ in F18, been deployed to identify and reduce water intensive to restore and improve sediment loading activities or leaks. ‘Pigging’ technology, which and pollution in a nine-mile section of the pushes wine with inert gas instead of water, has Napa River, California. been installed at frequently used transfer lines. • Volunteering activities with Thames 21, a UK • Water trading to manage water security. TWE conservation organisation that works to clear owns water entitlements (separate to land title) in litter from rivers across London and restore Australia and the US (where required). In Australia, and enhance natural river ecology. water rights are traded to manage water security. 6. For more detail on TWE’s water use and efficiency, refer to the key performance indicator table at the back of this Report. 14 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET • Repairs and maintenance as required. TWE has • Investment in innovation and technology to mitigate replaced sprinkler frost protection in several the impact of increased energy use. TWE has vineyards with automated frost fans to reduce the invested in solar energy systems at several US sites. amount of water used when protecting our vines Of the total electricity consumed at our US wineries from frost events. In our winery and packaging and bottling centres from off-site sources, almost network, there has been a focus on updating barrel 50% is from renewable energy, which equates to washers to more water efficient models. approximately nine million kWh per year. TWE • Awareness and education through management continues to investigate alternative energy sources systems, such as Sustainable Future, and our online for use across major sites in Australia. data repository and reporting tool, which measures Our winery and packaging centres are continuing water use and helps to engage our people on to invest in innovation through building controls conservation techniques. including, motion light sensors, economic temperature • Research, development and extension undertaken control, and night time cooling, to reduce the demands in collaboration with research institutes from heating, ventilation and air conditioning. includes projects on water efficiency and climate • Repairs and maintenance as required. In our change adaptation. vineyards, TWE invests in energy efficient lighting, Over time, water usage is largely trending pumps and tractors; multi-row harvesting equipment downwards, with water efficiency having improved (as appropriate); and energy efficient re-design by 7.27% since F15. of driving pathways. Across our wineries and packaging centres, we are replacing older equipment with energy efficient options such as variable ENERGY frequency pumps, LED lights, and smart-meter ENERGY EFFICIENCY7 electricity sub-monitoring. MJ/9LE • Awareness and education through management systems as described in ‘Water’. Over time, energy usage is trending downwards, 10.41 000 9.28 with energy efficiency having improved by 15.47% 8.95 8.80 since F15. 15.47% CLIMATE CHANGE improvement in HQHUJ\HIÀFLHQF\ CARBON EMISSIONS8 from F15 to F18 Carbon Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) CO2 e tonnes F15 F16 F17 F18 58,635 000 57,755 CO2 Energy management is critical to TWE’s wine production. TWE recognises the importance of 53,380 10.85% 52,273 managing our energy sourcing, use and efficiency decrease in scope as a part of operating sustainably, safely and 1 and 2 emissions responsibly. We strive for energy efficiency from F15 to F18 improvement across all areas of the business, from the vineyard to our regional head offices. F15 F16 F17 F18 Actions taken to reduce energy use and improve efficiency include: TWE acknowledges the challenges and risks posed • Improvement to process in our wineries and by climate change. TWE also recognises the packaging centres, where we are increasing the use responsibility of minimising negative climate of counter-current heat exchange, and pulse cooling, change impacts by monitoring and reducing while implementing highly efficient cold stabilisation carbon emissions. technology, all of which contribute to improving energy efficiency. As outlined on page 10, climate change contributes to the material business risk of constrained grape supply. 7. For more detail on TWE’s energy use and efficiency refer to the key performance indicator table at the back of this Report. 8. For more detail on TWE’s Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions refer to the key performance indicator table at the back of this Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 15 PLANET TWE has been investing in climate change mitigation TWE is committed to reducing adverse impacts on and adaptation research for more than a decade the environment by minimising waste generated and and we are continually implementing findings and maximising recycling or reuse, from within adapting practices to suit the current and predicted our operations, to the end use consumer. changing conditions. TWE recognises the importance of managing waste A summary of actions taken by TWE to mitigate and packaging materials as an important part and adapt to impacts associated with climate of operating sustainably, safely and responsibly. change include: Through a combination of actions we are working • Securing long-term grape supply through long-term to reduce waste production and improve diversion vintage planning and ongoing integrated business from landfill rates. planning processes; a strategic climate change These actions include implementing effective recovery remediation investment plan and vineyard capital systems. Within TWE wineries, most waste is organic. investment plan; balancing grape intake between Grape skins and seeds, referred to as marc or pomace, owned or leased vineyards and third-party are a by-product of the winemaking process and are suppliers; multi-regional growing and sourcing; specifically treated by third parties to extract further innovative agronomic practices; and strong grower value from the waste, or sent to composting facilities. relationships and defined service level agreements. Cardboard, glass and plastic is carefully separated • Innovating to manage compressed vintages across at our winery and packaging centres to ensure that our vineyards and wineries. In the vineyard, TWE major materials in our waste streams are either has invested in improved logistics applications that reused or recycled. This includes: improve visibility of grape delivery and reliability of truck scheduling; and integrated vintage information • cardboard, which is recycled through contractors; into the Company’s IT infrastructure to better • plastic wrap, which is repurposed for multiple monitor changes to vintage timing. In the winery, reuse functions, such as being transformed into TWE has introduced technologies that allow for pallet slip sheets for export; and optimised fermentation durations and processing. • wooden pallets, which are redistributed throughout • Continuous data collection and analysis through regional distribution networks. collaboration with partners, including industry bodies and research institutes, on climate change In addition, TWE works to promote recycling adaptation projects. initiatives in its regional head offices and records office waste volumes where possible. Over time, TWE’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions are trending downwards. In F18, TWE commenced TWE’s sustainability, procurement and marketing reporting its carbon emission intensity ratio in teams also work with suppliers to optimise product our key performance indicator table at the back packaging and develop improved supply chain of this Report. systems that secure high quality raw material inputs, such as cork, cardboard and glass. These systems WASTE AND PACKAGING ensure less is wasted through defect, conflict with design specifications, or inefficiency in operations. WASTE GENERATION AND DIVERSION9 The majority of the Company’s product packaging Waste diverted from landfill rate (%) is made from highly recyclable materials (glass and cardboard). TWE is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation and publishes an 96.87 annual report on its Australian packaging materials, 96.26 96.02 95.98 optimisation, impact and leadership. 96.28% In F18, TWE diverted 95.98% of waste from landfill, of waste is diverted representing a slight decrease compared with F17. IURPODQGÀOOHDFK\HDU The decline is attributable to a decrease in grapes based on an average from F15 to F18 crushed in Australia and New Zealand (ANZ), which impacts the proportionate amount of organic waste F15 F16 F17 F18 sent to third parties, compost or other reuse facilities. The Company’s overall waste generation decreased by 11.69% in F18 compared with F17. In F17, there was an increase in waste generation caused by numerous supply chain optimisation projects. 9. For more detail on TWE’s waste indicators, refer to the key performance indicator table at the back of this Report. 16 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE GUIDING PRINCIPLE People Respect and enhance the lives of our people and our communities AMBITION Our peoples’ human rights, safety and wellbeing is protected F18 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Human Rights or ESG topics 37.1% added to codes female representation and policies in leadership roles Introduced a Spanish language option for the US whistleblower toll-free number Contributed over A$1m F18 Reduced the in value to the SIFR to community $ Established a Serious Incident 3.5 Frequency Rate (SIFR) health and safety indicator TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 17 PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR PRACTICES Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed in this section. TWE is committed to building a high performing organisation by driving an inclusive, supportive and The United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s ten collaborative culture; growing our people’s capability; principles, six of which relate to human rights and operating efficiently and sustainably. A key part and labour, and various international standards of this is ensuring our peoples’ human rights, labour and principles11, are incorporated into internal rights, and health, safety and wellbeing are respected resources as necessary and are embedded across and upheld through company-wide policies, standards, the Company by the Human Resources arm and procedures that protect permanent, temporary of TWE’s People and Communications function. and contract employees. The Human Resources team report regularly to the TWE and its suppliers operate in regions governed Human Resources Committee of the Board on items by a wide range of laws. A summary10 of the risks of risk, opportunity and performance relevant to associated with human rights, labour and the supply people. Relevant initiatives are publicly reported chain include: in TWE’s Annual Report, Workplace Gender Equity • loss of key leadership/talent; Agency Report (Australia) and the Annual Statement on the Prevention of Modern Slavery. • brand reputation/damage; and • changing laws and government regulations. TWE people – a snapshot of our employees across the world12 Male Female 53.0% 53.3% Female Male 37.7% 46.7% Female Male 48.5% 63.4% Male Female 46.7% 35.6% ANZ AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA MALE 63.4% MALE 53.0% FEMALE 48.5% FEMALE 53.3% FEMALE 35.6% FEMALE 37.7% MALE 46.7% MALE 46.7% NOTNOTNOTNOTSPECIFIED 1.0% SPECIFIED 9.3% SPECIFIED 4.8% SPECIFIED 0.0% PERMANENT 81.1% PERMANENT 85.7% PERMANENT 89.9% PERMANENT 42.1% TEMPORARY 18.9% TEMPORARY 14.3% TEMPORARY 10.1% TEMPORARY 57.9% FULL TIME 93.9% FULL TIME 96.4% FULL TIME 92.3% FULL TIME 97.9% PART TIME 6.1% PART TIME 3.6% PART TIME 7.7% PART TIME 2.1% GLOBAL MALE 57.9% PERMANENT 81.0% FULL TIME 95.0% FEMALE 38.0% TEMPORARY 19.0% PART TIME 5.0% NOT-SPECIFIED 4.1% 10. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2018 Annual Report. 11. Including the principles within the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 12. The information in this table is current as of 30 June 2018 and includes contractors as well as employees. It therefore differs slightly from similar information presented in TWE’s 2018 Annual Report. 18 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE Matters raised through the confidential whistleblower TWE’s Annual Statement on the service are reported to the Board through the Audit Prevention of Modern Slavery and Risk Committee. All issues are resolved by way TWE is committed to preventing slavery and of investigation led by the Legal and Governance human trafficking in its corporate activities team and action is taken as required. and global supply chain. The Company provides public information on the actions it takes The Whistleblower Policy and confidential to understand, address and prevent modern slavery through its Annual Statement on the whistleblower service are communicated to employees Prevention of Modern Slavery, which is annually through internal communications channels, available on the homepage of the Company’s and is available on TWE’s intranet and the website at www.tweglobal.com. Company’s website. Child Labour The Asia region has a higher proportion of employees On occasion TWE employs minors13. In F18, TWE listed as ‘temporary’ due to common legal practice employed a small number of people under 18 years in Asia to place employees on three-year fixed of age in Australia and New Zealand (ANZ), typically term contracts. After ten years, an employee in apprentice, vintage or hospitality roles as permitted is considered ‘permanent’. by local legislation. Human Rights The Company’s Employing and Engaging Minors TWE’s commitment to protecting the human rights Policy ensures that these relationships are managed of our people and to the prevention of, and protection appropriately. The policy requires that all minors against modern slavery is underpinned by a range are employed or engaged lawfully, that their of policies, standards and procedures that are employment is overseen by a member of the People intended to ensure our sites meet international and Communications team, and that a support labour standards and ethical processes. system is implemented within the first 30 days of a minor’s engagement. In F18, the Code of Conduct and Responsible Procurement Code (RPC) were updated to include Supply chain management a clear reference to the Company’s commitment Protections against child labour and employing to respect and uphold human rights. Additionally, minors are extended to TWE’s supply chain through the New Market Entry Policy, which specifies the RPC. This commits our suppliers to: how to assess the likelihood and consequences of a range of risks when entering a new market, • act in accordance with legislative and ratified was updated to include a specific reference to International Labour Organisation (ILO) environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics, conventions relevant to children; inclusive of human rights and labour impacts. • not prevent members of their workforce under the age of 18 from accessing education; and TWE respects employees’ freedom of association in the workplace by recognising the right of • protect members of their workforce under employees to negotiate either individually or the age of 18 from working conditions that collectively. TWE engages with trade unions are harmful to health and safety or likely where they represent employees, to negotiate to hamper normal development. employment agreements. Forced Labour Whistleblower TWE policies, standards and procedures are designed TWE’s Whistleblower Policy is supported by to protect our people from forced labour. a confidential whistleblower service, which is The Global Payroll Policy recognises the importance administered independently by an external service of paying employees fairly, completely and accurately. provider (Deloitte). This service offers local toll free The policy is intended to protect employees from being numbers to reflect our major operating regions, bonded to the organisation by debt, having their pay which include services in local languages for China, withheld, or having their movement restricted due Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan, Australia, New to inconsistent payment times. Zealand, United Kingdom and the United States of America (US). Accordingly, the policy outlines the requirements for key payroll activities, such as approval and processing In F18, TWE expanded the program adding a requirements for permanent and temporary employees, Spanish language option for the US toll free number, or for any individual or corporate entity associated reflecting employee diversity in the Americas region. with TWE, and includes monitoring of any processing performed by a third-party service provider. 13. The definition of minor depends on the relevant country, jurisdiction, and legislation. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 19 PEOPLE Supply chain management Protections against forced labour are extended to TWE’s supply chain through the RPC. This commits our suppliers to: A SNAPSHOT OF • not use forced, prison or slave labour in any form; TWE’S GLOBAL FEATURE • ensure the workforce has entered into employment CAPABILITY freely (at their own choice); and DEVELOPMENT • not restrict the movement of members of the workforce IN F18 through withheld remuneration or threatening their safety, or the safety of their family. Our Global Leadership Development and Functional Capability programs build upon Remuneration TWE leadership capabilities to drive high TWE’s Remuneration Policy aims to attract, performance. In F18, our global capability retain and reward the best talent while building program highlights include: a performance oriented culture. It sets out principles and processes to ensure the Company’s remuneration • Achieved more than 2,000 attendances at practices attract and motivate the highest calibre various leadership development programs, employees to achieve TWE’s business objectives. across every region. • Launched ‘Mutage’ leadership program, with TWE analyses, monitors and benchmarks external 44 employees from TWE’s ANZ Supply team and internal remuneration data, including pay participating in the program, and each equity, to ensure that pay decisions are fair, participant being awarded a Diploma in competitive, market-relative, and reflective of Leadership and Management. performance. The Company recognises evolving shareholder concerns and expectations in matching • Delivered multiple leadership programs in pay to performance and produces an externally Spanish to respond to the diversity in our audited Remuneration Report, included as part Americas business. of its Annual Reports. Performance, Leadership and Development The performance of our employees is measured against TWE’s Performance Framework, which promotes the accomplishment of TWE’s strategic objectives. TWE’s Performance Framework aligns our managers and employees on how they will deliver upon objectives and TWE growth behaviours, and highlights areas for employee growth and development. At TWE, we believe that everyone is a leader, whether they manage people or not. TWE’s Leadership Framework outlines five capabilities that underpin our four growth behaviours and guide our leadership development. These capabilities describe the skills Supply Chain Management and knowledge our people need to be great leaders. TWE’s standards on human rights, labour (including labour conditions, child labour and Development at TWE is provided through a blended forced labour), discrimination, health and safety learning approach, with on-the-job training and and the environment are extended to its supply development, coaching and mentoring, as well as chain through the Company’s RPC. classroom based programs. The RPC outlines TWE’s expectation of its suppliers, including labour hire suppliers, to comply with standards in relation to the conduct of, and expectations placed on, the suppliers’ (including labour hire providers’) officers, employees and contractors. 20 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE The RPC has been embedded as a prerequisite in In addition, the Executive Leadership Team, including TWE’s partner engagement and tender processes, the CEO, supports the achievement of diversity and is included in TWE’s supplier contract templates and inclusion measures and targets as part of their globally. In F18, the RPC was translated into annual key performance objectives. Senior leaders are simplified Chinese to ensure it is aligned with the also assessed on their ‘Inclusive Leadership’ through language in which relevant contracts are prepared our annual 360-degree feedback survey, the results in China. of which are taken into account when assessing annual performance. Training on the RPC and its contents is provided to those employees who deal with suppliers and All employees are required to follow and promote have the authority to enter into transactions on TWE’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy, ensuring behalf of TWE. This is administered by regional they treat all people they interact with respectfully Procurement teams through the Company’s and in accordance with the policy’s principles. learning management system. Gender In F18, TWE embedded ESG criteria and an TWE aims to improve the gender balance of employees escalation process in to its supplier on-boarding in our workforce. The actions taken to do this are process, allowing the Company to identify potential governed by the Code of Conduct and Diversity and suppliers who may carry ESG related risks based Inclusion Policy. on country and industry of operation, and the value of TWE’s proposed annual spend. The Company reports annually to the Australian Workplace Gender Equality If concerns are identified, an escalation process is Agency on matters including: triggered, involving collaboration with the supplier to mitigate and safeguard against any adverse impacts • gender composition of the workforce and these may present. This criteria complements the governing bodies; RPC and strengthens the Company’s supply chain • equal remuneration between men and women; management and supplier engagement processes. • flexible work conditions; In F18, training on the ESG criteria and escalation • employee consultation on gender equality; and process was provided to each region’s Procurement, • sex-based harassment and discrimination. Grower Relations, Bulk Wine Management and Legal and Governance teams. In F18, no suppliers This report is published on the Company’s website were escalated under this process. at www.tweglobal.com/careers. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION In F18, TWE had 37.1% female representation in leadership roles against a target of 38% by 2020. TWE is made up of individuals as diverse as its wines Additionally, we continued to celebrate women who and the people who enjoy them. have made an extraordinary impact at TWE through the annual Mary Penfold Award. We are committed to creating an inclusive, supportive and collaborative culture to attract and retain the best possible talent, and create an environment where people from diverse backgrounds can fulfil their potential. Our diversity and inclusion program, which is guided by TWE’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy and strategy, drives performance against this priority and focuses on gender, flexibility and inclusion. The Executive Leadership Team manages TWE’s diversity and inclusion goals and objectives, which 37.1% female representation are approved by the Human Resources Committee in leadership roles14 of the Board, and are detailed in the Company’s in F18. 2018 Annual Report. 14. TWE define leadership roles as senior leaders, professionals and specialists, including general, department and functional management. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 21 PEOPLE Flexibility free of discrimination, harassment and bullying, In support of the need to recognise the individual and is supported by our region-specific Harassment, circumstances of our people, TWE has a Global Bullying and Discrimination Policies. Flexible Work Practices Policy, which establishes Employees are encouraged to raise any concerns the framework through which employees can apply via specific mechanisms outlined in individual to have flexible work practices approved. Flexible TWE policies, issue resolution processes, or via work can be formal or informal, depending on the the confidential whistleblower service. In addition, circumstances. TWE has a Flexible Work Practices all employees and eligible family members have Global Toolkit intended to support both employees access to free and confidential professional and line managers in successfully managing flexible counselling on a range of personal and work work arrangements. related issues through the Company’s third-party provided Employee Assistance Program. Discrimination based grievances are managed on a case by case basis and are managed commensurate with their degree of severity. Formal complaints and incidents are reported and discussed at the Human FEATURE Resources Committee of the Board. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TWE is committed to having a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. A key part of this commitment is giving back to those communities through corporate volunteering, fundraising and community donation initiatives. The centrepiece of TWE’s community engagement is the annual Global Volunteering Week. This event TWE CONTINUES TO forms a platform to co-ordinate employee volunteering INVEST IN TWEforShe efforts across the world and build long-term partnerships with organisations. The TWEforShe ‘She Leads’ capability program was delivered globally, with more than 700 In F18, the week saw more than 1,400 employees female participants in F18. This program is volunteer with more than 75 charitable partner focused on unlocking the potential of our female organisations across the globe. In F18, the value employees, which in turn will lead to a truly of TWE’s corporate volunteering efforts was over diverse and high performing culture. 10,000 hours. Volunteering efforts included food preparation and serving, packing and sorting The TWEforShe ‘On the Job’ learning program household and school items for those in need, – TWE Tasker – was launched in the second half clearing local waterways and conservation areas, of F18 and is being rolled out globally. This and rehabilitating natural spaces. phase is focused on tangible, cross functional development opportunities for females. A$1m In F18, TWE contributed over A$1 million in value to local communities. $ Inclusion We strive for a diverse and inclusive workforce where all individuals are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect and are provided with equal opportunity in all employment matters. The TWE Code of Conduct commits us to maintaining a work environment 22 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE TWE also supports employees to contribute to their The Company’s donations to local natural disaster local community through our corporate fundraising relief funds totalled US$140,000, and was distributed program – Fundraising Boost. The program matches for the provision of medical care, temporary shelter, money raised by employees for causes close to their meals and counselling. hearts, up to a capped value. The program is offered to all TWE employees, and in F18 close to A$37,000 Several TWE brands also participated in major was donated to a variety of causes. community and not-for-profit collaborations, including: • BV Coastal and ocean conservation organisation TWE offers longstanding charitable partners Oceana Save Something Beautiful collaboration and local organisations with a connection to (US) (pictured). TWE’s people and regions, product and monetary contributions. In F18, TWE supported the Napa, • A sponsorship between the Gentleman’s Collection Sonoma and Lake County areas in their recovery and the Movember foundation that supports a variety efforts from the devastating fires in October 2017, of men’s health initiatives (Global) (pictured). and communities in Texas and the Caribbean as they worked to recover from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed below. TWE cares for its employees because everyone’s life is important, and every employee deserves to go home The safety of our people is every employee’s safe, every day. responsibility. It is referenced as a strategic imperative in the TWE Strategy and specific measures and Health, safety and wellbeing risks are identified in targets are included in the Executive Leadership TWE’s Risk Management Framework. A summary15 Team’s annual key performance objectives, which are of the risks that relate to health, safety and cascaded throughout the organisation. wellbeing include: • loss of key leadership/talent; and • significant business disruption and/or catastrophic damage or loss. 15. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2018 Annual Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 23 PEOPLE Graphic 5 Global Health Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) Strategy HSW STRATEGIC INITIATIVES SAFE SYSTEMS SAFE PLANT AND EQUIPMENT SAFE PEOPLE Leaders know how to lead. Relentless focus to ensure Use common tools, resources, Everyone is educated, the workplace is safe. training and systems engaged and empowered. across the business. GLOBAL PRIORITY DESTINATION SERIOUS AND FATAL LEARN FROM INCIDENTS HEALTH, WELLNESS PROGRAMS ZERO HARM INJURY PREVENTION AND FREE LESSONS AND RESILIENCE CORE HSW PROCESSES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MEANINGFUL PERFORMANCE MEASURES TWE’s Global Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HSW) a high or very high severity within the Vintrak Strategy has three Strategic Initiatives and six Global reporting system. By recording potential incidents, Priority Programs, as shown in Graphic 5. our teams are able to proactively work to minimise HSW related risks. Each year the strategy and objectives of the Global Priority Programs are reviewed and signed off by TWE continues to record its Lost Time Injury HSW Senior Leaders and the Company’s Executive Frequency Rate (LTIFR), which measures lost time Leadership Team. TWE uses lead and lag per million hours worked. This indicator records performance indicators to assess effectiveness of our lost time whether the incident in question was low HSW policies, systems and programs. These or high in severity. performance measures are presented as a standing agenda item at monthly Executive Leadership Team In F18, TWE set a target to reduce its lagging meetings and at every Board meeting. indicator by 5% on F17 levels. This target was not met and the LTIFR indicator trended upwards from In F18, TWE’s HSW Strategy led to a number 2.4 to 4.5 due to a number of minor injuries in the of key achievements, including: production and commercial business that required • Approximately 90% of employees attended a time away from work as the best course of treatment. 60–90 minute training session, which introduced However, incident reporting of all incidents was the Destination Zero Harm (DZH) program, improved and in F18, the SIFR decreased by 30%, its objectives, and the concept of mindfulness. from 5.0 in F17 to 3.5 in F18. • Increased health and safety communications, shared HSW INDICATORS learnings and controls of incidents and their root causes across the global health and safety network. • Upgraded the Company’s incident reporting system 5.0 to include DZH behavioural reporting. 4.5 4.2 4.1 • 24 months of actual and potential serious incident 3.5 data was captured and combined to develop a Serious Incident Frequency Rate (SIFR) indicator, which 22.08 2.4 measures serious incidents per million hours worked. In F18, the indicator commenced being reported to the Board and Executive Leadership Team. LTIFR SIFR16 The SIFR is a combined lead and lag indicator F15 F16 F17 F18 that enables our site and HSW teams and senior management to have greater visibility on potential and actual incidents that are reported as having 16. Comparable SIFR data is only available from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2018. 24 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT GUIDING PRINCIPLE Product Create quality wines that are consumed and promoted responsibly and safely AMBITION Our wines are produced, marketed and consumed responsibly F18 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Integrated digital Maintained and social media third party quality into Responsible and food safety Marketing certifications Guidelines 97.1% of employees trained on TWE’s Alcohol Policy Launched a Global No labelling Innovation Strategy regulation non-compliance No marketing regulation non-compliance TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 25 PRODUCT RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND Week that engages employees with relevant activities, MARKETING OF ALCOHOL third party speakers, and further resources to aide them in understanding and promoting responsible As one of the world’s largest wine companies, TWE consumption. aims to enrich the culture and the lives of the millions of adults around the world who enjoy our brands In addition, in F18, the importance of responsible by promoting the responsible consumption of wine. consumption was highlighted as a key theme of TWE’s Destination Zero Harm health, safety and Responsible consumption, marketing and sale wellbeing program. of alcohol risks are identified through TWE’s Risk Management Framework. A summary17 of these Promoting Wine Responsibly related risks include: TWE’s Alcohol Policy is supported by Responsible • brand reputation/damage; and Marketing Guidelines and a Responsible Sales and • changing laws and government regulations. Marketing Handbook, which outline requirements for promoting our wines in the different markets Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed in which we operate in across the world. in this section. These resources have been expanded to provide Employee Advocates additional guidance to the marketing and sales TWE endeavours to ensure our employees act teams on how these guidelines apply to new and as champions for responsible consumption. rapidly evolving digital and social media platforms. The Company’s Alcohol Policy and the supporting TWE’s marketing team ensures that all marketing Alcohol Policy Guidelines are fundamental to this communications are vetted against these guidelines commitment. These resources confirm our during development. This is undertaken through commitment to responsible consumption and outline reference to a comprehensive marketing checklist, TWE’s expectation of employees when consuming seeking legal guidance, and escalating approval as alcohol and promoting our wine. required. This process applies to digital and social media as well as traditional marketing platforms. All employees and our key marketing agency partners are trained on the Company’s Alcohol Policy when In F18, there were zero findings19 of non-compliance they join, or are engaged by the Company. Employees with marketing regulations or voluntary codes. are then trained every two years thereafter. In F18, Partnerships this training was improved and expanded upon by enhancing the Alcohol Policy compliance module. TWE is proud to work in partnership with organisations that promote responsible consumption. We work with several groups that lead alcohol education and responsibility initiatives, including DrinkWise, Drinkaware, the Alcoholic Beverages In F18, Advertising Code (ABAC), and national organisations 97.1% 18 such as Alcohol Beverages Australia (ABA) who are partners of the International Alliance for Responsible of employees have Drinking (IARD). completed compliance training on TWE’s Alcohol Policy. TWE embeds other world-leading voluntary initiatives into its internal Responsible Marketing Guidelines, including the principles of the Wine Institute Code of Advertising Standards and the Portman Group Code of Practice on the Naming, Packaging and Promotion of Alcoholic Drinks. In F18, these commitments were extended to The Alcohol Policy is supported by regular global global travel retail through TWE’s commitment internal communications on aspects of responsible to the Duty Free World Council Code of Conduct. consumption, and an annual Responsible Consumption 17. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2018 Annual Report. 18. It is anticipated that the 2.9% of employees who have not completed the training are new-starters who are yet to complete the training within their first three months of commencing with TWE, as well as a minor number of employees who may be overdue in completing refresher training. 19. A finding refers to a determination by the responsible external body. 26 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT TWE fosters relationships with governments and other stakeholders in markets across the world to identify shared opportunities to promote responsible consumption activities. In F18, these included branded collaborations between: FEATURE • Sterling Vineyards and Uber (US), promoting responsible consumption in the Always Polished Never Dull campaign (pictured); • DrinkWise and brands Samuel Wynn and A’tivo (pictured), promoting responsible consumption during the Spring Racing Carnival, and Wolf Blass as part of our AFL sponsorship (Australia). PRODUCT LEADERSHIP TWE has invested in the development of lower in alcohol and no-alcohol wines, and is a market leader in Australia and Europe, with Lindeman’s Early Harvest (lower alcohol), Lindeman’s Maiden Press (no alcohol20) and Rawson’s Retreat (no alcohol20). You won’t miss a moment if you DrinkWise. SPRITZ WITH A TWIST 20. No-alcohol wines contain no more than 0.5% alcohol by volume from natural fruit fermentation. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 27 PRODUCT Information and Labelling TWE provides a range of information on its labels and online to assist consumers to drink responsibly and safely. Our internal regional policies on labelling outline information that must be provided to consumers. This includes labelling all our products with the number of standard drinks or alcohol content of the product; a responsible consumption message; and a warning message on drinking alcohol during pregnancy. TWE was the first global wine company to commit to providing calorie information on its products. The calorie content of TWE’s wine is available online for consumers around the world. TWE focuses on providing the calorie content of its wines, as there are negligible amounts of other constituents traditionally found on a full nutritional panel; for example, fats and protein. Where relevant, TWE’s global and brand websites include links to local responsible consumption partners, such as DrinkWise and Drinkaware, whose websites provide further information to consumers on the In F18, there were social and health impacts of alcohol consumption, such as binge drinking, drink driving, and the 0 findings 21 effects of alcohol consumption on pregnancy and of non-compliance with labelling regulations relationships. Where there is no local responsible or voluntary codes. consumption partner identified the Enjoy Responsibly logo is used. TWE’s regional labelling policies require all labels to include: 1 number of standard drinks or alcohol content; 2 responsible consumption message; 3 warning message on drinking alcohol during pregnancy; 4 4 country of origin, this may include information on the product geographic indications (i.e. which 1 region the wine is sourced from); 5 5 information on the producer 1 (i.e. TWE’s company details); 7 6 importer contact details, as required by local regulators22; and 2 3 7 allergens and other health warnings, as required by local regulators. 21. A finding refers to a determination by the responsible external body. 22. The label pictured does not include importer details as this product is destined for the market in which it was produced (Australia). 28 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT PRODUCT QUALITY, SAFETY AND INNOVATION Quality and Safety Assurance of the product quality and food safety of our wines is a core priority and is critical to TWE’s success. Product quality and safety risks are identified through TWE’s Risk Management Framework. These risks relate to23: • brand reputation/damage; and • changing laws and government regulations. Aspects of how these risks are managed are detailed in this section. Our commitment to quality is embedded in the Company’s policies, standards and procedures. The Food Safety and Quality Policy confirms our commitment to deliver consumer expectations and comply with all internal and external food safety, regulatory and quality requirements by ensuring that we produce a consistent fit-for-purpose product using best practices. This process is verified by third-party certifications provided by Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points, British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety, International Featured Standards, Food Safety System Certification 22000, and the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO 22000). Our quality management and production systems cover the entire winemaking process from raw materials to distribution. These systems are engineered to ensure traceability of our wines from grape, to bottle, to consumer (pictured). Traceability allows us to verify the integrity and authenticity of our wines. Our ongoing focus is on improving product Quality Right First Time performance, which drives improvements in production efficiencies; reduces the potential for rework or waste; and ensures robust collaboration with our material suppliers. Quality is integrated into product design as part of our innovation and product development pipeline in alignment with our food safety and regulatory requirements. 23. A full account of TWE’s material business risks is located in the Operating and Financial Review of the 2018 Annual Report. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 29 PRODUCT Stakeholder Relationship Management TWE understands that personal information is As a brand-led organisation, stakeholder feedback valuable and sensitive, and is committed to protecting is a key indicator of our product quality performance. the privacy and security of this information, and At TWE, we engage with our consumers to review complying with global data protection regulations. product, brand and service experiences to identify TWE’s Data Protection Policy reflects the requirements opportunities for improvement, which are fed into of applicable privacy and data security laws, including our innovation systems to continually enhance the Australian Privacy Act 1998, European Union our product offering. General Data Protection Regulation and the Payment Each year our business manages tens of thousands Cards Industry Data Security Standard. The Data of consumer, supplier and distributer contact enquiries Protection Policy is a global policy and applies through social media, webmail, emails, live chat and to the whole business, including TWE’s Stakeholder phone calls, among other channels. TWE endeavours Relationship Management processes. to investigate and respond promptly to these queries to ensure satisfactory feedback to stakeholders. This process is represented in Graphic 6 Graphic 6 Stakeholder Relationship Management SOCIAL MEDIA CONSUMER WEBMAIL DISTRIBUTOR EMAILS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUPPLIER LIVE CHAT PHONE CALLS Innovation Management TWE’s Global Innovation Strategy is supported by TWE invests in breakthrough innovation to satisfy collaborative partnering with public and private consumer and customer desires and expectations, institutions across the world, including government, without compromising its supply chain optimisation, universities, suppliers and entrepreneurs. quality and cost objectives. Significant partnerships with leading research organisations include Commonwealth Scientific and In F18, TWE’s Global Innovation Strategy was Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO, Australia), launched internally. The Strategy captures the way Australia Wine Research Institute and University the Company identifies, prioritises and manages of California, Davis (US). innovations across the business and focuses on using innovation to improve quality and product offering, safety, sustainability, and efficiency, while minimising cost and delivering value to our stakeholders. 30 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF ACTIONS PAGE Human rights Principle 1 Maintained a policy framework, including Code of Conduct, Whistleblower Policy and 18 Protection of New Market Entry Policy designed to protect human rights. human rights Maintained reporting to the Board Audit and Risk Committee on matters that have been 19 raised through the whistleblower process. Implemented an ESG review system designed to proactively identify suppliers with high 21 ESG risk potential. Committed suppliers to uphold human rights through the RPC. 19 Principle 2 Strengthened ability of TWE employees and contractors to identify grievances through 19 No complicity updates to the whistleblower process and maintenance of Human Resource assistance channels. in human Maintained reporting to the Board Audit and Risk Committee on matters that have been 19 rights abuse raised through the whistleblower process. Implemented an ESG review system designed to proactively identify suppliers with high 21 ESG risk potential. Committed suppliers to uphold human rights through the RPC. 19 Labour Principle 3 Upheld the right to freedom of association of TWE people. 19 Freedom of Recognised the right to collective bargaining. 19 association and Committed suppliers to uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining rights 20 right to collective through the RPC. bargaining Principle 4 Adhered to local laws and regulations. NA Elimination Maintained a policy framework, including Global Payroll Policy and RPC, designed to prevent 19 of forced and the use of forced labour within TWE operations and its supply chain. compulsory Implemented an ESG review system designed to proactively identify suppliers with high 21 labour ESG risk potential. Principle 5 Adhered to local laws and regulations. NA Abolition Maintained a policy framework, including Employing and Engaging Minors Policy and 19 of child labour RPC, designed to prevent the use of child labour within TWE operations and its supply chain. Implemented an ESG review system designed to proactively identify suppliers with high 21 ESG risk potential. Principle 6 Maintained a policy framework that encourages diversity and inclusion among TWE people, 21 Elimination which is designed to prevent discrimination, harassment and bullying. of discrimination Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, supports the achievement of diversity 21 and inclusion as part of their key performance objectives. Environment Principle 7 Launched Sustainable Future, which improves environmental monitoring and aims to reduce 13 Precautionary negative environmental impacts. approach to Completed environmental risk assessments at a global, regional and site level. 12 environmental Maintained TWE’s Environment Policy and introduced TWE’s Environmental Standard. 12 challenges Principle 8 Attained 100% sustainability certification of company-owned or leased vineyards 12 Environmental and wineries. responsibility Invested in water, energy and waste efficient technology for vineyards, wineries 14 and packaging centres. Principle 9 Launched Sustainable Future, which encourages sharing of best practice processes. 13 Environmentally Invested in water, energy and waste efficient technology for vineyards, wineries 14 friendly and packaging centres. technologies Developed a new internal Global Innovation Strategy, which considers sustainability outcomes 30 of current and future innovation projects. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Maintained a policy framework, including Code of Conduct; Whistleblower Policy; Fraud 8 Work against and Corruption Policy; and Gifts, Entertainment and Unacceptable Payments Policy, corruption which supports TWE’s commitment to a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Provided training to TWE employees on policy framework on a periodic basis. 8 Maintained reporting to the Board Audit and Risk Committee on matters that have been 19 raised through the whistleblower process. TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 31 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS METRIC UNIT OF MEASURE F15 F16 F17 F18 1 PLANET Environmental Number of incidents incidents reported by external body 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumed2 GJ 498,526 488,658 487,521 472,295 Energy efficiency3 MJ/9LE 10.41 9.28 8.95 8.80 Total water consumed2 ML 26,975 27,072 22,337 22,751 Water efficiency3 L/9LE 25.18 22.36 23.46 23.35 Total CO2-e emissions4 Tonnes CO2-e 58,635 57,755 53,380 52,273 Carbon emission intensity ratio5,9 Kg CO2-e/9LE – – – 1.07 Total solid waste Tonnes generated2 62,987 55,076 65,350 57,708 % solid waste % diverted from landfill 96.26 96.02 96.87 95.98 PEOPLE Female representation % in leadership roles6 33.8 35.9 37.3 37.1 Participation in Global Number of Volunteering Week employees 1291 1290 1369 1412 Lost time injury Lost time injuries frequency rate per million hours (LTIFR) worked 4.2 4.1 2.4 4.5 Serious incident Serious incidents frequency rate per million (SIFR)7 hours worked – – 5.0 3.5 PRODUCT Alcohol Policy % of compliant training8 employees – 96.8 98.0 97.1 Non-compliance with Number marketing regulation of findings or voluntary codes9 – – – 0 Non-compliance Number with labelling codes of findings or regulations9 – – – 0 1. Every year, due to timing requirements of reporting and billing latency from third-party suppliers, most of the June environmental performance data for energy, water, waste and carbon emissions is estimated. Prior to annual publication, the June figures of the previous year are replaced with actual values. Similarly, any other discrepancies in the previous year’s data are amended. 2. Absolute figures include all wineries, packaging centres and company-owned or leased vineyards. They do not include data from all offices and cellar doors. 3. Energy and water efficiency for TWE’s wineries and packaging centres include non-TWE volumes packaged at our facilities under contract. Efficiencies do not include energy and water used at company-owned or leased vineyards, or all offices and cellar doors. 4. Includes all wineries, packaging centres and company-owned or leased vineyards. Does not include emissions from all offices and cellar doors, wastewater treatment plants, refrigerants or Scope 3 emissions. 5. The carbon emission intensity ratio for TWE’s wineries and packaging centres include non-TWE volumes packaged at our facilities under contract. The intensity ratio does not include carbon emitted at company-owned or leased vineyards, or all offices and cellar doors. 6. TWE defines leadership roles as senior leaders, professionals and specialists, including general, department and functional management. 7. Comparable SIFR data is only available from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2018. 8. This indicator was established in F16 and as such TWE does not have information for previous financial years. 9. This indicator was established in F18 and as such TWE does not have information for previous financial years. 32 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REFERENCES DOCUMENTS REFERRED TO THROUGHOUT REPORT TWE POLICY, STANDARD OR CODE1 PUBLICLY AVAILABLE Alcohol Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Code of Conduct www.tweglobal.com/investors Corporate Gifts, Entertainment and Unacceptable Payments Policy Data Protection Policy Delegated Authority Limits Policy Disclosure Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Diversity and Inclusion Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Employing and Engaging Minors Policy Environment Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Environment Standard Food Safety and Quality Policy Fraud and Corruption Policy Global Flexible Work Practices Policy Global Payroll Policy Media Policy New Market Entry Policy Potential Conflicts of Interest Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Regional Harassment, Bullying and Discrimination policies Remuneration Policy Responsible Marketing Guidelines www.tweglobal.com/responsibility Responsible Procurement Code www.tweglobal.com/investors Responsible Sales and Marketing Handbook Risk Management Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Risk Management Framework Social Media Policy Share Trading Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Tax Governance Framework Whistleblower Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors Workplace Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy www.tweglobal.com/investors TWE PRODUCED REPORTS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE 2017 Australian Packaging Covenant Report www.tweglobal.com/responsibility 2017 Tax Transparency Report www.tweglobal.com/responsibility 2018 Annual Report www.tweglobal.com/investors 2018 Corporate Governance Statement www.tweglobal.com/investors 2018 Statement on the Prevention of Modern Slavery www.tweglobal.com UN Global Compact Communications on Progress www.tweglobal.com/responsibility 2018 Workplace Gender Equality Agency Report www.tweglobal.com/careers 1. This is not a full list of TWE’s policies, standards or codes. This list reflects those policies, standards and codes that are referenced in the 2018 Sustainability Report. Additional TWE policies are listed on the Company’s website at www.tweglobal.com/investors. CONTACT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Global Public Affairs Director crprogram@tweglobal.com www.tweglobal.com
