About this Report Contents Characteristics of the Report This is an integrated report which introduces the system and activities for the value creation of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. This report includes the business strategies and activities of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction as well as the CEO Message 2 company's economic environmental, and social responsibilities and their outcomes. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been publishing this integrated report Company Profile 4 each year to be utilized as a communications channel with stakeholders. Business Portfolio Criteria for Writing the Report This report has been written in accordance with the integrated reporting framework Strategy for Sustainable Growth 16 of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the G4 Core Option of EPC 18 the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The status of the detailed application of GRI G4 Power Plant 22 can be checked through the GRI Index in the Appendix. Water Plant 32 Period and Scope of Reporting Casting & Forging 36 This report was written based on financial and non-financial performance from Jan. R&D and Digital Solution 40 1 to Dec. 31, 2017, and the important items which may influence decision-making by stakeholders include the performance of the first half of 2018. For some of the quantitative outcomes, data collected over 3 years was reported in order to allow Commitments to Sustainability the confirmation of trends, while the financial outcome was recorded based on the application of K-IFRS. Furthermore, if any information suggested in previous reports 2030 SDGs Commitments 48 has been revised or re-written, its details were explained in the footnotes. The scope Communication with Stakeholders 52 of reporting is 100% of the headquarters, domestic, and international projects, and the activities and performances of subsidiaries located overseas were included as needed. Sustainable Management Governance Performance 56 Verification of the Report Environmental Performance 62 To increase reliability and improve the quality of detail for the report, we received verification of non-financial information from an independent external agency. As for Social Performance 72 financial information, an accounting audit was performed by an independent audit corporation, and the report was written based on these results. The results regarding Appendix the verification can be checked through the verification statement in the Appendix. Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 90 Additional Information Stakeholder Engagement 95 This report is to be published and distributed in Korean and English, and may Cover Story Materiality Assessment 96 also be downloaded in PDF format from the website of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (www.doosanheavy.com). For any inquiries on the report, please Risk Management 97 contact us through the following. Performance Summary 98 Independent Auditors' Report 114 Independent Assurance Statement 116 Environmental Guidelines 118 GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact 122 Overview of Association Memberships 122 It maintained continuity of design using a square, the motif of Doosan's Website www.doosanheavy.com brand identity. As a representative Address 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, product for the energy conversion era, Expressed the confidence in the Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do transformation of business portfolio Phone 055-278-3058 using the wind power generator Team in charge CSR Team images Doosan Group Introducing Doosan Group Doosan Way CSR Value System Doosan Way, our belief and philosophy Korea's Most Long-lived Name Brand Company As Korea's very first modern corporation, Doosan maintains a length history of 122 years, undergoing several transformations along the way. From its humble beginnings as the Park Doosan Credo Doosan Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Seung-Jik Store in 1896 in the neighborhood of Baeogae, currently Jongno 4-ga of Seoul, Doosan The Doosan Credo is a set of principles stipulated in document and has ceaselessly strived to transform and develop itself over the course of the 20th century, up to developed from Doosan's philosophy and a unique way of doing CSR Goal To rank among the 100 Global CSR Leading the present day. business, which have been the foundation of Doosan's success for Companies by 2025 the past century. The Doosan Credo is integral to every aspect of our *Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) World-recognized ISB Leader business and people, a standard that clearly guides our decisions and Doosan has become a name brand that is acknowledged throughout the globe within the the way we conduct business. It is by realizing these values that Doosan CSR Mission accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo consists of Doosan's Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth development industry for its first-class competitiveness, leading today's market. As the premier enterprise in possession of core technology and outstanding performance within the seawater Aspiration and Core Values. CSR Pillars Respect for People desalination industry, it firmly occupies the predominance of its name brand by living up to its reputation. In addition, it continues to reign at the peak of quality performance within the skid Aspiration Reliable Operating steer loader and attachment sub-industries of the construction machinery industry while boasting Doosan's ultimate goal is to create a 'Proud Global Doosan.' It represents of as many as seventeen product lines known for their world-class quality. As a result, Doosan has our vision that all of our employees and stakeholders will not only Responsibility in Engagement solidified its status as leader within the infrastructure support business (ISB) industry, comprising benefit from Doosan but also take pride in their association with us. CSR Value Creation that of development, seawater desalination, construction machinery and more, creating a status We envision every employee to be proud as a member of Doosan; every grounded in its unrivaled, state-of-the-art technology. customer recognizing and appreciating our high quality goods and CSR Priorities 1. Establishment of a culture that values human rights services with pride; and every shareholder taking pride in the fair and 2. Fair employment Rewriting the History of a World-class Name Brand high levels of profit that we generate. 3. Establishment of a safe work environment Doosan currently operates 25 affiliates and 115 overseas corporate bodies and continues on its 4. Reinforcement of CSR in process operations journey of ceaseless development despite its remarkable performance record, while the provision Core Values and the supply network of differentiated products and services that enable customers to be instilled with both trust and Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo 5. Green management and responsiveness to pride catalyzes Doosan's growth as a global enterprise together with its customers. wherever they operate, every day, in order to build a Proud Global climate change 6. Reinforcement of responsibilities in products Doosan. These values guide our business conduct, the manner in which and services we treat one another, and the way we work with all of our partners. Group Vision Doosan's nine core values are as follows. 7. Advancement of social contribution activities We will become a Proud Global Doosan through people-oriented management and the reflecting the value of work establishment of processes that fulfill world-class standards, which is the source of our global 8. Reinforcement of activities that disclose company information (CSR) competitiveness. Proud Global Doosan People Customers 9. Pursuit of businesses that create CSR values Human-centered Establishment of 10. Advancement of CSR performance monitoring management as the business processes source of our global that fulfill global Enabler Powerful CSR Governance competitiveness standards Cultivating Safety and the (Promotion system / Executives' will of promotion / Employee awareness of social responsibilities) people Environment Overview of Affiliates Doosan Values 9 Core Values (People, Cultivating People, Integrity and Transparency, Inhwa, ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Companies Customers, World-class Technology and Innovation, Profit, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction | Doosan Infracore | Doosan Bobcat | Doosan Engineering & Construction | Social Responsibility, Safety and the Environment) Doosan Mecatec | Doosan Robotics | DMI Profit Inhwa Doosan Co., Ltd. Demand of Society Global CSR Initiative (UN SDGs · ISO 26000 · UN Global Compact · GRI) Doosan Corporation Electro-Materials | Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle | Doosan Corporation Mottrol | Doosan Retail | Doosan Corporation Fuel Cell | Doosan Corporation Glonet | Doosan Corporation Information & Communications World-class Social Responsibility Technology and CSB (Consumer & Service Business) Companies Innovation Oricom | Doosan Bears | Neoplux | Hancom | Doosan Magazine | Doosan Cuvex Affiliated Organizations Integrity and Doosan Yonkang Foundation | Doosan Art Center | Doosan Leadership Institute (DLI) Transparency CEO Message Dear distinguished stakeholders, We truly appreciate the generous encouragement and support you have shown our company, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. It gives us great pleasure to be able to share with you again through our Integrated Report the changes and innovation that we have been ceaselessly pursuing over the year, despite being faced with numerous internal and external challenges. Even in the midst of the rapidly changing business environment, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been investing its best efforts to successfully achieve change and innovation. While the global economy continues to show sluggish growth, a rapid paradigm shift is occurring in our lives, as well as across the overall industry. In spite of the challenging business environment, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been able to achieve significant accomplishments during the past year alone, such as signing a provisional contract for the Thabametsi project in South Africa and commencing the Nghi Son EPC project in Vietnam which had been delayed for some time. Furthermore, Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) shows progress in the export of nuclear reactors after being selected as the preferred bidder for the Moorside Nuclear Power Station project in the United Kingdom, while Samcheok POSPower is scheduled to be constructed as a coal-fired thermal power plant as originally planned. By acquiring a gas turbine service company based in the US, we have built a foundation for targeting the gas turbine service market in the Americas, and we have also achieved positive outcomes of varying magnitude in new areas, such as wind power and ESS. And in line with the growing demand and emphasis on companies' roles and responsibilities as a member of society, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has constantly sought to practice social responsibility in its business, such as by accelerating efforts for energy and carbon management, jointly advancing into overseas markets with suppliers and contributing to the local communities. As a result, 2017 was a year during which the company was recognized both internally and externally for its performance in sustainable management, such as being bestowed honors such as the Korea Green Climate Award and an ESG rating of 'A' by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. We have also had the honor of being successively listed as a DJSI Korea company. With a focus on gas turbines and new/renewable energy, we seek to transform our business portfolio now and through this, ultimately achieve continuous business growth. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is striving to build a foundation for continuous growth in various ways, which include pursuing new businesses in line with changes in the business environment. To ensure we can effectively respond to changes in the global power market, the energy sector-related government policies and the reinforced environmental regulations under the new climate regime, we are seeking to convert our business portfolio to one centered on new/ renewable energy, gas turbines, and power plant services. To this end, we plan to widen our business opportunities at both home and abroad in sectors like onshore/offshore wind turbines and renewable energy-linked ESS, while also ensuring the smooth development of large-scale gas turbines, which is currently being pursued as a state project, and will seek early commercialization by utilizing the relevant technology. Moreover, we aim to build up the competitiveness of our services business, which includes performance improvement and maintenance of power plants, a business sector that has contributed to securing a stable business structure for us. In addition, we will apply digital technology to differentiate our engineering and manufacturing from that of others and actively pursue the digital services business, making sure that it fully satisfies customer needs. We would like to ask for your continued interest and support as we endeavor to uphold social values and raise the value of the Earth. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to strictly abide by the principles of sustainability in the areas of the environment, human rights, safety, labor, shared growth and business ethics. As a company that hopes to contribute to raising the value of the Earth through its business, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also aims to promote social values by actively fulfilling our social responsibilities of contributing to the local community. We will remain particularly true to the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) commitments, which was established by linking our company's core businesses with the UN SDGs, and will practice active communication with all our stakeholders. Having reached a new turning point, all the employees, management, and union members will be practicing open communication based on the foundation of mutual trust and will focus on effectively implementing bold changes and reform. Your support and interest will be invaluable to us, as we continuously endeavor to establish a sustainable society and a sustainable planet. Geewon Park Chairman & CEO 2 3 Company Profile Europe Global Leader in Power & Water Middle East Asia America Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is an expert corporation in plants that has offered integrated solutions in power generation and water industries of 40 countries around the world for the past five decades. Our company serves as a leader in the nation's economic growth by manufacturing casting and forging, which are fundamental materials for industries, nuclear and thermal power generation facilities, seawater desalination and transport facilities, and for supplying them to domestic and overseas plant markets. Recently, we have been actively targeting wind power systems in the eco-friendly green energy market, which is a leader Africa of future growth engines. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continue to strive to create a better future by providing light and water to humankind all over the world and achieving technology which will increase value for the earth. (As of December 31, 2017) Global Network Asia Europe America Middle East and Africa CEO Foundation Area of Business Headquarters 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Republic of Korea United Kingdom United States Saudi Arabia Geewon Park of the company Other machinery and Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Headquarters and the Changwon Plant Doosan Power Systems Doosan Heavy Industries America Doosan Power Systems Arabia equipment manufacturing Technology Research Institute Doosan Babcock Doosan HF Controls Riyadh Office September 20, 1962 Seoul Office 456, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul Seoul Office Doosan Enpure Doosan ATS America Damman Water R&D Center Boiler R&D Center Doosan GridTech Vietnam Doosan Turbomachinery Services United Arab Emirates Doosan Vina / DCS Vina Czech Republic Pittsburgh Office Middle East Operation Center Vietnam Operation Center Doosan Skoda Power Newington Office Dubai Office Hanoi Office Water Dubai Office India Germany Chile Abu Dhabi Office Doosan Lentjes Santiago Office KRW 14,523.6 billion KRW 925.7 billion 7,610 employees 31 Doosan Power Systems India New Delhi Office / Mumbai Office Frankfurt Office Egypt Revenue Operating Profit No. of employees The master hands of Korea Kolkata Office / Chennai Office/Shop Cairo Office (who are responsible for Poland quality and technology) China Katowice Office Kuwait Shanghai Office Kuwait Office Beijing Office Romania Doosan IMGB South Africa Proud Taiwan Taipei Office Johannesburg Office Global Japan Switzerland Doosan ATS Europe Doosan Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Philippines Growth into Doosan History a Global Company 2017 Manila Office 2001~ 2016 Acquisition of ACT (currently DTS), a gas Thailand Acquisition of Bangkok Office turbine service company 1Energy Systems, The Beginning Growth and a US energy Indonesia and Challenge Development storage system firm Jakarta Office 1962~1980 1981~2000 2009 2011~2012 (currently Doosan Turkey GridTech) Acquisition of Acquisition of Istanbul Office 2006 Skoda Power AE&E Lentjes Acquisition of Secured OEM Secured OEM technology 2001 Mitsui Babcock technology in in CFB boilers 1962 1982 Groundbreaking of the Privatization and change of the Energy Secured original steam turbines Completed the Acquisition of Chennai Works in India company name Establishment of Changwon Plant to Doosan Heavy boiler OEM Doosan Vina the Company technology Acquisition of Enpure (the world's largest) Industries & Manufacturing Construction Plant in Vietnam Announced The Doosan Co., Ltd. Way 4 5 Integrated solutions for a better life We promise a better future through technology that increases the value of the Earth. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the nation's leading specialized corporation in plants, and for the past 50 years has contributed to the economic growth of the country by providing integrated solutions in the power generation and water industries of 40 nations worldwide. We are equipped with a full line-up of boilers, turbines, and generators in the field of power generation equipment as well as a global production system in countries such as Vietnam and India. In the field of seawater desalination, we take the undisputed rank as No. 1 and have supplied the most numbers of major equipment for nuclear power plants in the world in the past 30 years. Last year, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction completed the Vinh Tan 4 Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant , a project overseen by the Vietnamese Electricity Department, and also received the grand prize in the Fresh Water Company of the Year Desalination Company of the Year category at the Global Water Awards . However, instead of being satisfied with the current performance, we have expanded our company's status by taking orders from new overseas markets such as South Africa and Vietnam to consolidate our position as the leader of the market. The business portfolio created based on accurate insight and detailed strategies in market changes, coupled with a hunger for technology and quality products, is the greatest competitive edge for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction as well as the reason for our recognition in the global market. 6 7 Wind power, one step towards a new future of the power generation industry For the first time by a Korean company, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction successfully developed WinDS3000TM, a 3MW-offshore Green Energy wind power system, resulting in a number of domestic wind power supply contracts signed for Tamra Offshore Wind Farm, Yeongheung Wind Farm, and Southwest Offshore Wind Farm Projects. In November 2017, Tamra Wind Power Offshore Wind Farm in Jeju-do was constructed as the nation's firstever commercial offshore wind farm to which Doosan Heavy Industries Solutions & Construction had supplied as EPC, making Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction the only company in Korea to have supplied and operated EPC at offshore wind farms. In March 2018, we signed business agreements for the construction of an offshore wind power test site and development of a wind farm in Vietnam, taking the first step into the global wind power generation market. Advance into Vietnamese wind power market (signed an MOU) 8 9 ESS and Microgrid, the second step towards a new future of the power generation industry To empower customers to turn crisis into opportunity and create profits amid the changing energy industry, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a total technical solution that includes ESS (Energy Storage System) as well as dispersal-type power source and platform-based control system software. The technical solution of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction enables the integration, management, and control of ESS and various dispersal-type power sources. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been carrying out projects for power generation businesses and energy prosumers in Korea and the American continent. In September 2017, we signed a contract for the supply of 10MWh-ESS to the Beacon Solar Power Station near the Mojave Desert operated by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, and in April 2018 we obtained an order with Consumers Energy for ESS to be supplied to a substation located in Kalamazoo, Michigan, proving our competitiveness in the ESS industry once again. Energy Storage System 10 11 Gas turbines, the third step toward a new future of the power generation industry Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been developing large-capacity and high-efficiency gas turbines, and is preparing to enter the market in the future by integrating advanced technology. The development of gas turbines, which has been conducted since 2013 as a government funded project in an effort to secure original technology, will be completed by the end of 2019 and commercialized in 2021. The company also took over ACT (currently Doosan Turbomachinery Services) in July 2017, which was an American gas turbine service company and is now Doosan Turbomachinery Service, thus making an early entry into the service industry including recycling and repair, accumulating performance results and expertise. 12 13 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 01 Business Strategy for Sustainable Growth Business Portfolio 01 EPC 16 18 Portfolio Business Portfolio 02 Power Plant 22 Business Portfolio 03 Water Plant 32 Business Portfolio 04 Casting & Forging 36 Business Portfolio 05 R&D and Digital Solution 40 14 15 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Strategy for Sustainable Growth Global Leader in Power & Water Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers integrated solutions in the power generation and water enterprises. The phrase Global Leader in Power & Water emphasizes the level of determination of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction in becoming the world's leading player in the global power and desalination market. Based on the Doosan Way, which values technology, talented people, innovation, and transparency, the company is strengthening its foothold as a global leader in all aspects, including world-class technological capabilities, cost competitiveness and quality level, scale of sales and profitability, cultivation of talented individuals, and corporate culture, while at the same time staying at the forefront of technological trends, marketing, and market changes in the world in order to become an advanced global corporation. Global Trend Industry Trend · Prolonged period of low growth · Prolonged period of low oil prices · Increased awareness of stronger · Expanded private investments environmental regulations and eco· Accelerated application of Industry 4.0 friendly products · Expansion of distributed generation Changes in the domestic Our strategies · Increased water scarcity risks (e.g., water shortage) · Expansion of digital-utilizing services and global market environments for sustainable growth The world's greatest energy demand and carbon emissions are gradually Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is seeking to switch its portfolio shifting from advanced economies to emerging economies, and utilization through the expansion of gas turbines (GT), renewable energy, and of new and renewable energy continues to expand due to technological service industries. As for gas turbines, a government funded project for growth and environmental issues. Though the recovery of oil prices and the development of large-capacity and high-efficiency gas turbines is in the US government's withdrawal from the Paris Agreement in 2017 led to operation in response to reduction of coal-fire thermal power generation Global Leader in concern over the global trend in fossil fuel reduction, the global energy and domestication of gas turbine technology, the latter of which has Power & Water market is ultimately heading toward the goal of converting to a new largely been dependent on overseas technology, and the company aims to direction for an 'Energy Mix' centering on renewable energy. The domestic develop gas turbine technology as a major growth engine of the company market also implements energy switching policies, which include the stepin the future. First, its original technology is to be secured by 2019 through by-step reduction of nuclear power plants and expansion of renewable infrastructure establishment and development of the 270MW, highenergy through Renewable Energy 3020 and the 8th Basic Plan for Electricity performance gas turbine model, and a full-scale commercialization and Supply and Demand. performance upgrade will be pursued afterwards. Moreover, the takeover of New business development Increase in Order Intake Improvement in profitability To give a forecast by power source, coal is expected to be in demand in India ACT (currently Doosan Turbomachinery Services) has enabled the securing and Southeast Asia, while gas is estimated to be on the rise consistently of competency specialized in gas turbine service, thus allowing us to enter Identifying new growth Build momentum to Improve profitability through as it is advantageous in terms of cost, construction duration, and carbon the Global Non-OEM GT Service market in advance. Wind power is expected Strategic emission compared to other types of fossil fuels and as a backup power to grow thanks to the rapid expansion of domestic offshore wind power engines & advancing increase order intake by strengthened competitiveness Direction source for new and renewable energy such as wind and solar power. projects following renewable energy expansion policies, and Doosan Heavy commercialization implementing strategies by Though the reduction of new construction projects in the domestic market Industries & Construction expects to lead the market based on 3MW and region/product type is expected to decrease the portion of domestic nuclear power plants, the 5.5MW models with outstanding technology as well as the No. 1 share in construction of new nuclear power plants is likely to continue in China, the domestic public market (42%, 2012-2016). Meanwhile, the field of ESS India, and the Middle East where demands for energy are expected to rise. is broadening its scope of business by awarding a contract for an ESS project · Responding to paradigm shifts in the · Securing the leading position in the · Expanding the business model based Furthermore, the development and construction of small modular reactors at LADWP's Beacon Solar Power Station, and it is also expected to actively power market market by expanding the scale of the on engineering competency and digital (SMR) are likely to take place in many countries. As for renewable energy, operate the Microgrid business through construction of the nation's firstpower generation service market solutions the unit cost for power generation is predicted to decrease, while solar ever microgrid for an industrial complex. Promotion · Converting to renewable energy (ESS/ power, which is expanding into new markets, is expected to see the greatest Expected to have a bright forecast in both domestic and international activities Microgrid, wind power generation) · Seeking expansion of the market · Internalizing the integrated design system increase among all power generation facilities. Moreover, the 8th and RE markets following the strengthened environmental regulations, fine dust and gas turbine businesses for the through strengthened global based on 3D models and improving 3020 proclamations are likely to broaden the domestic wind power market control, etc., the performance enhancement and environmental facility portfolio partnership competitiveness through implementation with the increase in acquisition of new 15.7GW orders, etc. business will continue to expand through the operation of national projects, of the Digital Factory securing of standard thermal power performance improvement models (Boryeong #3), and the acquisition of original technology in environmental facilities (Lentjes, Germany). 16 17 B u siness P ort f olio 01 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix EPC Based on a business portfolio that includes power plants and general construction 2017 Business Performances among others, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction maximizes customer satisfaction and is becoming a leader in Global EPC by providing total solutions. Based on our competency in the execution of EPC, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continues to preemptively expand areas of business in not only existing markets of emphasis such as the Middle East, India, Vietnam, and the rest of East Asia, but also in new markets. In 2017, we obtained an order for the Thabametsi project of South Africa to enter the new market of Africa. In addition to the acquiring an order for the Grati Combined Cycle Power Plant conversion project in 2016, we obtained an order for the Muara Tawar Combined Cycle Power Plant conversion project in March 2017, solidifying our position in Indonesia. We also continue to acquire orders for construction projects within Korea including for Doosan Alf-heim, currently reinforcing dominance in the domestic market. Meanwhile, construction of large overseas projects including Song Hau 1 in Vietnam and Fadhili of Saudi Arabia are in progress, and we have been recognized for our EPC execution abilities through successful completion of the Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant and Hwaseong Dongtan 2 Cogeneration Power Plant. 2018 Forecast and Business Strategies As it is expected that the percentage of coal-fired thermal power generation is likely to decline in the global power generation market, difficulties in the EPC business will tend to increase. In response, we will strengthen preliminary sales activities to maintain our influence in core markets and promote regional diversification strategies, entering and obtaining orders in a greater number of markets. From the standpoint of a business portfolio, the percentage of combined cycle power generation will be increased and the lineup of products will be diversified in order to continue to secure more business opportunities. Through participation in the new and renewable Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Raipur Power Plant in India Plant in Vietnam energy business, we will advance into new business areas and maximize our potential for the acquisition of orders by expanding opportunities for domestic construction projects including those related to power generation such as overseas nuclear power plant 2017 Highlights construction and commissioning, utilizing internal competencies as well as general construction and national policy-based projects. By applying our successful experiences in a number of projects including Completion of Hwaseong Rabigh 2 of Saudi Arabia and Mong Duong 2 of Vietnam, we will Early completion of the Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant Dongtan 2, Korea's largest improve our competitiveness and also converge digital technology in Vietnam cogeneration power plant with power plant construction upon the arrival of Industry 4.0 to continue to lead the field of power plant EPC execution. 18 19 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Major Per formance Main performance and results in 2017 Entry into new overseas markets for EPC projects Despite a recession in the thermal power generation market, we obtained meaningful orders in new markets thanks to our efforts to diversify our business regions. As a result of pioneering new markets, a draft contract was signed in November 2017 for the 630MW-level Thabametsi Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant, worth about 1,150 billion KRW in financial scale, in South Africa. In Indonesia, in addition to an order acquisition for the Grati Combined Cycle Power Plant conversion project in 2016, we obtained an order for the Muara Tawar Combined Cycle Power Plant conversion project in March 2017. The project aimed to supply 8 waste heat recovery boilers and 8 steam turbines to a 1,150MW-level gas-fired thermal power plant in order to convert it into a 1,800MW-level combined-cycle power plant. Early completion of Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam The early completion of the Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam Gheco One Thermal Power Plant in Thailand Mundra Thermal Power Plant in India Sipat Thermal Power Plant in India earned Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction a letter of appreciation from EVN (Electricity of Vietnam), the ordering client. Among those ordered by EVN, this was L in k to C S R the first ever project to be completed earlier than scheduled. EVN recognized the | Major products and services merit in the successful execution of the project, presenting the letter of appreciation Fadhili construction site achieves • Thermal Power Plant Combined Cycle 6 million hours accident-free to a foreign company, a first in the history of the company. Through successful Power Plant construction of the Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant, we proved once again The Fadhili construction site has reached 6 million hours of • General plant accident-free operation. Since the beginning of construction in • Civil engineering our abilities as a top tier company in the Vietnamese power generation market and December 2016, the site has been carrying out an accident• Architecture completed a foundation for the acquisition of additional orders in the future. Introduction of Business free campaign, and as of April 2018, achieved the record of 6 million hours during which no accident or LTI (Lost Time | Major project portfolios Construction of Hwaseong Dongtan 2, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction holds competency in Incident, an accident that causes more than 1 day of work EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) with which • Rabigh Power Plant No.2 TPP (Saudi Arabia): 700MW x 4 Korea's largest cogeneration power plant loss) occurred. This accomplishment is a direct byproduct of • Mong Duong II TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 consistent implementation of autonomous safety activities in we can execute the entire process, from power plant design The Hwaseong Dongtan 2 Power Plant, Korea's largest cogeneration power • Vinh Tan 4 TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 cooperation with the affiliates based on our systematic EHS and supply of equipment to construction and commissioning, plant, was completed in December of 2017. As a new type of power generation (Environment Health and Safety) system. • Song Hau1 TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 2 as well as a number of domestic and overseas project results. that has been gaining much attention, a cogeneration power plant may be 6million • Vinh Tan 4 Extension TPP (Vietnam): 600MW x 1 Incheon-Gimpo constructed near a city center, use waste heat for heating, and reduce potential Customer satisfaction is achieved by adhering to performance, Expressway • Sipat TPP (India): 660MW x 3 • Mundra TPP (India): 800MW x 5 loss in power transmission. The Hwaseong Dongtan 2 Power Plant is the nation's achieves hours accident-free delivery period, and quality, offering a comprehensive solution through the provision of in-depth services from the initial stage • Raipur TPP (India): 685MW x 2 greatest 800MW-level power generation facility among all domestic cogeneration • Obra C TPP (India): 660MW x 2 power plants, and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was responsible for Waste insulation reduction technology to the completion of a project. We conduct various projects in • Jawaharpur TPP (India): 660MW x 2 and oversaw the entire process, from the supply of 2 gas turbines and steam certified as green technology the domestic and overseas general plant, civil engineering, and • Gheco One TPP (Thailand): 700MW x 1 turbines each to construction. This power plant plans to supply heat for 111,639 Our waste insulation reduction technology through integral construction industries based on a broad spectrum of experience • Saemangeum TPP (Korea): 152MW x 2 insulation plywood desk plates received certification from the and technology, and continue to lead changes in social • UAE Jebel Ali M CCPP: 2,000MW households in and near the city of Hwaseong. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and obtained the infrastructure and residential environments. • Qurayyah (Add-on) CCPP (Saudi Arabia): 1,330MW green technology certificate No. GT-17-00254 in June 2017. • Fadhili CCPP (Saudi Arabia): 1,519MW Reached 1 trillion KRW in orders obtained in the Compared to metal decks that process and attach insulation • Karabatan CCPP (Kazakhstan): 310MW domestic general construction industry materials on site, this technology reduces the loss rate of • Grati Add-on (Indonesia) Having been acknowledged for outstanding competency in the execution of insulation through heat plates, thus enabling a reduction of • Muara Tawar Add-on (Indonesia) 73.6% in processing cost compared to existing techniques. Sinboryeong Electric general construction projects, we have obtained orders worth more than 1 • Hwaseong Dongtan CCPP (Korea): 800MW Generation trillion KRW from both overseas power generation markets and the domestic • Seoul Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP) (Korea): 800MW • Shin-Kori #3, 4 Nuclear Power Plant construction (Korea) general construction industry. The list of construction projects obtained includes Trimage, an eco-friendly structure • Shin-Kori #5, 6 Nuclear Power Plant construction (Korea) the Doosan Alf-heim new apartment construction in the Baekbong District On April 6, 2017, Seoul Forest Trimage acquired • Samcheok LNG #5, 6, 7 storage facility (Korea) of Namyangju, worth about 500 billion KRW, along with Yonggang-dong the Green Level 1 , the highest distinction for • Noibai-Laocai Highway (Vietnam) in Gyeongju, Doosan We've Phase 2 in Yangsan, and Godeok Gangil. Private eco-friendly structures in the public housing • Incheon-Gimpo Expressway (Korea) construction projects are significant in that most of their construction expenditure category. The building was planned and • Wonju-Gangneung railroad construction (Korea) designed for people and nature to coexist is secured in advance through project financing loans and that the construction • Samcheok Green Power ground work (Korea) and be in harmony together, and has company takes full responsibility for the construction, which enables stable • Suncheon Doosan We've (Korea) minimized environmental pollution through • Trimage (Korea) operations throughout the entire process. We have also obtained civil engineering the conservation of energy and resources, • Doosan Alf-heim (Korea) projects such as Bongdam-Songsan Expressway and Hamyang-Changnyeong thus achieving a pleasant and healthy residential UAE Jebel Ali M CCPP Expressway, and have established a solid business portfolio in the domestic environment. View of Seoul Forest Trimage construction industry including plants, architecture, and civil engineering. 20 21 B u siness P ort f olio 02 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Business Performances 2018 Forecast and Business Strategies Power Plant Boilers Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction obtained an order for the ShinSeocheon FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization) project, which utilizes the world's best Boilers As orders for future power plant construction are expected to come mainly from emerging economies in Asia as well as lowdevelopment and energydesign for reducing sulfur oxide emission, and by developing the technology deficient countries in Africa, South America, etc., Doosan Heavy Industries Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is a global corporation that retains original for three new types of burners to respond to new environmental regulations, & Construction plans to secure cost competitiveness by utilizing its global we are now equipped with technologies to minimize environmental pollution, production bases. In addition, the scale of AQCS (Air Quality Control System) technology and references in boilers, turbines, and generators, all of which are essential including NOx emissions reduction. Cost competitiveness was also secured via market is expected to expand due to strengthened environmental regulations equipment in power generation. Based on our outstanding technology, diversification of suppliers and utilization of overseas subsidiaries (DPSI/VINA). such as the Paris Agreement, and we will therefore continue to target the eco-friendly power generation facility market through continuous technical we are successfully carrying out various power plant projects including Turbines and generators developments and sales activities. coal-fired thermal power plants, combined cycle power plants, In line with the global trend of reduction of coal thermal power, the competition within the market has intensified due to delayed or cancelled Turbines and generators and nuclear power plants. orders for new coal-fired thermal power plants. In response, Doosan Heavy Though the coal-fired power markets worldwide are being reduced due to Industries & Construction continues to enhance the competitiveness of domestic policies of anti-coal and anti-nuclear power plants and the Paris turbine and generator product groups that are specialized for combined Agreement, we plan to reinforce the competitiveness of go-to products, cycle power plants (CCPP). We have secured specialized technology for steam which include steam turbines and generators, together with an overseas turbines and generators for the CCPP Package project and have succeeded in subsidiary, SKODA, to secure stable volume of orders and profits. At the same obtaining orders in Poland, Nigeria, Indonesia, and other countries by offering time, based on solid experiences in the past such as various CCPP Package a complex solution in response to the various gas turbines of other OEMs. projects both in Korea and overseas, complex solutions which may be applied to different gas turbines will be provided in order to continuously secure Nuclear power orders in the field of gas power generation. The design and manufacturing technology for spent nuclear fuel dry transport/storage containers (Casks) have been developed for diversification Nuclear power of the business portfolio, and the company is currently developing technology For participation in the overseas nuclear power plant market as a to dismantle highly activated structures (nuclear reactor pressure vessels and complementary measure in response to the government's energy conversion internal structures), which is the most essential piece of technology in nuclear policy, the export of new nuclear power plant and Small Modular Reactors are power plant decommissioning. We have also secured the qualifications to being actively promoted in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, participate in general maintenance service in order to expand participation in India, the Czech Republic, and other countries. By acquiring orders for the operating nuclear power plant service market, and through the experience spent nuclear fuel dry transport/storage containers (Casks) and expediting in start-up maintenance service on the Shin-Hanul Nuclear Power Plant development of nuclear power plant decommissioning technology, we plan Unit 1 & 2 have prepared the means for advancement into the integrated to secure an advantageous position in the initial stage of the business and maintenance service in the future. continue to expand participation in domestic and overseas service markets. Services Services As rapid growth is expected in business opportunities and the scale of Service By declaring 2017 the first year for digitalization, we have begun development market including performance improvement of power plants owing to aging of digital power plant services, building competencies in the digital power of existing power plants and the reinforcement of regulations, Doosan Heavy generation service industry by operating e-brain Center jointly with Korea Industries & Construction will combine its engineering technology/experiences East-West Power. We have also converted the Yeongdong Thermal Unit 1 into with digital solutions in order to create more stable and effective Service the nation's best and largest eco-friendly biomass power plant, and expanded business. At the same time, we will continue to seek business expansion based the business base for service solutions by establishing Middle East Service on the technology and cost competitiveness of Doosan Babcock and global Center along with organizations for diagnosis/assessment and operation/ production bases. maintenance of power plants. New businesses New businesses As large-scale offshore wind power projects are expected to lead growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has promoted technical development, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will complete the development of reinforcement of organizational structure, and competency development for 5.5MW large-capacity offshore wind power models in the future to secure expansion of wind power business. In 2017, the 3MW wind power generation a technical competitive edge, and expand business scale by participating in system technology was selected as one of the major industrial technologies project development and building maintenance and operation competencies. that made Korea shine in the world, and through construction of the Tamra Based on collaboration with DTS, we will expand gas turbine service business Offshore Wind Farm in Jeju-do, we became the only Korean company to scope and market in order to establish a foundation for gas turbine business possess references in large-scale commercial offshore wind farms. As the and successfully carry out national projects for localizing gas turbines. 2017 Highlights trend of coal-free and nuclear-free power plants expands faster than expected in both Korea and overseas markets, we have accelerated the plan to growth as a gas turbine OEM provider. For domesticating gas turbines, we have consistently made developments based on national projects, established an Construction Conversion of Ertified for EU-APR Establishment Selected as R&D Center to secure the driving force for development of large-sized gas Start for Yeongdong Thermal EUR (European of e-Brain Worldclass turbines, and taken over ACT (currently Doosan Turbomachinery Services), an Biomass, Asnæs Unit 1 to a biomass Utility Requirements) Center, a Product of American gas turbine service company, thus laying the foundation to target Project in power plant Remote Doctor Korea in 2017 the global gas turbine market. Denmark for Power Plant 22 23 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Introduction of Business Boiler We retain competencies in design, manufacturing, and installation of the core components of boilers, and since the first order intake for power generation equipment in 1976 (Yeongwol Combined Cycle Power), we now have a proud history of orders in thermal power generation that totals approximately 76GW. By acquiring Babcock in 2016, a company that owned the original boiler technology, we were able to obtain the capabilities to design and produce boilers in-house, and a number of our products such as oil-fired boilers and 1000MW USC boilers were selected as World-Class Products of Korea. Moreover, we acquired Lentjes of Germany to secure technical competencies in AQCS plant and CFB boilers, thus reinforcing domestic and overseas capabilities in the power generation product business. In addition, we currently operate design groups and production sites in Changwon, India (Doosan Power Systems India), and Vietnam (Doosan VINA), and through efforts to improve technology and cost competitiveness of subsidiaries led by the headquarters, we continue to maximize the synergy of global operations. | Major products and services | Major project portfolios • Pulverized Combustion Boiler (PO boiler) • Ain Sokhna (Egypt, 650MW x 2) • Lignite Boiler • Rabigh PP2/Oil (Saudi, 700MW x 4) • Oil Boiler • Mundra (India, 800MW x 5) • Downshot Boiler • Bulk Order (India, 800MW x 5) • Circulating fluidized bed boiler • Gheco-One (Thailand, 700MW x 1) (CFB Boiler) • Sipat (India, 660MW x 3) • Oxy-fuel Combustion Boiler • Sin-Poryong #1,2 (South Korea, • AQCS (FGD, SCR, ESP, WtE, Bag Filter) 1,000MW x 2) • Mong Duong II (Vietnam, 600MW x 2) • Cirebon (Indonesia, 700MW x 2) Turbines Generators | Major products and services | Major project portfolios Steam turbines Generators In progress as of 2017 Turbine | Generator • DST-V (for industrial purposes) • DST-G10 (for industrial/power • DGen-A (air cooling) • Dgen-H (hydrogen cooling) • Goseong Hai Thermal Power Plant 1, 2 TPP 1,040MW x 2 generation purposes) • Dgen-W (water cooling) • Fadhili CHPP 176MW x 2 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is one of the world's best Turbines are advanced equipment that rotate blades with highly The generator is a core device in power plants • DST-G20 (for industrial/power • DGen-N (water cooling,nuclear • Muara Tawar CCPP 150MW x 1, Original Equipment Manufacturers of turbines and generators that can pressurized steam generated by a boiler, a steam generator, or HRSG that uses rotating force delivered from the generation purposes) power) 250MW x 2 design, produce, and even install the core equipment of power plants (Heat Recovery Steam Generator), and use the rotation force to run turbine to create power and produce electricity. • DST-S10 Single/Double casing • Sinboryeong 1, 2 TPP 1,019MW x 2 such as steam turbines, generators, thermal exchangers, and condensers. the generator and produce electricity. Starting with the production We are equipped with the ability to produce a (for power generation purposes) Thermal exchangers • Seoul Combined Cycle Power Plant By providing optimum Steam Power Solutions for not only new power of steam turbines at Seocheon Thermal Power (200M) in 1978, broad line-up of products, from 30MW-level • DST-S20 (for power generation • Water Cooled Condenser (CCPP) 400MW x 2 plants but also improvement construction for aging and deteriorated steam turbines have been internally designed, manufactured, and small generators to 1,000MW-level generators purposes) • District Water Heater • Hwaseong Dongtan 2 CHP 800MW X 1 power plants both in Korea and overseas, it continues to execute supplied to more than 50 countries around the world. We have also for large-capacity steam turbines of 50Hz and • DST-S30 (for power generation • High & Low Pressure Heater • Songhau TPP 600MW x 2 purposes) • MSR (Moisture Sperator & • Assuit & Cairo west 650MW X 2 technical development and innovation activities to offer its customers successfully developed and produced gas turbines for the first time in 60Hz, gas turbines, and generators used for • DST-N (for nuclear power Reheater) • Shin-Hanul 1, 2 NPP 1,400MW x 2 affordable and high-quality products. Korea, now known as the essence of power generation technology, diesel engines. purposes) • Steam Jet Ejector • Boryeong 3 R&M 550MW x 1 and are currently working hard on the development of gas turbines. • Vent Steam Condenser • Shin-Kori 3, 4 NPP 1,400MW x 2 • Air Cooled Condenser 24 25 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Nuclear Power Plant Service Starting with Hanbit Nuclear Power Plants (NPP) Unit 1 & 2 in 1986, Doosan | Major products and services | Major project portfolios Building on the existing capabilities in New Build sales, design, and Heavy Industries & Construction has been supplying major equipment and Major component / • Wolsong #2, 3, 4 (Korea): 700MW x 3 project management, we began targeting the power generation machines to all Korean nuclear power plants. We have participated in the Auxiliary devices • Hanbit #1, 2 & Hanul #1, 2 (Korea): service market from 2017 including performance improvement, repair, development of OPR1000, the first-ever Korean model of nuclear power • Nuclear Reactor Vessel and 950MW x 4 maintenance and fuel conversion of power plants, and currently boast plants, and have manufactured and supplied 12 units of OPR1000 NPP major Reactor Vessel Internals • Hanbit #3, 4, 5, 6 & Hanul #3, 4, 5, 6 & Shin-Kori extensive project references at home and abroad, including biomass fuel • Steam generators #1, 2 & Shin-Wolsong #1, 2 (Korea): 1,000MW x 12 equipment thus far. Our technology and quality has also been recognized conversion of the Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant #1, Eraring Power • Nuclear reactor coolant pumps • Shin-Kori #3, 4, 5, 6 & Shin Hanul worldwide through a contract with Qinshan Phase III, NPP 1 & 2 in China, its and Drives #1, 2 (Korea): 1,400MW x 6 Station Upgrade Project (Australia), Bandel #5 R&M Project (India), and first-ever major contract to supply steam generators for an overseas power • Digital instrumentation and • Replacement Reactor Vessel Closure Heads for Kori Morupule A Retrofit (Botswana). plant, as well as for the supply of replacement steam generators to Sequoyah control (I&C) system (MMIS: Man#1, 2 (Korea): 600MW x 2 In addition, organic integration with Doosan Babcock, which possesses NPP of the U.S. and AP1000 reactors and steam generators to China and Machine Interface System) for • Replacement Steam Generators for Kori #1 profound experiences and know-hows in service industry, leads to | Major products nuclear power plants (Korea): 600MW x 1 and services U.S. The Barakah Nuclear Plants Unit 1 through 4 in the Arab Emirates, an organizational and personal synergy, and besides Doosan Babcock which • Control Element Assemblies with • Replacement Steam Generator for Hanul #1, 2 order obtained as a part of Team Korea in 2010, were successfully supplied is the foothold in Europe, we operate regional hubs in the U.S. (DPSA), • R&M Drives (Korea): 950MW x 2 • O&M On Time and Within Budget , and thus acknowledged by international • Pressurizer • Replacement Steam Generator for Hanul #3, 4 Middle East (DPSAr), and India (DPSI) to focus on not only stable operation • Fuel conversion customers as a reliable and economic nuclear power plant model, through • Integrated Head Assembly (Korea): 1,000MW x 2 and support for the power plants in Korea but also on expanding the • Diagnoses/Assessment the development of Reactor Cooling Pump and digital Instrumentation and • Reactor Refueling System • Replacement Steam Generator for Hanbit #3, 4 foundation for overseas businesses. In 2017, we created Solution & • Asset Management • Primary reactor containment post(Korea): 1,000MW x 2 Control (I&C) system (MMIS: Man-Machine Interface System) design and Service Team to concentrate our competency on reinforcing efficient and • Digital Solution tensioning system • Replacement Steam Generator for Sequoyah #1, RMS manufacturing technology in 2012, the complete domestication of nuclear • Condenser and thermal exchanger 2 & Watts Bar #1, 2 (United States): 1,200MW x 4 stable operations of power plants, which is expected to contribute to • RMS (Remote Monitoring Service) power plants has now been accomplished. All of the major equipment and • Pressure vessels and tanks • Replacement Reactor Vessel Closure Head for demonstrating the greatest performance during power plant operation. machines have been manufactured and supplied beginning with Shin-Hanul • Spent nuclear fuel dry transport/ Arkansas Nuclear One (ANO) #2 (United States): Meanwhile, we have declared 2017 as the first year to accelerate | Major project portfolios Unit 1 & 2, while we continue to expand the areas of participation in domestic storage containers (Cask) 890MW x 1 digitalization, and have been actively developing service packages that • Eraring Power Station Upgrade (Australia, 660MW x 4) • Replacement Reactor Vessel Closure Heads for Palo • Bandel #5 Plant R&M (India, 210MW x 1) and foreign service markets through acceleration of technical development provide digital-based services to customers. We expect that in the future, Service for operating nuclear Verde #1, 2, 3 (United States): 1,300MW x 3 • Morupule A Retrofit (Botswana, 30MW x 4) in spent nuclear fuel dry transport/storage containers (Casks) and nuclear power plants / Instrumentation • Replacement Reactor Vessel Closure Head for through the digital solution, the performance and efficiency of power • Sabarmati E&F (India, 110MW x 2) power plant decommissioning. We also seek continuous development of and control (I&C) system Waterford #3 (United States): 1,160MW x 1 plants will be maximized to offer customers a significant amount of • Performance improvement construction for Boryeong Thermal Power technology and diversification of business areas in order to become a global • Supply of replacement-type • Replacement Reactor Vessel Closure Head for Virgil additional profits. Plant Unit 1, 2 (516MW x 2) leader in nuclear business market, and actively support the discovery of local devices C. Summer #1 (United States): 971MW x 1 • Biomass fuel conversion for Yeongdong Thermal Power Plant Unit 1 • Maintenance and non-destructive • Vogtle #3, 4 and Virgil C. Summer #2, 3 (United companies and technical transfers for reinforced competency in industry of tests States): 1,250MW x 4 countries aiming to introduce nuclear power plants. • Upgrades and improvement • Barakah Nuclear Power Plants #1, 2, 3, 4 : • Technical support 1,400MW x 4 • Digital upgrade for • Qinshan Phase III #1, 2 (China): 700MW x 2 Instrumentation and Control (I&C) • Qinshan Phase II #3 (China): 600MW x 1 system in operating nuclear power • Sanmen #1 & Haiyang #1 (China): plants 1,250MW x 2 Panoramic view of Moruple A site Panoramic view of Boryeong Thermal Power Plant • Lufeng #1 Nuclear Reactor Vessel Internals (China): 1,250MW x 1 Shin-Wolsong #1, 2 (Korea) Nuclear Reactor Vessel Nuclear Steam Generator 26 27 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Wind Power Gas Turbine The wind power business of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction spans not only supply of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to set gas turbines as our future business, and power generation products but also EPC and services. We have been solidifying our status in the through the development of next-generation gas turbine models to continue to expand the domestic wind power market through strengthened competency in development participation or line-up of models to solidify our status as a global gas turbine OEM while seeking synergy with direct development and maintenance operations in addition to installation/supply of equipment. existing product groups in order to grow as a Total Power Solution Provider. Since 2013 when we WinDS3000/134, owned by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, is an onshore/offshore wind began development of heavy duty gas turbines, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been power generation system that shows excellent performance in low wind velocity regions and in smoothly carrying out government funded project for the development of gas turbines with scale maintenance, and that received two Green Certifications from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and and efficiency greater than 270MW and 40%, respectively, while at the same time fulfilling the Energy in November 2017. WinDS5500/140 is a 5.5MW-level offshore wind power generation development roadmap via consistent collaboration through the entire value chain from R&D and system that boasts the highest capacity in the nation. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction design to production. We completed the basic design of gas turbines in July 2017 before starting constructed the Tamra Offshore Wind Farm in the form of EPC, and also has a history of numerous production and plans in order to finish development by the end of 2019 and commercialization successful contracts signed including the Yeongheung Wind Farm. Starting with maintenance by 2021. In May 2017, we established a gas turbine R&D center in the U.S. followed by the ATSE contracts for wind power generators already supplied to Tamra Offshore Wind Power and Jeonnam (Advanced Turbomachinery Systems in Europe) to secure a professional workforce and networking Ground Wind Power, we have been actively advancing into the wind power service business and for gas turbines in Europe, and in August of the same year completed a takeover of ACT (currently continue to focus on increasing customer satisfaction, from equipment supply to services. Doosan Turbomachinery Services), also based in the U.S., for the expansion of the service business, thus continuing to establish a broad gas turbine infrastructure. ESS / Microgrid Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers a total solution that encompasses all areas of the value chain of ESS, Microgrid, and even EPC Turn-key, which includes design services such as system modeling and functional optimization of ESS and Microgrid as well as their installation, trial run, and maintenance. We currently conduct businesses for power generators and energy prosumers based in Korea and the Americas where the market for ESS and Microgrid is growing at a fast pace, and have successfully completed projects of various scales, from 0.5MW to 20MW, utilizing different types of batteries such as Li-ion and Vanadium Redox Flow batteries. 28 29 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Major Per formance Aerial view of Shin-Seocheon Thermal Power Plant Completion ceremony for the Yeongdong Unit 1 fuel conversion project Solar ESS business Panoramic view of Yeongdong Power Plant Successful conversion of Yeongdong Thermal Order Intake for FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization) Construction of PKN Orlen S.A.-Plock project L in k to C S R Power Plant Unit 1 to an eco-friendly Unit at Shin-Seocheon Thermal Power Plant We have supplied power generation equipment for provision of steam biomass power plant Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction obtained an order for FGD (Flue and electricity to the largest petrochemical plant in Europe established in Reduction of emission gas through Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction converted the 125MW Yeongdong Gas Desulfurization) construction at Sinseocheon Thermal Power Plant, the Plock region in Poland. We have successfully completed trial operation Localization of NL-GGH technology Thermal Power Plant Unit 1, constructed in 1973, to the nation's best and worth about 124 billion KRW, placed by Korea Midland Power. The flue of 70MW-level steam turbines and generators in November 2017 and largest eco-friendly biomass power plant. Though there have been cases in gas desulfurization technology for which a supply contract has been received the certificate of completion. NL-GGH (Non Leakage Gas Gas Heater) is ecofriendly which existing thermal power plants were modified to use both coal and signed applies the nation's strictest environmental criteria and the world's equipment that fundamentally blocks leakage of sulfur biomass as fuel, this one carries significance in that it was the first ever top-level design standards for the reduction of sulfur oxide emissions. First entry into the international oxides (SOx) through a chimney. For the first time in conversion of a power plant into one that uses biomass exclusively. wind power generation market Korea, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction became Construction of the nation's first-ever offshore On March 22, 2018, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction signed an technologically independent by localizing NLGGH Establishment of e-brain center , wind farm for maritime commerce agreement with Vietnam Electricity (EVN) for construction of a 3MW technology, and secured technical competitiveness by a remote power plant doctor Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supplied as EPC the nation's offshore wind power generation test site adopting ESS (Energy Storage developing a compact model for retrofit that can reduce Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established e-Brain Center by first-ever commercial offshore wind farm, the Jeju Tamra Offshore System). With this agreement, EVN will secure a test site and assist in installation period and overcome site limitations in the combining East-West Power's Digital Solution technologies with Doosan's Wind Farm , completing the construction in November 2017. The Tamra licensing of the business, while Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction existing power plants. We have decided to apply the competency in digital-based service business. e-Brain Center is a remote Offshore Wind Farm is an enormous project with the scale of 30MW, will supply wind power generation equipment including ESS via EPC nation's first localized model to Shin-Seocheon FGD (Flue doctor for power plants that comprehensively monitors and manages through which ten 3MW-capacity offshore wind power generators, and perform operation and maintenance (O&M) with Korea SouthGas Desulfurization), and reduce SO2 emissions by more power generation equipment, which detects abnormal symptoms in produced by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, were installed in East Power. We also signed a business agreement for development of a than 98.7% through the application of this technology. power plants via an early warning system and analyzes operation and the sea by Jeju's Hangyeong-myeon, which will produce 85,000MWh of wind farm with CC1, a Vietnamese construction company that owns the maintenance data in order to propose optimum running conditions and eco-friendly energy that 24,000 households in Jeju Island can use yearbusiness license for 105MW-scale wind power generation. Through this diagnose maintenance strategies. The e-Brain Center is a meaningful round. we expect to assume the role of supplying and performing maintenance example of mutual collaboration, in which a power plant operator and of major equipment for two wind farms in Binh Thuan province in power plant equipment manufacturer join hands to secure differentiated Acceleration of entry into the global ESS market southern Vietnam, whose business rights are held by CC1. SO competitiveness in the global market. Based on the collaboration with Doosan GridTech obtained an order from Consumers Energy for ESS East-West Power, we will continue to lead the global digital-based service (Energy Storage System) to be supplied to a substation located in Passing EU-APR certification requiring market, leveraging the e-Brain Center. Kalamazoo, a city in the southwestern part of Michigan, U.S., in April European business conditions 98.7 2018. As the first volume of ESS orders from Consumers Energy, this is Through collaboration with Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Doosan Heavy a meaningful project with the purpose of demonstration prior Industries & Construction developed the standard design of EU-APR, to an order for a large-scale ESS project. Doosan GridTech which is the European export-type nuclear power plant of the Korean plans to supply ESS by September 2018 through the EPC model APR1400, and passed the certification review of European business % reduced (Engineering, Procurement & Construction) method, conditions on October 9th, 2017. As the certification review was passed, which performs everything from design and supplying of we have become capable of exporting EU-APR to not only Europe, but also More than 98.7% of sulfur dioxides equipment and tools to construction. The batteries of the to countries such as South Africa and Egypt that require European business reduced compared to before ESS system are at the scale of 1MWh, capable of supplying conditions to diversify the market. electricity to 1,000 households for one hour. Opening ceremony of the e-brain center 30 31 B u siness P ort f olio 03 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Business Performances Water Plant Even amidst difficult circumstances in the water market due to the global economic recession and drop in oil prices, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has solidified its status as a leading Global Water Solution As a global leader in the water industry, we offer solutions for the full spectrum Provider based on stable technology and a high level of trust from its customers. In the beginning of 2017, it acquired an order for a largeincluding seawater desalination and water treatment areas. sized desalination project in Saudi Arabia which proves once again its competitiveness in the Middle East desalination market and reaffirms the great level of trust they have gained from their customers through the successful execution and completion of previous desalination plant projects in Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile, in the water treatment area, Doosan signed contracts with a major British water supplier to provide equipment for water treatment plants and sewage sludge energy plants, further establishing the high level of trust Doosan receives from its customers through its supply of cutting edge technology in the field of water treatment. 2018 Forecast and Business Strategies The seawater desalination market is expected to face a difficult period from 2018 onwards with orders being delayed due to water control policies promoted by Middle Eastern countries, the primary ordering bodies, with an emphasis on demand-centered management and improvement of efficiency of existing plants. Also, as the financial structures of major competitors are being enhanced, they are expected to be more be aggressive with their future activities in the market, which is likely to intensify competition. Amidst such a tough market environment, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continuously looks to strengthen cost competitiveness and technical capabilities to ensure they remain competitive when acquiring orders, and puts in efforts to further expand the project pipeline by actively participating in private sector projects. In the short-term, it will consistently carry out aggressive activities to 2017 Highlights obtain orders in countries which plan to place orders of large desalination projects such as Oman, UAE and Saudi Arabia. In the mid-to long-term, it will promote regional diversification with new markets including India, Received the grand prize Awarded contracts for ecofriendly Egypt, and Southeast Asia to establish a new Home Market, and plan as the 2017 Desalination water treatment facilities to seek diversification of businesses to secure stable sources of income Company of the Year (Zero Liquid Discharge System, Wastewater through acquisition of orders for O&M projects based on eco-friendly treatment system which is converting sewage sludge into energy) water treatment facilities and digital transformation. 32 33 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Major Per formance Major performance and outcomes in 2017 Acquiring an order of a large-capacity seawater desalination facility in Saudi Arabia Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won a bid for Shuaibah RO Ph.4 large-capacity seawater desalination facility placed by Saudi Arabia's SWCC. Having already successfully supplied Ras Al Khair desalination plant, an order placed by SWCC in the past and boasting the world's greatest capacity, and currently performing additional O&M contracts, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has recently moved up the water production schedule at Yanbu Saudi Shuaibah Saudi Yanbu Ph.2 Saudi Jeddah SWRO Phase 3 Plant by a month, thus securing a solid level of trust from the ordering body and a firm position at the top of the Saudi Arabian market. Introduction of Business With a wealth of experiences in supplying and executing seawater desalination and water Receiving the grand prize as the 2017 treatment plants in Korea and overseas, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction can give Desalination Company of the Year maximum satisfaction to its customers through various business models which are not only At the Global Water Awards 2017, annually hosted by a global water | Major products and services | Major project portfolios supplying mere equipment and facilities, but also offering operation and maintenance business survey agency called GWI (Global Water Intelligence), Doosan • Seawater desalination plant • Saudi Arabia Shoaibah Ph.4 services of private sector projects including turnkey projects. Heavy Industries & Construction won the grand prize of Desalination Reverse Osmosis (RO) • Saudi Arabia Yanbu Ph.3 Company of the Year for its efforts and success in the desalination Multi-Effect Distillation (MED) • Saudi Arabia Yanbu MED Multi-Stage Flash (MSF) • Saudi Arabia Marafiq MED industry. Also, both desalination plants of Yanbu 3 and Escondida • Water treatment & sewage and • Saudi Arabia Ras Al Khair Ph.1 (Hybrid) respectively won Municipal and Industrial Desalination Plants of the wastewater treatment plant • Saudi Arabia Jeddah SWRO Ph.3 Year , reaffirming our status of world's No. 1 company in seawater Drinking water treatment, water • Saudi Arabia Shuaibah RO Expansion desalination. Zero liquid Eco-friendly treatment for power and industrial • Saudi Arabia Shuaibah IWPP Desalination discharge plant, sewage treatment and reuse, • Saudi Arabia Sohaiba Ph.2 Strongford sludge energy plant water treatment equipment treatment waste water treatment for power and • United Arab Emirates Fujairah Ph.1 (Hybrid) facilities Through its U.K. subsidiary, Doosan Enpure, Doosan Heavy Industries & facilities industrial plant • United Arab Emirates Jebel Ali 'E' Construction also signed a contract with Severn Trent Water, a British • Plant operation and maintenance • Oman Sohar IWPP • Sludge treatment and resource • Oman Al Ahnsab STP water utility company, to supply a waste-to-energy plant. This project recycling plant • Qatar Ras Laffan B is significant in the sense that Doosan recently entered in the waste• Eco-friendly Zero Liquid • Kuwait Doha RO Ph.3 to-energy market, going beyond the existing desalination and water Discharge treatment facilities • Kuwait Shuwaikh SWRO treatment plant business. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is one Along with Doosan Enpure, a U.K.-based Based on the know-how of existing desalination • Pressure flotation equipment • Kuwait Sabiya Ph.1&2, 3 of the world's topclass seawater desalination affiliate and an expert in fresh water and sewage facilities, Doosan Heavy Industries & (Enflo-DAF™) • Kuwait Az Zour South Ph.2 Contract to supply desulfurized wastewater ZLD corporations, owning independent patents treatment, sludge treatment and converting Construction developed a safe water treatment • Low Energy No Aeration MBR • Kuwait Shoaibah Pumping Station 'C' system at Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant related to the reverse osmosis (RO) method, sewage sludge into energy, Doosan Heavy facility (Zero Liquid Discharge, ZLD) that can system (LENA MBR) • Libya Benghazi By commercializing its in-house engineered ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge) which uses membranes to filter salinity, and Industries & Construction possesses engineering completely block or minimize waste water • Large-capacity fiber filter (Doosan • United Kingdom Birmingham Fiber Filter) Resilience system, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won a contract for a thermal type technology, which evaporates competency and experiences that encompass discharge while simultaneously producing • United Kingdom Strongford THP desulfurized wastewater ZLD facility at the Yeongheung Thermal Power then cools the source water, both are key the entire field of water treatment. Through high purity reuse water, it is supplied to the • United Kingdom Horsley WTW Plant. This system is the most advanced eco-friendly facility that can technologies in seawater desalination. Doosan advanced treatment technology utilizing wastewater treatment system of domestic and • United Kingdom Woodmansterne process not only suspended solids and heavy metal components filtered Heavy Industries & Construction has secured membrane filtration and evaporation technology foreign power plant desulfurization facilities, it • United Kingdom Bellozanne New through existing water treatment facilities but also nitrates and selenium, large-capacity facility technology of the RO which has been accumulated from the seawater will be expanded to the oil & gas market in the STW Ph.3 which have been recently added as regulated elements around the world. method, which has been applied to various large desalination business, Doosan Heavy Industries future. • United Kingdom Northumbrian Water Through this project, Yeongheung Thermal Power Plant is now capable desalination facilities recently, and also possesses & Construction can supply reuse facilities and • United Kingdom Southern and East Water of purifying about 1,250 m3 of desulfurized water every day. world-class technology and experiences as the equipment tailored to different needs including • Chile Escondida Water Supply leader of thermal type seawater desalination, removal of specific industrial harmful substances, • Republic of Korea Gijang SWRO represented by MSF (Multi-Stage Flash) and maintenance of rivers, landscaping, agricultural • Republic of Korea Yeoung-heung ZLD MED (Multi-Effect Distillation). and industrial water, etc. 34 35 B u siness P ort f olio 04 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Business Performances Casting & Forging In order to overcome limitations in growth of existing businesses due to a global economic slump causing a reduction of demands in front From the material making to machining for essential products in various industries such industries, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has preemptively as power generation, shipbuilding, steel and automotive, a total production facility responded for new product businesses by utilizing existing core competencies to complete the establishment of mass production lines for has been established. Furthermore, castings and forging products of the marine plant industry, while preparing a foundation to acquire orders outstanding quality have been supplied all over the world for a variety of products by securing partnerships with major customers. based on our excellent technology and deep Moreover, it has achieved the expansion of new product businesses that meet the diversifying and advancing needs of customers, which includes experience. ultralarge chemical engineering pressure vessels. In addition, strategic partnerships with existing core clients have led to the stable procurement of base volume and, through successful entry into the European market of post-usage nuclear fuel transport and storage products (casks) as well as the first-ever order received on press complex products, its outstanding technical competitiveness on new products has been widely recognized while a firm level of trust has been gained from its customers. 2018 Forecast and Business Strategies Though the volume of the domestic power generation industry is expected to decrease due to changes in domestic power source policies, major front industries related to casting and forging such as shipbuilding, automotive and steel are forecast to grow thanks to the restoration of the economy. Thus, we aim to continuously maintain close-knit collaboration with major customers in shipbuilding, etc. to keep dominating the existing markets while looking to grow our businesses through market expansion 2017 Highlights into overseas regions and promotion of new product businesses such as marine plants, which will lead to improved business portfolios. Also, we will continue to strengthen our fundamental competitiveness by Construction of 17,000-ton Selected as one of the 9 securing technology of new materials and processes with high added press, the world's largest global top-class products values including high-efficiency, high-specification, and high-strength (Ministry of Trade, Industry materials as well as developing solutions technology optimized in and Energy) major processes. Meanwhile, we plan to maximize the productivity and business performance of the world's greatest 17,000 ton-level forging press that has been newly activated in order to maintain our rank as the global-leading casting and forging company. 36 37 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Major Per formance 17,000 Ton hydraulic forging press Introduction of Business | Major products and services L in k to C S R • Shell and head for nuclear power generation Major performance and outcomes in 2017 The casting and forging business of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction started in • Runner and crown for hydroelectric Analyzing big data of the steel mill 100-ton power generation Construction of the world's largest, 17,000-ton press 1973 and, based on technical knowledge and production experience accumulated since the electric furnace to reduce CO2 through the • Turbine rotor and casting for thermal foundation, the company has manufactured and supplied casting and forging products of the Based on years of experience in manufacturing casting and forging products, optimization of work patterns, etc. power generation highest quality to its customers. Large-scale steel, making, casting, forging, and fabrication installation of the 17,000-ton casting press began in 2014 with the company's • Wind power turbine generator materials own technology, after which a commercial operation in April 2017 was successfully The steelmaking shop conducted a big data analysis on factories boast the latest automation facilities, digital-converged process optimization system, • Crankshaft for vessel engines conducted. Featuring four columns and the greatest scale in the world, the 17,000the 100-ton electric ARC furnace, which consumes the and strict quality assurance system based on various quality certifications. The steel mill • Offshore plant materials • Ship building shaft and rudder horn ton press is 29m-high and 9m-wide, and can produce 80,000 tons of cast products greatest amount of electricity in the factory, to conduct contains a 100-ton electric ARC furnace, has 250,000 tons of annual production capacity, and • Mold steel and tool steel for cars and every year. Thanks to the introduction of the 17,000-ton casting press, the company activities such as optimization of 2nd scrap charging can produce a maximum 650 tons of ingot. The forging factory possesses a 17,000-ton press, electronic products was able to gain a competitive edge over Japanese, Italian, and Chinese competitors point, optimization of power current/voltage operation 140,000 tons of annual production capacity, and can produce more than 350 tons of large-sized • Roll for steel industry of the electric furnace, optimization of oxygen lancing forging products. As demand industries continue to become more and more advanced, we aim and plans to continue to utilize the large-sized press and accelerate penetration into • Shell for chemical engineering and, thus, the optimization of work patterns. Such to continue to secure a competitive edge through consistent investments into the establishment the ultralarge cast product market in the areas of power generation and industry. advancement equipment activities helped reduce 18,000 tons of CO2 emission. of an optimum infrastructure that can help produce high added-value, highly functional metal • Large sized casting and forging product materials such as remelting equipment related to high-purity steel production, thus seeking to for industrial use First entry into the European nuclear power plant cask market The company also focuses on reducing greenhouse gas In Europe, an order for cylindrical body shells and bottom forging products, used in by, for example, using clean forms of fuel such as LNG. create the greatest value for the customers. In addition, by discovering new products capable of | Major project portfolios nuclear waste transport and storage containers (casks), was obtained. By winning securing external growth and profitability, we are aggressively enhancing our business portfolio. Power generation the bid for nuclear power plant cask prototype #1 in 2016 and successfully Based on such abilities, the company consistently exports products to China, Southeast • Shin Hanul Unit #3,4 nuclear power supplying in 2017, our manufacturing competency was verified and, based on Asia, Japan, Europe, and the U.S. Furthermore, after being acknowledged for our product • CASK for nuclear power, Europe this, we were able to sign an MOU for long-term cooperation and obtain an order manufacturing technology and competitiveness in export by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and • Anin Thermal Power STG, Gangneung CO • Soldier Pond project Hydroelectric of 2 casks for nuclear power projects. Successful production and delivery of these Energy, nine of our products currently occupy the rank of world's best in categories including Power turbine, Canada orders is expected to form a basis for our nuclear power plant cask business, which mold steel, crankshafts for vessels, work rolls, and low-pressure turbine rotor shafts. • 2MW wind power turbine, Japan has become more important due to an increase in aging nuclear power plants, to 18,000 Shipbuilding/maritime expand into overseas markets including Europe, the U.S., and Japan. • 20000TEU ultra-large container ships for Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Successfully supplying complex products to the world's • Semi-submersible crane vessel project, Europe largest semi-submersible crane vessel tons reduced Steel After acquiring an order for 82 units of a core part used in the pontoon (floating • POSCO board press roll • Rolling stand at VOESTALPINE Steel structure) of the world's largest offshore semi-submersible crane vessel from a client 18,000 tons of CO2 reduced every year Mill in Australia that leads the global offshore structure transport, installation, and decommissioning Major Industry market, we successfully completed and delivered the final product. Thanks to the facilities • POCR chemical engineering pressurized successful supply of these products, we have secured an vessels for Kazakhstan essential reference for major equipment and core parts 100-ton EAF 150-ton ESR 17,000 Ton hydraulic 4,200-ton PRESS (max. 650-ton ingot) forging press • Otto Fuchs die forging press project, USA for marine plants and, thus, expect to field an increased • Cement ROTARY KILN number of additional orders buoyed in the marine plant • FLSMIDTH crushing and grinding equipment at Chilean mines market, which traditionally has a high barrier to entry. • Mold tool steels for cars and home appliances 38 39 B u siness P ort f olio 05 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix R&D and Digital Solution Technology Research Institute, the engine of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction R&D leading future growth The Corporate Research & Development Institute of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction proposes and commercializes new products and technologies that spearheads the company's future growth. Also, it offers technical solutions to strengthen business product's core competitiveness and continuously strives to create interbusiness synergies by securing capabilities that services their fundamental technological requirements. Technology development strategies Global power industry trend continues to accelerate away from new coal and new nuclear power plants and towards digitalization, expansion of distributed power generation and manufacturing innovations. Similarly in Korea, Discovering and commercializing new Strengthen business support capability and expansion of Renewables (Wind/Solar Power) and tighter demand and supply control management is expected businesses and technologies product's core technological competitiveness with proclamation of the government's 8th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand and Renewable Energy With the introduction of new climate change restrictions, the future We provide value to the business through on-time delivery of advance 3020 policy. In response, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is reinforcing the existing R&D portfolio through energy mix is to be restructured around gas and renewables away from technologies, technical sales support and services which enables the prioritized deployment of resources to business areas such as gas turbines, digital solutions, wind power and energy coal-fired power. And in anticipation we continue to explore different business to expand its market share with minimized technical risk. storage systems (ESS). Also by changing our operating R&D system to be agile and performance-orientated, we aim avenues to secure business development and commercialization Also, we continue to reinforce competitiveness of our products and to strengthen linkages between business, product and technology. opportunities in alternative clean technologies. business by securing digital technologies such as Smart Power Plant (SPP) technology and extending Digital Factory (Digital Transformation) applications to the Power and Water businesses. Capability focus on major initiatives Technology development We are establishing the Green Portfolio management system to proactively respond to Global Green assignment types management risks, and continuously inspects and manages the company's green products and technologies. Green products and technologies are categorized into: Energy Efficiency, New and Renewable Energy, Product Environmental Pollutant Emissions, and Eco-friendly Product R&D assignments are divided into; assignments Water Treatment areas, and in correspondence the complete Model Development projects company promotes R&D for delivery of eco-friendly which has a development focus on making products related to: Sustainable Power Generation, Gas turbines Digital Wind power ESS/Microgrid performance improvement of new and existing Maximized Energy Resources Utilization, Intelligent products, and Components Development Transmission & Distribution (T&D) and Efficient Energy · Enhance business · Differentiate major products, · Establish 5.5MW · Cost competitiveness projects which has a development focus Use technology themes. competitiveness of H-class operation & maintenance offshore wind power model improvement of Energy on making component improvements or model (1,500℃, 274MW) (O&M) services and business Management Systems (EMS) introduce innovative design changes. model through Digital · Development of > 7MWGreen · Drive early commercialization Solutions. level or greater next· Progress to secure SolarTechnology and technological generation wind power Microgrid fundamental Foundation Innovation differentiation of next· Explore and secure advanced model and mid/long-term technologies Foundation R&D assignments refer to projects assignments assignments Innovation R&D assignments refer to projects generation models Digital Plant technologies differentiated models aimed at acquiring engineering data and aimed at delivering feasibility study to develop (floating wind power, etc.) background knowledge needed for product or discover innovative products that do not design or to upgrade and supplement design exist at present. tool verification and production technology etc. 51,463 5.17% 47,053 R&D portfolio transformation 4.38% 43,367 R&D Investment (unit: 100 million KRW) 3.43% Going beyond coal or nuclear power R&D, we continue to increase the percentage of innovation and emerging Revenue* (unit: 100 million KRW) technology by focusing our efforts on discovering innovative technology in the energy industry including : AI, Ratio of R&D to revenue 2,061 2,242 unmanned power generation, blockchain, and 3D printing. Also, for discovery and accelerated deployment of 1,765 new businesses; we plan to enhance our open innovation by diversifying cooperation channels, develop more * Revenue based on consolidated financial demonstration projects linked to policies and actively deliver collaboration projects in response to public energy statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction agency's / client's technological needs. 2015 2016 2017 40 41 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Digital Transformation Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is preparing for the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Changes in work styles and methods through digital transformation, which refers to the provision of businesses and services centered on As the market environment rapidly changes, innovativeness based on disruptive technology innovation has become data instead of product sales as in the past, and emphasizes changing ways of working to achieve more important than ever in corporate management. Though the establishment of a business model that does not the transformation. From a business standpoint, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction began waver under external changes was a core element for success in the past, the ability to flexibly and rapid respond to the service offering based on its engineering competence and digital solutions and continues to external factors enables existence and growth these days. Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction applies the Agile methodology, which helps respond to the uncertain business environment through continuous upgrades establish an organizational culture that suits the digital age through an agile methodology. via customer-oriented and quick iterations . The goal of Agile is to quickly launch MVP (Minimum Viable Product) and advance through repeated customer feedback. To effectively implement this, scrum, a cross functional team, is formed to make team-driven decisions, which will lead to fast and powerful execution. Doosan Heavy Industries Service Offering & Construction applies and extends Agile in development of digital solutions and, through this, enables customeroriented product development. As the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, which includes the advancement of data analytics and expansion of the software platform, opens up, new business opportunities continue to be discovered in the power generation industry. A form of business that first improves the performances of a power plant using software and then shares the subsequent value enhancement (Value-up) has appeared and existing recurring O&M businesses become more advanced based on these digital solutions. In line with the megatrend of digital plants pursued by power plant customers, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction seeks to strengthen its O&M service business by creating strengths and differences for the future. In 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction signed an MOU with Korea East-West Power on the power plant monitoring and diagnosis service business for the development of digital solutions and business models. By applying its internally developed early warning system (PreVisionTM) and jointly operating the e-brain center based Sprint 0 Sprint 1 Sprint 2 on digital solutions, it continues to secure successful cases of business models that offer power plant monitoring and diagnostic services and, based on this, discover a variety of new services. Founded upon such technology, it has also established the means to provide a digital solution optimized for the Even the customer Defines the vision of a Constitutes a cross-functional team to enable MVP is released and Indian market and to guarantee its performance, as the country owns the world's second largest installed-base and does not clearly know, product strictly based autonomous decision-making within the team customer needs may a great need for advanced services. Currently, a solution has been secured and developed specifically for the needs or is able to define, on customer needs be satisfied in advance of Indian customers. Moreover, it plans to continuously expand its digital services business by successfully carrying Deduces meaningful output from the customers' what he/she genuinely out the pilot project based on the MOU signed with the Indian IPP Reliance. Materializes the MVP standpoint for each Sprint by repeating short Advances MVP based wants product backlog, sprints (2 to 4 weeks) on feedback valuable from Upgrades solutions/products continuously through the customers' customer feedback standpoint Boiler Turbine/Generator · Combustion Optimizer · Turbine vibration diagnoses · Boiler tube management system · Turbine rotor vibration and · Optimization of ventilation rubbing control Overall/ Infrastructure BOP (Balance of Plant) · Early Defect Warning · BOP vibration diagnoses · Performance monitoring and · Flexibility solution (automated diagnoses pump loading distribution) · Plant performance diagnoses 42 43 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Operational Excellence Industry 4.0 of the heavy industries is being achieved, through applying an integrated design environment Manufacturing innovation utilizing the digital technology enhances competitiveness in quality, cost based on 3D models and Digital Factory, which combines the digital technology in production sites to and delivery, which will lead to profitability improvement to help secure fundamental competitiveness improve competitiveness of the manufacturing industry. for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. 3D design Creation of drawings Material Specification Extraction Production plan work instruction Execution of production/manufacturing Monitoring of production and quality performance Integrated design Digital Factory Integrated The integrated design system provides a design work environment centered on standard design procedures Digital Factory Digital Factory is the unique smart factory of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction that visualizes, collects, defined among different teams, as well as an environment in which all organizations and subsidiaries can perform and analyzes all situations in production based on ICT technology, such as sensors and automation equipment, design system concurrent 3D engineering. It also offers an engineering database to systematically manage the design data and to realize an optimized production process and environment. Since the beginning of implement in June 2016, it for utilization by teams other than design, through which we aim to strengthen the design competitiveness and has been conducting various assignments in the areas of automation and digitalization and, in the mid-to longreduce costs from quality failure occurring due to the design. term, the company aims to apply the Digital Factory in three stages throughout the entire production process to reinforce production efficiency and manufacturing competitiveness. Concept of Progress and roadmap of integrated design the Digital Factory 1 2 3 Step Step Step Purchasing/ Design/Engineering Construction Manufacturing Improvement of design data flow Prevention of Improvement of design Elimination of installation Securing fundamental efficiency through connection construction interference consistency by drawings risks by construction competitiveness in ~2018. 3 (Visualized) 2020~2021 (Connected) 2023~ (Optimized) with advance and following issues in advance with and materials lists material management · System-based monitoring of operation · Integrating designs, production plans, · Simulation-based production design activities real-time solutions through 3D through 3D manufacturing through status and waste factors instructions and outcomes (quality) planning and management Industry 4.0 in the · Accumulating success experience in · Real-time sharing of changes and · Big data analysis-based optimization Proposal Preliminary Implementation Real-time 3D Engineering deliverables i production sector automation improving the speed of response Engineeri of system-based concurrent automation (2D Digital Factory design Construction ng engineering engineering drawings/materials lists) Automation Discovering additional assignments Achieving gradual advancement Engineering data 3D Modeling Data Document Item/BOM information Construction Automation of unit process +Interworking between facilities and drawings such as remote operation BOM (Bill of Materials) Drawing/3D shape linking with digital systems information 3D shapes Reference Materials lists Digitalization Preparing visibility and data Improving flexibility in operation Data-based optimization of Real-time accumulation of data and history management acquisition of shop-floor through data connection production operation Securing consistency of proposal Data capitalization through real-time/ Securing manufacturing and engineering by utilizing the integrated saving of design data construction consistency through engineering database timely sharing of latest engineering *DF: Digital Factory Progress and The automation has completed field application of 32 out of the total 45 tasks focusing on unit process data outcomes automation (1st stage), and achieved the expected effects (reduction of lead time and man hours, securing of safety, and reduction of outsourcing expenses, etc.). The digitalization is the 1st stage in which the basic system is developing to secure visibility and collecting data in shop-floor. Currently, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is building the system that digitalizes manufacturing process design, work instructions, quality Progress and After its establishment, the integrated design system has been applied to and is being utilized in a number information and documents through design information, besides the system to visualize the production outcomes of EPC projects (6, as of March 2018), and has defined work processes and implemented the enhancement execution (production status and materials tracking). Starting in March 2018, 10 systems have been utilized in of additional features in order to apply to the proposal engineering as well. It has also improved the work everyday work. environment in the areas of turbine, generator, and boiler design for association with the Digital Factory. Future plan In 2018, we will continuously invest in key tasks of the Digital Factory and internalize an established system, Future plans In 2018, we will pursue work improvement activities to internalize the integrated design process and actively while consistently promoting manufacturing innovation from changes in the way of working through the use the data, which is managed within the system, in areas other than design. We will continue to produce Digital Lean, an activity that is utilizing digital technology such as process simulations and AI to eliminate results through the achievement of expected effects. waste and inefficiency. 44 45 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 02 Commitments to Sustainability 2030 SDGs Commitments 48 Communication with Stakeholders 52 46 47 2030 2030 SDGs Commitments SDG Commitments of Doosan Heavy Industries & Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has conducted business activities that can increase the The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the greatest common objectives of the UN and Construction value of the earth through technology which increases the amount of water reserves in areas with international community that deal with humanity's universal issues, the Earth's environmental severe water shortages issues as well as by improving access to sustainable energy in countries problems, and socioeconomic issues. As a corporate citizen, Doosan Heavy Industries & with emerging markets. Construction establishes and accomplishes goals that contribute to sustainable development worldwide based on its core businesses and social contribution activities. Link to SDGs Commitments Major connected activities Commitment 1 SDG 6. By 2030, through our water project, we will increase • Seawater Desalination Plants Increase the Clean Water and Sanitation the amount of water reserves in the Arabian Peninsula • Water·Wastewater Treatment Plants region by 10% (2 billion tons) compared to BAU and • ZLD (Zero Liquid Discharge), MBR (Membrane amount of Ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation continuously expand the supply of water resources in Bioreactor), etc. water reserves for all all regions around the world that face water shortages. 6.1/6.3 SDG 7. With our high-efficiency, eco-friendly power generation • Improvement in energy efficiency Commitment 2 technology, we will increase the amount of eco-friendly Affordable and Clean Energy • Renewable energy Ensure access Ensure access to affordable, reliable, coal-fired thermal power supplied to emerging markets • Collection and reduction of CO2 Link to SDGs to sustainable sustainable and modern energy for all around the world by 6% (40GW) compared to BAU by • Reinforcement of the after-market business on Business energy 7.1/7.2/7.3 2030, and, by enhancing energy technology in high• Development of green technology products, etc. efficiency gas turbines, wind power, ESS, etc., we will contribute to the diversification of the overall energy mix. SDG 13. By 2030, we will reduce the amount of greenhouse • Reduction of greenhouse gas (power plant technology) Commitment 3 gas emissions that occur over the course of our Climate Change Action • Renewable energy Reduce business within Korea by 20% (70,000 tons) compared • Development of advanced D-NOx burner and ecoTake urgent action to combat Greenhouse Gas climate change and its impacts to BAU, and continue to develop climate change friendly combustion technology Emissions response technology to reduce greenhouse gas. • Realization of Smart Industry 4.0 by establishing an 13.1 energy integration system • Step-by-step application of the microgrid system, etc. SDG 3. By 2030, we will supply basic medical supplies • Free local treatment activities by Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang Commitment 4 and support local treatments for 80,000 residents University Hospital (Vietnam) Good Health and Well-Being Prevent of minority groups residing in impoverished areas • Q-Health medical consulting program (Vietnam) Ensure healthy lives and promote wellDiseases being for all at all ages of Vietnam and India, thus contributing to the • DPSI Health Camp program (India) and Expand improvement of global health and sanitation. • Bone-marrow donations by Doosan Skoda Power employees 3.4 Treatment (Czech Republic) • Blood donation of love campaigns and 5 other activities, etc. Link to SDGs on social contribution activities Commitment 5 SDG 4. By 2030, through the Youth Energy Project, a • Technical training for the unemployed Foster Local Quality Education renowned social contribution program, we will • Operation of industry-academia cooperation, Doosan Class Ensure inclusive and equitable quality contribute to fostering of local talents by providing Talents • Themed programs at local children's centers education and promote lifelong opportunities for education and career exploration learning opportunities for all • DPS STEM support (Europe) and 14 others activities, etc. tailored to each growth stage for as many as 50,000 4.4 children and teenagers of marginalized people. 48 49 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Major promoted activities and outcomes of 2017 Future plan · Completion of a seawater desalination plant · Award Zero liquid discharge waste · Increasing the production volume of fresh water through in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia water system which is an ecothe additional construction of large-capacity desalination Produced of 550,000 tons/day of water friendly water treatment technology facilities (completion of Yanbu Ph.3) · Award seawater desalination plant in · Managing eco-friendly water through the additional Saudi Arabia supply of sewage and waste water treatment facilities · Continuously developing water reuse technology · Supplying eco-friendly coal-fired thermal · ESS: Pursuit of a Microgrid project in · Continuous expansion of the offshore wind power power to new markets: Supply contract for the the nation's first profit-sharing industrial business Thabametsi Coal-fired Power Station (630MW) complex (Doosan Engine, 4.2MWh · Continuous acquisition of orders for ESS to respond to in South Africa ESS+100kw PV) and construction of load variations taking place due to the expansion of new · Wind power: Construction of Korea's first-ever Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and renewable energy commercial offshore wind power generation complex (Tamra Offshore Wind Power 30MW) Learning Center Microgrid (1MWh · Development of gas turbines and supplying of wind power (3MW) to ESS+300kw PV) Gyewol-ri, Suncheon · Establishment of an integrated energy control · Reduction of 1,736 tCO2 in emissions · Establishment of an integrated energy control system 2nd system (1st stage) through the establishment of an integrated stage (water, pressurized air, steam) in 2019 · Execution of energy diagnoses on suppliers energy control system (1st stage) · Establishment of an integrated energy control system 3rd stage (electricity, gas) in 2020 · Installation of solar power generation+ESS at · Reduction of 10,235 tCO2 through OE and the Learning Center · Installationof solar power generation+ESS in available efficiency enhancement activities at the space such as Changwon factory parking lot · Winning the 2018 Korea Green Climate Award Changwon Plant · Review of the designation and operation of the Carbon Reduction Day · Free local medical treatment activities at · DPSI Health Camp program (India) · Execution of local medical community services and Doosan VINA-Chung Ang University Hospital [Gurgaon region] Eye examinations for 641 people surgery programs in Vietnam Free health examinations: 3,180 people / (provided glasses for 49 people) · Extension of Doosan VINA's Q-Health program operation free surgeries: 7 people [Lara region] Free health examinations and invitation training: 2 people provision of basic medical supplies for 600 people · Pursuit of expanding health initiatives in local areas of [Chennai region] Donation of ultrasonic devices Jawaharpur and Obra C, India · Q-Health medical consulting program to local public hospitals (executed 50 scans on Dispatch consulting: 2 times / invitation average every week) training: 6 people · Technical education and training · Youth career exploration group: participation · Continuous operation of the vocational training for the unemployed of 100 students from 5 middle schools in consortium business group and Doosan Class technical 61 people completed the welding/processing course and 53 people were recruited for Changwon, 25 different career types training employment · Engineer exploration classes: participation of · Addition of vocational content related to the Fourth · Doosan Class technical training 54 students from 4 middle schools in Changwon, Industrial Revolution for the youth career exploration group collaboration between industry and academia experiencing design, processing, and welding 29 people recruited from 3 specialized high · Constant operation of engineer exploration classes and schools and 14 of them employed · Local children's center themed programs: execution of special lectures by Master Hands 9 themed experiences conducted 160 times, · Fostering science talents · Expansion of local children's centers participating in research expenses and scholarships supported 1,500 children from 66 local children's themed programs for 80 people centers participated 50 51 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Communication with Stakeholders Based on socially responsible management, Seawater desalination projects are spotlighted as Vinh Tan 4 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in HK Metal Co., Ltd. participated in the 2016 affiliate The Quang Ngãi Department of Health is extremely Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction a way to solve the global environment pollution Vietnam is the nation's core project in the scale green partnership project through which energy grateful for the medical service activities conducted Changwon Office of Education have been serving recognizes the SDGs as an important strategy that and water scarcity. of 1200MW (600MW x 2 plants) and is located in efficiency diagnoses are offered for the suppliers of by Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University as mentors who support the youth to experience creates new business opportunities according to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has Binh Thuan region, 230km east from Ho Chi Minh Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Through Hospital. Free surgeries and medical exams, which the entire process including the exploration, social and environmental changes, and provides supplied approximately 3.9 million tons/day City. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction this program, consulting on carbon emission and first began in 2009, have benefited more than experience and design of careers through the meaningful contributions to society. The core such as Saudi Arabia's Shuaibah RO Seawater participated in the EPC method (Engineering, control at workplaces and during processes, as 25,000 local residents thus far, and such medical Doosan M.Y. Dream Youth Career Exploration areas and objectives of the SDGs have been Desalination Project, Yanbu-Phase 2 MED Procurement, and Construction) through which well as assistance for efficient use of energy, were community service activities that have lasted a Program. The process of trial-and-error that our selected following the analysis and comprehension Seawater Desalination Project and Marafiq MED it carried out the entire process from the design received. Through this, they learned that electricity decade bring about positive feedback and a great youth encounter as they enter society and find of the connection with, and importance of, the Seawater Desalination Project. and manufacturing of equipment to installation cost may be reduced by understanding the current level of faith from the locals. In addition, they appealing jobs are intense. Though these may business, positive, negative, and potential impacts These projects have supplied fresh water to many and trial operation. As the project was completed status of greenhouse gas emission and carrying conduct medical technology education programs sometimes be meaningful experiences, they also on Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. people in the Kingdom and helped solve their three months earlier than scheduled, electricity out energy efficiency policies at production sites. for the medical staff at local hospitals and also can have an unnecessarily high social cost. Thus, Moreover, it is extremely promising that, going water shortage problem. was also supplied in a stable manner earlier than We have devoted internal efforts, including the provide necessary medical equipment, all of which effective career and vocational education in middle beyond a mere connection between the SDGs and Doosan is the world major total water solution expected. replacement of all halogen lights with LED and are absolutely necessary in the Quang Ngãi region. and high schools may not only prevent the waste business, detailed target objectives, the specified provider and contributes to sustainable water use Vinh Tan 4 Power Plant currently uses the most installation of motion sensor lights in seldom-used A few surgeries conducted last year by the medical of time and finances, but also efficiently lead these duration and public commitment are made to through securing water resources. advanced technology available in Vietnam and spaces. As a result, 16% of our annual power cost staff of Chung-Ang University who showed great youth into future society. In the actual education share with and encourage cooperation from I hope that Doosan will keep a remarkable is designed for maximum efficiency. In addition, was reduced and the efficiency in production tasks heart and care as they checked the progress of sites, however, vitalization of vocational education stakeholders. It is also remarkable to have selected progress in expanding water business, based on the eco-friendliness of the power plant has been was also improved, as it became less necessary to patients in the post-surgery recovery processes. is pursued through the introduction and attempt strategic and detailed goals by considering the competitiveness and knowhow of seawater improved through technology that minimizes the replace lights that reach the end of their lifecycle, I know that programs have been prepared and of new policies, which have not yet been settled in the changes in the system, resolution of social desalination technology and continue to play a environmental load. EVN highly values Doosan and as the brightness in workspaces could be are scheduled this year as well. We extend our the field due to the lack of infrastructure, societyissues and contribution to the local communities positive role in raising the value of the earth by Heavy Industries & Construction's experience in maintained at an optimal level. This project has deepest gratitude for their services, and hope that wide awareness, systems and manuals. From this through not only business opportunities but also contributing to clean water supply and improving equipment manufacturing as well as its abilities enabled us to participate in the global climate we continue to maintain a good relationship with standpoint, the youth career program of Doosan connection with management and operational sanitation for all. in operation and management. In particular, change actions and draw positive outcomes of, Doosan Vina and Chung-Ang University Hospital. Heavy Industries & Construction provides young issues, as well as existing social contribution the level of satisfaction in the personnel training for example, improving the energy efficiency of people with the opportunity to think deeply about activities. The synergy between Doosan Heavy is high, as the needs of Industry 4.0 have been the company. their future and careers while helping reduce Industries & Construction and various stakeholders, applied. We hope that Doosan Heavy Industries & Active support from Doosan Heavy Industries & the time consumption of trial-and-error, which which are related to the objectives it established Construction may supply stable energy services in Construction is expected to enable more suppliers carries social significance. Therefore, we hope that to successfully carry out the 2030 Commitments, Vietnam based on the partnerships and reliability to participate in the green partnerships. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continues is increased through mutual collaboration and it has established over a long period of time. to be interested in, and offer assistance for, the participation in platforms for each issue, and it is upright development and fostering of local youth. hoped that the company serves a more leading role in Korea as well as overseas. We also hope to collect various opinions and specify better policies and directions by consistently sharing strategies and cases related to the SDGs with stakeholders and other companies. Saline Water Conversion UN Global Compact Corporation, Saudi Arabia Vietnam Electricity (EVN) HK Metal Co., Ltd. Quang Ngai Health Department Changwon Office of Education Network Korea Sharekh Ibrahem Al Sharekh, Duong Quang Thanh Chairman Kim Deuk-yeon, CEO Nguyen Tan Duc, Director Song Seung-hwan, Lee Eun Kyung, Deputy Governor for Project & Superintendent of Education Senior Researcher Technical Affairs 52 53 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 03 Sustainable Governance Performance Environmental Performance 56 62 Social Performance 72 Result of Sustainable Management for 2017 Management Listed for Four consecutive Grade A rated for Six consecutive years in the Participation in declaration of support for Release of 2017 Casebook for Outstanding Fulfillment of Sustainable years in DJSI Korea evaluation performed by the Korea 54 Corporate the 'UN Sustainable Development Goals 55 Development Goals (issued by UNGC Korea) Governance Service (SDGs)' Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Performance at a Glance Introduction of an electronic voting system to promote the exercise of shareholder rights By the introduction of the electronic voting system, the ways to exercise the voting rights of shareholders who are not able to attend general shareholders' meetings are strengthened. In 2017, About 260,000 voting rights were exercised via the electronic voting system. Participation in the UNGC Fair Player Club The Fair Player Club is a local, anti-corruption public-private cooperation forum to create a fair and transparent corporate environment. Having signed up as a member of Fair Player Club overseen by the UN Global Compact Network Korea, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has publicly demonstrated its strong commitment towards ethics management and strengthened the sense of ethics in its employees. Corruption risk diagnosis Types of anti-corruption risks internalized in each business area, the Governance degree of exposure as well as the regulations, systems, organizations, etc. for the prevention of corruption were inspected. Based on the Performance results of analyses, anti-corruption activities to prevent items with a high degree of risk for corruption and items requiring special improvement will be carried out. Anti-corruption improvement activities In all contracts signed with suppliers, items were added to conform to the regulations of ethics principles. Moreover, compliance regulations were specified in contracts signed with representatives who perform local tasks in the process of overseas projects in order to prohibit illegal and manipulative activities. 56 57 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Governance Performance Governance Our Approach The Board of Directors is the highest-level decision-making entity of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, reviewing and deciding mid-to long-term business plans and other major agenda. When electing independent directors, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction meets the Direction of Board Operation Leadership & Accountability CSR Committee The CSR Committee is chaired by the CEO and has been restructured centering on the three main areas of the environment, society and governance for conditions of independence according to the Commercial Act, and there is no discrimination based on For mutual monitoring between internal and independent directors, 4 efficient operation, including comprehensive response and risk resolution in gender, race and ethnicity. independent directors, accounting for 57% of the entire Board, are appointed. response to increased demands from interested parties and stakeholders, and Impartiality and transparency in electing independent directors at the general 2018 Goals In the appointment and operation of the Board of Directors, institutional impartiality changes in the governance structure arising from changes in the management shareholders' meeting are reinforced through recommendations made by the will be strengthened consistently to prepare the foundation of transparent corporate management. In environment. Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee. addition, independence of the Board and its efficient operation will be secured for the maximization of shareholders' interest. Composition of the CSR Committee Effectiveness To help increase the independent directors' level of understanding of the Chairman company and professionalism, shop tours at headquarters and the Changwon Plant are held for the appointed independent directors to brief them on the overview of the company. From June 23 to June 26, 2017, all independent Composition of the Board Operation of the Board directors visited Doosan VINA, local office in Vietnam, and Vinh Tan4, Advisory Group Coordinator The Board of Directors is the highest decision-making body that makes The meeting of the Board of Directors is convened and held by the construction site for a power plant, to not only understand the local power Strategy/Operations CSR Team decisions on matters specified by legislation, articles of association, items Representative Director or a director appointed by the Board. It may also be market, the construction status and encourage workers, but also have the Technology Planning consigned from general shareholders' meetings, basic policies of the held when more than one-third of the registered directors jointly ask for a opportunity to improve their understanding of overseas projects. company's management and all other important matters concerning the meeting's purpose, date, etc. and request an assembly. execution of business. As of April 30, 2018, Doosan Heavy Industries & Decisions of the Board are reached by the attendance of the majority of Remuneration Construction's Board of Directors is comprised of a total of seven directors; the registered directors and consent from the majority of the directors in 3 executive directors and 4 independent directors. To improve efficiency in attendance. Also, directors with special interests with regard to decisions made Remunerations of independent directors and internal directors are made SubEnvironment Social Governance managerial judgments and realize responsible management, The CEO is in by the Board will be restricted from their right to vote. For important issues within the limits of directors' salaries approved by the general shareholders' /Economic committee charge of the chairperson of the Board. When electing a director, there are no regarding corporate management including economic, environmental and meeting. Information on salaries of individual executives including Purchasing restrictions on or discrimination against a specific gender, religion, academic social aspects, the Board shares details and opinions and posts information independent directors and the CEO is made public through business reports Champion EHS Executive HR Executive executive background, race, ethnicity, disability, origin, etc. related to the composition and operation of the Board of Directors on the and audit reports. EHS HR IR company website, thus protecting the rights and interests of shareholders Climate change Social Contribution Legal Composition of the Board of Directors (as of April 30, 2018) and any stakeholders. Relationship with Shareholders Category GreenTech Shared Growth To protect the rights of minority shareholders, independent shareholders' Purchase Status of Board Operation 12 Position Name Gender Position/experiences rights and minority shareholders' rights acknowledged by relevant laws 9 9 (Current) Chairman and Representative including the Commercial Act are recognized. General shareholders' meetings Executive Geewon Park Male Director of Doosan Heavy Industries & are held each year to report on the management status and hear the opinions directors of minority shareholders. The electronic voting system was introduced in 2017 Construction Number of Board to safeguard the voting rights of minority shareholders. In addition, major Introduction of Electronic Voting System (Current) CEO (chairman of the Board) meetings held information about management issues is made public transparently through The electronic voting system allows a shareholder to exercise his/her right to Myungwoo Male (Current) President and Management (Unit: times) various communication channels including the corporate disclosure system vote via a computer or a smartphone with online access without having to Kim Division Head of Doosan Heavy Industries 2015 2016 2017 and company website. physically attend a general shareholders' meeting. Beginning with the 2016 & Construction final regular shareholders' meeting held in March 2017, Doosan Heavy (Former) Executive Vice President of 97.1 Industries & Construction introduced and implemented the electronic voting Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 95.1 92.6 system to ensure the voting rights of minority shareholders. As a result of Hyounghee Male (Current) Executive Vice President and Finance Current Status of Holding of Stocks (as of December 31, 2017) the electronic voting conducted in 2017, about 260,000 voting rights were Choi Management Division Head of Doosan Heavy exercised by participating in the general shareholders' meeting via electronic Industries & Construction Foreign investors voting, and this accounted for 0.33% of the entire shareholders' voting (Former) Executive Vice President of Doosan Participation rate of Infracore independent directors 7.21% rights in attendance. Electronic voting was also implemented at the general shareholders' meeting held in March 2018 to strengthen shareholders' (Unit: %) Independent Dongsoo Kim Male 1) (Current) Chair professor, Korea University 2015 2016 2017 opportunity to exercise their voting rights and, as a result, 0.38% of the (Current) Head of Institute for Future Institutional investors directors Doosan Corp. total number of shareholders' voting rights (454,061 shares owned by 277 Growth Committees under the Board 23.20% shareholders), a slight increase from the previous year, utilized electronic (Current) Elected as independent For fast and efficient decision-making, committees were established internally 36.82% voting to exercise their right to vote at the meeting. director of Doosan Heavy Industries & by the Board of Directors as specified by the articles of association. The Construction Individuals and others committees include the Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Youngrok Lim Male (Former) Chairman and Representative Director of KB Financial Group Committee that performs the function of making recommendations for candidates of independent directors to be elected at the general shareholders' 32.77% Dongmin Cha Male (Current) Lawyer, Kim & Chang Law Firm meeting, Audit Committee that conducts audits on the company's accounting, and Internal Transaction Committee in charge of approvals of Ickhyun Nam Male (Current) Professor, Dept. of Business internal transactions worth more than 5,000,000,000 KRW among affiliates. Administration at SNU Business School Each committee is constituted of four independent directors and performs 1) Lead Independent Directors the function of managerial control and supervision based on professionalism and independence. 58 59 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Governance Performance Ethics Our Approach Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. establishes a healthy corporate culture based on ethical responsibility including honesty, transparency and impartiality throughout its corporate activities. Founded upon ethical principles and standards, it unites the ethics of the organization Expansion of the Ethical Culture Specialized law-abiding and ethics education Prevent Unfair Trading and Support the Ethics Management of Suppliers Management and its individual employees to help with decision-making that conforms to social and ethical standards, and such internalization of ethics influences the fundamental knowledge and attitude of internal members, To encourage members to increase their sense of ethics, the company requires all of its employees including new recruits and experienced recruits as well as Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction implements ethical standards and regulations to strictly prohibit the acceptance of bribes from suppliers with whom it conducts any form of transactions. As an institutional measure to thus ultimately acting as an element that elicits increased productivity and value of the company. those in overseas offices and suppliers in India, Vietnam, Europe and other achieve this, it has added clauses requiring conformity to the ethical standards countries to take training courses in principles in ethics each year. Doosan 2018 Goals In accordance with the global trend that seeks law-abiding and ethical management and regulations in all contracts signed with suppliers. Moreover, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also conducts ethics education reflecting the as well as the government's direction to realize a righteous society, we will further invigorate the Heavy Industries & Construction plans to prepare measures to inspect the risk timeliness; for example, when the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act was compliance officer system, which has been operated since 2012, and strengthen activities to prevent any of corruption of new suppliers it deals with in order to actively support their enacted in 2016, it immediately hosted educational courses for all employees illegal activities in the management of the company. Further, we will prepare institutional measures to anti-corruption activities. on prohibition of graft and bribery and, furthermore, it aims to preemptively eradicate bribery among domestic and international counter parties, thus establishing a foundation to Meanwhile, it consistently performs education on fair trade and subcontracting deal with unfair transactions, for which regulations have continued to obtain ISO 37001, an anti-bribery management system certification. law for its employees to prevent any unfair transactions with suppliers and, become strengthened, by conducting education for its sales employees on also, supports them to spread and help them conform to the ethical standards the prevention of any unjust agreements, thus constantly reinforcing ethics of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. education in pursuit of sound corporate management. Percentage of Enrollment in Unfair trading prevention CSR/ethics management education Enrollment in Ethics Training Training by Position·Type in 2017 education for employees for the CEOs of suppliers Ethics Management System (Unit: person) (Unit: %) (Unit: person) (Unit: company) Through conformance to laws and principles as well as fair business Industries & Construction received an anti-corruption risk assessment and 12,502 12,308 3,299 190 95 96 97 92 operation, the ethics management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction diagnosis by the Korean Foundation for Quality, the domestic certification 7,299 2,654 160 aims to become an ethically leading corporation that can gain the respect agency for the particular system, and Deloitte Anjin LLC, a consulting from the outside and at the same time instill a sense of pride into its agency, and, among the areas for improvement derived from the results members. Based on a firm will of the executives on ethics management, it of the diagnoses, conducted activities for anti-corruption management by, 2015 2016 2017 Executives Office Shop floor New 106 workers technical employees/ builds the infrastructure including ethical principles, cyber reporting system for example, stipulating prohibition of receipt of bribery and conformance workers Experienced and operational organization and, based on this system, executes planning, to ethical principles in contracts with domestic and international trading 838 inspection and countermeasure activities to improve the sense of ethics and partners. Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is also actively prevent the non-ethical behavior of employees. engaged in activities of UNGC Fair Player for which it signed up in 2017. Compliance management at global worksites Over the course of conducting an overseas business, compliance regulations Ethics Management Pursuing Strategies have been set up within contracts signed with agents who deals with local 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Research Security/Ethics Review Committee tasks in order to prohibit any illegal and/or manipulative actions. For risk Build a leading ethical company As social and legal risks increase due to illegal activities in R&D such as unjust management in ethics at global workplaces, a regular cooperation system worthy of respect and pride through conformance technical development or plagiarism of research papers, Doosan Heavy is in operation with the compliance organizations at international suppliers Vison Industries & Construction has formed the research security and ethics review to laws and principles and, also, sharing of knowledge is carried out to reinforce their competency Reporting and monitoring and fair operation of business committee chaired by the CTO in order to strengthen its research ethics. in compliance. Founded upon the corporation's research security and ethics principles, this To easily report ethics violations from both inside and outside, a cyber reporting committee seeks to establish its own unique research ethics governance, center and internal report box are in operation. For overseas subsidiaries, a Establish the right path to increase the value of Unity of interests written description management third party-run internal report system has been introduced to actively field arouse the mindset of R&D manpower and perform research security and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction along with system reports of violations in matters regarding ethics. the technology to improve the global value ethics inspection activities, thus setting up an honest and transparent R&D atmosphere and preventing any illegal activities in research. According to Article 5 Paragraph 3 of the Guidelines for honest and transparent Pursuing strategies implementation of tasks, a detailed regulation of its ethics principles, Doosan Improve the sense of Establish the Install a corporate Heavy Industries & Construction requires all executives and all employees who Status on Disciplinary ethics and reinforce infrastructure culture in which Direction of the promotion of research security and ethics assume positions above Team Manager to submit 'the persons concerned Status on internal reporting (Unit: case) Action in 2017 (Unit: case) prevention activities for ethics compliance with ethics management is commonplace reports' each year, in order to secure impartiality in performing tasks and to 9 Local Overseas Local Overseas System take proper measures if tasks entrusted to an individual within the company Establishing governance are financially and directly related to him/herself, his/her direct ascendants or 5 and strengthening the descendants, spouse or spouse's direct ascendants, immediate relatives, or a Ethics Management Execution Activities operation system company or an organization in which he/she was previously employed, or if 0 he/she is placed under circumstances that would cause him/her difficulty in Domestic and foreign promotion activities for anticarrying out the tasks in an unbiased manner. corruption management In the past, however, there existed a few issues with the 'the persons 47 As reorganization of domestic and international systems and punishment concerned report' such as the fact that it takes a long period of time to 42 40 0 for violation of laws are reinforced for anti-corruption issues due to the request the reports offline and that it is often difficult to request such reports enactment of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act in Korea and the FCPA from employees working in the field both in Korea and overseas. To solve 2 0/0 (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) of the United States, active attention and Research Security/ these issues, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has developed the the 2015 2016 2017 Disciplinary Disciplinary efforts are being demanded for the anti-corruption activities of companies. In Inspection Ethics Review persons concerned report management system through which details of the action for action for order to respond to the risks of corruption in a more proactive and preemptive Conforming to research Committee Education reports are written and submitted for the efficient management of the reports employees Suppliers security and ethics in Inspiring the mindset manner, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held a company-wide each stage of R&D and preventing cheating that should be requested each year, and began asking for the submission meeting for the introduction of ISO 37001, the anti-bribery management and strengthening of details of the persons concerned online since 2016. Through this system, the verification of system and an international standard, before the attendance of executives performance which allows simple writing and convenient management, all executives and and employees from the relevant teams and departments. Doosan Heavy indices team managers were able to submit 'the persons concerned reports' of theirs in 2017. 60 61 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Performance at a Glance Received the 2018 Korea Green Climate Award At the 2018 Korea Green Climate Awards overseen by the National Assembly Forum on Climate Change, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award as it was selected No. 1 in the company category for the establishment of its energy efficiency roadmap and contribution to the spread of a low-carbon corporate culture through continuous facility efficiency improvement activities and smart energy management. First sales of certified Carbon Emission Reduction secured through greenhouse gas reduction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has reserved 104,000 tons of certified Carbon Emission Reduction through energy-saving activities in the past three years and sold the credits to Korea South-East Power in December 2017, creating a profit worth around 2.5 billion KRW. Completion of Stage 1 of the integrated energy control system In an attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are establishing an integrated energy control system constituted of three stages, to be completed by 2020. In 2017, the comprehensive heating-cooling supply control system (the first stage) was completed through which 740 million KRW of energy costs was saved and 1,736 tons of CO2 emissions were reduced. Acquisition of ISO14001[2015] certification change We have set up the EHS management system, which can help satisfy the demands of ISO14001's revision certification, at the Changwon Plant, Environmental domestic and overseas construction sites and all business management teams, and ultimately acquired the final certification in November 2017 Performance after a recertification audit. Acquisition of an A grade in safety health coexistence and collaboration program for suppliers By improving autonomous safety management capabilities through assistance in establishing the safety health management system for suppliers, we have carried out the safety health coexistence and collaboration program for 51 suppliers (47 internal, 4 outside) to prevent industrial accidents, which led to the acquisition of an A grade for the coexistence and collaboration program in 2018. Safety experience training held for the safety of regional society (talent donation activities) The safety sharing community service group was launched in July 2017 as a special talent-sharing community service group that works to spread the culture of safety-first throughout local communities. Consisted of executives and employees with expertise in the fields of disaster response, firefighting safety, health and sanitation, the community service group conducted safety training for about 200 teachers and children of local children's centers in Changwon. 62 63 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Environmental Performance Green Our Approach As the level of interest in the environmental management of companies, including responses to climate change, minimization of environmental impacts, etc., increases throughout the globe, demands by stakeholders such as clients and investors continue and legislation of related activities also Reduction of greenhouse gases In an attempt to preemptively respond to the government's policies on Efficient use of resources Water risk management Management greenhouse gas reduction, including the demonstration project for the progress in a swift manner. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a green management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction receives all of the operational target management system and emission trading system, Doosan Heavy system in advance to comply and manage environmental issues through active execution of reducing and everyday water for its plants from the city's water supply system and, Industries & Construction has been performing TFT activities for the reduction environmental impacts among production processes and the development of green technologies. in an effort to reduce operational water at plants, it utilizes a monitoring of greenhouse gases with the formation of an exclusive team. The carbon system, which uniformly supplies water at a proper pressure, for constant emission rights secured through the efforts of improving facilities at plants management. Starting in 2018, an inspection is performed daily on multi2018 Goals Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to establish and promote step-byand performing OE activities have been sold through the Korea Exchange to use facilities while, at company dormitories, cafeteria, restrooms and shower step measures to closely control processes that emit fine dust particles and fix any inadequacies stepwise create profits. We also plan to reduce carbon emissions by 20% in comparison rooms where water is used every day, a proper temperature of warm water to comply fine dust regulations. Also, we seek to enhance internal competency and upgrade the response with BAU by 2030. is maintained and equipment such as decompression devices are installed in process to be able to adapt to the comprehensive management act, which began to be implemented in 2018. order to reduce 10% of the total usage. Improvement in energy efficiency In addition, we will apply IoT technology to the water supply system, in Through the efficient usage of energy, we simultaneously seek economic which water is constantly stored through an internal storage tank, by 2020 feasibility and consideration of the environment as well as to strengthen to enhance the system into one that directly supplies water to locations of our fundamental competitiveness. To this end, a variety of energy saving use, and also plan to establish a system that can take necessary measures activities are being carried out, including waste heat recovery, standby power in advance for accidents occurred and waste of water through reduction of Green Management System Response to Climate Change shut-off, enhanced facility efficiency, and replacement of LED lights, and, electricity costs consumed for the water supply as well as immediate response Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction establishes green management Responding to the emissions trading system (ETS) upon the advent of the era of the fourth industrial revolution, the energy to leaks or any abnormal phenomena. strategies to identify environmental issues generated throughout the duration integration system, which fuses big data and ICT technology, is in progress By obtaining various information on climate change in advance, Doosan Heavy of business activities, from usage to disposal of resources, and devise via three stages to be completed by 2020. In 2017, the first stage work of Rainwater Non-Discharge (Reusing) Industries & Construction aims to minimize impact on the company and carry fundamental solutions. heating-cooling facility integration was completed, which led to energy cost out systematic responsive activities. A committee constituted of experts in energy Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has combined its own water savings of 740 million KRW, reduction of greenhouse gases and innovative and greenhouse gases as well as executives monitor risks related to climate treatment technology to establish a rainwater nondischarge (reusing) system enhancement of the system. Green management strategies changes on a regular annual basis and also pursue improvement in operational for fundamentally solving hazardous substance leaks by collecting and reefficiency and development of reduction technology. Predominantly due to the treating substances in emergency, while recycles rainwater on daily basis. The greenhouse gas emissions trading system introduced in 2015, the government rainwater non-discharge (reusing) system was built completely in December Proud Global Doosan has faced a significant, direct financial burden as it has been required to 2017, and rainwater will be recycled in the company's large cooling tower purchase certified Carbon Emission Reductions for the amount of greenhouse after a pilot test until March 2018. gas it discharges in excess of the allocated amount. Thus, based on detailed Reduce 20% of GHGs by 2030 analyses of climate change risk factors and potential scenarios, the amount of potential greenhouse gas emissions is estimated, along with the degree of MISSION Reduce 25% of energy usage by 2020 financial burden which would accompany the measures to resolve the issue. B est P ractice (as of 2017) Also, by considering the cost and convenience that entailed the introduction of the emissions trading system, lists of priorities are deduced for each response Received the 2018 Korea Green Climate Award plan and applied to decision making at the management level while objective – No. 1 in the company category, Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award Support responsible and management for each BG is being implemented to meet its quota of carbon GOAL sustainable growth emissions. In addition, we strive to reinforce internal competency by conducting Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award as it was training on energy management and certified Carbon Emission Reductions at selected No. 1 in the company category of the 2018 Korea Green Climate Awards hosted by the National each BG plant. Assembly Forum on Climate Change. We not only focus on new and renewable energy projects, which include a land and sea wind power generation system and energy storage system, in order to preemptively respond Strategic assignment B est P ractice to climate change but also contribute to the reduction of the country's greenhouse gas emissions through the technology of reducing the generation of NOx, a kind of environmental pollutant, and eco-friendly power Response to · Improve energy efficiency Integrated Energy Control System plant combustion technology. Since the establishment of the energy efficiency roadmap in 2013, we have emission trading · Reduce greenhouse gas emissions construction of level one heating and cooling conducted activities to improve facility efficiency and manage smart energy, receiving broad recognition for our supply integrated control system contribution to the spread of low-carbon corporate culture. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction promises Efficient use of · Resources recycling · Sewage recycling that we will continue to actively pursue future eco-friendly energy projects and, at the same time, reinforce our resources · Water risk management In an attempt to save energy costs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have started the establishment of an integrated energy efforts to deal with climate change. control system, constituted of three stages. In 2017, the establishment · Reduce the emission of pollutants (air and water of the first stage, the integrated heating-cooling supply control First sales of certified Carbon Emission Reductions secured through the reduction of greenhouse gases Operation pollutants, wastes, harmful chemical substances, etc.) system, was completed through which 740 million KRW of energy · Reduce energy usage In line with the rapidly changing climate and subsequently implemented policies and regulations, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been diligently costs was saved and 1,736 tons of CO2 emissions were reduced. The second stage, the comprehensive steam, compressed air and water dealing with the certified carbon emission reduction trading system. It was allocated with certified Carbon Emission Reductions from the government, which · Establish a management structure for green products control system, and the third stage, the integrated electricity and is about 2% reduced from the usage of energy in the past. Green product and technology gas control system, are scheduled to be established by 2020 with Considering the characteristics of the business in which electricity and heat used in the production process lead to the emission of carbon, Doosan Heavy technology · Link to business commercialization and strengthen a total investment of 10 billion KRW. Once the energy management Industries & Construction has performed activities to reduce greenhouse gases by improving the efficiency of equipment within plants and eliminating performance management system, which enables real-time remote control by sensors and elements where energy is being wasted. 104,000 tons of certified Carbon Emission Reductions saved from such efforts were sold to Korea South-East Power control devices connected to each energy source and also maximizes in December 2017 through which a profit of about 2.5 billion KRW was produced. We will continue to take one step further into the green future by preparing Environmental · Procure green products from suppliers efficiency by being automatic linked with production, is established, a step-by-step carbon emission reduction plan. responsibility · Protect the ecosystem 6.7 billion KRW in annual energy cost savings and greenhouse gas reduction of 20,000 tons of CO2 are expected. 64 65 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Waste Management Environmental Management at Minimizing Environmental Effects Water Pollutants To establish a culture of separate garbage collection among employees, we Construction Sites Air pollutants An average of 400 tons/day of waste water that comes into the wastewater currently carry out the collection in accordance with the separate garbage treatment facility is being processed with various physical and chemical collection criteria at plants or teams where wastes are generated, and separated Management of chemicals at construction sites Total about 400 air pollutant emission and prevention facilities are thoroughly treatment methods including condensation, precipitation and filtration Since the development and consistent operation of the chemicals controlled to meet our stronger internal standards (40% of the legal permitted wastes are processed by certified permitted waste treatment companies after (maximum processing capacity of 1,590 tons/day). The final treated water management program in 2015, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has emission standards). Periodic pollution inspections are performed to check if being transferred to storage sites through exclusive equipment (dump trucks is controlled in 17 items to discharge less than 30% of the limit stated in grasped the information and levels of hazard chemicals arriving in the sites additional pollutants are generated during production processes and, for 1, and rotating forklifts). For all waste contracts, only companies that have the legally permitted emission standards. Also, as a means to fundamentally and if any identified hazardous chemical substances such as toxic chemicals 3-Butadiene, which was designated as a new pollutant in December 2017, been verified as suitable through early legal conformance assessments may solve potential leakage accidents of hazardous substances, we have installed and substances requiring preparation for accidents, are placed on site its we plan to revise the permit, if needed, after investigating if it is discharged participate in the bidding process, an attempt to prevent in advance any a discharge route shutoff system and rainwater zero-discharge system, which computer program helps to help replace them with non-hazardous chemicals from environmental facilities. Also, we will set up a process to automatically issues regarding illegal processing wastes. Also, contracts are signed only with can collect and process all of the hazardous chemicals under emergency in advance. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established standards create legal daily logs from manually written records on the operation of waste companies that can satisfy the waste transfer regulations, which were situations. The sewage generated is flowed into and additionally processed in dealing with sulfuric acid at waste treatment facilities and managing environmental facilities by utilizing sensors. The process conducted a pilot strengthened and implemented in 2017 to ensure no violations of the law at comprehensive sewage treatment facilities run by Changwon, the local chemicals at construction sites. Through this, we comply with the Chemical test in 2016 to complete internal verification and, by 2020, will be applied take place. In 2017, we accomplished a waste recycling rate of 89% and will government, through sewage pipes. Control Act by use of own chemicals management system and apply chemical extensively to all facilities. Moreover, we install facility recognition sensors continue to discover and expand recycling that suits green resources in 2018 (beacons) in order to inspect operation of environmental facilities in a more through the professional recycling of waste refractories. management standards. reliable manner, and also implement inspection on the environmental facilities Responding to Fine Dust Regulations at the Meanwhile, for the safe management of chemicals at construction sites, we by utilizing mobile devices and applications. In addition, general air quality Changwon Plant conduct training for construction team leaders and environment and health and noise level measurements are conducted in nearby worksites every quarter It has been reported that the production processes of the manufacturing Environmental Responsibility administrators on hazardous chemicals facilities and management standards. In addition, we have implemented training for employees and their safety to continuously monitor the changes of the impact on environments near our industry have an immense effect on the generation of fine dust and, Green purchase in the field in an attempt to spread the importance of the safe control of worksites. Meanwhile, we have acquired an environmental liability insurance therefore, relevant regulations are expected to be strengthened. Doosan chemicals. with a guaranteed limit of 30 billion KRW that assures compensation for Heavy Industries & Construction has put forth efforts to minimize the amount To fulfill our social responsibilities in the production and consumption of damages in case physical and/or property damages occur to a third party of fine dust emissions that can be generated among businesses. We control green products, we have voluntarily signed a green purchase contract with due to the installation and operation of environmental facilities such as air the amount of emissions to be below 30% of the limit as stated in the legally the government to expand the purchase of eco-friendly products. In 2011, and water facilities quality discharge facilities, thus minimizing the effect of permitted emission criteria, and volatile organic compound (VOC) removal we implemented the green purchase guideline for the establishment of a environmental accidents on surrounding areas. facilities have been installed for operation in all large painting booths since systematic foundation and have operated in connection with the ERP system 2015. We continuously pay attention to the trends in the government's and green energy monitoring system (GEMS) in order to select eco-friendly products from the beginning stage of purchase. In addition, we have set up Hazardous Chemical Substances detailed guidelines for preparation in advance, and when replacing aging facilities, long-term countermeasures on fine dust are established to reflect and operate a process for automatic monitoring of results of improvement. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates a monitoring system in environment-friendly conditions. order to manage all chemicals that are used in the Changwon Plant and have trained and appointed 16 hazardous chemical supervisors in all factories. Outcome of green purchases Environmental Clean-Up in Masan Bay To fundamentally eliminate risks from the use of hazardous chemicals, we 25,864 have replaced 9 out of 14 hazardous chemical substances in 2016 and three As a local community-focused corporate social contribution activity, Doosan 20,243 more in 2017, and continuously working on to replace the two remaining Heavy Industries & Construction has commemorated the annual Ocean Day hazardous chemical substances to non-hazardous chemicals. and performed environment cleaning underwater and by the shores of Masan Bay for 11 consecutive years. More than 90 people from the Seongsan-gu 9,756 Office and private organizations in Changwon as well as 20 divers from the inhouse scuba diving club, participated to process 20 tons of waste nets, buoys (Unit: KRW million) Preservation of Biodiversity in Local and Overseas and ropes, which were collected. We aim to continuously nurture the event Construction Sites into an environment cleaning activity that represents the local community in 2015 2016 2017 the future. Overseas construction sites have the responsibility to categorize and manage the flora, fauna, etc. to be preserved and protected in local communities. Improved awareness of green management on the By conducting local surveys prior to the start of projects, Doosan Heavy B est P ractice part of suppliers Industries & Construction notifies the details of the living species to be In March 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performed an protected in environmental effect assessment reports and fulfills its duty to energy efficiency diagnosis on production facilities at Judan BG's suppliers. execute measures to safeguard local ecosystems. To preserve the ecosystem Acquisition of ISO14001[2015] certification change This diagnosis on suppliers was requested directly by the suppliers to Doosan and minimize changes of the environment from the construction phase, Heavy Industries & Construction for precise diagnosis tailored to specific we perform periodic monitoring of the atmosphere, water quality, noise For strengthened competitiveness in sales, acquisition of orders and execution of business in Korea as well as overseas, Doosan facilities and equipment. Suppliers conducted energy efficient diagnoses on and vibration, and share the results with ordering bodies for systematic Heavy Industries & Construction has obtained and currently maintains an integrated certification of the EHS management absolutely necessary parts including the approach towards energy efficiency management. As of 2017, the living organisms controlled at three sites consist system, which encompasses the environment, safety and health, from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). in the operation of thermal processing facilities and support policies by the of a total of 11 species, three of which are flora and eight are fauna. In Korea, We implemented the EHS management system, which can satisfy the demands of a certification revised in July 2017, in the government, and also had time to discuss the competency to deal with the we systematically control environmental elements such as noise, vibration, Changwon Plant, domestic and overseas construction sites and all business management teams, and through review of the increase in facility operations and potential malfunctions of equipment in the atmosphere and water quality at seven project sites (1 project was completed certification change, obtained the final certification from DNV.GL, the certifying body, on November 26, 2017. In the future, future. With suppliers sharing their needs and unknowns, it proved to be a in middle of 2017) in an attempt to minimize the impact on the ecosystem. we will continue to strive for efficient execution of the EHS management system to contribute to activities which help to obtain livelier diagnosis on suppliers. orders in both local and overseas sites. ISO14001 [2015] certificate 66 67 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Environmental Performance Health & Our Approach As the EPC power plant business has recently been carried out in the form of purpose to secure competency in initial response for the protection of Category Description 2017 results private development, requirements from ordering bodies and all stakeholders are becoming more human lives and property but also in the form of field exercises for potential detailed in regards to the issues of safety and health. Thus, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Video risk Activity of making a video of the Performing risk assessment earthquakes, fires and explosions, environmental accidents, utility shutoff Safety applies an advanced, scientific safety and health management system in local and overseas worksites and consistently discover potential hazard and risks, which are thoroughly and preemptively handled. Also, all assessment progress of work and discovering and improving risk factors during in which actual workers participate by utilizing the response, evacuation from office buildings, etc. sectors, inside and outside, of our company including the headquarters, worksites and suppliers currently each process by the workers videotaped work situations: strive to strengthen competency and awareness in safety and health management. themselves 92% 2018 Goals To reinforce EHS prevention activities, we plan to promote the strengthening of Effects after execution EHS inspection and participation of site managers and supervisors in EHS prevention activities. While Selecting high· Recognizing unsafe activities continuing to report preemptive safety measures for high-risk tasks such as working at height and heavy risk tasks (Unit: independently group) load lifting, we aim to select three critical risks each month to manage them with a focus and emphasis · Understanding risk factors in an attempt to prevent potential accidents and disasters in advance. Meanwhile, we will stress strict Changes in in each process Operating Safety Talks Work video conformance to and implementation of EPC BG 10 Golden Safety Rules at all domestic and overseas habits · Recognizing the ability to We internally produce videos specialized for the company including construction sites to enable all of our employees to recognize the dangers on their own and perform the prevent disasters of the evacuation measures for emergency situations, response methods in the case basics and principles without exception. In addition, we will support EHS to allow not only the employees same kind of earthquakes, introduction of and how to utilize firefighting facilities, and but also their families and suppliers to enjoy a pleasant environment and healthy lives, thus preparing an Checking · Recognizing that the play them before any meeting or event, just like in a movie theater. Also, all environment in which everyone can secure safety and protect their health on their own. Improvement and direction of improvement relevant information is provided via the smartphone application. and selfdiscussing is realistic and increases examination tasks execution Operation of an in-company fire department Review of · High participation rate of risk factors In order to quickly respond to fire or emergency patients inside the company field managers and workers Safety Management System and Inspection Expansion of safety and health training for within the golden time, an internal fire department is in operation and a enhancement of work competency · Image of positive activities system capable of emergency mobilization 24 hours a day and 365 days a High-risk process management year is in place by possessing 10 professionals from firefighting or emergencyTraining for improving competency in safety and health work was continuously When handling heavy-load items, a work plan is asked to be written in related departments with relevant licenses, two fire trucks and one ambulance. advance in order to eliminate major risks of falling or jamming, and a safety and sequentially implemented for all employees working at or related Crane and forklift driving license system to construction sites, including the Construction Team Manager at the At the Changwon Plant, strict limitations are placed on the driving of crane work procedure enacted for easy utilization of heavy-load items is provided. Moreover, a monthly special training is given to secure professional skills and headquarters, construction site director, managers and supervisors, and and forklift vehicles that are used to perform loading and unloading which Safety Management at Construction enhance the competency of workers. For work at high locations, a tag system is directors and supervisors of suppliers. The training was conducted for 236 local may pose potentially grave dangers, and it is mandatory for drivers in charge Sites managers and supervisors, 25 site directors and construction team managers, of transporting heavy items using those vehicles to pass the qualifications introduced at safety facilities, and workers who have completed fall experience and 86 cooperating companies, while a special curriculum was implemented Enactment of EPC BG '10 Golden Safety Rules' falling are also cared for and managed through identification of the graduates. programs operated by the company before they can actually operate the to foster experts in safety and health managers at domestic construction sites. machinery on site. The qualifications program consists of professional theory To encourage active participation in EHS activities by all persons related to Regarding hazard risk facilities (cranes, etc.) at which major disasters may Also, training sessions were conducted for employees at overseas sites who have and practical training, and drivers must pass the final driving test in order to construction as well as to reduce the occurrence of accidents, 10 core safety occur, special precision diagnoses such as non-destructive inspection of parts a relatively difficult time to receive such training, seeking enhancement of EHS gain qualification. Applicants who failed the program can retake the program rules, proclaimed by the head of EPC BG and that all EPC BG employees must with stress concentration are performed to secure the safety of the facilities Mindset and Leadership for 197 employees in eight projects. and apply for the test again. abide by, are enacted and declared to strengthen EHS activities on site and and, by reporting the high-risk work plans and outcome of safety activities at prevent potential accidents. 65 local and overseas worksites weekly to executives, elements of potential danger are controlled with emphasis. Establishing a safety culture Emergency Response System [10 Golden Safety Rules] Strengthening of autonomous execution of safety Operating the BCM Reinforcement of safety and health inspections Five acts to essentially comply with Five essentially prohibited acts and health by suppliers (Business Continuity Management) system during vulnerable periods We have pursued the safety and health coexistence cooperation program for 51 1 Providing core safety rules training 1 Running inside work sites and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established the BCM system to First, internal inspections were conducted through a checklist on urgent tasks suppliers (47 internal, 4 outside) to prevent potential industrial disasters, leading for all field entrants and visitors, and walking around in the water are secure the safety of its employees and their families under various disaster and high-risk worksites as well as during holidays including New Year's Day, to the acquisition of A grade in the 2017 coexistence cooperation program. participating in TBM by everyone prohibited situations. With consideration of characteristics at different worksites, a Chuseok, and summer and winter vacations. Then, improvement measures 43 suppliers conducted autonomous risk assessment activities to discover 2 Wearing proper protective gear 2 Smoking or the use of unauthorized response manual and processes are secured and training sessions in which all and 37 special safety inspections were carried out to promote the level of and fix risk factors at worksites, and received benefits of industrial accident and cross-hooking safety belts at fire equipment inside the worksites of its employees participate are held twice a year. safety awareness at sites that may have been overlooked. insurance fee exemption through certifications of risk assessment, along with locations of high work platforms prohibited the acquisition of KOSHA 18001 certification for 25 companies. In addition, 3 Maintaining cleanliness at worksites 3 Simultaneous work at upper and Safety Training targeting presidents of cooperating companies and supervisors of domestic and securing transfer paths for lower locations prohibited and overseas suppliers, mind improvement training was provided in order to workers EHS Leadership Training for executives establish an autonomous safety management system and strengthen voluntary 4 Arbitrary control of mechanical and 4 Conforming to the 3.3.3 rule for electrical equipment prohibited and plant directors improvement and execution of EHS activities. In conclusion, the hazard rate of transport work of heavy goods 5 Entry or access to restricted/ As a means to establish the culture of safety, education programs are provided suppliers was significantly reduced from 0.03 in 2016 to 0.02 in 2017. (maintaining 30 seconds after dangerous areas prohibited periodically for 45 production executives and plant directors on EHS participation, transporting 30cm from the communication, risk management capabilities, etc. to foster their EHS Leadership. Self-safety and Health Activities by Workers Performing emergency response training ground, controlled within 3m of the Going from safety and health activities mainly performed by managers and operating radius) We have organized detailed response measures under emergency situations Fostering Training at safety experience facilities supervisors, we now allow the workers themselves to take the leading role in 5 Use after fetch inspection of tools, such as unexpected accidents or disasters in scenarios based on which The company has made it obligatory to install safety experience facilities at all local participating in and implementing such activities. machines and devices, and checking emergency drills (60 times/year) are performed on site. Considering the risk and overseas construction sites, conducting education for all employees since 2016. the attachment of the safety certificate characteristics at different sites, the training is carried out not only with a In addition, we have developed a pool of professional trainers at the safety experience facilities to accurately inform workers of the purpose of facilities, training methods, etc. 68 69 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Achievement of zero-accidents at domestic and EHS performance assessment at domestic and Health Management Healthcare Program Cycle for years of service overseas construction sites overseas construction sites Health Management Program From the entry of employees to their retirement, we offer a health management In addition to maintaining the systematic safety health management system, We have prepared operation assessment and improvement of the on-site EHS program tailored to different age groups. Upon joining the company and We operate a Total Health Care Program for all of our employees, their we have installed safety experience facilities and fostered professional lecturers management system as well as a program in which all of our field employees prior to being stationed for specific work, newly recruited employees are families as well as subsidiaries' employees. A variety of healthcare programs to perform education for increased awareness in high-risk factors such as participate, particularly the site directors, in order to enhance the level of EHS subject to not only a basic health examination but also medical treatment at that takes care of physical and mental health are being conducted in diet falling at domestic and overseas construction sites. We increase the execution on site. These are reflected in the performance assessments and it accounts large hospitals, and all employees have access to a mental health program improvement activities, aquarobics class, anti-smoking class and medical of field safety and health activities as site directors monitor and report ways for 10% of the KPI. Based on this, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction that offers counseling with professional counselors on stress and problems counseling. In addition, medical support is also provided to employees of to control high-risk tasks directly to executives and, in particular, seven of our improves execution of the EHS management system and establishes an they face in their everyday lives. Doosan, ordering bodies and subsidiaries who currently work at overseas sites domestic and overseas construction sites have been recognized for achieving autonomous EHS activity system through preemptive risk management. New recruits First year Overseas business with a relatively poor level of medical facilities. trip/dispatch zero-accidents by various local and overseas ordering bodies as well as the ㆍHealth examinations prior to being ㆍRegular health checkup ㆍEHS education prior to the dispatch/ Korean government. positioned (technical workers) ㆍOffice workers: General business trip Overseas Site Security On-the-job training for new health administrators ㆍVaccination for hepatitis A (1st, 2nd) health examination (biennial) ㆍSignup for foreign travelers' and ㆍVaccination for the seasonal flu ㆍTechnical workers: Special dispatchers' insurance Crisis management plan and emergency care plans are in operation to protect and education to improve competency in health (every year) and general health ㆍVaccinations for endemic and ㆍAcquisition of rights of financial examination (annual) infectious diseases the personal safety and local properties for sojourning employees who work support forsurgeries (self, spouse, ㆍSignup for the SOS service children) ㆍProvision of guidance on how to live are dispatched to overseas sites and their family members in case of war, As the appointment of health administrators in the construction industry ㆍMedical treatment agreement safely abroad terrorism, riots, epidemics, or natural disasters. The headquarters monitors services at largehospitals ㆍOperating the corporate medical has become mandatory since January 2015, we have been electing health ㆍCompletion of CPR training clinic hotline the current status of overseas sites, and any issues in relevant countries are administrators at the construction sites, and starting in 2017, on-the-job ㆍMedical treatment services at foreign workplaces constantly communicated for taking necessary actions. training program has been conducted for the soft landing of newly recruited During work 5th year 20th year After retirement age (for 3 years) health administrators as they perform initial health work. A total of three ㆍVisiting the counseling center ㆍComprehensive health ㆍScreening tests conducted ㆍSupporting Workers at overseas Workers in Those on short-term curricula (first and second: field OJT, third: headquarters OJT) were conducted (Misodam) examinations for brain cardiovascular discount benefits ㆍVisiting the company medical ㆍThose aged 35 or older, system and cancer for comprehensive sites dangerous countries business trips for the three new health administrators to study benchmarking and best clinic or have worked for 5 or ㆍThose aged 45 or older, health examination ㆍSupporting medical treatment more consecutive years or have worked for 20 or practices of health management at other sites and establish the health (surgery) costs more consecutive years UAE Barakah nuclear power plant's construction site MSLT · International SOS · Understanding and · Travel Tracker management system, which includes yearly health management plans at each ㆍMedical treatment connection service with large/special · Monitoring the status applying issues in · Securing safety by site, while forming a personal network with health administrators at other hospitals ㆍParticipating in smoking 2017 zero-accident certified construction sites of overseas sites, etc. advance checking real-time sites to enable the continuous sharing of information in health work and work cessation and aquarobics classes ㆍSupporting low-salt diets · Forming a plan to transportation assistance. Overseas Local establish measures routes Also, health work competency advancement education was conducted for seven health administrators at domestic construction sites to discuss together, Sanitary Control · Lara site in India · Hwaseong Dongtan 2 construction office site through collaboration · Kudgi site in India · Jeju LNG combined cycle construction office site for example, the roles and responsibilities of health administrators, overall We conduct a sanitary diagnosis on the nine canteens within Changwon through with relevant teams · Fadhili site in Saudi Arabia · The on-site main facility constructions scene of trends in health management of the construction industry, and recent cases a professional sanitary diagnosis company three times per year in addition to more · Doha site in Kuwait Shin Kori Nuclear Power Plants 5 and 6 of inspection by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. than six internal inspections. Also, a total epidemic prevention system has been established to assure that our employees can be free of infectious diseases. Smoking cessation program To promote the health of its employees and their families, Doosan Heavy Prevention of infectious diseases and operation of B u siness C ase Industries & Construction has operated a smoking cessation program through in-company affiliated clinics which 231 people successfully stopped smoking over the past three years. The We offer regular flu vaccinations for not only employees but also their The implementation of safety experience training tailored to child welfare facilities program was implemented on 35 employees at the Changwon Plant in 2017 families and members of suppliers. While conducting safety education for and expanded to 34 in the Seoul Office. The training in Seoul was carried out employees dispatched or on business trips to worksites overseas, we support along with Seocho-gu Community Health Center in five sessions including vaccinations for hepatitis A, typhoid fever, malaria and yellow fever prior to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Safety Sharing Community Service Group, launched in July 2017 as a a training on how to quit smoking, individual counseling, and provision of their departure in order to prevent endemic diseases prevalent in local regions. special talent sharing community service group to spread the culture of safety in local communities, is constituted supplements, and we plan to run the smoking cessation program every year Also, our medical staff including professional doctors visit overseas worksites, of employees with expertise in disaster response, firefighting safety, health and sanitation, conducting safety to continue our efforts in promoting the health of our employees. which lack proper medical infrastructure, on a regular basis to assist in health education for 200 teachers and children of local children's centers in Changwon during the second half of 2017. management through counseling and on-site treatment, and an in-company Safety experience education constitutes of not only the training of theory but also hands-on training to practice Management of muscular skeletal disease patients clinic is established where doctors, nurses, physical therapists and sports the basics of CPR in case of fire, as well as experiential training where evacuation procedures and use of fire physicians are stationed to offer a one-stop treatment service, prescription of extinguishers and fire hydrants are practiced at the in-company fire department. A teacher at the local children's We have hosted aquarobics classes every year since 2011 as a means to medicine, physical treatment and sports treatment. center who participated in the education stated, Direct experience of fire extinguishers and fire hydrants, alleviate symptoms in muscular skeletal disease patients, and 57 people participated in 2017. Even for those who have difficulty walking or moving coupled with theoretical teaching, will help children significantly in case an actual disaster occurs and showed on the ground, aquarobics enables balanced exercise for all parts of the body, Status of vaccination and usage of affiliated clinics gratitude in saying, firefighting and disaster safety education is legally required for all who work at child welfare which has led to much positive feedback. Moreover, results from analysis of facilities to complete a certain number of a hours each year but, knowing that most of them are not able to effectivity through VAS (Visual Analogue Scale) and isokinetic devices showed Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 receive proper training, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has set up this special opportunity. that more than 54% of the participants experienced alleviation of pain. Based on positive feedback from local children's centers last year, the Safety Sharing Community Service Group Vaccination for seasonal flu people 12,950 15,420 13,749 of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction expanded the number of subjects for training in 2018 to about (including family) 300 people and will continue to fulfill its role as a protector of safety of children in local communities through Status of management of muscular skeletal diseases Vaccination against endemic people 119 238 118 experiential training on action guidelines in the case of earthquakes in addition to methods of initial response diseases/Type A influenza to fire. Subjects (persons) 41 50 57 Persons treated at affiliated people 19,265 19,520 13,415 2015 2016 2017 clinics 70 71 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix 2017 Performance at a Glance A supplier of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction signing an MOU for investment collaboration with Quảng Ngãi Province, Vietnam To help outstanding supplier' overseas advancement, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction set up an MOU signing ceremony for 6 suppliers with the Quảng Ngãi Province of Vietnam on November 14th, 2017. Hosting the first Shared Growth Academy Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Shared Growth Academy, hosted by Large & Small Business Agriculture-Fisheries Cooperation Foundation was held on September 20th, 2017. More than 150 people from about 60 suppliers participated in the event, which conducted education directly related to reinforcement of business competitiveness with suppliers, such as education involving the Smart Factory, fair trade, and performance sharing system. Selection as an outstanding shared growth site (Changnyeong-Miryang Highway) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Changnyeong-Miryang Highway construction project was selected as an outstanding site in the shared growth evaluation program of construction sites hosted by Korea Expressway Corporation. Hosting shared growth meetings with Tier 2 suppliers To vitalize communication with Tier 2 suppliers, the CEOs of 31 Tier 2 suppliers were invited for a shared growth meeting. Through this meeting, various shared growth programs of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction were introduced, and many proposals and recommendations from the suppliers were heard, with time for open communication through a Q&A and encouragement. Received the gold medal in national quality award Social competition for the 8th consecutive year In the field improvement category of 2017 national quality award competition, Performance the Taepyeongyang quality circle of the Production Equipment Engineering Team participated with the goal to improve productivity by enhancing the boiler header manufacturing process and won the gold medal. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has now won gold medals in the national quality circles contest for 8 consecutive years from 2010 to 2017. Re-establishment of customer management procedures In order to systematically management deal with the needs of customers and stakeholders, customer management procedure, customer inquiry and complaint procedure, and customer satisfaction survey procedure documents were re-established. These enable systematic and standardized customer response and are expected to create a greater business value for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Acquisition of the rural society contribution certificate To help rural regions that are facing various issues such as shortage of hands and the wealth gap between rural and urban areas, 1 company, 7 farms sisterhood relations were formed with 7 farm villages in Changwon, Goseong, and Haman in 2011, and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been performing community service in the areas for over 7 years. For its efforts, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has received a rural society contribution certificate from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Affairs, recognizing its contributions. 72 73 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Social Performance Talent Our Approach Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction recognizes human resources as an important source of revenue for the growth and development of the company. We discover talented individuals and establish a corporate culture in which they can unleash their utmost capabilities while Fostering talents Strategy for Fostering Talents Innovative leadership reinforcement education Amidst a rapidly changing and increasingly uncertain business environment, we Management support a variety of growth measures to strengthen innovative competency offering timely opportunities for suitable education and subsequently securing a competitive edge. We believe that the greatest asset in a company's growth and development that will help preemptively respond to changes. For executive-level employees Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continues to establish a labor-management culture is people. Based on a balanced growth of talents instead of a selected few, who lead innovation, Innovation School is being developed and operated based on solid mutual trust and maintain an advanced, coexisting labor-management relation that seeks the value of people has been instilled throughout the development system to assist them in seeking new businesses and new growth engines of the the benefit of both parties. and, with the goal of fostering proud Doosan People, a talent fostering company, based on thorough understanding of new trends and advanced system centered on the Leadership College and Professional College has digital technology in the age of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. In addition, 2018 Goals Through improvement of the labor environment, Doosan Heavy Industries & been established. The educational curriculum within each growth structure is the Innovation Workshop will also be set up to discover and materialize real Construction aims to strengthen employees' work and life balance and maximize the production efficiency differentiated by position and level according to individual growth roadmaps innovative items. This curriculum plans to be extended to team managers as in 2018. Thus, it plans to carry out a reduction of work hours and encourage the use of vacations with and, thus, every employee can select and enroll in classes tailored to his or her well in 2018. We will continue to introduce the innovative ways to work and greater emphasis. Also, by strengthening promotion for an in-company education curriculum and level of competency. Also, we actively encourage various learning activities spread the idea company-wide in order to deal with changes in business in a vitalization of in-company lecturers, we aim to improve the level of utilization of existing education in workplaces to establish a self-directed learning culture that enables smarter, more agile manner. programs while continuously promoting employee fostering activities. voluntary improvement of competency. As a result, employees performed selfcompetency development through more than 53 hours of education in 2017. Negotiation Capability Reinforcement Education Advancement of the vocational training system and for PM (Project Manager) encouragement of in-company lecture activities To meet stakeholders' varying needs and reinforce the negotiability , which is a prerequisite in leading a successful project, we operate the WIN (Winning Talent management principle Respecting the Human Rights of Employees As a means to strengthen the work competency of all our employees, we Intelligent Negotiation) Academy curriculum based on the principles of winAll local and global worksites of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction have developed and implement Work Academies based on the value chain. Doosan People , the talent sought by Doosan Each academy is constituted of a three-stage learning structure, including win negotiation. This educational curriculum is structured to reinforce the regard an employee's human rights as an essential value. We strictly prohibit negotiability of all employees from rookies to executives, the content of which Doosan People are Doosan talents that represent all members who Basic > Advanced > Expert, based on the capabilities required for each the employment or forced labor of children and youth under the age of 18 has been designed by a student-participation system, which includes case continuously strive to improve their own competence with skills and have a position and year of service, and the employees may select and enroll in and, in case a violation occurs, we immediately investigate to take necessary studies and role play based on actual cases, to maximize the applicability to willingness to contribute to the organization regardless of current level or work training that suits their needs and levels of competency accordingly. To measures. We also operate a human rights management program in an everyday work. In 2017, the curriculum was first implemented for PMs (Project level of capabilities. Moreover, Doosan People are those who regard our provide practical educational content that is closely related to everyday tasks, attempt to resolve human rights blind spots and work to gradually expand Managers) and will expand to those in marketing, sales, and purchasing in fundamental values and desired talents with utmost importance and contain a handful of employees participate as lecturers to teach and reproduce their it to all of our global worksites. In addition, we plan to develop and utilize a 2018, to reinforce the organizational competitive edge in negotiations. them in their everyday actions. professional knowledge and experiences, thus reinforcing competitiveness of human rights investigation and self-diagnosis tool to advance human rights management. the organization as a whole. We aim to improve the level of quality and pride of in-company lecturers by providing opportunities to develop delivery skills or Doosan People paying lecture fees, and run various programs such as an annual Faculty Day Evaluation based on fostering event, which will continue to be held in 2018 as well. Instead of an assessment for short-term compensation, we run an evaluation system focused on the long-term development of each employee. We Inhwa understand the characteristic strengths and elements to develop for each Strategy for Fostering Talents individual worker and perform fact-based assessments for the employees to satisfy the character desired by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Through this, we assist in establishment of a detailed fostering plan and Providing educational Genuine attention Continuously and development rising viewpoint Career Development Plan (CDP). Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has improved the HR information 01 Expanding opportunities to foster employees 02 opportunities customized for each stage of growth 03 Expanding development opportunities to all employees system to set up HRIS (Human Resource Information System) that seeks the · Rejecting the development of only a few · Providing systematic educational · Providing EDU (HRD portal) and the Solution standardization of human resources data, simplification of the HR process, and leaders, instead providing opportunities for opportunities considering individual abilities Book for efficient and systematic self-learning a user-focused concept. Competency evaluations of about 6,800 and 8,500 equal growth to all employees by position and years of service management employees in Korea and overseas, respectively, have been completed through · Reinforcing the 'Doosan Way' implementation · Tiered educational content according to · Implementing the Learning Credit system, an HRIS whose utilization value as the Global One System is to be increased leadership training various levels of competency of those subject annual compulsory credit system in connection among performance assessment, growth management, · Expanding management education to all to education · Supporting various self-directed learning Open education, and recruitment. employees · Supporting advance learning of vocational such as learning clubs and courses created by Priority and focus training in connection with rotated placement employees communication · Establishing a 3-stage learning structure consisting of basic, advanced, and expert Human Resource Information System courses for improved vocational competency Diligent execution Education system Oversees employees' Oversees the Fair selection of talents autonomous learning Global One HR operation To recruit individuals that coincide with its desired talents, Doosan Heavy & development and HR System of overseas operations which are based on subsidiaries Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College Industries & Construction handpicks competent personnel every year through objectives management strict screening for selection of new recruits and experienced workers. It also ● Enhanced functionality for deriving HR data Fostering leaders who have internalized Fostering experts equipped with a seeks open recruitment and conducts fair assessments without prejudice and analyzing management indicators the Doosan Way fundamental competitive edge regarding academic background, age, gender, ethnicity, and/or region. ● Supports decision-making in business 74 75 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Establishing good workplaces Smart Office In-company university Build Advanced Labor-Management Retirement Assistance Program The Smart Office system is in operation to encourage members to enjoy workIn collaboration with Changwon National University, we are currently running Relations life balance by improving productivity through the efficient operation of work the Department of Energy Fusion Engineering for self-development and Customized retirement support programs are provided for employees hours and, subsequently, completing given tasks within the work hours (8 growth of the technical staff. Employees apply for undergraduate and transfer Open Communication with Employees whose retirement is imminent, as well as their spouses, to guide them in the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction values internal communication and hours). courses and use weekdays and weekends to study, before obtaining a degree post-retirement phase. It is comprised of basic and intensive curriculums. always strives for better communication. Starting in 2018, we listen to our This program includes a concentration work system in which employees in engineering upon graduation. 69 employees have graduated thus far and, Information on individual circumstances of concern is provided, and employees' opinions and comments through regular surveys. The survey focus on their tasks during the hours of concentration work (10:00-12:00), currently, 20 employees are enrolled in the transfer curriculum. discussions and consulting are supported to offer more practical assistance, system, which aims for open communication among the employees, is an overtime agreement system that eliminates unnecessary and conventional especially near the time of retirement. designed to ensure strict confidentiality and operated in the form of direct overtime work through an agreement of reasons for overtime work, and a flexible work system that adjusts commuting hours and offers replacement communication by the highest executives on inquiries and recommendations Education Process vacations according to work situations. Through the simplification in writing from the employees. Intensive Individual and submission of reports, minimization of meeting hours, etc., inefficient Basic curriculum curriculum consulting elements are removed and work productivity is enhanced. Change in understanding of life Establishment of Actualization and Meister system action plan post-assistance after retirement The company selects and nurtures in-company 'meisters' to pass down intricate techniques accumulated through decades of experience in production sites · Education on utilizing · Basic grounding · Individual consulting and to foster technical talents. 19 meisters have been raised since 2014 and working hours on · Provision of information · 1:1 consulting with weekdays serve the role of improving productivity through technical training and process · Future design experts · Education in which standardization. We run a systematic curriculum on technical competency married couples may · Special lectures by topic enhancement for our employees to grow as meisters. participate · Importance of life Consortium education design We execute national human resources development consortium education to · Change management enhance the technical competency of power generation customers, suppliers, · Family relations and employees. Through this, we lead shared growth among the company, customers, and suppliers, and accomplish improved productivity through an Negotiations Settled without increase in the level of technical skills of the employees. Complications for 12 Consecutive Years Misodam We have established a stable and rational labor-management relation based We have opened and been operating a general counseling center, Misodam, National human Consigned on strong mutual trust and, as a result, a peaceful collective bargaining an integrated center of mental, legal, and real estate counseling for our Technical resources education process led to settlement of negotiations without any complications for 12th training employees. For mental counseling services, in particular, we conduct Category development at power for current consecutive year. counseling on psychological conflicts related to self, family, and children's consortium generation employees education clients education to seek mental stability and maximize work efficiency. Labor-Management Communication Seeking shared Seeking and Participation growth of large Achieving improvement in corporations and satisfaction of the technical and Opportunities for employees to freely participate in the decision-making Technology Management School (technical Purpose SMEs through power generation work competency process are offered through companywide labor-management meetings management curriculum) support in personnel clients of current such as collective bargaining, the labor-management council and system We operate the Technology Management School, a technical management development employees improvement committees. Also, we have prepared communication windows curriculum, for improvement in competency of technical staff. We establish for individuals such as difficulty counseling by BG in order to actively reflect Counseling Center (Misodam) Current employees Current employees our employees' opinions in corporate management. a culture of communication by delivering a value-creating business cycle and Subject for Company's current and new recruits at at power accounting knowledge through leadership education. Since 2014, education education employees suppliers generation clients has been conducted with 1,575 people (76%) over 58 cumulative sessions. Support of Club Activities Education 694 people We support club activities for our employees' work and life balance. More than outcomes in (633 current 224 people 1,148 people 2,100 employees are currently signed up in 52 clubs in Changwon, Seoul and Yongin and enjoy leisure activities in various areas including sports, hobbies 2017 employees, 61 new and self-development. Psychological Financial consulting Legal counseling recruits) counseling (once a month) (once a month) (3 times a week) Number of psychology counseling center in 2017 618 times 76 77 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Social Performance Shared Our Approach A company may coexist with its suppliers through synergetic partnerships. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction guarantees the fair selection of and compensation for suppliers, and gives support to strengthen their competency. This enables stable transactions with solid suppliers and, as a Establish a Culture of Shared Growth Communication Fair Trading Compliance Program As a fair trade compliance organization, Doosan Heavy Industries & Growth Construction has designated compliance administrators, compliance result, strengthens the competitiveness of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Cooperative Association is a managers by BG, and a team responsible for fair trade compliance. To prevent consultative group launched for the fulfillment of shared growth and any legal violations in advance, work processes and computer systems have 2018 Goals Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will foster shared growth suppliers as communication between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its been improved, while education on fair trading and the shared growth elites to establish a long-term cooperative system, and will improve effectiveness through advanced suppliers, thus aiming to establish a long-term, productive cooperative mindset is carried out for employees who work directly with the suppliers. development programs that reinforce competitiveness and assists overseas entry. We will also minimize relation based on mutual trust. With the Cooperative Association, Doosan Furthermore, any cases of unfair trading are investigated from the suppliers' the risk of legal violations and prevent conflicts in advance by strengthening subcontract risk management Heavy Industries & Construction implements various shared growth programs standpoint. Education on subcontract law is especially being implemented and education as well as improvement of the relevant procedures and systems. including competitiveness reinforcement support, financial assistance, joint throughout the company and, efforts to prevent legal violations are being put advancement overseas, and strengthened communication. forth by enacting executing regulations of personnel transfer for law violators. To discuss major issues generated between Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its suppliers, regular meetings are held as well as executive visits to the suppliers. The Win-Win Call Center is also operated to consult and receive feedback regarding difficulties, complaints, and recommendations from suppliers, while cultural events such as family culture festivals and family Shared Growth Promotion System its first Shared Growth Academy in 2017. 150 employees from 60 suppliers music concerts, hosted by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, are held participated in the event, which featured special lectures on smart factory for affiliate employees and their families, one of many ways the company Shared Growth Strategy promotion strategies, case studies and relevant laws of fair trading, as well communicates with its suppliers. The synergetic partnership is a mutual win in the global market, as Doosan as education on various support systems directly related to reinforcement Heavy Industries & Construction's own management, quality, and technology of business competitiveness for the suppliers, including cases involving the systems, such as technical capabilities and business system, are shared with the utilization of performance sharing systems and SME technology protection suppliers to further increase their competitiveness. By establishing synergetic assistance systems. partnerships with its suppliers, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has B u siness C ase been serving a positive role in local and national economy. It also shares the Consulting to Reinforce Competitiveness outcomes with the suppliers to reinforce their competitiveness, which in turn A business partner of Doosan Heavy Industries Hosting a meeting for shared growth among Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers consulting for its suppliers leads to stronger partnerships. to reinforce their competitiveness. Professional consultants from an external & Construction signs an MOU for investment secondary suppliers consulting firm visit the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction suppliers to collaboration with Quảng Ngãi Province, Vietnam Shared growth promotion strategies help deduce and execute assignments for improvement. 26 suppliers have received such assistance since 2014; through this consulting, they experienced To assist the overseas advancement of outstanding suppliers, Doosan In July 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction hosted Foster 200 or so strong global companies by 2020 the effects of improved purchasing, productivity, design, etc. and also Heavy Industries & Construction prepared an MOU signing ceremony a shared growth meeting for secondary suppliers to promote achieved 10.4% average cost reduction. In addition to the ongoing program, between Quang Ngãi Province of Vietnam and 6 of its suppliers in vitalization of communication. In front of 40 attendees, including Develop a mutually-beneficial partnership system through the company conducted professional consulting for 11 suppliers in 2017 regarding entry into the Vietnamese and Indian markets, which has resulted November 2017. According to this MOU, Doosan Heavy Industries the executives of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and CEOs which we can grow together with suppliers in 5 of them currently working to establish local offices. & Construction is to utilize a part of the plant site owned by Doosan of 31 secondary suppliers, the shared growth assistance program of Vina for the suppliers to build offices and factories and, thus, provide Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was introduced and a time consulting on administration, finance, management, and HR, while for open communication was held to hear various comments and Capacity-Building Training Quang Ngãi Province will provide administrative support and share a recommendations of the suppliers. By providing opportunities to develop work competencies for those employees sufficient amount of relevant information, such as corporate tax and Meanwhile, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supports secondary + under employment at our suppliers including those who are expected to be income tax exemption incentives in order for the suppliers to smoothly suppliers to utilize the shared growth fund and coexistence payment recruited. Education and training expenses are fully supported by Doosan Facilitate growth Enhance technology · establish local offices. Through this, a foundation has been prepared system, and continues to strengthen its assistance for the secondary Heavy Industries & Construction to our suppliers that and additional training productivity for SMEs to resolve difficulties in overseas expansion and reinforce suppliers through, for example, operation of national human resources allowances is provided to encourage participation in the education and training. 633 employees from 95 affiliate companies participated in and competitiveness through dynamic business activities, and Doosan Heavy development consortium project, industrial innovation movement 3.0, trained through the competency improvement education in 2017. Industries & Construction is now able to improve its competitive edge in field improvement activities by quality Master Hands, and operation of a Doosan Heavy Industries Business partner acquiring international orders with its suppliers. management consulting group consisting of retired executives. & Construction Management Consulting and Support suppliers' Quality Improvement Activities Customized consulting is implemented by matching a business partner in Building suppliers' Competency need of effective consulting and donation of talents by a retired Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction executive. In 2017, 12 companies benefited Shared Growth Academy from counseling in the areas of design, quality, business management, and The Shared Growth Academy is a program aimed to introduce the shared technical management. Meanwhile, for enhancement of quality control by the growth project, run by the government and Large & Small Business Agriculture suppliers, quality Master Hands of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction & Fisheries Cooperation Foundation, to large corporations as well as small are utilized to support establishment of a quality system. In 2017, 13 Master and medium-sized suppliers to energize cooperation networks between large Hands provided assistance for 2 suppliers to contribute to their quality and small businesses and to expand the culture of shared growth even to improvement. secondary and tertiary suppliers. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held 78 79 Social Performance Supply Network Management suppliers' CSR Guideline Risk Management of suppliers We conduct a business partner registration assessment through which Customer Our Approach Customer satisfaction management at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction goes beyond the one-dimensional meaning of merely processing customer complaints, rather assigning innovative momentum involving the improvement of customer Satisfaction cost, delivery, quality, collaboration, CSR, environmental safety, etc. are Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has enacted and enforces the Doosan relations by respecting and listening carefully to customers' voices [VOC] , fulfilling the evaluated based on annual transaction results, thus managing the risks of Heavy Industries & Construction suppliers' CSR guidelines, the fundamental customers' expectations [Wants] , and providing superior value for the customers [Value] while, our suppliers on a regular basis. Other items evaluated include credit rating, criteria with which all of its suppliers must comply. These guidelines were at the same time, creating new aftermarket business and opportunities to contribute to increased reputation and sales volume. Companies exhibiting high risks as indicated written based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, number of orders obtained by the company. This aims to improve the quality of Doosan Heavy by the evaluation results are excluded from the pool of potential suppliers, which includes human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and Industries & Construction products and services to enhance the company's competitive edge and the assessment grades are applied as points, when allocating incentives Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction encourages all suppliers to follow through customer satisfaction management based on a customer-oriented mindset. or penalties to suppliers. An assessment is conducted by a representative or such criteria. an auditor designated by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction who visits 2018 Goals Based on the model upgrade of the customer satisfaction survey the workplaces of suppliers to inspect the state of compliance with the CSR conducted last year, we will deduce improvement assignments through execution and analysis Major contents of business partners' CSR guideline guideline. suppliers maintain all documents and data needed to prove their of the customer satisfaction surveys to meet the needs of customers as much as possible. We conformance to the guideline within all workplaces related to Doosan Heavy will regularly advertise the details and results of customer management improvement activities · Human rights (health and safety, working conditions and wages, etc.) Industries & Construction. In 2017, we conducted CSR assessments on 603 and receive feedback to strengthen customer interaction activities and approach them as a first · Labor (freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, etc.) of our suppliers and allocated 253 incentives and 5 penalties on companies mover, swiftly responding to customers' requests. By exchanging technology and information that respectively. Furthermore, we have empowered the suppliers to self-diagnose enable clients and us to grow together, we will meet the various expectations of customers better · Environment (environmental protection and pollution control) their CSR levels to understand their own strengths and weaknesses, and than our competitors. We will also reinforce customer technical support activities by operating offer practical support in weaker areas by supervisory visits and sharing of an emergency customer support measures group in case of electricity peaks during summer and · Anti-corruption (prevention of corruption, compliance with the law) exemplary cases. winter and power supply/demand crises, and through the power generation company technical · Conflict minerals (conflict minerals, response status, etc.) support center on the company website. Meanwhile, we have developed, and currently operate, Policies for conflict minerals a non-destructive information management system to increase the level of customer satisfaction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction announces its policies to eliminate the and reliability in quality, aiming to implement an advanced testing management. use of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) when manufacturing its Suppliers of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction products, and to resolve any related risks of human rights violation or delivery Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has selected strategic items and practices. Though the act of extracting or mining minerals is not directly cooperation items by considering price, quality, delivery time, entry barriers, etc. and defines suppliers who maintain long-term supply relationships as related to its areas of business, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction still Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction Survey implements this system to fulfill its social responsibilities and to protect human suppliers. rights throughout the value chain. The system related to conflict minerals is Customer Satisfaction To provide better services for its customers, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction requests an external professional agency to conduct periodic When selecting a new business partner, Doosan Heavy Industries & being executed by applying the company's regulations related to its suppliers' With customers as the priority of our corporate management, we promote customer satisfaction surveys to measure the level of customer satisfaction Construction performs an assessment of its financial and governance CSR guidelines, and diverse efforts are undertaken to listen to the opinions of service innovation to enhance customer values. Through diverse and systematic on quality of its products and services. Through the surveys, we listen to the structure through a credit evaluation, and the selection criteria include items stakeholders. activities to satisfy customers, including periodic customer satisfaction surveys, customers' opinions and speedily reflect them in improvement of products of environment, safety, and fair trade. Also, a company that has caused social lifecycle management of supplied equipment, and operation of technical and services. In the future, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will or moral disturbance is strictly prohibited from applying as a new affiliate, Response to conflict minerals support centers at power generation companies, we seek to continue positive continue to actively deal with field issues, enhance our attitude in customer and the entire selection process is carried out in an unbiased and transparent partnerships. Since 2012, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has determined a correspondence and increase the level of reliability with the customers, all of manner. process to determine country-of-origin and established a system to support it. which are measures to improve customer satisfaction. To verify the country of origin for each project, item categorization of original Activities to improve customer satisfaction Purchase Status of Local and Overseas Supply Chains (2017) materials is requested to an external professional agency (customs firms, Category Direction of customer satisfaction survey Korea 73.92% etc.) to secure reliability and, through a simulation feature of the system, · Long-term customer satisfaction surveys Asia Customer 1st (2007) Reinforcing the rapid response system necessary materials (companies) to satisfy the country of origin are selected, · Yearly (constant) satisfaction surveys Previous Japan 4.26% Satisfaction Survey 2nd (2010) Strengthening technical capabilities · Continuous collection of VOC while requiring relevant suppliers to submit country-of-origin verification (1st to 3rd) 3rd (2013) Reinforcing mutual exchanges and relations China 1.26% documents. For instance, 7 country-of-origin determinations are made on Middle East Saudi Arabia 2.03% Lifecycle · Operation of rapid support team for power average every month on scrap iron, a primary raw material for mold tool steel generation shut down 2017 Model upgrade conducted North America United States 2.00% management manufactured by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, and the usage of of supplied · Lifecycle management of supplied equipment Europe Italy 4.04% conflict minerals is confirmed, by mill makers purchasing raw minerals for the equipment Conducting the Annual Online Survey · Power plant remote control system Czech 3.39% · Continuously understanding trends manufacture and supply of products. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2018 · Online technical support in customer satisfaction Germany 2.32% will revise the content of subcontract purchasing contracts signed with the Technical support · Call center · Securing talking points with customers Romania 1.02% suppliers to include the prohibition of using conflict minerals, and have all of centers at power generation · Trend analyses requested as technical support for each * Although surveys were conducted once in 3 years, a model upgrade was implemented in 2017 Others 5.77% its suppliers conform to the regulations. companies client company and provision of proper feedback considering the purpose and effectiveness and, starting in 2018, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted in the form of an Annual Online Survey . · Visiting technical exchange meetings Technical Progress of customer satisfaction surveys · Technical cooperation agreements with power cooperation with client companies generation companies 5-point increase compared to the previous survey · Inviting client companies for field trips to the plant 78.5 77.1 82.1 63.4 Establishing · Customer management procedures (Unit: points) customer · Customer inquiry and complaint processing management procedures 2007 2010 2013 2018 procedures · Customer satisfaction survey procedures * To be surveyed: Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, 5 power generation suppliers and a number of independent power generators 80 81 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Outstanding cases of customer satisfaction Technical cooperation with client companies Quality Management Strategy Quality Management Performance Additional acquisition of domestic construction projects by Visiting Technical Exchange Meetings Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction regards the provision of comprehensive The Highest Number of Master Hands* in the Industry understanding customer needs and close-contact sales Visiting technical exchange meetings are carried out by visiting client customer satisfaction and contribution to the creation of customer values Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has 31 Master Hands, the most We preemptively grasped the difficulties in the procurement of resources that companies to provide information on the latest technology and trends, and through the greatest competitiveness in quality as the top priority for quality among any in the industry. The council formed by these Master Hands conduct our customers face and, subsequently, proposed a solution, which ultimately share the data on the client's facility enhancement and operation. A form of management. To ensure the performance and quality desired by customers various activities such as talent development and support to strengthen the led to acquisition of an order. Through successful execution of the Yangsan 1st proactive participation from the client companies has been encouraged with and to guarantee no defects, we maintain a quality assurance system of the competitiveness of suppliers among others. Project, an order for which was obtained in 2016, we have achieved a great a combination of seminars and discussions. highest level that is organized, systematic, and meets the global standards. level of customer satisfaction, and our close-contact sales with CEOs of client Also, all organizations and employees within the company strictly comply with * Master Hands: Human Resources Development Service of Korea and Korean companies, whom we invited to events for other current projects to exhibit the base conditions required by the quality policies. Standards Association select technicians and engineers who own the highest level Status of Technical Exchange Meetings by Year our performance and business status, were the driving force behind the (Unit: times) of experience and skills in industries as Master Hands, of Korea and National Quality. additional acquisition of the Yangsan 2nd Project. By providing excellent value This contributes to the foundation of a quality innovation climate and activities. for customers, forming a relationship of trust, and raising customer needs to 2015 2016 2017 establish Yangsan Deokgye Doosan We've Brand Town , we have secured an System of the Quality Assurance Program The Gold Prize at National Quality Award 11 23 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established a systematic advantageous position in the cultivation sales of the Yangsan Project, which Competition is scheduled to the 5th stage, which is expected to result in additional orders. foundation of the quality assurance program that fulfills various laws, regulations, codes and standards, and helps secure a sufficient level of quality. The Taepyeongyang circle from the Production Facility Technology Team The Changwon Plant Field Trip Program Inviting Client Companies Using the quality assurance information portal, the contents may be browsed competed in the field improvement category and received the gold medal. Received the outstanding repair group award in RCP complete We conduct field trips to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's Changwon in any environment with Internet access. The Taepyeongyang circle presented on how to improve productivity by disassembly and assembly of Hanul No. 3 Plant by inviting newly recruited and experienced employees of client enhancing the boiler header manufacturing process and was honored with The complete disassembly and assembly service of RCP (Reactor Coolant companies. In 2017, there were 2 field trip programs. Quality Assurance Program the award for analyzing and fixing the issue of excessive time loss generated Pump) at Hanul No. 3 Power Plant had been carried out independently by in certain processes and, subsequently, maximizing tangible and intangible a competitor in the past. We established a trust relationship with customers effects of time and cost. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has now through continuous technical information sessions, and finally succeeded in acquiring an order via a competitive bid. Upon receiving a request from a Customer Communication Channels won gold medals in the National Quality Circle Team contest for 8 consecutive years from 2010 to 2017. customer to complete site repair work in a short period of time, we performed Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction carefully listens to the voices of Quality assurance Quality various improvement activities to finish the job successfully within the given customers and reflects these ideas into its products and services to generate program structure policy Gold prize at National Quality Award Competition time, which satisfied the expectations of the customer and ultimately led to more value for the customers. Their various opinions are collected through the outstanding repair group honor awarded by the customer. Level 1 online and offline channels. Quality assurance QAM for Project manual QAM for manufacturing Establishment of customer management Technical support center at power generation Level 2 procedures companies Quality control procedure Quality control procedure Customer satisfaction management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Online Customer Technical Support Level 3 aims to assign innovative momentum in customer relations improvement We strive to provide more accurate and faster replies to the technical support Detailed instructions Work instruction, process by respecting and listening carefully to customers' voices [VOC] , fulfilling requests of our customers, which are received online. The time it takes to reply customers' expectations [Wants] , and providing superior value to customers specification, etc. has been reduced from 12 days in 2013 to 4.6 days as of 2017. [Value] . In pursuit of customer satisfaction, we establish various lower-level documents such as customer satisfaction survey procedures , which aim to Number of cases received by year Average number of days taken for apply customer requests for improvement discovered through the surveys, and customer inquiry and complaint processing procedures for efficient (over the past 5 years, cases) response (days) Establishment of Inspection Automation processing of customer inquiries, requests, and complaints regarding the 310 286 331 11.8 and the Non-destructive Information products and services provided. Management System Status on external certificates acquired 8.2 (Unit: number of times) 7.4 7.0 Non-destructive examination is a method that inspects interior defects, etc. Lifecycle Management of the Supplied Equipment 159 4.6 from the outside, without deforming the shape or functions of the product. Category Types of certifications 2017 91 Power Plant Remote-Control Service Through this inspection, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction prevents Based on ICT, a remote-control system has been established to monitor and fixes the defects of products, while systematically controlling quality. Nuclear power project ASME N type, KEPIC 16 operation data of the power plant in real-time. Doosan Heavy Industries 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 For more advanced testing and management, a new kind of non-destructive & Construction has opened the RMSC (Remote Monitoring Service Center) Thermal power/desalination/wind ASME U type, ISO 13 information management system is under development and will be operated. power businesses and, through the constant support operating system, consistently enhances Through this, we expect non-destructive testing to not only contribute to the operational capabilities of power plants, including real-time surveillance Call Center improved customer satisfaction and reliability in this type of testing, but Others PED, KR, NK, BV, etc. 29 of operation data, monitoring of abnormal symptoms, and analysis of We operate a place to which urgent support can be requested via phone when also achieve significant cost reduction. Meanwhile, we also have established malfunction predictions. an emergency occurs inside the power plant. Along with online technical Total 58 and currently operate an inspection automation system to help strengthen Category Details support, faster replies and assistance are offered. productivity and competitiveness of the BG. Generation Operating a special response team during peak power usage stoppage special periods and generation emergencies to offer expedient response team customer support Providing services on supplied generation equipment before Lifecycle the closing of the plant, and continuously offering lifecycle management of support on equipment whose assurance periods have supplied equipment elapsed. 82 83 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Social Performance Social Talent Cultivation Our Approach Doosan heavy Industries & Construction strives to become a company respected social studies, science education for 75 local children's centers in Seoul and by communities through a blueprint that can enhance community competitiveness while establishing Changwon with whom we have sisterhood relations. We conducted 160 Based on Doosan Group's talent-centered management philosophy, social Doosan's social contribution identity that instills pride in Doosan people. activities for each social volunteer group to contribute to social development Contribution contribution to nurture the outstanding talents of the future is specified as an area of focus. Considering the nature of the engineering industry, we have a high proportion of individuals from the fields of science and engineering. and emotional cultivation of 1,500 marginalized children. 2018 Goals Restructuring of the social volunteer group and adjustment of social contribution programs, we aim to increase operational efficiency and focus our competency on more effective Therefore, we feel the importance of nurturing talents in engineering and also M.Y. Dream (Make Your Dream) Career Exploration concentrate on related social contribution activities. As a major result in 2017, Group for Youngsters programs. Moreover, we will continue to discover and promote policies centered on local communities, we provided theme programs for 1,500 children in the local children's center, such as career path education and urban regeneration, and social contribution programs that meet the The Career Exploration Group for Youngsters is a program that comprises of 14 students from Doosan Class were recruited, and 53 technical trainees were social needs, thus maintaining our network and contributions to the local community. 3-stage activities of career path exploration, experience and design through hired by suppliers. which teenagers are encouraged to develop interest in different professions, and ultimately determine their own career paths in advance. In line with Youth Energy Project the implementation of the free semester system in middle schools, a career The Youth Energy Project aims to support future talents to grow and be education MOU was signed with Changwon Office of Education to install independent as well-rounded individuals with diverse capabilities. All programs the program in middle schools in the city of Changwon and, in 2017, the included in this project are offered in a personalized fashion depending on the program was operated for about 100 students in 5 middle schools. Also, Social Contribution Strategy Social Contribution Committee growth stage of the individual. by utilizing the engineering competency that the company possesses, an Direction of Social contribution Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has established the social contribution engineer experience class was run additionally to enable youth to have firstMajor programs of the Youth Energy Project committee, which serves as the C-level decision-making group, to reinforce hand experience in engineering tasks. Guided by the mission of improving future competitiveness of communities the transparency of the social contribution provided to local communities. The and corporate value through strategic social contribution activities and the Elementary School Students social contribution committee is chaired by the head of the CSR Committee and business-oriented and communityfocused principles, Doosan Heavy Industries joined by the CFO, executives of legal and CSR as members who come together · Theme programs for local · Supporting love-sharing & Construction maintains programs aimed at fostering talent, helping the children's center reference books to review the public interest aspect and suitability of social contribution to local underprivileged and serving local communities. · Matching the tuition fees for · Sponsorship for the Kumkum-Dda communities. Each review comprehensively determines not only transparency children from low-income families Orchestra and propriety of the supported agencies but also whether or not the purpose Social Volunteer Groups and details of the donations comply with the company's social contribution Middle School Students As of December 2017, 91% of all employees were signed up in Doosan Heavy strategy and seek public interest before a final decision is made. In 2017, · M.Y. Dream Career Exploration · Sharing the love through school Industries & Construction Social Volunteer Groups to participate in periodic more than 9.1 billion KRW contributed through the local community donation Group for Youngsters uniforms social contribution activities, and we have also set up a social contribution program. · Scholarships for outstanding · Matching the tuition fees for fund collected by portions of monthly salaries and Wish accounts to fulfill students from lowincome families children from low-income families the art of sharing for marginalized neighbors in our local communities. In Organizational Structure of the Social Contribution Committee · Supporting love-sharing addition, the company has introduced various programs for vitalization of High School Students reference books social contribution, including a matching grant, weekday community service, Chairman (Chairman of CSR Committee) · Supporting science high schools · Scholarships for outstanding social contribution portal, and prizes for outstanding volunteers, to support to nurture science and students from low-income employee social contribution activities. engineering talents families Operate the Doosan Class as Part of Industry· Operating the Doosan Class at Meister Academia Cooperation Financial Executive (CFO) Legal & Compliance CSR Executive high schools and specialized Executive To support the nurturing of engineering talents, Doosan Heavy Industries high schools Social contribution system & Construction has signed industry-academia cooperative agreements University Students with Changwon Machine Technical High School, Busan Automobile High School and Sudo Electric Technical High School at which the Doosan Class Priority · Operating the Doosan Class · Technical dissertation contests and Focus area curriculum is established and is in operation for technical and competency Talent cultivation in science at industry-academia visits to advanced countries overseas and engineering cooperative colleges education tailored to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. In 2017, 14 cultivation Direction of Social Contribution Talent students from Doosan Class were recruited as a part of the plan to acquire competent engineering talents. · Talent-centered management philosophy ploy ee Engageme nt Local Children's Center Theme Programs Em · Reflect the nature of the O siness riented Since 2014, we have been operating 10 theme programs including history Provision of Reference Books for Children's Welfare Bu engineering business exploration, ecological experience, woodwork, practical crafts, cooking class, Facilities Objective Improvement Doosan Every semester, we provide reference books to 81 children's welfare facilities Youth Nurture talents in in future science and engineering competitiveness of Community with whom we maintain sisterhood relations for the purpose of improving Energy the community and the practical learning abilities of marginalized children. In 2017, we provided Priority company values Blueprint Project Community-based up rea Priority 11,452 reference books in two semesters for 1,840 beneficiaries, and the total programs nit Co mm ed de port ort Support for number of books that have been offered since 2011 is about 60,000. mu rog Ba unity Focues rp for the underprivileged ri th a Com ed p Sup vilegede Direction of Social Contribution sic yas S Youth Dream Up Project Direction of Social Contribution bas ra are · Expand the local community m s pun · Expand the scope of support network for the socially underprivileged For teenagers who have outstanding gifts and talents but cannot dream big · Support economic and social growth · Contribute to solving social issues due to financial difficulties, we provide support through the Youth Dream Up Objective Project hosted by ChildFund Korea to help 5 students in 3 sports-1 in archery, Objective Solve and prevent social issues 2 in shooting and 2 in Taekwondo-to enable them to pursue their dreams. Continuous growth of the local community 84 85 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Support for the Underprivileged Clean House Community-based Program Environmental Improvement Mural Painting We take the lead in social contribution to support better lives for Through a technical volunteer group consisting of employees' talent sharing, We seek community-based social contribution through which various Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been operating a mural painting underprivileged neighbors in our society, including children, youth, senior house repair programs are implemented on a regular basis to check electric stakeholders join in and grow together with the local community. We continue program in deteriorated residential areas and crime-prone districts to citizens, and the disabled. We continue to expand the scope of targets to equipment and perform papering and painting for the underprivileged, to expand the cooperation network for the growth of local communities ensure safe paths for women, children and teenagers as well as to prevent include more people from marginalized classes, placed in blind spots of farming villages and child welfare centers. with various stakeholders, such as local governments, NGOs, social welfare various forms of crimes. This has been operational with the help of the welfare policies, and understand and support to resolve the social issues. As agencies, and farm villages. Through the growth of local communities, we police department and the city of Changwon. In 2017, we transformed the part of major projects carried out in 2017, 12 social welfare center programs improve their economic and social conditions and broaden the foundation underground and above-ground pedestrian paths near Gijang Station, where targeted for the elderly, children, and youth were implemented in which the for companies to coexist. As for major performance in 2017, activities for Gijang RO Office is located, into a mural street. measurement of effect of the normal range increased from 56% to 82% after the 29th Talent Sharing took place with the participation of 325 employees the program in terms of psychological and mental health. in affiliation with regional stakeholders in Changwon City and other areas, and through farming exchange contributed to a farming household income Programs Associated with increase for 150 households totaling 84 million KRW. Community Welfare Centers With an aim to reflect the needs of the local community, programs are Kimchi Sharing Event planned with community welfare centers, which are in direct contact with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts the 'Kimchi Sharing socially marginalized groups of our society, to carry out volunteers in which Event' activity with the local community to share the love with neighbors our employees participate. Together with 6 and 4 community welfare centers every year. In 2017, about 400 people from the civil servant family social in Changwon and Seoul, respectively, emotional support and sociality volunteer groups, voluntary service organization associations, Danuri Social development programs are in operation for teenagers, senior citizens, the Volunteer Groups consisting of multicultural families as well as suppliers of disabled and multicultural families. Dasarang Dream Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction prepared 5,000 heads of kimchi at Dasarang Dream Program started in 2011 with Korea National Red Cross the Changwon headquarters, which were delivered to nearly 3,000 people at Gyeongnam Branch to support underprivileged youth in the region. In 2017, Changwon child welfare centers, the underprivileged groups, social welfare we conducted community service in which we purchased daily necessities centers and multicultural households. Environmental Clean-Up from a social company to package and deliver them to 300 underprivileged To prepare a clean environment in the local community and environmental households in the region. Also, we regularly donate and serve bread and protection for the future generation, we perform environmental cleaning noodles to children at welfare facilities that are in sisterhood relations with activities on a regular basis over a broad region including coasts, islands, the company. rivers and mountains. Particularly on the annual World Oceans Day, largescale coastal and underground cleaning is performed in Masan Bay near the Changwon headquarters, and nearly 100 people including members of the inhouse scuba diving club, employee volunteers and Changwon's private-public joint social volunteer groups participate every year. B est P ractice 2017 volunteer mileage compensation with Korean 55th anniversary community service Federation of Community Credit Cooperatives Offering Helping Hands to Seven Farming Villages In September 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducted a special The volunteer community service mileage compensation, which has been Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has formed sisterhood relationships community service activity in the city of Changwon, as 800 of its employees conducted every year since 2007, when a sponsorship agreement was signed with 7 farming villages (Gwisan in Changwon, Janggi in Goseong, Misan in participated to return the favor received from the local residents and for with the in-company Korean Federation of Community Credit Cooperatives Haman and others), which enables employees to participate during farming coexistence with the local community in commemoration of the company's 55th (KFCC), is a system that aims to vitalize participation of Doosan Heavy Industries and harvesting seasons to lend a helping hand. In every harvesting period anniversary. In particular, our employees gave a helping hand at a chrysanthemum & Construction employees in voluntary community service and compensate during the fall, 450 Doosan employees, as well as members of the Changwon nursery in preparation of Gagopa Chrysanthemum Festival, one of the region's their results of activities with KFCC gift certificates. In 2017, 364 employees who Volunteer Service Organization Association, visit the sister farm villages to representative fall festivals, and performed a cosmos mural painting in Mujeom participated in community service for 13 hours or longer were compensated Village in Dongeup where the Cosmos Festival was held, receiving positive for a total of 8,970 hours. The KFCC gift certificates were issued to those assist with the kiwi and sweet persimmon harvest. feedback from the local community. Also, through various community service who performed active voluntary services including Social Volunteer Group, activities, including marine environmental cleaning in Sogo-do, Jinhae-gu, street professional volunteer groups, and club community service groups. Thus, under environment improvement for crime prevention in Masanhoewon-gu, and traffic this agreement, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been sponsored by safety mural painting at Hoewon Elementary School and Masan Dong Middle the in-company KFCC for about 60,000,000 KRW over the course of 10 years to School, we had worthwhile time to ruminate the company's social responsibilities deliver compensation for 2,000 employees. and the meaning of its anniversary. 86 87 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Doosan Day of Community Service 10 countries, 31 business sites, 2,642 employees participated in 94 programs To fulfill the corporate social responsibilities and the local community's sustainable growth, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been hosting 'Doosan Day of Community Service' since 2014, an event that draws the voluntary participation of all employees from all worksites. In 2017, we conducted various community service activities in Korea as well as overseas such as Clean Changwon with Doosan, a representative program jointly performed with the alliance of stakeholders in private and government sectors, and 04 dream furniture making . In 2018, we will maintain it as a social contribution festival that represents Doosan to continue our warmhearted sharing of Doosan People. Germany Doosan Lentjes Local environmental cleaning, support of clothing and food for the low-income class Vietnam Doosan Vina Clean houses for low-income families, House Building of Love United Kingdom Doosan Babcock·Enpure Improving the environment such as children's centers and local schools, and providing food supplies to the underprivileged groups through a food bank Appendix Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries 90 Stakeholder Engagement 95 Materiality Assessment 96 Risk Management 97 Performance Summary 98 Independent Auditors' Report 114 Korea (Seoul, Changwon) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Czech Republic Doosan Skoda Power Independent Assurance Statement 116 37 programs including Clean Changwon (Seocho), with Doosan , dream furniture making, clean house, Facility reinforcement of local animal shelters, nursery farm village cultivation, traffic safety mural painting, and environment cleaning. facilities, elementary schools, etc. and environmental Environmental Guidelines 118 improvement GRI Content Index 119 UN Global Compact 122 Overview of Association Memberships 122 India Doosan Power Systems India United States Doosan HF Controls, GridTech, DHT Saudi Arabia Doosan Power Systems Arabia School Day at sister elementary schools, Local welfare facilities, support of living supplies to Cleaning the environment in local streets, parks, etc. environmental improvement of public facilities children's centers, etc., support of food for the Food Bank 88 89 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Babcock Doosan Skoda Power Doosan Babcock is a professional power generation equipment manufacturer Doosan Skoda Power is a world-renowned power generation equipment manufacturer that possesses original and advanced technology in boilers and oxy-fuel that owns OEM technology in steam turbines and, ever since it produced and supplied combustion. Based on expertise and abundant experience in thermal/nuclear its first turbines in 1904, has been providing total services from design and production, power plant design and performance improvement services, oil & gas, to supply, installation, and test operation of 3 to 1,200MW steam turbines. petrochemical, and process business areas, provides power generation facilities to 30 countries in the world including the U.S. and Europe. Business Performance and Strategies By winning bids for steam turbine supply projects in Indonesia and Nigeria, as well as a biomass project in Denmark in 2017, Doosan Skoda Power (DSPW) not only pioneered new emerging markets, but also solidified its status in the Europe region. At the same time, it signed new Business Performance and Strategies service contracts in the Central and South Americas to enter another new market in a stable fashion. It also conducts monitoring and analyses Based on proprietary technology accumulated over more than 125 years, Doosan Babcock provides an integrated solution for carbon emission of the power generation market and environment to actively respond to any changes taking place in the market and environment. In particular, reduction through energy innovation, and conducts its business with an emphasis on maximization of long-term, stable service activities with its according to the global trend of reduction in coal-fired thermal power, it has been focusing on combined cycle power plants, biomass, WtE (Waste major customers. It offers an integrated solution for the oil and petrochemical industries in order to respond to continuous movements in oil prices to Energy) and other forms of new and renewable energy power plants to discover a project pool and seek acquisition of orders through aggressive and changes in industrial investments. The company plans to establish a strategic partnership model through successful execution of contracts sales activities. Moreover, it reinforces its competitiveness in the existing business areas and product groups while, simultaneously, preparing to signed with new customers in the Middle East. As the energy market is converting to low-carbon power generation thanks to worldwide efforts enter new domains of business such as turbines for geothermal power generation, turbines for drivers to operate equipment, and field services. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, demand in the fuel cell market is on a consistent rise, and Doosan Babcock supplies suitable energy to local By region, it continues to strive to reinforce its market presence in areas such as Southeast Asia, Central and South Americas, Africa, and India, in environments in a stable manner through its innovative fuel cell solution. It strives to expand the business to the global market based on its core addition to the existing European and Middle East regions. competencies, as the energy market gradually evolves into that of low-carbon energy. Environmental Management Customer Relationship Accomplished 12 Million Accident-Free Man Hours CIPS Accreditation Various environment indices, including electricity and water consumption DPSW proposes quick and improved measures on issues generated in Further success was seen at the Grangemouth Oil Refinery and chemicals Doosan Babcock achieved record scores in our annual accreditation and waste emission, are periodically measured. The measured values the field, and conducts annual surveys to check customer satisfaction, complex where our team surpassed a staggering 12,000,000 man assessment to be part of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and are checked throughout the product manufacturing process at DSPW in an attempt to establish a positive relations with customers. It also hours since their last lost time incident (LTI) in 2001. This equates to Supply (CIPS) Sustainability Index. Covering all aspects of legal, financial, and resulting trends are tracked and managed. In 2017, in particular, has enhanced the customer satisfaction survey method to be able to almost 6,000 days of continuous, safe working across a highly safetyethical and CSR activities, the assessment provides a rigorous benchmark company-wide improvement activities were performed with a focus understand and focus on the customers' requests and desired values. sensitive working environment, incorporating year-round maintenance, to be assessed against and we are delighted to have achieved record on reduction of compressed air consumption and, as a result, the total Through this, it provides services tailored to each customer with whom it turnarounds, construction, EPC projects and specialist technology ratings against the three pillars – Social, Economic and Environmental. consumption of compressed air significantly decreased. has been building a great amount of trust. services. Charity Fundraising Safety & Health Doosan Day of Community Service One Way Campaign Colleagues throughout the Doosan Babcock business combined for a day The ultimate goal of safety and health is to reduce the accident rate To fulfill social responsibilities as a company and seek continuous growth In 2017, Doosan Babcock launched the One Way Campaign to reinforce of fundraising activities to raise £5000 to be split between two cancer and improve the labor environment. DSPW has continuously worked to of the local community, employees voluntarily participate in the Doosan safety as our number one value and encourage the mindset that the 'safest charities – Breast Cancer Awareness and Prostate Cancer Awareness. eliminate elements that hinder a healthy working environment, including Day of Community Service (DDCS). Notable activities include caring way' is the 'only way.' As part of this awareness and our commitment to From bake sales to dressing down, quizzes and competitions, the fun noise, vibration, and dust. In particular, it conducted activities to decrease for senior citizens by reading books and going on walks at hospitals, continual improvement, Doosan Babcock developed a range of materials activities helped to raise money for two wonderful charitable causes. vibration at the Locksmith-Pipe Fitter in 2017, which resulted in the establishment of shelters, furniture bazaars, environment cleaning to support the campaign. Senior management has also committed to a reduction of the accident rate. at elementary schools, cleaning and painting fences at shelters for range of new safety focused initiatives including face to face briefings Dream Placement abandoned dogs, and cleaning at Plzen Zoo. with each and every colleague to get the campaign off the ground. Doosan Babcock continues to support the government's Dream Placement Continuous Product Improvement This will be supplemented through 2018 with a new Working at Height scheme, a leadership program in Cumbria, as part of our commitment Through improvement of turbine efficiency and design, we contribute to Donations and Support campaign to raise awareness of the particular hazards of these activities. to the promotion of STEM and skills development. Students spent time the reduction of customers' fuel usage (coal, gas, etc.) and air pollutant Continuous support is being provided to allow children at orphanages on-site at our Westlakes and Renfrew offices and were given exposure emissions. located in Rokycany to enjoy summer camps. We also take part in DEJME Project Carbon to various areas of the business including project management, quality DĚTEM ŠA NCI o.p.s. (Let's Give Children a Chance) to help children We have set a goal for 20% carbon reduction by 2020, and introduced control, HR, commercial, health and safety and engineering. This gives and youth to successfully adapt to society even after they leave the Project Carbon to achieve it. Together with an organization formed them the opportunity to acquire knowledge on project management and orphanages where they are raised. Moreover, a contract to sponsor by administrators from each business area, a variety of strategies and leadership skills. FC Victoria Plzen has been renewed to provide constant assistance for activities will be carried out to reduce carbon in different sectors, children's sports. Such activities have been receiving positive feedback including product performance, supply network, and infrastructure. from the local community. 90 91 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Doosan Lentjes Doosan Power Systems India Doosan Lentjes is a global provider of processes and technologies for energy Doosan Power Systems India (DPSI) is growing into a comprehensive power plant generation from both renewable and fossil fuels. The company's specific areas solutions company based on the OEM Boiler Technology owned by Doosan Heavy of expertise include circulating fluidized bed boilers, key technologies for the Industries & Construction, world-class manufacturing facilities at Chennai and generation of energy from waste and flue gas cleaning systems. end-to-end EPC solutions capabilities. Business Performance and Strategies Business Performance and Strategies As a company that provides technology and EPC, Doosan Lentjes concentrates on providing innovative solutions that encompass all areas including Even amidst uncertainties prevailing throughout the world, India is one of the up-and-coming countries, and is still growing at an extremely fast CFB, APC, and WtE, and establishes strategic relationships with potential for advancement into new emerging markets such as the Middle East, pace. The power consumption per person in India is only 1/3 of the current global average, and about 240 million Indians still do not have access India, Eastern Europe, Central and South America, and Southeast Asia. It also utilizes extensive in-company service and manufacturing capabilities to electricity. Thus, once the mid-term plan of Make in India leads to an increase in industrial demands and the emerging middle class requesting to make positive contributions to the provision of cost-optimized solutions. Doosan Lentjes promotes the 2G strategy throughout the company to quality electricity, the individual power consumption is also expected to significantly increase. At the same time, the importance of renewable establish an interactive, virtuous cycle structure based on the belief that growth of a business is the growth of people, from which it re-emphasizes energy sources is expected to become greater in the field of power generation and, thus, existing power generation facility and service providers that people are the greatest asset of a company. This is why Doosan Lentjes strives in multiple aspects to recruit, educate, and develop talents recognize it as both a potential crisis and a promising opportunity. DPSI not only provides eco-friendly power generation technology to India, but with the most promising future. Thus, it conducts concentrated R&D at the in-company research center, and combines the effort and knowledge also actively seeks to become an essential partner of the Indian government in its carbon reduction activities. of many to develop innovative energy technology that can meet even the most challenging customer demands, in both the core and emerging markets of the present and future. Environmental Management Respect for Employees' Rights Factors with the greatest impact on manufacturing of facilities are the We strive to respect the dignity of human rights and understand, Environmental Management Shared Growth production process and energy and water consumption. We continuously evaluate, and manage the impact on human rights within the scope An environment management system was introduced in 2013 to Doosan Lentjes has established a Suppliers Code of Conduct, founded work to optimize the production process and preserve energy and water of our activities. DPSI regards the rights of employees as fundamental minimize the negative impact business activities have on the environment, upon corporate values. The Suppliers Code of Conduct defines the basic resources and, simultaneously, develop a comprehensive approach freedoms and extends them to all DPSI employees. By especially focusing even when considering the economic and technical opportunities, and items to be followed in areas of human rights, work environment, the toward green management. In particular, the DPSI Chennai Plant on human rights, DPSI offers training on the rights of employees against the prerequisite conditions for ISO 14001:2015 have been maintained. environment, and business integrity. Doosan Lentjes strives to value succeeded in innovation focused on the reduction of energy usage discrimination, bullying, and unfair treatment through Human Rights Doosan Lentjes continuously strives to process environmental and suppliers as suppliers and establish a trustworthy relationship for mutual through optimization of its production processes. Harmonic filters were Weekly, a policy and program workshop. Moreover, it conducts periodic energy resources with a sense of responsibility and encourage ecological growth, while simultaneously demanding suppliers to conform to, and installed at major substations and reduced the harmonic wave level meetings and fields feedback on a regular basis to check if the regulations awareness, while constantly ruminating on its business activities, operate by, the principles of the Suppliers Code of Conduct, as well as all by 8% below the allowable limit, which has led to a maximum 15% are followed and, subsequently, establishes clear implementation plans reviewing its technology and the means of production used, and relevant laws and regulations. savings on electricity bills. DPSI continues to increase the percentage of to review whether or not existing policies are able to protect the rights complying with all legal standards. Through this, Doosan Lentjes avoids environment-friendly technology and, through an energy audit, actively of the employees. any unnecessary environmental pollution generated due to its business Make-a-Wish Christmas Tree Campaign & Nicolaus party finds new opportunities to save, such as the conversion of existing lights activities, products and services, and also minimizes the risks on people's We offer Christmas events for youth in need, including children in to LED and stoppage of power usage during idle time. Social Contribution Activities health as well as the environment. refugee families and low-income households. Through the Make-aDPSI nurtures its business by focusing on its CSR strategic goals of talentWish Christmas Tree campaign, children write their Christmas wishes Safety & Health oriented, reliable operation, and responsible participation and, at the Safety & Health on paper and hang them up on the tree, then employees of Doosan DPSI strives to achieve safety and health by providing a safe and same time, responds to the global trends and demands of stakeholders in Doosan Lentjes regards its employees' vocational safety and health, as Lentjes respond to their wishes and welcome the refugee children and healthy labor environment to all of its employees and stakeholders in its society. As a part of the effort to develop talents, it performed infrastructure well as protection of the environment, as its No. 1 priority. By preparing their families to their homes during the Nicolaus party. workplaces. Also, the executives take the lead in increasing awareness repairs for several schools in 2017 and also provided facilities and equipment, a safety and health management system in accordance with OHSAS on safety and extending the systematic safety regulations and processes such as computer centers, furniture, and hygiene products, in an attempt 18001:2007, it prevents and minimizes the top risks determined Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors without throughout the company. Accidents are tracked, measured, and to improve the overall educational environment for underprivileged during work, and strives to eliminate the effect on the environment Borders) Support monitored through risk assessments, and proper corrective measures students. Moreover, we hosted Health Camp and Eye Camp to provide due to accidents, diseases, and operation. Also, it actively studies any Doosan Lentjes supports social organizations through profits from book are taken. DPSI instills the importance of safety in its employees through glasses and medical supplies, which are two necessities of the students. dangerous activities and situations performed by or taking place by not sales. Employees bring books they do not need and place them on the collaboration and participation activities, and maintains accident-free We also began supporting technical development of youth through highlyonly its employees but also anyone in cooperation with Doosan Lentjes. bookshelf in the company cafeteria before taking home other books operation through safety education, regular inspections, tool box and skilled workshops for Chennai government's ITI and donation of modern These include customers, contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers for a certain fee. The profits collected are delivered to Médecins Sans safety meetings, and awareness-improving communication. In 2017, the tools and lab equipment. Meanwhile, the safety of Chennai highways was before actively encouraging everyone to participate in solving the issues, Frontières (Doctors without Borders), an international organization that number of accidents occurred at the DPSI Chennai Plant was zero, a feat improved through safety barricades and, furthermore, monthly financial achieving common objectives, and proposing measures for improvement. offers emergency aid to those damaged by armed conflicts, infectious achieved for the third consecutive year. assistance, as well as donations of home supplies and grain, were donated Thanks to such efforts for establishment of a safety culture, a 0% injury diseases, marginalization from medical treatment, and natural and to orphanages and those in the underprivileged class. In addition to the rate was accomplished in the year of 2017. manmade disasters. Swachh Bharat (Clean India) campaign implemented in each region, DPSI regularly organizes health camps and traffic safety guidance activities, thus minimizing safety and health risks in the local communities. 92 93 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance of Overseas Subsidiaries Stakeholder Engagement Doosan Vina Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction defines shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, local community, government, and competitors as primary Doosan Vina is Vietnam's only power generation equipment manufacturer and deals stakeholder groups. For active communication with them, various communication channels are in place and valuable opinions are well considered for corporate management. with boilers, port facilities, and seawater desalination equipment as its primary areas of business. Based on its experience implementing around 200 projects, it currently exports products to 28 countries worldwide, including Vietnam. Group Definition Communication channel Number of Group Definition Communication channel Number of operations operations Shareholders Doosan Investment relations (IR) events Regularly Suppliers Tier 1 suppliers, Representative consultative groups Once a month Corporation, Tier 2 suppliers Shared growth conference Once a year Foreign Conferences When needed Business Performance and Strategies investors, Tier 1 suppliers meeting on shared Every quarter Institutional growth Even amidst difficulties in the power generation business worldwide, collaboration with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, coupled with investors, Overseas NDRs (Non-Deal Roadshow) When needed Tier 2 suppliers meeting on shared Once a year internal activities to acquire orders, has led to a third consecutive profitable year. In the power generation business, we plan to continuously Minority growth shareholders expand the spectrum of our supplies by participating in the Obra-C project in India and signing boiler equipment delivery contracts with global Cooperation Council of Doosan Heavy When needed Industries & Construction corporations, such as IHI of Japan. Regarding port facilities, we aim to successfully complete the production of port cranes to be supplied to India Customers Local public Roadshows When needed Cooperation Council of Operations Once a halfand make the first shipment of cranes at Mumbai Port. In the area of desalination facilities, we will manufacture the Shoaiba RO facility in Saudi power Technology briefings When needed Committee year Arabia to continue to expand production of desalination facilities in the Middle East. Meanwhile, we are the first company to acquire ASME generators, Local private VOC (Voice of Customer) Always certification in Southeast Asia and are a high-quality fabricator, capable of everything from design to production in the field of steel structures. power Government Central/local Shared growth committee At anytime Participation in safety education for local When Since the acquisition of the first order of steel structure products for power plants in Japan in 2017, we have been obtaining repeat orders. generators, governments, private power generators occurred Large & Small Business Agriculture & Overseas Related At anytime Fisheries Cooperation Foundation clients Technical exchange meetings and seminars At anytime organizations When Technical support center (online) Always Fair Trade Commission needed Power generation interruption special Always Center for Large and Small Business When Energy Usage Reduction Activities and condolence expenses, dormitory, shuttle service, corporate housing response team and call center Cooperation needed and regular health exams at the company hospital, is being provided for Customer satisfaction surveys Once a year Through regular inspections on the state of energy usage, energy loss Korea Environmental Industry & When the convenience and health of the employees. In particular, education due to waste is being minimized. Also, by implementing the movement Technology Institute needed on human rights is being conducted on a regular basis in order to realize of turning off air conditioners 15 minutes before the end of daily work, Employees Headquarter 4 times Health and Innovation Leader Forum 16 times a the value of Doosan Way that prevents various instances of human rights employees, Industrial Safety and Health Committee a year, at year energy usage is being reduced throughout typical daily tasks and, violations and is focused on unity. Overseas anytime when an air conditioner is running, we advise the closing all doors and Once a branch offices' PSM Council Once a quarter windows. When certain employees work late, we ask them to always turn employees, Labor-Management Council quarter off all lights and electronic devices when they leave. Social Contribution Activities to Improve Local Overseas Voluntary agreement on fine dust 4 times a subsidiaries' Education for employees dispatched to reduction year Residents' Quality of Life employees overseas worksites Once a week Changwon City Sustainable Environmental Pollutant Control Doosan Vina has selected three primary social contribution activity Safety and health practical training Once a year Development Council Once a year themes of medical services, educational activity support and residential Management status information session Every quarter Gyeongnam Climate Environment Once a halfWaste water generated within the company is less than roughly 45% environment improvement to conduct social contribution activities and, CTO discussion meeting At anytime Network year of the Vietnamese legal standard on pollutant emissions, and is being thus, invested more than USD 550,000 up to 2017. For medical service Once a released after undergoing internal processing. For facilities that generate Communication More than 10 Maritime Policy Advisory Committee activities, Doosan Vina has performed medical treatments on about Communication with employees related to month air pollutants, air control equipment such as bag filters and wet scrubbers times a year 24,780 patients in association with Chung-Ang University Hospital. In certified emissions reduction Firefighting Power Development Once a is installed to allow for the release of air pollutants equivalent to less than Council month addition, we have invited patients to Korea every year to conduct surgeries Consultative groups of Social Volunteer Once a 45% of the Vietnamese legal standard. We will continue to make efforts Group month Once a year, (85 child patients, 19 cataract patients, 2 heart surgery patients). In Gyeongsangnam-do & Changwon City to reduce environmental pollutants in the future. at anytime addition, we have provided more than 30 physical treatment devices worth about USD 153,000 to four hospitals in the Quang Ngai region, Local Local Social welfare center and local children's Employee Education Community residents, center connection program Every month Competitors Power Council of Construction Safety Division Every quarter and have conducted medical technique instruction activities through generation Construction Safety Workers' Council Every quarter Doosan Vina offers a diverse range of training for each level to help Academia, collaboration between Quang Nam General Hospital and Chung-Ang Doosan Day of Community Service Once a year facility research Health Council Every quarter cultivate job and leadership competency in employees. For office workers manufacturers, University Hospital since 2012. In the education area, we have presented institutes, Consultative groups of Social Volunteer Once a Desalination Construction company CEO safety and a focus is placed on reinforcing leadership, work and global business 1,077 scholarships to students of 12 Vietnamese universities and signed NGOs Group of Doosan Heavy Industries & month, at and water Once a year health leader meeting competency to develop the next-generation of leaders and, for technical Construction anytime treatment plant partnership agreements on education and recruitment with 17 colleges as Construction Safety and Health Officer staff, training for the improvement of specialized skills and leadership companies Every quarter well as conducted counseling activities every year. Also, we have provided Community Communications Twice a year, / Department Head Meeting is conducted on a regular basis. Also, training on Code of Conduct school supplies to local elementary schools and currently conduct various Council (Woongnam-dong) at anytime International Construction Association compliance and foreign languages are carried out to internalize the Twice a year Relevant agencies for social contribution of Korea Counter-Terrorism Council education and community service programs in association with ChungAt anytime, Doosan Way. activities (Gyeongsangnam-do, Ang University students. In the housing area, we have either constructed when needed Technology exchange meeting Once a year Changwon, beneficiary agencies) or performed renovation activities on 31 houses for the needy. Gyeongnam corporate social Establishing a Positive Workplace contribution representatives workshop Once a year We abide by Vietnam's Labour Standards Act and human rights principles Local social contribution council At anytime, as specified by the International Labour Organization and, provide when needed sufficient opportunities for rest and welfare programs to improve the Offshore factory design research society Twice a year quality of life of workers. Also, a variety of services such as congratulatory 94 95 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Materiality Assessment Risk Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has conducted a Materiality assessment so that its performance can be disclosed through an integrated report and Our Approach reflected in decisions for sustainable management, focusing on issues of high interest from stakeholders and business impact. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates an integrated risk management system to effectively manage risk factors which may potentially The Materiality assessment refers to the method for obtaining important issues presented by GRI G4, and then results to deduce 13 core issues. be generated in the midst of business operations. Risk factors are categorized into financial, business, compliance and CSR risk and are being properly managed by teams with expertise. 2018 Goals We plan to continue to strengthen our comprehensive risk management and detect variabilities in the global economy in advance to avoid STEP 01 STEP 02 STEP 03 potential risk factors while actively taking advantage of opportunities. Through company-wide education on risks not only for employees in charge Identifying Sustainability Issues Prioritizing Sustainability Issues Selection of Final Issues and Validation of different risk types but all employees, we aim to improve our level of risk management. · Reviewing international standard indices · Internal and external stakeholder · Reviewing fairness and suitability of (GRI, DJSI, ISO 26000, etc.) to understand evaluations were conducted on the issue reports on 13 major issues Comprehensive Risk Management System response system that encompasses risk factors in all stages of business issues of sustainable management pools that were derived, and the media from the procurement of raw materials to the provision and follow-up · Determining the content of reports research and benchmarking results were The types of risks at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction are controlled management of products and services in pursuit of business stability, · Deducing 30 issues by utilizing various by categorizing issues of business scored on a 5-point scale and categorized into Financial Risk, Business Risk, and Compliance and CSR and by recognizing business risks in domestic and international market issue collection mechanisms such as strategies and sustainable management Risk, and executives and teams responsible for each risk factor are assigned environments in advance, manage the risks based on clear response internal data review, media research and · Mapping based on the degree of business for constant monitoring. It has set up a management system in which any criteria and procedures. benchmarking impact and level of stakeholder interest issue generated is directly reported to the CEO, and for risks with significant impact on the company, the Board of Directors makes the final decisions. Compliance & CSR Risk Four of the independent directors are experts on risk in different areas, We recognize and manage various legal and non-financial risks related and once elected, implement relevant education to help make optimal to the environment, safety, human rights, information security, local decisions based on their understanding and expertise on laws, internal Sustainability Materiality Completeness community, etc. as Compliance and CSR Risks. An immediate response transactions, etc. related to the economy, environment and society. and management system has been set up centered on teams in charge of Inclusiveness of stakeholders CEO each risk, and a sufficient amount of discussions are conducted through the CSR Committee to make proper decisions. Results of major issues deduced Person Head of Financial Head of Head of Strategic Management Management in charge Division Planning Division Risk Analysis Level of stakeholder interest Safety and health management at worksites Report boundary Compliance Response to climate changes Core issues GRI Financial Risk Business Risk Internal External & CSR Risk The company checks both business opportunities and risks through step-byAccounting New markets/ Climate change step operating profit simulation over the course of a project. Standardized Creation of new growth engines Achievement of stable results Shareholders businesses checklists are used to analyze the impact on business and response measures, in orders obtained such as new businesses Official notice Environmental Quality pollution and the results of such analyses are reported to the CEO every month. Development of ecofriendly Safety and health management Industrial safety and Types of risks Liquidity/credit Promotion of market products and services diversification at worksites health Foreign exchange/ Safety and health Creation of Minimization of environmental Fostering of talents new growth interest rates Shared growth Local effects generated at worksites engine Response to climate changes Energy, Discharge Information security Finance Sensitivity analysis by scenario including cost, Reinforcement of product competitiveness including community new projects Customers cash flow, taxes, etc. Pursuit of anti-corruption and Achievement of stable results in ethics management Shareholders HR orders obtained Environment Establishing mid-to long-term reduction plans such as discharge Securing of financial Strengthening of R&D competency Development of ecofriendly structure soundness Product and service Customers of greenhouse gas emissions, water scarcity, etc. as well as an products and services Indirect economic Local Financial Risk emergency response system Social Contribution Activities effect community Others Social Contribution We aim to minimize the financial risks as associated with accounting, Utilization of a quality gate system on risks, human rights, Activities Strengthening of R&D transparent management, etc., which influence the performance competency Employees Customers finance, banking, public announcements, etc. As a global corporation, of a project (clarifying major risk factors in each stage and Securing of financial structure we have established the exchange risk management guideline in order Shareholders establishing appropriate response measures) soundness to avoid currency risks caused by exchange rate fluctuations while Promotion of market diversification Shareholders analyzing financial risks anticipated in the course of business and also Training and actively managing them in accordance with response strategies. Such Fostering of talents education details are officially and publicly disclosed to stakeholders in a transparent Companywide Risk Management Culture Minimization of environmental Wastewater and Local manner to improve the company's credibility effects generated at worksites waste community Internal education is implemented for all employees on management Reinforcement of product principles, processes, recurrence prevention, etc. for each risk type in an competitiveness Customers Business Risk effort to propagate a risk management culture throughout the company. Business impact Pursuit of anti-corruption and Anti-corruption Shareholders Any risks related to new markets and businesses, quality and intellectual Also, financial compensation is provided to all employees under the CEO ethics management property rights are recognized as business risks. We establish a preemptive based on their performance evaluated on the improvement of risks. 96 97 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Economy Energy Water Largest contributions and expenditures Energy usage and purchase Total water intake by source (Unit: KRW million) Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 LNG Nm 3 41,231,486 39,648,695 39,438,558 Surface water tonnes 75,619 25,907 0 Donated to Amount Donated to Amount Donated to Amount LPG Nm3 160,512 196,049 171,407 Underground Large and Small agricultural tonnes 74,507 110,251 98,509 Large and Small Business Gyeongnam Center for Creative water 500 2,239 and fishery Business 500 Gasoline (car) L 2,297,619 587,932 1,496,439 Cooperation Foundation Economy and Innovation Cooperation Foundation Diesel (car) L 1,769,380 1,186,886 1,401,781 Rainwater Large and Small Business Korea Technology Finance LPG (car) L 6,700 12,582 0 repository within tonnes 50,200 40,000 40,000 Korea Foundation 205 500 208 Cooperation Foundation Corporation organization Gasoline L 365,688 6,119 4,237 2013, 2014 Association of the Non(generator) Wastewater Korea Nuclear Association for Gyeongnam Center for Social from another tonnes 28,614 4,860 0 Electricity Supply Industry of East 100 367 58 renewable Diesel International Cooperation Economy and Entrepreneurs L 656,548 1,206,014 1,427,849 organization Asia and the Western Pacific raw materials (generator) Water supply Korean Nuclear Society 30 Korea Credit Guarantee Fund 312 Korea Nuclear Society 30 Kerosene tonnes 1,844,467 1,928,555 1,580,307 L 38,089 16,750 304 system (Heating) 2015 World Water Forum Korean Society of Pressure Korea Accounting Institute 25 250 3 Total tonnes 2,073,407 2,109,573 1,718,816 Organizing Committee Vessels and Piping Hi-sene L 4,946,804 4,825,713 4,540,953 * DHIC is not engaged in donation or supportive activities to political campaigns, political organizations, Other kg 0 21,600 617 lobbyists or lobbyist organizations according to legal regulations in Korea and the Code of Conduct. (anthracite) Total 51,472,826 47,708,340 48,482,145 Recycled and reused water Total contributions R&D spending1) Purchased Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Electricity Kwh 325,257,573 315,946,555 297,688,042 energy Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Recycled and tonnes 31,716 40,060 25,900 reused water Industry association, taxKRW R&D expenses KRW 100 1,665 1,932 2,242 Amount of energy reduction 12,166 8,962 8,699 million exempted group, etc. million KRW 100 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 * There is no donation record on lobby/interest group, election, Sales 51,463 47,053 43,367 million Heating equipment legislation, and voting. improvement tCO2 1,803 0 0 Atmospheric emissions R&D spending as % 3.24 4.11 5.17 % of sales2) Operation method Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2 5,152 737 0 1) Calculated based on Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Headquarters improvement Environment Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2) 2015 data was revised due to internal reasons Introduction of high tCO2 2,318 3,730 1,872 efficiency equipment Direct Usage and recycling of raw materials Minimization of greenhouse tonnes 136,861 127,608 126,586 tCO2 7,727 0 0 gas emissions combustion Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Remarks Indirect Total tCO2 17,000 4,467 1,872 greenhouse tonnes 155,820 150,881 142,060 Scrap iron tonnes 143,694 134,461 114,308 External purchase gas emissions Recovered iron tonnes 78,214 77,908 70,527 Internal recycling Total tonnes 292,681 278,489 268,646 Chip tonnes 14,616 12,363 11,471 Internal recycling Cost and reduction of energy consumption Non-renewable raw materials Ferro alloy tonnes 7,586 7,318 6,369 External purchase Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Quicklime tonnes 9,483 8,934 7,412 External purchase Fossil fuel mwh 293,536 283,690 278,129 Fluorspar* tonnes 870 950 949 External purchase Electricity mwh 325,256 315,945 297,688 Lump coal** tonnes 6,169 5,788 4,601 External purchase Total mwh 618,792 599,635 575,817 Total tonnes 260,632 247,722 215,637 Amount of Recovered iron tonnes 78,214 77,908 70,527 TJ 5,395 5,158 5,026 Recycled raw materials energy usage Chip tonnes 14,616 12,363 11,471 KRW Percentage*** % 36 36 38 Energy cost 80,283 73,400 72,800 million * There is a discrepancy between the data in this report and that from 2015 or 2016 due to an error in classification entry. Amount of KRW ** There is a discrepancy between the data in this report and that from 2015 or 2016 due to an error in classification entry. 19,660 26,600 27,200 *** There is a discrepancy between the data in this report and that from 2015 or 2016 due to an error in unit. cost reduction million 98 99 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Amount of air pollutant emissions Quality of treated wastewater Biodiversity management at Doosan Heavy Industries & Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Construction construction sites Amount VOC (volatile organic COD mg/l 15.76 10.07 12.38 tonnes 10.50 10.20 9.4 Number of of compounds) SS mg/l 1.89 2.79 5.67 emission Region Project list Areas of primary control managed Details of managed species PM (particulate N-H mg/l 0.13 0.10 1.2 by type tonnes 37.0 36.7 30.1 species matter) Cr mg/l 0.001 0.001 0 Fadhili Combined Heat and Soil: Sand Sea amphibia Saudi Arabia 1 Zn mg/l 0.08 0.02 0.027 Power Plant Swamp : Spiny-tailed Lizard classified as VU Amount of hazardous chemical substances Pb mg/l 0.002 0 0 Asia/Pacific Redondo Peninsula Energy Soil: Mountain Soil 3 Flora1) Katmom : classified as VU2) Tanglin: Philippines CFPP Phase 1 (300MW) Water: Subic Bay, Creeks, River classified as VU3) Molave: classified as VU consumption Fe mg/l 0.096 0.031 0.211 Fauna Bird EX (1), VU (3), NT (3) T-N mg/l 4.095 4.115 3.87 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 1) Egyptian Vulture: Classified as Endangered T-P mg/l 0.022 0.081 0.15 2) Greater Spotted Eagle: Classified as VU. No. substances type 14 5 2 3) Eastern Imperial Eagle: Classified as VU. Oman Al ansab STP Soil: Lagoon 7 Amount of usage tonnes 620 405 195 4) Lesser Kestrel: Classified as VU. Rainwater discharge quality 5) Ferruginous Duck: Classified as NT. * Goal for replacement of hazardous chemical substances: 6 types (2016), 2 types (2017), 1 type (2018) 6) Pallid Harrier: Classified as NT. Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 7) European Roller: Classified as NT. COD mg/l 3.3 3.5 3.4 The ecosystem types identified in the EIA are as Soil: Grass/ forestland, coastal Vietnam, Binh follows, but there is no mention of management SS mg/l 1.4 1.3 1.3 Vinh Tan 4 sandy plain x Thuan Province targets in the EIA Report. Water: Sea (Cost of Cana) Wastewater and waste N-H mg/l 0 0 0 Plants 56, animals 53, fish species 76, Cr mg/l 0 0 0 The following EIA types are identified in the EIA, Amounts of treated wastewater discharged but there are no types of plants to be managed Zn mg/l 0 0 0 under the EIA Report. No mention of controls on Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Pb mg/l 0 0 0 Soil: Agricultural land (farm land) animals and species. Vietnam Song Hau 1 TPP x Final Deokdong Fe mg/l 0.02 0.01 0.02 Water: River, canal Plants (154 species): No precious plants species in wastewater Masan Bay, Masan Bay, Water the Red Book of Vietnam and the UICN T-N mg/l 2.21 2.18 2.24 discharge etc. etc. Treatment (See Resources) site name Center T-P mg/l 0.06 0.06 0.05 Animals (53), fish species (35) Wastewater Physiochemical Physiochemical Physiochemical The ecosystem types identified in the EIA are as Soil: Agricultural land (farm land), treatment treatment treatment treatment follows: the EIA Report mentions that there are Amount of waste disposal Manmade Forest/Green cover method method, etc. method, etc. method, etc. India Lara x currently no management targets (see Resources). (gardened forest) No mention of the IUCN Risk of Extinction. Amounts Water: Mahanadi and Kelo River Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Plants (43), animals (28), fish species (64) of treated wastewater tonnes 290,493 283,789 191,985 Recycled tonnes 679 524 719 The ecosystem types identified in EIA are as discharged follows: the EIA Report mentions that there are no Hazardous Incinerated tonnes 677 422 373 (A) Soil: Soil, Forest, Jungle categories of controls (see Resources). The IUCN waste Landfill tonnes 9,562 3,974 2,944 India Obra C x Water: Rihand River, Son River Risk of Extinction states that there are no flora and Final Others tonnes 11 3,052 9 fauna. rainwater Masan Bay, Masan Bay, Masan Bay, Plants (255), animals (287), fish species (21) discharge etc. etc. etc. Reused tonnes 308 269 0 site name Changwon-Dongeup-GimhaeKorean buzzard, kestrel, Asiatic sparrow hawk, NonRecycled tonnes 78,647 68,711 52,923 5 Hallim Route Grey Frog Hawk, Mandarin Duck Treatment Silt protector, Silt protector, Silt protector, hazardous Incinerated tonnes 314 1,442 1 method etc. etc. etc. Samcheok Green Power #1, 2 Swamps 4 Otter, kestrel, Mandarin Duck, whooper swan waste Landfill tonnes 11,242 4,747 11,401 Rainwater Jeju LNG Combined Cycle Soil 1 Yellow rosemallow discharge tonnes 2,150,444 3,473,779 1,283,258 Others tonnes 13,280 49,978 19,839 Korea Changnyeong-Miryang Leopard cat, Mandarin Duck, Asiatic sparrow amount (B) Soil, sky 6 Highway hawk, eagle, kestrel Total Conger eel, horse mackerel, Korean rockfish, amount of Shin Kori Nuclear Power #5, 6 Water 55 thornback ray wastewater/ tonnes 2,440,937 3,757,568 1,475,243 rainwater Bibong-Maesong Highway Soil 4 Pine, white oak, saw-tooth oak, Mongolians oak (A+B) (completed in middle of 2017) 100 101 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Total environmental protection New employment and turnover rate Parental leave Health & Safety expenditures and investments Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Lost time incident rate (LTIR1)) Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total environment-related expenditures New Employees person 442 488 70 Employees on parental Male person 2 8 15 Category 2015 2016 2017 recruitment Percentage % 5.68 6.31 1 leave Female person 38 44 33 All 0.028 0.035 0.040 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Male person 2 7 Employees 0.044 0.044 0.071 Employees who return to Investment KRW million 12,000 3,000 1,900 work after parental leave Female person 36 38 22 Local 0.066 0.107 0.177 Waste disposal cost KRW million 1,986 1,293 1,092 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 Overseas 0.000 0.000 0.000 Male % 100 47 Male person 65 83 86 43 Return rate Suppliers 0.021 0.030 0.020 Waste Test & Female % 97 100 67 KRW million 5 5 5 Local 0.067 0.159 0.086 Analysis cost Male Employees who work Male person 7 Overseas 0.005 0.005 0.006 Waste recycling (retired, KRW million 818 425 649 person 333 4 128 134 continuously for 12 profit Resignees voluntarily 1) LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate, U.S. OSHA Total No. of Lost Time Accidents X 200,000 / [Total months after parental Female person 36 35 21 Man-hours worked] resigned) Other costs KRW million 1,480 1,480 1,254 leave and return to work 2) The Standard for Lost Time Incident applies the standard of one or more days of work loss Job Female person 16 16 14 7 accident, which is based on OSHA LTIR calculation Total KRW million 16,289 6,203 4, 900 Retention rate after 3) The calculated accident rate has been subdivided into employees, suppliers, domestic, and turnover Total person 414 103 228 184 % 73 97 97 return overseas, and the latest three years of the disaster rate has been re-established based on OSHA LTIR, which is the most widely used international standard Turnover rate % 4.94 1.32 2.95 2.74 Eco-friendly purchasing Performance evaluation and compensation Voluntary turnover Number of incidents person 81 99 100 50 (net turnover) Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 All employees are assessed according to fair, transparent performance Category 2015 2016 2017 Voluntary turnover evaluation. The criteria for evaluation and compensation are differentiated Amount of products % 0.97 1.27 1.29 0.75 All 11 16 19 KRW million 20,243 25,864 9,756 rate purchased based on individual work performance and competency, and there is no Employees 5 7 13 discrimination based on personal differences in gender, religion, education Local 5 7 13 Employee education level, etc. Overseas Overview of environmental regulation violations Suppliers 6 9 6 Regarding environmental regulations, there have not been any Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Local 5 8 5 violations, penalties and environment-related liabilities for the past Total no. of training Compliance with laws and regulations Overseas 1 1 1 hours 562,253 633,835 401,986 3 years. hours Legal actions for unfair trade practices Zero accident hours achieved No. of Male hours 97.6 86.4 58 in construction projects training Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Female hours 101.6 87.2 128 hours per Site Unit 2017 Society person Total hours 78 82 53 Legal actions for unfair trade practices case 1 2 2 Hwaseong Dongtan2 Group hours 1,820,000 Energy Facility Employees * Regarding the bid rigging of Wonju-Gangneung High Speed Rail (2013), an order placed by Korea Rail Network Authority, corrective measures and a fine of 10,060,000,000 KRW were Local imposed by the Fair Trade Commission for the violation of the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Jeju LNG Combined-cycle Power Plant hours 910,000 Overview of employees Overview of labor union membership Trade Act, of which the fine has been paid in full. Regarding this case, Doosan Heavy Industries Lara, India hours 17,000,000 & Construction is currently in a lawsuit against the Fair Trade Commission to cancel the of Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 imposition of penalties (filed July 2017). Yanbu Ph.3, Saudi Arabia hours 16,000,000 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 ** Regarding the case of bid rigging of LNG tanks in 2017, 1 current employee of the company was Total no. of employees person 7,779 7,728 7,610 fined (5,000,000 KRW, verdict made on November 14th, 2017) and a second trial is underway. Overseas Fadhili, Saudi Arabia hours 6,000,000 Total number of workers Male person 6,753 6,770 6,630 person 4,287 3,878 4,004 Kudgi, India hours 32,000,000 Permanent (subject to membership) Per position Female person 284 287 271 Penalties and sanctions for violations Doha RO, Kuwait hours 1,500,000 Number of people who employment Contract Male person 651 591 624 signed up for labor unions of laws and regulations contract person 2,268* 2,172 2,166 position and the labor management Female person 91 80 85 council Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Human rights and anti-corruption Male person 174 167 134 Percentage of people who KRW Total amount of Disabled Female person 3 3 3 signed up for labor unions 100 45 3.6 100.6 Human rights and corruption risk assessment1) % 52.9 56.0 54.1 imposed fines Sum person 177 170 137 and the labor management million Minority council Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 group Male person 176 173 159 Number of nonMen of case * Revised due to entry error in this report monetary sanctions Total no. of workplaces ea 101 104 93 national Female person 6 6 5 merit Number of lawsuits case 1 0 No. of workplaces that Sum person 182 179 164 ea 84 86 93 have been evaluated * Regarding the bid rigging of Wonju-Gangneung High Speed Rail (2013), an order placed by Korea Rail Network Authority, corrective measures and a fine of 10,060,000,000 KRW were Percentage of imposed by the Fair Trade Commission for the violation of the Monopoly Regulation and % 83 83 100 workplaces Fair Trade Act, of which the fine has been paid in full. Regarding this case, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is currently taking legal action against the Fair Trade Commission to 1) The number of workplaces is calculated including local cancel the of imposition of penalties (filed July 2017). and overseas workplaces, subsidiaries, and construction sites. 102 103 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Official reporting of complaints Social contribution Financial Performance related to human rights1) Participation in community service activities Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Our Approach No. of complaints officially cases 47 56 40 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction aims to proactively and speedily deal with changes in the global power generation market to create reported No. of activities cases 412 621 501 1) Including the number of reports from suppliers business outcomes and seek sustainable growth. In addition to the reinforced acquisition of orders in the existing go-to market, we are expanding Participants persons 3,853 4,201 3,633 Employee into new business areas such as wind power, ESS, gas turbines, and services to maximize economic outcomes. participation Participation % 58 60 53 Identified cases of corruption rate 2018 Goals and mitigation measures Amount of Total hours 31,816 35,490 29,250 The company plans to shift its business portfolio centered on new businesses including renewable energy, gas turbines, power generation services, community etc. and prepare a turning point by achieving its target of orders through new large EPC projects obtained in existing markets such as the Middle Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 service hours Per person hours 5.19 5.93 5.13 East, Vietnam and Philippines, and also advance into new markets such as Africa and Eastern Europe. No. of identified cases1) cases 2 5 4 No. of employee cases 2 3 2 disciplinary action case Expenses in the local community No. of supplier disciplinary The amount of orders received on a consolidated management basis in Orders obtained cases 2 4 0 action case Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 2017 recorded 5,051 billion KRW, a reduced figure from 9,053.4 billion Unit: KRW 100 million 1) The data that includes corruption cases of supplier On a consolidated management basis 100 mil. KRW recorded in 2016. Such a slump was affected by the cancellation of Cash 123.7 91.3 88.9 85,687 90,534 KRW the originally planned Sinhanwool 3 and 4 Nuclear Power Plants of Korea Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 100 mil. and postponing of orders for a domestic coal-fire power generation Existing goods 1.5 0.4 0.8 KRW 50,510 Expenses project. Revenue based on consolidated financial statements in 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 100 mil. Operation expense 2.2 2.0 1.2 totaled 14,523.6 billion KRW, an increase of 571.3 billion KRW from No. of people KRW persons 7,779 7,728 6,968 2016, by applying innovative performance improvement of Doosan subject to education 100 mil. Total 127.4 93.7 90.9 Infracore, one of its affiliates. Operating profits also came to 925.7 billion No. of people who KRW Employees persons 7,242 7,550 6,701 KRW, an increase of 127.5 billion KRW from 2016, thanks to the balanced completed education Charitable 100 mil. 2015 2016 2017 14.0 19.2 16.2 Percentage of donations KRW enhancement of subsidiaries. Doosan Infracore maintained high growth % 93.10 97.70 96.17 Revenue* education completion Expense Investment into 100 mil. from sales of large excavators and stable flow of performance of Doosan 106.1 62.2 67.5 Unit: KRW 100 million Total no. of suppliers companies 194 170 160 details local community KRW Bobcat while Doosan Engineering & Construction began to improve its On a consolidated financial basis No. of suppliers that 100 mil. sales and operating profits as orders continued to come from various companies 194 170 160 Others 7.3 12.3 7.2 145,274 139,523 145,236 completed education KRW housing projects, etc. since 2015. Percentage of 100 mil. On a consolidated management basis in 2017, Doosan Heavy Industries Fostering of talent 65.3 52.7 35.9 suppliers having % 100 100 100 KRW Suppliers & Construction recorded sales of 5,744.2 billion KRW, a 457.1 billion completed education Activity Supporting minority 100 mil. 13.1 14.2 21.4 KRW reduction from 2016, in the aftermath of the halted construction No. of education held time 4 4 0 boundary groups KRW No. of people of Shin Kori Nuclear Power Plants 5 and 6. Affected by the reduced sales, 100 mil. Community-based 49.0 26.8 33.6 who have received persons 776 680 0 KRW it recorded operating profits of 190.3 billion KRW, a 97.1 billion KRW education reduction from 2016, and converted to a net loss during the term due to 2015 2016 2017 * This data has newly calculated and reflected the omitted portion in the performance of Doosan the application of certain losses related to foreign exchange. Engineering & Construction's Vietnam Office and the performance data of 2015 and 2016 may Major negative impact on society and measures Participation in the local community, In 2018, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is forecasting 6.9 slightly vary from the figures made public through the 2016 comprehensive report. implemented within the supply chain impact assessment trillion KRW in orders obtained, 6 trillion KRW in sales and 303 billion KRW in operating profits on a consolidated management basis. We Operating profit* Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Unit: KRW 100 million expect orders to be achieved by obtaining large domestic projects, which On a consolidated financial basis No. of suppliers that have been Regions in which local had been postponed from 2017, and will activate marketing for new companies 852 743 324 community growth programs % 37 29 30 9,257 evaluated on social impact businesses. Sales and operating profits are expected to show enhanced are run 7,982 No. of suppliers that have outcomes from 2017 through the normalization of the processes of local been verified to actually or Local development program companies 2 2 0 operation region considering % 37 29 30 and overseas projects and construction of new projects. potentially have a negative stakeholder needs social effect (226) Percentage of suppliers that Operation of local communityhave discussed the evaluation % 100 100 100 wide consulting committees % 37 29 30 results for improvement and processes, which includes minority groups 2015 2016 2017 No. of corruption cases in which penalties have been case 2 4 2 Official community grievance * This data has newly calculated and reflected the omitted portion in the performance of Doosan % 100 100 100 imposed on suppliers handling process workplace Engineering & Construction's Vietnam Office and the performance data of 2015 and 2016 may vary slightly from the figures made public through the 2016 comprehensive report. 104 105 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As at December 31, 2017 As at December 31, 2016 4. Other payables 601,142,200,157 854,364,633,040 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit: Korean won in units) 5. Advanced receipts 180,452,579,927 358,843,891,391 Items December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 6. Due to customers for contract work 833,253,858,439 906,281,202,465 Assets 7. Withholdings 72,662,589,044 71,983,025,287 Ⅰ. Current assets 9,229,887,491,691 9,028,233,955,280 8. Accrued expenses 437,855,294,885 493,320,336,312 1. Cash and cash equivalents 1,970,147,004,768 1,372,545,180,357 9. Current tax liabilities 32,583,825,150 48,233,038,854 2. Short-term financial instruments 237,662,748,168 213,506,823,569 10. Current portion of long-term debt 1,867,839,620,799 2,531,345,860,669 3. Short-term investments in securities 133,975,273,587 141,391,168,087 11. Derivative financial liabilities 89,201,468,110 174,733,740,322 4. Trade receivables 1,959,806,124,716 2,102,275,430,087 12. Firm commitment liabilities 66,217,473,811 11,617,547,945 5. Due from customers for contract 13. Estimated liabilities 167,447,557,810 118,561,044,391 1,969,815,782,428 1,941,105,761,635 work 14. Non-floating liabilities to be sold 1,675,220,150 6. Other receivables 257,069,973,971 313,076,585,681 15. Other current liabilities 207,956,023,566 214,167,916,135 7. Prepayments 416,258,993,540 510,139,286,591 Ⅱ. Non-current liabilities 6,649,823,755,291 6,429,481,702,563 8. Prepaid expenses 124,074,003,045 101,614,362,261 1. Debentures 2,600,066,685,462 1,753,691,202,152 9. Short-term loans 62,146,236,742 114,094,313,691 2. Long-term borrowings 2,062,073,719,593 2,534,990,813,266 10. Derivative financial assets 72,312,481,305 24,494,373,789 3. Long-term asset-backed loan 197,479,161,174 246,974,997,243 11. Firm commitment assets 6,166,652,593 108,462,686,041 4. Long-term other payables 31,625,142,612 35,611,850,491 12. Inventories 1,737,966,743,195 1,738,986,481,566 5. Defined benefit liabilities 678,559,199,568 866,404,829,367 13. Non-current assets classified 108,722,003,724 6. Deposits received 177,151,025,578 189,263,467,929 as held-for-sale 7. Derivative financial liabilities 107,297,507,265 128,882,334,708 14. Other current assets 282,485,473,633 237,819,498,201 8. Firm commitment liabilities 49,450,153,167 18,966,908,638 Ⅱ. Non-current assets 15,732,430,635,496 15,804,334,235,075 9. Deferred tax liabilities 302,709,107,586 183,364,761,950 1. Long-term financial instruments 31,136,772,418 31,395,752,125 10. Estimated liabilities 236,907,011,231 234,378,483,813 2. Long-term investments in securities 199,055,580,136 286,332,778,653 11. Other non-current liabilities 206,505,042,055 236,952,053,006 3. Share of investments in associates 78,667,176,602 80,681,100,934 Total liabilities 18,396,370,067,135 18,009,737,274,319 and joint ventures 4. Long-term loans 1,021,175,375,224 910,287,291,842 Equity 5. Property, plant and equipment 6,904,855,603,272 6,387,955,013,095 Ⅰ. Equity attributable to 3,386,808,328,894 3,475,660,913,667 owners of parent 6. Intangible assets 6,475,671,479,962 6,646,354,106,313 1. Issued capital 596,836,515,000 596,808,980,000 7. Investment property 20,787,447,372 270,299,018,663 2. Capital surplus 1,703,499,795,417 1,652,835,160,666 8. Derivative financial assets 56,693,678,457 80,958,564,225 3. Other components of equity (44,828,871,791) (17,273,121,037) 9. Firm commitment assets 2,716,940,181 80,039,145,810 4. ccumulated other comprehensive 10. Guarantee deposits 363,203,456,821 320,258,434,073 728,803,238,711 538,782,208,792 income (loss) 11. Deferred tax assets 518,511,358,722 641,043,930,920 5. Retained earnings 402,497,651,557 704,507,685,246 12. Other non-current assets 59,955,766,329 68,729,098,422 Ⅱ. Equity attributable to equity 3,179,139,731,158 3,347,170,002,369 Total assets 24,962,318,127,187 24,832,568,190,355 holders of the parent Liabilities and equity 1. Hybrid equity instruments 333,286,268,697 841,535,153,252 Ⅰ. Current liabilities: 11,746,546,311,844 11,580,255,571,756 2. Other non-controlling interests 2,845,853,462,461 2,505,634,849,117 1. Trade payables 2,827,162,503,355 2,454,857,937,156 Total equity 6,565,948,060,052 6,822,830,916,036 2. Short-term borrowings 3,765,146,758,496 2,907,282,486,322 Total liabilities and equity 24,962,318,127,187 24,832,568,190,355 3. Asset-backed loan 597,624,558,295 432,987,691,317 * Details regarding items such as footnotes may be checked through audit reports posted on the website. 106 107 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss As at December 31, 2017 Consolidated Statements of As at December 31, 2017 As at December 31, 2016 As at December 31, 2016 Comprehensive Income or Loss Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit: Korean won in units) Items December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit: Korean won in units) I. Revenue 14,523,554,475,823 13,952,279,021,391 Items December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 II. Cost of sales 12,018,510,226,445 11,526,074,486,466 I. Net loss during the term (109,688,010,762) (215,524,785,947) III. Gross profit 2,505,044,249,378 2,426,204,534,925 II. Other comprehensive income 160,739,225,976 (28,495,650,754) IV. Selling and administrative 1,579,305,139,271 1,628,019,593,291 1. Items not subsequently reclassified expenses 323,282,331,414 (96,116,788,148) to profit or loss: V. Operating profit 925,739,110,107 798,184,941,634 Remeasurement of the net defined 54,742,976,025 (68,268,654,681) VI. Financial profit and loss (519,283,915,136) (547,609,805,091) benefit liabilities Finance income 1,133,179,237,233 1,018,064,911,277 Asset revaluation profit and loss 268,539,355,389 (27,848,133,467) Finance costs 1,652,463,152,369 1,565,674,716,368 2. Items that are subsequently (162,543,105,438) 67,621,137,394 reclassified to profit or loss: VII. Other non-operating profit and (271,793,241,941) (480,265,888,933) Net change in unrealized fair value of loss 7,298,423,839 19,919,849,838 available-for-sale financial assets Other non-operating income 128,726,618,314 108,833,503,615 Effective portion of changes in fair Other non-operating expense 400,519,860,255 589,099,392,548 (42,267,513,322) 20,130,625,897 value of cash flow hedges VIII. Share of loss in associates and Equity adjustments in equity method 3,471,444,554 (108,837,338) (16,742,096,549) (14,607,721,727) joint ventures Net gain (loss) on translation of IX. Profit for the year before tax 117,919,856,481 (244,298,474,117) (131,045,460,509) 27,679,498,997 overseas operations X. Income tax expense (benefit) 201,936,460,630 133,105,172,253 III. Total comprehensive income (loss), 51,051,215,214 (244,020,436,701) XI. Loss from continuing operations (84,016,604,149) (377,403,646,370) net of tax XII. Profit (loss) from discontinued IV. Attributable to: (25,671,406,613) 161,878,860,423 operations Equity holders of the parent (47,042,955,493) (191,711,547,908) XIII. Net loss during the term (109,688,010,762) (215,524,785,947) Non-controlling interests 98,094,170,707 (52,308,888,793) XIV. Reversion of net loss during the term * Details regarding items such as footnotes may be checked through audit reports posted on the website. Equity holders of the parent (292,038,065,484) (170,750,790,211) Non-controlling interests 182,350,054,722 (44,773,995,736) XV. Earnings per share: 1. Basic loss per share (2,908) (1,777) Loss for the year from continuing (2,715) (2,609) operations Profit (loss) for the year from (193) 832 discontinued operations 2. Diluted loss per share (2,908) (1,777) Loss for the year from continuing (2,715) (2,609) operations Profit (loss) for the year from (193) 832 discontinued operations * Details regarding items such as footnotes may be checked through audit reports posted on the website. 108 109 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity As at December 31, 2017 As at December 31, 2016 (Unit: Korean won in units) (Unit: Korean won in units) Capital Capital Accumulated other Accumulated other Other components Non-controlling Other components Non-controlling Issued capital Capital surplus comprehensive Retained earnings Total equity Issued capital Capital surplus comprehensive Retained earnings Total equity of equity interest of equity interest income (loss) income (loss) 2016.1.1 (beginning of Total comprehensive profit 596,808,980,000 1,563,917,672,526 (105,157,160,978) 512,011,506,902 1,013,088,220,397 3,445,438,453,285 7,026,107,672,132 previous term) and loss: Total comprehensive profit Net profit during the term (292,038,065,484) 182,350,054,722 (109,688,010,762) and loss: (loss) Net loss during the term (170,750,790,211) (44,773,995,736) (215,524,785,947) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liabilities, net 56,964,808,378 (2,221,832,353) 54,742,976,025 Remeasurement of the net of tax defined benefit liabilities, net (69,873,976,427) 1,605,321,746 (68,268,654,681) Net change in unrealized fair of tax value of available-for-sale 7,384,376,734 (85,952,895) 7,298,423,839 Net change in unrealized fair financial assets value of available-for-sale 15,157,202,176 4,762,647,662 19,919,849,838 Effective portion of changes in financial assets (38,535,122,794) (3,732,390,528) (42,267,513,322) fair value of cash flow hedges Effective portion of changes in Equity adjustments in equity 8,543,444,308 11,587,181,589 20,130,625,897 3,194,208,671 277,235,883 3,471,444,554 fair value of cash flow hedges method (debit) Equity adjustments in equity Net loss on translation of (52,099,346) (56,737,992) (108,837,338) (7,623,006,506) (123,422,454,003) (131,045,460,509) method (debit) foreign operations Net loss on translation of Asset revaluation profit and 35,097,951,303 (7,418,452,306) 27,679,498,997 222,671,132,901 938,712,607 44,929,509,881 268,539,355,389 foreign operations loss Asset revaluation profit and (36,361,223,176) 26,527,942,918 (18,014,853,209) (27,848,133,467) Subtotal 187,091,589,006 (234,134,544,499) 98,094,170,707 51,051,215,214 loss Subtotal 22,385,275,265 (214,096,823,720) (52,308,888,246) (244,020,436,701) Dividends (67,875,489,190) (67,875,489,190) Dividends (94,483,711,431) (94,483,711,431) Stock option 3,292,022,379 (3,292,022,379) Stock option 2,015,482,504 (1,690,789,528) 324,692,976 Issuance of bonds with warrant 49,492,056,640 49,492,056,640 Treasury share transactions 53,023,096,674 90,260,916,283 143,284,012,957 Exertion of preemptive rights 27,535,000 74,159,618 101,694,618 Acquisition of subsidiaries (9,541,315,814) (59,899,143) (448,432,336,102) (458,033,551,059) Partial disposal of subsidiaries (2,199,240,446) 2,929,440,913 135,054,468,139 135,784,668,606 Capital increase by issuing new Capital increase by issuing new 584,932,605 8,050,624,034 (7,961,277,354) 674,279,285 (7,649,371,531) 8,221,609,462 572,237,931 shares of subsidiaries shares of subsidiaries Acquisition of investments in Acquisition of investments in 860,011,026 (862,871,474) (2,860,448) 4,811,760,426 (726,269) (20,208,499,637) (15,397,465,480) subsidiaries subsidiaries Dividends of the subsidiaries (53,324,066,352) (53,324,066,352) Dividends of the subsidiaries (47,792,407,120) (47,792,407,120) Share option of subsidiaries 1,524,014,014 (1,912,830,727) (21,735,404) (410,552,117) Share option of subsidiaries 627,562,392 (627,562,392) Transactions of treasury shares Issuance of convertible bonds 6,256,086,126 (739,097) (18,581,712,073) (12,326,365,044) (22,506,401) 33,249,710 10,743,309 by subsidiaries by subsidiaries Issuance of convertible bonds Issuance of bonds with warrant (4,791,047,084) 7,112,878,144 2,321,831,060 19,520,648,285 25,088,768,344 44,609,416,629 by subsidiaries of subsidiaries Partial disposal of subsidiaries 35,715,299,969 (6,763,241,881) 4,385,426,625 468,281,455,861 501,618,940,574 Exertion of preemptive rights (9,876,787,673) 14,283,874,945 4,407,087,272 of subsidiaries Issuance and exertion Issuance of convertible shares of preemptive rights of 4,453,082,166 7,638,266,627 12,091,348,793 94,718,408,838 94,718,408,838 of subsidiaries subsidiaries Repayment of hybrid equity Adjustments of scope of (21,436,199,268) (545,728,397,732) (567,164,597,000) 12,906,000 12,906,000 instruments of subsidiaries connection Adjustments of scope of Others (1,182,154,046) 178,929,457 (1,003,224,589) (9,604,909,384) 70,204,483,133 60,599,573,749 connection 2016.12.31 (end of previous 2017.12.31 (end of current 596,808,980,000 1,652,835,160,666 (17,273,121,037) 538,782,208,792 704,507,685,246 3,347,170,002,369 6,822,830,916,036 596,836,515,000 1,703,499,795,417 (44,828,871,791) 728,803,238,711 402,497,651,557 3,179,139,731,158 6,565,948,060,052 term) term) 2017.1.1 (beginning of current 596,808,980,000 1,652,835,160,666 (17,273,121,037) 538,782,208,792 704,507,685,246 3,347,170,002,369 6,822,830,916,036 term) * Details regarding items such as footnotes may be checked through audit reports posted on the website. 110 111 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Performance Summary Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As at December 31, 2017 As at December 31, 2016 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Unit: Korean won in units) Items December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 (10) Acquisition of intangible assets (277,895,048,431) (248,694,126,605) Ⅰ. Net cash flows provided by operating activities 429,324,784,710 967,566,785,961 (11) Acquisition of investment property (1,122,000,000) 1. cash provided from operations 915,211,992,032 1,491,876,388,986 (12) Acquisition of non-current assets classified as held(1,442,031,725) (4,573,742,849) for-sale (1) Net loss during the term (109,688,010,762) (215,524,785,947) Ⅲ. Cash flows from financing activities 703,612,291,698 (2,251,618,951,835) (2) Adjustments 1,927,880,888,075 1,667,514,803,768 1. aggregate cash inflows from financing activities 6,141,673,819,344 3,041,909,023,273 (3) Working capital adjustments (902,980,885,281) 39,886,371,165 (1) Net increase in short-term borrowings 941,739,587,791 2. Interest received 48,819,579,898 39,862,994,719 (2) Proceeds from short-term bonds 180,000,000,000 3. Interest paid (450,278,642,618) (495,762,417,342) (3) Proceeds from asset backed loans 1,492,932,369,119 714,113,619,260 4. Dividends received 2,418,130,866 303,597,150 (4) Issuance of debentures 2,128,041,350,520 735,050,064,828 5. Income taxes paid (86,846,275,468) (68,713,777,552) (5) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,350,379,324,151 886,199,800,000 Ⅱ. Net cash flow used in investing activities (457,137,175,002) 804,766,783,274 (6) Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 160,218,812,676 1. aggregate cash inflows from investing activities 529,247,917,065 1,970,231,156,575 (7) Partial disposal of investments in subsidiaries 133,721,600,000 365,449,720,215 (1) Proceeds from disposal of short-term financial 62,613,996,581 297,898,738,398 instruments (8) Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries 694,701,094 (2) Proceeds from disposal of short-term investments in (9) Exertion of preemptive rights 4,651,450 1,032,750,000 securities (10) Exertion of preemptive rights of subsidiaries 108,178,950 182,305,200 (3) Collection of short-term loans 22,682,497,753 65,275,787,851 (11) Issuance of convertible shares of subsidiaries 94,746,757,363 (4) Proceeds from disposal of long-term financial 3,815,552,944 63,611,006,170 2. aggregate cash outflows from financing activities (5,438,061,527,646) (5,293,527,975,108) instruments (1) Net decrease in short-term borrowings (865,054,268,013) (5) Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment in 86,107,848,209 2,435,824,713 securities (2) Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (2,713,376,372,308) (2,189,786,666,558) (6) Collection of long-term loans 171,467,917,148 229,701,707,401 (3) Repayment of assets backed loans (1,386,950,000,000) (682,900,000,000) (7) Proceeds from disposal of investments in Subsidiaries 7,681,720,761 (4) Repayment of debentures (300,602,677,526) (8) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and (5) Repayment of long-term borrowings (636,148,293,548) (636,852,572,778) 65,618,637,439 69,257,010,540 equipment (6) Extinguishment of debt for financial lease (149,982,177) (9) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 5,065,871,259 1,636,717,701 (7) Partial acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (458,033,551,059) (10) Proceeds from disposal of investment property 13,088,324,900 1,173,000,000 (8) Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries (15,397,465,480) (11) Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets 29,078,999,531 84,419,819,225 (9) Dividends paid (67,875,489,190) (94,483,711,431) classified as held-for-sale (10) Dividends paid by the subsidiaries (47,792,407,120) (53,324,066,352) (12) Business transfer 1,029,800,540 1,154,821,544,576 (11) Acquisition of treasury shares by subsidiaries (12,326,365,036) (13) Net cash flow from adjustments of consolidated 59,964,000,000 entities (12) Cost of issuing shares of subsidiary (11,253,730) 2. aggregate cash outflows from investing activities (986,385,092,067) (1,165,464,373,301) (13) Free charge of subsidiary (2,860,448) (1) Acquisition of short-term financial instruments (74,714,189,155) (95,091,693,985) (14) Repayment of hybrid equity instruments (570,521,500,000) (2) Acquisition of short-term investments in securities (146,271,516) (127,937,629,145) Ⅳ. Net foreign exchange difference (78,198,076,995) (41,177,184,921) (3) Increase in short-term loans (22,831,467,294) (27,800,272,132) Ⅴ. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 597,601,824,411 (520,462,567,521) (Ⅰ+Ⅱ+Ⅲ+Ⅳ) (4) Acquisition of long-term financial instruments (10,157,643,555) (16,895,446,044) Ⅵ. Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 1,372,545,180,357 1,893,007,747,878 (5) Acquisition of long-term investment in securities (20,531,110,565) (131,466,690,976) Ⅶ. Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 1,970,147,004,768 1,372,545,180,357 (6) Increase in long-term loans (265,483,561,847) (179,347,198,041) (7) Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (2,013,022,000) (9,791,807,060) (8) Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (33,901,864,924) (31,841,144,402) (9) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (277,268,881,055) (290,902,622,062) * Details regarding items such as footnotes may be checked through audit reports posted on the website. 112 113 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Independent Auditors' Report To the Board of Directors and Stockholders Retroactive review of a project in which significant fluctuations occurred in the total predicted contract production cost Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. March 16, 2018 Understanding of the causes for differences in a project with significant fluctuations in the total predicted contract production cost and verification of relevant evidence, if needed We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (the Company ) and its subsidiaries (collectively, Verification of documents regarding the total contract production cost approved by an appropriate approval authority the Group ), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2017 and the consolidated statements of profit or loss, consolidated Confirmation of summing-up and distribution of overhead costs for each project by the computing audit team statements of comprehensive income or loss, consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. D. Appropriateness of calculated construction progress rate Revenue recognition based on the progress rate retains a significant risk of potentially affecting important arbitration of capital values of assets and liabilities after the end of Management's responsibility for the consolidated interim financial statements the current term. In addition, if the progress rate is measured based on the cumulative incidence production cost in comparison to the total predicted contract production cost as the company applies, the amount of contract production costs, which cannot reflect the construction conducted, is included in the cumulative incidence production Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting cost and, subsequently, the progress rate may be distorted, leading to a risk of inappropriate recognition of contract profits and contract production costs. Therefore, we Standards ( KIFRS ), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from have identified the appropriateness of the calculated construction progress rate as a significant risk. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We have executed the following audit procedure on the amount of cumulative incidence contract production cost that affects the calculation of the company's construction progress rate as of the term then ended. Auditor's responsibility Questions and analytical review of causes for increase or decrease of the construction progress rate during the reporting period Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards Questions and analytical review of the items that constitute the cumulative incidence contract production cost during the reporting period generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable Comparison review for a major project of the progress rate for each process (monthly progress reports) and the progress rate based on production costs assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about Verification of sample evidence to confirm the substantiality of investment of materials cost and other expenses the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material Appropriateness test of summing-up and distribution of overhead costs for each project by the computing audit team misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity's Survey of equipment currently being manufactured as well as sites in progress preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the Questions and analytical review of significant increase or decrease of the cumulative incidence production cost for a major project purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and Re-calculation of the construction progress rate for each project the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. E. Assessment on recoverability of unclaimed construction expenses Opinion If the allowance for bad debts on uncharged construction is not properly specified due to failure to appropriately perform a recoverability assessment on the uncharged In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction construction, there exists not only a risk of the uncharged construction becoming overly appropriated but also uncertainties in prediction on recoverability of the uncharged Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean construction. Therefore, we have identified the assessment on recoverability of uncharged construction as a significant risk. International Financial Reporting Standards. We have performed the following audit procedure on the assessment of recoverability of the company's uncharged construction expenses as of the end of the current term. Questions on payment conditions, overdue compensation, delivery timing and other requirements specified in the contract and verification of the contract document for Points of emphasis projects whose uncharged construction expenses have significantly increased Execution of questioning and analytical procedures on prolonged uncharged construction and verification of relevant evidence, if needed Users of this audit report shall pay attention to the following items, which do not have any influence on the audit opinion. The core audit items in a made-to-order production Questions and analytical procedure on recoverability of uncharged construction in case uncharged construction exists in regard to a contract that has specified the industry including the auditor's points of emphasis have been selected from significant matters in the consolidated financial statement audit in the term through the auditor's allowance for bad debts on accounts receivable expert judgment and communication with governing organizations in accordance with the Accounting Audit Guideline 2016-1. The specific matters are discussed in the Execution of an external inquiry on major ordering bodies context of an audit on the entire consolidated financial statement, and we do not provide separate audit opinions on these matters. We have reflected the results of the audit procedure conducted on the core audit items as follows in forming our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statement of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction F. Appropriateness of accounting due to construction changes Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries. The company includes construction changes in contract profits if the ordering body is highly likely to approve construction changes and subsequent changes in the total contract profits, and also if the amount of profits can be measured with reliability. Moreover, the total contract profits may increase depending on the amount of production A. General items costs, which is not included in the contract amount that a constructor receives as compensation from the ordering body or a third party. At this time, the company includes The details commonly applicable to the core audit items of the made-to-order production industry described in this audit report are as follows. the compensation in the contract profits if it is highly likely that the ordering body will approve the compensation charged as negotiations have been substantially progressed, If the results of a construction contract can be estimated with reliability as shown in Footnote 2 regarding the consolidated financial statement, the company can reliably and also if the amount highly likely to be approved by the ordering body can be measured with reliability. In addition, in case the total contract profits decrease due to a estimate the contract profits and production costs as profits and costs based on the progress rate of current contract activities as of the year ended of the reporting period. penalty charged for delay in completion of construction caused by the company, the company deducts the penalty from the contract profits if it is highly likely that a penalty The rate of progress of the contract activities is measured as a rate of the cumulative incidence contract production cost divided by the total estimated contract production will occur and also if the amount of the penalty can be measured with reliability. cost incurred on the work performed excluding the contract production cost that cannot reflect the stage of progress. The amount that is added to the profit (or deducted Therefore, since the contract profits may be distorted if construction changes or compensations and penalties are not properly reflected in the total contract profits, we have from the loss) is recognized on the cumulative incidence contract production cost and exceeds the progress amount claimed is expressed as uncharged construction while identified accounting on construction changes as a significant risk. the cost exceeding the amount that is added to the profit (or deducted from the loss) recognized on the cumulative incidence contract production cost is expressed as We have performed the following audit procedure on accounting and official notice of the company's construction changes as of the end of the current term. overcharged construction. Effectiveness test of the company's internal control operations in regards to changes in the contract conditions Questions and analytical procedure on projects with significant fluctuations in the contract amount B. Company's accounting policies including revenue recognition based on investment method Verification of relevant evidence (change orders, etc.) to confirm the appropriateness of fluctuations in the contract amount If the company applies progress criteria on a contract whose results cannot be predicted with reliability to recognize contract profits and contract production costs, risks exist Comparison analysis of the delivery date specified in the contract and the scheduled delivery date as of the end of the current reporting period to perform questioning and for the potential distortion of contract profits and contract production costs. In addition, even for construction contracts whose results can be predicted with reliability, risks analytical procedures on contracts that have passed the delivery dates as specified in the contract and, if needed, verify relevant evidence exist for the potential distortion of contract profits and contract production costs if the progress rate measurement method, which can measure executed construction works Appropriateness review of prediction on the predicted liquidated damages with reliability, is not used. Therefore, we have considered such risks to identify revenue recognition based on investment methods as a significant risk. We have executed the following audit procedure on the company's accounting policies including the revenue recognition on the investment method of the company during Other items the term. Review of the company's internal control related to the decision on revenue recognition accounting policies The compared consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2016, consolidated statement of profits and losses of the fiscal year then ended, consolidated Questions and analytical review of the progress and significant changes of major projects inclusive statement of profits and losses, consolidated statement of changes in equity, and consolidated statement of cash flows were audited by another auditor in Questions on whether all reliable and estimated conditions of the results of the construction contract are satisfied with major projects and review of the contract conditions accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea, and proper opinions were expressed in the audit report dated March 23, 2017. C. Uncertainty in prediction on total contract production cost As mentioned in Footnote 26 regarding the consolidated financial statement, the impact on profits and losses of this term and a future period due to fluctuations in the 152 Teheran-ro (Yeoksam-dong), Gangnam-gu, total predicted contract amount and total predicted contract production cost amount to KRW 11,363,000,000 and KRW 125,235,000,000, respectively, while the amount Seoul (27th floor, Gangnam Finance Center) affecting uncharged construction totals KRW 11,363,000,000. Thus, if the prediction of a company's total predicted contract production cost changes, the progress rate for the measurement of contract profits and contract production costs also changes and, as a result, the profits and losses of this term and the future as well as uncharged Kim Kyo Tae, CEO of Samjong KPMG Accounting Corp. or overcharged construction costs of the end of this term change. Therefore, we have identified the uncertainty in prediction on the total contract production cost as a significant risk. We have executed the following audit procedure on the impact that uncertainty in the prediction of the company's total contract production cost as of the end of the current term has on its consolidated financial statement. This auditors' report is effective as of the audit report date (March 16, 2018). Therefore, an event or a situation, which may have a significant impact on the attached Review of the company's internal control related to the decision on the total predicted contract production cost consolidated financial statement of the company, may occur from the date of the audit report until the report is accessed, and this may lead to a revision of this report. Questions and analytical review of major items constituting the total contract production cost during the reporting period 114 115 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement on the '2017 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction' Preface Resolution of Findings We confirmed that some errors, inappropriate information, and ambiguous expressions found during on-site visit were properly reflected in the final KFQ was engaged by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction (further 'DHIC') to provide limited assurance on the '2017 Integrated Report of Doosan Report. Heavy Industries & Construction' (further 'the Report'). Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted its assurance based on completeness of the data and information provided by DHIC. DHIC is responsible for all contents within the Report including the reporting principles and standards. Limitations The Report has been prepared solely for DHIC in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than DHIC for our conclusions we have reached in the statement. Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information Independence presented in the Report have inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used for determining, calculating and estimating such data. KFQ is not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing an assurance opinion, and there has been no interest between DHIC and us. We have no biased opinion on stakeholders of DHIC. Opinion Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that the Report meets the GRI Standards 'Core Option'. According to the principles of Assurance Standards AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information were assessed and we KFQ has designed and implemented assurance according to the following standards. could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: • AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) • AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) 1. (Stakeholders Inclusiveness) DHIC subdivided eight stakeholders into seven groups related to the major issues of sustainable management. To hear • GRI G4.0 any concerns and opinions from them, DHIC had a customized communication strategy for each stakeholder group and reflected their responses and • UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) opinions to its sustainable management activities. 2. (Sustainability Context) In terms of sustainability, DHIC has achieved both economic and environmental performance through continuous monitoring Assurance Scope of its domestic and overseas sites and building an energy efficiency system in the face of tight environmental regulatory challenges. In addition, DHIC is faithfully fulfilling its international principles by linking its major activities and achievements in 2017 and future plans with the UN SDGs. KFQ identified the followings as its scope: 3. (Materiality) DHIC established issue pools and reviewed by internal guidelines and external assessment criteria (GRI guidelines, DJSI, UN SDGs, media • DHIC's sustainable management activities and performances of the headquarter and all business establishment (domestic and overseas) described in coverage, benchmark, and issue analysis) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. As a result, DHIC appropriately reflected that thirteen the Report key topics derived from the process along with key performance in 2017. • Compliance with the guidelines according to GRI Standards Core Option • GRI Standards compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality 4. (Completeness) DHIC applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. We confirm that the Report is suitable for stakeholders to assess • Application of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality sustainability performance. and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information. The term 'Moderate Assurance' used in AA 1000 AS is designed to be consistent with 'Limited Assurance' as articulated in ISAE 3000 • Core subjects and linkages with UN SDGs Assurance Procedures KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of the Report's critical errors or inappropriate information. We verified the reliability of the contents, processes and systems of data generation and report preparation. Document Review We reviewed the reliability of non-financial data in respect of the 'Sustainability' by cross-checking the Report with GRI Standards, quantitative data of June 2018 DHIC, and internet & media research information. We also confirmed that the financial information has been appropriately extracted from the internal Seoul, Korea documents and the financial statements of the business report of the following system (http://dart.fss.or.kr). On-site Verification We visited DHIC headquarter and conducted on-site verification to confirm reliability of the sustainability activities and performance data contained in the Report and to evaluate the effectiveness of the reporting process. We performed verification in the accuracy topic of the aggregated data from CEO Nam Dae Hyun DHIC. These procedures included the following: Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) Materiality assessment process, stakeholders inclusiveness, key issues, internal response procedures, and etc. Assessment of data analysis and descriptions and sustainable management performance in the Report Consistency between the financial data contained in the Report and the audited financial statements 2017 Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing information in the Report 116 117 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix Environmental Guidelines GRI Content Index Based on its people-centered management philosophy and technology that enhances the value of the earth, Doosan Heavy Industries & GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE Construction has established environmental guidelines in accordance with the Doosan Credo, internal environmental management rules and regulations for the protection of the environment together with employees, suppliers, customers and the local community. Classfication G4 Indicators Report rate Pages/Remarks Thus, we are promoting the following activities to reduce environmental impact generated during the course of business, and continue to expand G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker ● 2-3 Strategy and Analysis the scope to supply networks and suppliers. G4-2 Provides a description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 2-3, 97 G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 4 1. Production and workplace environment management G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services ● 6-13, 18-39 For efficient environmental management of production and business facilities, 10 procedures including objective management, educational training, G4-5 The location of the organization's headquarters ● 4 document and records management and internal audit as well as 9 directives on, for example, environmental impact assessment, air environment The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-6 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability ● 5 control and waste control, are used for management. topics covered in the report G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form ● 4, 58-59 2. Selection of supplier, contractor and service provider and continuous assessment The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers G4-8 ● 4-5 and beneficiaries) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performs regular environment control assessments on subsidiaries within the company twice a year, and the results are utilized as the basis for incentives or penalties to be levied on the subsidiaries and as reference data for their development planning. Also, G4-9 Scale of the organization ● 4-5, 102, 105-113 Organizational Profile areas related to the environment are assessed when evaluating suppliers and supplier CSR guidelines including environmental control are distributed as G4-10 Total workforce ● 4, 102 a part of an effort to reduce environmental risks throughout the supply network. G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 102 G4-12 The organization's supply chain ● 80 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, 3. Development of products and services G4-13 ● No significant changes ownership, or its supply chain By recognizing the fact that various environmental issues related to climate changes pose both risks and opportunities for Doosan Heavy Industries & G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 97 Construction, we have been conducting research and development that can minimize environmental impact when developing products or services. List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 ● 48-51, 122 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4. Logistics G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international ● 122 advocacy organizations in which the organization To minimize environmental pollution that may occur during transport, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction manages it through a guide, etc. Work List all entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent About this Report, standards are made and managed based on the best cases for each step, which includes transport quotes, preliminary surveys, transport company G4-17 ● documents 90-94 selection, contract signing, local transport (inland, barge, air, etc.) and cargo insurance. G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries ● 96 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 96 5. Waste management Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 96 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction specifies the entire work process from waste generation to final disposal and operates and manages it through G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 96 a waste management order, which helps control the scope of application, definitions of terms, responsibilities and authorities, waste recycling and G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for ● About this Report such restatements storage facilities, generation, collection, storage and disposal of waste, inspection, consignment contracts and monitoring. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● No significant changes G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 95 6. Engineering and maintenance G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 95 To minimize environmental pollution generated during operation and maintenance of power plants, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides Stakeholder Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by an environmental guide to fundamentally prevent environmental pollution that would occur from irregular operations. By offering operation and Engagement G4-26 ● 52-53, 95 type and by stakeholder group maintenance manuals based on the characteristics of each power plant, a guide is provided to minimize the environmental impact generated during Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 ● 52-53 operations. organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided ● About this Report 7. New projects G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● About this Report G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biennial ● About this Report Prior to the start of a new project, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction utilizes its Project Environment Plan, to which detailed means of environmental Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● About this Report control are applied, to ensure environmental control in project sites. Primary items of the Project Environment Plan include Project Policy, water supply and waste discharge requirements, hazard substance management, air pollution control, etc. G4-32 Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen ● About this Report Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance G4-33 ● About this Report for the report 8. Due Diligence of mergers and acquisitions Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Governance G4-34 ● 58-59 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts due diligence assessment on companies prior to mergers and acquisitions in order to examine governance body environmental risks and respond in advance, if needed. Major aspects evaluated include soil and underground water contamination, asbestos, Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of ● 60-61, Homepage* conduct and codes of ethics hazardous chemical substances, environmental pollution prevention facilities and greenhouse gas emission management, and the assessment results are utilized and managed as important factors to consider during acquisitions or mergers. * http://www.doosanheavy.com/kr/csr/ethics/creed/ 118 119 Business Portfolio Commitments to Sustainability Sustainable Management Appendix GRI Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Classfication G4 Indicators Report rate Pages/Remarks Classfication G4 Indicators Report rate Pages/Remarks EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ◐ 106-113 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, LA1 ● 102 and region Economic Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time EC2 ● 50-51 Employment LA2 ● 76-77 climate change employees, by significant locations of operation DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 84 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 103 Indirect Economic In the event there are any EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 104 Impacts Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified significant changes in management, LA4 ● EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 104 Relations in collective agreements employees shall be notified in a timely manner. Procurement Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 80 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 68 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 99 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Materials Occupational Health LA6 ● 101 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 99 and Safety LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 68-71 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 64 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 68-71 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 99 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 74-75 Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 99 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category ● 102 Training and Education EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 48-51 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA10 ● 76 of employees and assist them in managing career endings EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 99 Water Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA12 ● 102 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 99 Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas ● 66, 101 LA13 ● 103 Women and Men locations of operation EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity ● 66, 101 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria ● 80, 104 Supplier Assessment for Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 66, 101 Labor Practices Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and LA15 ● 80 actions taken Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include EN14 ● 66, 101 HR1 ● 80, 104 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Investment DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 64 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR2 ● 80, 104 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) ● 99 Freedom of Association Emissions Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective and Collective HR4 ● 77 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) ● 99 Bargaining bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ● 64-65 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Child Labor HR5 ● 74 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor DMA Disclosures on Management Approach ● 64 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Forced or Compulsory EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 100 HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or ● 74 Labor Effluents and Waste compulsory labor EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 100 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Assessment HR9 ● 104 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 100 impact assessments Supplier Human Rights HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ● 80, 104 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 41, 64 Products and Services Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ● 80, 104 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services ◐ 64-65 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 ● 104 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Local Communities and development programs Compliance EN29 ● 102 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities ● 104 Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 102 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 60-61 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ◐ 80 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the Supplier Environmental SO3 ● 103-104 Anti-corruption significant risks identified Assessment Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions EN33 ● 80 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 61 taken SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 103-104 Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ● 98 Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7 ● 103 Behavior and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance SO8 ● 103 noncompliance with laws and regulations Supplier Assessment for SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ● 104 Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ● 80, 104 Product and Service PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 81 Labeling 120 121 UN Global Compact 118587 Printed by a company with FSCTM Chain of Custody certification (Certification no.: C118587). We use paper certified by FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council®) that is only attached to products Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has joined the UN Global Compact since 2004 and has complied with the ten principles of human rights, labor, using wood produced in forests developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner. the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities and role as a global leader in sustainable management that represents Korea by reflecting international standards for social responsibility management and by solidifying our commitment to social responsibility management. Ten principles page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 48-51, 74, 80 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 74, 77, 80, 102 collective bargaining Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 64-67, 98-102 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. 41 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 60-61, 80, 103-104 Overview of Association Memberships Associations for which memberships have Associations for which memberships have Associations for which memberships have Category Category Category been signed up been signed up been signed up Large & Small Business Agriculture & Korea Employer's Federation Korea Nuclear Society Fisheries Cooperation Foundation DHIC Integrated Report by Year World Energy Council Korea Nuclear Association for Korea Technology Finance Corporation Nuclear International Cooperation WEC Korea power Korea Credit Guarantee Fund World Nuclear Association Korea-Arab Society Gyeongnam Center for Social Economy Common Women Interested in Nuclear Korea Chamber of Commerce and and Entrepreneurs Industry Welding Korean Welding & Joining Society Gyeongnam Center for Creative Economy Fair Competition Federation Construction Association of Korea and Innovation UNGC (UN Global Compact) Korea Korea Housing Builders Association Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Marine Rescue & Salvage Association Korea Federation of Construction Contractors National Academy of Engineering of Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Common Korea Korea Electrical Contractors Association Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korean Federation of Science & EPC Korea Information Certificate Authority 2014 2015 2016 Korea Electric Association Technology Societies International Contractors Association of Power Korea Association of Machinery Industry Korea Management Association Korea generation Korea Wind Energy Industry Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Korea Wind Energy Association Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Headquarters 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do TEL. 055-278-6114 EPRI (Electric Power Research Institute) PEA (Plant Eng. Association) Korea Engineering & Consulting Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul TEL. 02-513-6991~2 – WRTC Association Korean Institute of Metals & Materials Korea Radioactive Waste Society Casting & www.doosanheavy.com Korean Society of Combustion Korea Foundry Society forging Nuclear Korea Nuclear Equipment Advancement Korea Plant Industries Association Korea Iron & Steel Association power Association Machinery Financial Cooperative Korean Standards Association Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Quality Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 122
