COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTENTS CEO Statement....................................................................................................................................... 3 Company Profile...................................................................................................................................... 4 Introduction............................................................................................................................................. 5 PEOPLE A diverse workforce................................................................................................................................. 7 The pulse of Pressalit an employee survey........................................................................................... 8 A diverse place to work........................................................................................................................... 9 IGU and education................................................................................................................................ 10 Employee presentations........................................................................................................................ 11 ENVIRONMENT Stop wasting food................................................................................................................................. 13 Input and output.................................................................................................................................... 14 Changing Places................................................................................................................................... 15 World’s Best News................................................................................................................................ 16 SOCIETY Local going global................................................................................................................................. 18 Pressalit joins forces with Unicef.......................................................................................................... 19 Events related to UNICEF and UN........................................................................................................ 20 Parasport............................................................................................................................................... 21 Hop-In project....................................................................................................................................... 22 The Christmas spirit.............................................................................................................................. 23 CSR 2018.............................................................................................................................................. 24 2 CEO STATEMENT Welcome to the 2017 edition of Pressalit’s annual social responsibility started out with our work for a better Communication on Progress Report. Pressalit continues localcommunity. Our work with local instances, such as to support and work with the principles to secure human surrounding municipalities and educational institutions rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and continues. anti-corruption. Due to Pressalit being a production company, we are The aim of this report is to account for the progress, we have vulnerable to changes especially on the Danish labour market. experienced throughout 2017. The objective is to make the Therefore, we work hard on educating skilled labour, as quality report as transparent and honest as possible to provide a education is one of our main focus areas. nuanced picture of our achievements. As Pressalit has grown, so has our social responsibility. As a production company, Pressalit aspires to create products Therefore, we are not only concerned with improving with emphasis on quality and innovation. We attempt to do so conditions locally; we want to work globally as well. with social responsibility in mind. Best regards, For over 50 years, corporate social responsibility has been an integrated part of Pressalit. Since the origin of Pressalit, our production has been located in Ry. Therefore, our work with Kim Boyter DID WE REACH OUR TARGETS FOR 2017? 1. Initiate the identification of opportunities for partnerships 4. Maintain and expand the number of recruitments of with NGO´s and associations in which our employees can apprentices. volunteer as part of their employment at Pressalit. • We have had 8 apprentices. • We have established a partnership with UNICEF and a collaboration with World’s Best News. 5. Maintain and expand our range of study, business, and social interns. 2. Launch new initiatives that specifically support the global goals #4, #6 and #12. • We have had 13 interns in total, within 12 different fields of study. • We have launched a line of initiatives to support the • We have had 2 social interns. global goals. These include: World’s Best Morning (all SDG’s) 6. Maintain a level of at least 5% of employees on special HOP-IN project (SDG #4) terms. Children’s Day (SDG #4) World Toilet Day (SDG #6) • We have increased the level of employees on special Reducing food waste (SDG #12) terms to 8%. 3. Work for the expansion of decent and proper sanitation 7. Reduce our environmental impact, cf. our annual nationally and globally. environmental accounts. • Through our work with UNICEF, Word Toilet Day, • We have qualified for the ISO 14001 re-certification the HOP-IN project and Changing Places, we have • We have saved 1,869.2 kg CO2 by recycling our food attempted to focus on and make a difference waste into biogas. 3 for SDG #6: Clean Water and Sanitation. COMPANY PROFILE Pressalit A/S is a Danish company founded in 1954. Pressalit Pressalit’s vision is to be a profitable, competitive and has two areas of business: Seats and Care. Pressalit Seats value-creating company and an acknowledged leader within: produces high quality toilet seats and is one of the leading brands in the market. Pressalit Care produces bathroom• Quality and kitchen solutions for people with reduced functional ability. • Innovative solutions • Responsibility Pressalit is a privately owned Danish Ltd. company and it is formally owned by Pressalit Holding. The Boyter family owns We aspire to be beneficial for both our customers, employees Pressalit Holding and they are the third generation in Pressalit. and the surrounding community. Pressalit’s production takes place in the Danish city Ry, where our head office is located as well. Pressalit exports 80% of our production, and we operate in 45 international markets. Pressalit is built on a long tradition of decency and responsibility. These are values that the entire company strives to live by. Therefore, CSR has been embedded in Pressalit’s culture for a long time. Workforce Workforce Split Corporate Location 2 9 24/7 120 different 13% 7 USA production choices of high England Nordic Care quality func22% 2 tional design France Designed and Seats produced in 65% Denmark since 1954 15 266 Denmark Germany We care about our community Offices in 7 countries around the world We work actively with Support of Danish and represented in 45 countries the UN Global Goals disabled athletes We have approximately Every week 2-3 LORRIES We use 301 employees deliver urea for our production 665 KG of urea 150 workers are PER HOUR supported by 40 robots 4 INTRODUCTION This Communication on Progress report comprises the The report is divided in the three headings: initiatives and activities, which Pressalit has executed to increase sustainability in 2017. PEOPLE • ENVIRONMENT • SOCIETY Overall, this report is about our work with corporate social People are an essential part of Pressalit’s spirit, and they have responsibility (CSR). CSR is a completely integrated part of been for 63 years. Through many years, we have worked to the Pressalit culture, and it has been since its beginning. create an inclusive company. The background was the position At Pressalit, we take our coresponsibility seriously and we that if you wanted to work and contribute to the company, there are interested in contributing both locally and globally. was in principle room for everyone. Our focus on CSR in an international context was manifested Regarding environment, we have ambitions to make a positive in 2002, where we became a part of UN’s Global Compact impact on the world for the next generation. We believe we have Initiative. The Global Compact Initiative is about complying with a responsibility to minimize our impact on the environment and the principles of human rights, labour, environment and antiwe act with tomorrow in mind. corruption. These are all aspects, which Pressalit has worked with for a long time and which we continuously review to ensure In society, Pressalit takes an interest in the local community that we always possess the newest knowledge on the area. and has done so since it was founded. As the company grew Therefore, we aim to take it a step further and develop our work and expanded to other markets, our local community grew as with CSR. well, and our local engagement is now exceeding the Danish borders. In 2016, we decided to join UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). We selected three SDGs, which are significantly In the following, you can read about our work with CSR through relevant to Pressalit’s core business and company culture. 2017. Join us in our continuous journey towards improved The selected SDGs include #4 Quality Education, #6 Clean sustainability. Water and Sanitation and #12 Responsible Consumption and Production. At Pressalit, we want to back our words up with actions. Therefore, during 2017, we initiated a line of diverse projects and collaborations. These serve the purpose of showing our commitment to these three SDGs. In addition, we have joined forces with UNICEF in order to create awareness about the problems that poor sanitation cause. 5 6 A DIVERSE WORKFORCE A diverse workforce is the backbone of Pressalit. The founders saw potential in people, when others did not and these people became trusted employees. Today, we build on the idea that everybody has a potential in Pressalit and we see the diversity in gender, age and education as a strength. We recruit broadly from all layers and corners of the labour market as well as the educational sector because we are convinced that diversity is important, when new ideas are made. In addition to Global Compact’s focus on human rights and diversity, we have taken further measurements and implemented a diversity spectrum. The spectrum is divided into eleven areas that represent the areas in which Pressalit actively works to ensure diversity. Each department has chosen three areas of focus that they in particular will work with. At Pressalit, we have four values: We Listen, We Give, We Play and We Act. Our values have been dug out from underneath the surface. These values make room for the endless differences we have and connect us together. We listen, because we respect other people and their opinion as differences make us stronger. We play in an ever-changing world, where we allow space to think outside the box. We give and you receive. In the interaction between you and the organisation, knowledge and experience are shared. In a cooperation, we are always ready to challenge the status quo. We act and we are aware of where we are going, to always create more value and never settle for the next best thing. Our values give us the courage to do better. 7 THE PULSE OF PRESSALIT – AN EMPLOYEE SURVEY To secure our employees’ influence, Pressalit measures the This year, 90% of the workforce answered 53 questions. This pulse of the organisation with an employee survey. The year’s average result was slightly less satisfying than the results employees are asked about their job-satisfaction and how they from last year. For instance, the “Will vs. Can ability”-score has experience Pressalit’s way of collaborating – both in their own decreased marginally. We assume that this is due to the chandepartment and across the organisation. The employees are ges, which we are implementing to optimize our processes. also asked about their motivation, goals, effort and development In spite of the rather good results of the 2017 survey, we still at Pressalit. The pulse survey makes it possible for Pressalit to aim to improve the results in 2018. benchmark the employees’ work satisfaction and to identify where we can make improvements. One of the factors we measure is the employees’ “Will vs. Can ability”. Are they satisfied and motivated in their jobs? And do they have the necessary competencies and opportunities to perform their work tasks? Results 2016 Results 2017 8 A DIVERSE PLACE TO WORK Related to SDG #4 Quality Education we have a great ambition Besides EGU apprentices, we also have several other apprento give young people the opportunity for an education regardtices and trainees hired in our Sales Department, Technical less of their background and preferably as part of their employSupport, and Supply Chain. We continuously try to create ment with us. We gladly participate in making them ready for the further possibilities for apprentices and trainees to ensure that future. more students have the opportunity to finish their education. EMPLOYEES HIRED ON SPECIAL TERMS INTERNS A substantial part of our social responsibility is focused on hiring Each semester, we take in interns from educational institutions employees on special terms. These employments range from across the country. We offer work placement in most of our EGU apprentices to people in flexible employment. Employees departments and in the Autumn semester 2017, we had nine hired on special terms mainly make up our Facility Service. It interns divided between HR, Marketing, Purchasing, Product is an active decision to maintain the Facility Service functions Development, Product Management and Production Technique. in-house in order to offer employment on special terms as part They receive an internship filled with learning, responsibility of our social responsibility. In 2017, arround 8% of our workforand practical experience, which prepares them for the labour ce is hired on special terms and we have an ambition to mainmarket. Last year, Pressalit was recognised for its efforts by tain this level. To ensure learning and success for the individual, being named East-Jutland’s best internship company. This is a we underline the importance of a stable foundation through title that we actively pursue in the future. As a company, we also strong relations with colleagues and the manager. Together with gain a lot from the interns’ contribution with the latest knowledthe apprentice, we tailor a process to the individual’s needs and ge and perspectives. wishes. 9 IGU AND EDUCATION Pressalit has made a partnership with Skanderborg municipality They work their shifts in production and every Wednesday, they to take on the social responsibility of integrating refugees to the take Danish lessons. When they have acquired Danish language labour market. skills, they get an education as plant operator. IGU does not only give the trainees an education. Pressalit uses the program “We want take part in the common social to school existing employees, who need supplementary educaresponsibility because we as a company tion to meet the new requirements to uphold the standards at a want to embrace people with different production factory. The Minister of Immigration and Integration backgrounds. We fundamentally believe and Minister of Employment recognized the project for the that everyone has a talent, we just need positive results when they visited Pressalit in the summer, 2017. to discover it” Mette Dyhl Prola, Senior HR & Marketing Director at Pressalit. In a changing world, we find it important to have employees with an education and practical experience, but more importantly the The Integrational Education (IGU) is a way for refugees, who desire to work at Pressalit. Pressalit invests in the IGU trainees have lived in Denmark for no more than five years to get a job because we experience a change in the workforce, and we while they attend school. The IGU must include both a job and need new qualified labour, if we want to stay on top. Pressalit an education to ensure an understanding of the Danish labour and Skanderborg Municipality’s partnership is related to SDG #4 market. The IGU trainees are guaranteed work at Pressalit, while Quality Education and #17 Partnerships for change. The partwe provide them with the necessary education and practical nership does not only bring new knowledge to the workforce. experience. In 2017, Pressalit became a part of IGU and we The fact that our trainees come from different backgrounds and welcomed two IGU trainees. cultures adds strength to Pressalit. • IGU is a collaboration between the municipality and companies • The IGU is a 2-year education with a paid internship and educational schooling • To be an IGU you have to be between 18 and 40 and have the status of refugee. Pressalit has 2 IGU trainees until 2019 10 EMPLOYEE PRESENTATIONS Omar Shaikho Vickie Gregersen IGU Trainee, Plant Operator Trainee, Seats Sales In May 2017, Omar began his twoIn August 2016, Vickie started as a year internship at Pressalit. He works trainee in our Sales Department in as an operator in Pressalit Seats, Seats. Her traineeship ended in where he grinds, assembles, controls November 2017, but to give her as and packs seats. He likes that his long time as other trainees, she will working days are never alike due to the variation in his tasks. stay until August 18. Vickie manages several different tasks. She deals with orders, invoices, claims and communicates with Omar and his family fled Syria because of the civil war and customers, salespeople and colleagues across departments. came to Denmark three years ago. In Syria, Omar studied IT, worked as a quality inspector and did other small jobs. He likes Vickie is a commercial college student and she has worked in a to learn new things, which is also why he speaks five different store for eight years. She wanted to do something else but still languages. have the connection to administrative sale. She searched for a traineeship, but because of her former education and her time in As a part of Omar’s IGU traineeship, he acquires an education school, her traineeship was cut back a year. This challenged her as Plant Operator and receives Danish lessons, next to his job in offering companies the same as other trainees. as operator. After having worked at Pressalit, Omar has no doubt that Pressalit is the right place for him: Vickie is appreciative that Pressalit became her place of traineeship and she would not trade it for anything: ”I would really like to continue working at Pressalit, so if they want me to, I will stay for the next 10 years”. “I am happy to go to work every day because of my good colleagues and a general positive attitude. There is a huge Omar and his colleagues talk about the cultural differences variation in my daily tasks, which gives me so much between them, but Omar does not notice the differences once experience”. they start working Furthermore, Vickie describes Pressalit as her second family, When Omar finishes his IGU, he will have Danish language skills because Pressalit embraces everyone and you can be yourself. and an education as Plant Operator plus working experience. She feels valuable and that is why she wants to give something For Pressalit, Omar brings diversity and shows that we can back. learn from each other in spite of differences. Vickie’s story is an example of why Pressalit finds it important not only to focus on normal practices. Even though she has half a year less left of her traineeship, she contributes with something else, in this case professional experiences. 11 12 STOP WASTING FOOD! For several years, we have had our in-house kitchen, which We have made a deal with Daka Refood, who collects the food daily feeds our employees in Ry, through our lunch scheme and and recycles it into biogas hereafter. In 2017, we have collected meeting catering. All catering and menus are put together and 26 Refood buckets. One bucket is 120 litre which contains 50 produced by our kitchen staff with focus on ensuring a healthy kg leftovers. This means, that we have saved 1,869.2 kg CO2. and nourishing diet as well as a minimum waste of food. Every Friday, we serve a buffet where excess food from the week is The 16th of October was World Food Day. This year’s theme reused in new interesting dishes. This is one of the ways in was ‘zero hunger’, which is number two of FN’s sustainable which we try to reduce food waste. development goals. The world produces enough food to feed everyone. Even so, 800 million people suffer from hunger because one third of the food produced worldwide is lost or wasted. At Pressalit, we commemorated World Food Day by introducing another initiative to minimize our waste of food. Now our employees can bring home a treatbox every Friday, where they can bring home excess food from the past week. Employees can share the food with their families, friends or their dog – as long as we do not throw anything away. They can bring the food home in small boxes and be reminded that they support SDG 12, Responsible Consumption and Production, when taking home the food. This year, we have put further thought into our waste of food and have implemented new initiatives to stop it. In the last week of April, we celebrated Organic Week. This week, our kitchen placed a special focus on SDG #12: Responsible Consumption and Production, by building up the menu around local organic ingredients. We kicked off the week with live music in our canteen and ended the week with drawing ten winners of two tickets to NorthSide a festival that only serves organic food. In May, we started collecting organic rubbish from our food production and leftovers from the buffet. It means that our kitchen sorts the leftovers every day, when making food and our employees put their leftovers in a green bucket after eating. 13 INPUT AND OUTPUT In our production, optimising our processes is an ongoing Since our first certifications, we have kept focus hereupon and project with no expiration date. We always look for new ways this year we were recertified. This means that we meet the latest to improve. Doing so is an open dialogue with the people close standards for quality and environmental management. Some to the production. They bring the hands on knowledge that our of the significant changes related to ISO 14001 is the role of engineers use when they try to make changes in the production. the top management, which is now explained more explicitly. As a production company, we know that we have an impact on The top management must take ownership of the work with the planet. Therefore, we want to do better. We already made a essential environmental considerations to a greater extent than change in our lightning supply, and we recycle what we can of previously. The objective of this initiative is to ensure that the waste. However, we are not good enough to speak about our environmental management system is incorporated in the entire recycling processes. In 2018, we want to be. organisation. Furthermore, the new ISO 14001 focuses on onThe process in 2017 we have optimized is our waste of toilet going improvements and that the environmental effort remains seats declined in our quality control. We make sure that other optimized. At Pressalit, Mette Dyhl Prola, Senior HR & Marketing companies, who use the hard urea, reuse the declined seats. Director, is responsible for quality and environment. She is part A thirdpart company receives and reuses the urea, we cannot of the Strategic Management Team, which is composed by the reuse ourselves. top management. This means that our top management is always informed about the latest environmental initiatives and A new certification they can communicate it to the rest of the organisation. Thus, In 1993, we qualified for our first quality certification with ISO we ensure that we meet the new standards. 9001 and four years later, we obtained the ISO 14001 certification, which forms the basis of environmental management. 14 CHANGING PLACES The Changing Places Consortium was launched in 2006. The In relation to Pressalit’s business area Care, Pressalit aims to objective of Changing Places is to create accessible toilets in take part in disseminating the number of Changing Places toilets public spaces. These toilets serve to benefit the ¼ million peopworldwide and increase disabled people’s opportunities to be le in the world, who cannot use standard accessible bathrooms. out in the public, travel, etc. Changing Places enables disabled people to use facilities out Pressalit supports Changing Places and we are proud to prein the public, on equal terms as others. Disabled people often sent our products in several Changing Places facilities around have to do a lot of planning, before going out. In addition, many the world. During 2017, our products have been featured in disabled people cannot stay out for long due to the lack of several new facilities in: opportunities to use an accessible bathroom. These are all situations that can be avoided with the spread of Changing • USA Places toilets. • New Zealand • Australia We aim to continue our support for Changing Places facilities and promote accessibility in the year to come. A Changing Places facility is defined as a The space should be a minimum 12 m², “combined toilet, shower and changing room and include a peninsular toilet, washbasin, for use by people with complex and multiple height-adjustable adultsized changing bench, disabilities who require the help of up to two privacy screen and ceiling track hoist. assistants.” 15 WORLD’S BEST NEWS In spring 2017, Pressalit formed a collaboration with World’s Every year in September, WBN celebrates the positive changes Best News (WBN), which is an organisation that writes conwith a newspaper. This year, Pressalit was a part of the celebrastructive news related to UN’s SDG’s. WBN’s aim is to create tion and handed out newspapers ourselves. With a breakfast constructive journalism, which focus on positive progress and roll and a newspaper, we gave our employees the world’s best potentials within sustainability both nationally and globally. morning and made the world’s best lunch menu. We support the work of WBN because we share their ambition to create Based on the UN Global Goals, World’s Best News’ vision is to a sustainable world and communicating positive news about create awareness about the SDG’s and create a more nuanced responsibility. Throughout the last year, Pressalit has established image of the world’s problems. WBN aims to report both sides partnerships, which support several SDG’s. We believe that if of the story by viewing every source critically but with an open more people know how valuable their support is, even more mind. The world is getting better and WBN wants to report people might join the movement. stories of change to make up for the negative representation in other news. 16 17 LOCAL GOING GLOBAL Pressalit’s local involvement is a long-standing tradition but we To prevent misunderstandings, Pressalit took a step towards also understand that we must look beyond local involvement a collective understanding by giving the right tools for efficient when it comes to social challenges. Globalization pushes the communication across countries, through the establishment borders of Pressalit’s engagement. of a new intranet. The objective of the new intranet is to streamline Pressalit’s communication. All the content is the same To be a global company is challenging because different cultuworldwide and you can access the same information across res have to work together. There may not appear to be many nationality and department. In addition, all information is in differences, but under the surface, different work cultures can English, which enables all our employees to stay informed on be difficult to navigate in. This year, Pressalit has actively worked equal terms. The former corporate intranet has been the plattowards an understanding of cultural differences as a strength form for information for years, but has not supported Pressalit to the company, where the mind-set is international. Managers as an international organisation. Through the launch of the new have acquired competences to cope with the differences. They intranet, Pressalit has improved the digital standards for the are given a collective understanding of working with others and employees. they are open for the misunderstandings that a global workplace implicates. Better technical workspace and innovation ensure the employees the best IT features to improve our standards of decent work. 18 PRESSALIT JOINS FORCES WITH UNICEF In 2017, Pressalit joined forces with UNICEF. We believe that UNICEF has visited Pressalit regarding the new cooperation. every child has the right to sanitation and to provide improved Here, our employees had the opportunity to gain insight into the sanitation around the world, we now support UNICEF. Today, partnership and how Pressalit makes a difference for vulnerable 2.3 billion people do not have access to basic sanitation and children. 892 million people practice open defecation. Consequently, diseases related to poor sanitation and poor water conditions are between the most frequent reasons behind death among children under the age of five today. “The overall purpose of this collaboration with UNICEF is to create awareness about the numerous problems that poor sanitation causes” Mette Dyhl Prola, Senior HR & Marketing Director at Pressalit. 19 EVENTS RELATED TO UNICEF AND UN 11 OCTOBER: INTERNATIONAL DAY OF THE GIRL One of the main reasons why girls stay away from school is lack of proper sanitation. Girls staying away from school slows down the process of gender equality. For every 10% increase in female literacy, there is an increase of 10% in life expectancy at birth, and around 0.3% of economic growth. At the International Day of the Girl, Pressalit highlighted the development towards equal opportunities in education and freedom for girls. 19 NOVEMBER: WORLD TOILET DAY Pressalit wants to create awareness about the negative consequences of poor sanitation in relation to World Toilet Day. World Toilet Day is about inspiring action to tackle the global sanitation crisis. This year, we held an in-house event for our employees and families called World Toilet Day Toilet Race. Several departments participated in the race on electric toilets. At the event, we also had a tombola where we raised money for UNICEF in connection with our new collaboration. Last year, UNICEF provided clean water and basic sanitation for 30 million people and we want to increase that number. It was a day with great fun and an important cause. 20 NOVEMBER: CHILDREN’S DAY How do we change the world through education? This was the question of Children’s Day 2017, which Pressalit attended in UN City, Copenhagen. The objective of Children’s Day is to increase the focus on children’s rights. This year’s theme was to ensure the quality of education for everyone, an issue that is in line with Pressalit’s work with SDG #4: Quality Education. 20 PARASPORT Since 2001, Pressalit has been a sponsor of Parasport Denmark. This year, we have prolonged our sponsorship with Parasport Denmark until the 2020 Paralympics in Tokyo. For the next 3,5 years, we will support the athletes in their preparation through Pressalit Sports Academy (PSA). PSA is a line of seminars, which are held a couple of times every year on different locations in Denmark. PSA is built up around specialized courses that are relevant to the selected Danish para-athletes. The courses include topics, such as: nutrition, physical training, sports psychology and media training. Additionally, Pressalit continued its personal sponsorship of the three para athletes: Jonas Larsen (swimming), Daniel Wagner (athletics) and Stinna Kaastrup (riding). These athletes have achieved extraordinary results throughout their careers. Furthermore, they reflect the essence of Pressalit Care’s mantra: “Keep Living”. These athletes show everyone that disabilities do not have to be a barrier in life and that diversity is a strength as well. “Besides from the logical connection between Parasport Denmark’s members and Pressalit’s products, which increase the accessibility for disabled people, diversity is also a core value at Pressalit” Dan Boyter, Director and Board Member at Pressalit. Pressalit’s work with Parasport Denmark, Pressalit Sports Academy and the athletes we sponsor is a partnership in line with Pressalit’s core value: diversity. Furthermore, the aim of this partnership is to increase equality and create awareness around Parasport and the many possibilities they provide people with. For example, we have done this by highlighting Parasport’s Day in September. 21 HOP-IN PROJECT In Denmark, there is a large lack of qualified skilled labour. Not “At Pressalit, we find it vital that young adults enough young people choose a vocational education. This is get a broad picture of the business world and partly because they are ill-informed about the implications of the many aspects it implies. We seek to give the education and which career options a vocational education young adults an informed ground for making results in. their choice of education. In addition, we aim to ensure qualified labour for the Danish job In collaboration with Skanderborg Municipality, Pressalit took market now and on long term”, part in the HOP-IN project. This project allowed 6’th graders Mette Dyhl Prola, Senior HRand Marketing Director at Pressalit. to visit Pressalit and it provided them with a chance to solve a case, which gave them insight into what you can work The project culminated with the students presenting their with, when you finish a vocational education. The task was constructions at an event, where the mayor of Skanderborg to construct the best toilet seat, with help from some of Municipality and Pressalit’s Product Development Manager and Pressalit’s experts. This was a relevant case, as it is an issue Senior HRand Marketing Director elected the winner. in several Danish schools that students will not use the toilets, By introducing the students to such a case, the aim was to give because they find them unsanitary. This is problematic, because them a more enlightened view on what a career with a vocait causes some students to suffer from incontinence. In addition, tional education implies. Ultimately, the project seeks to solve better sanitation is also one of the aims of our collaboration with the labour issue as well as providing the students with better UNICEF and SDG #6. information and experience to base their choice of education on later. 22 THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT Christmas at Pressalit is always unique and 2017 was no Our employees say that it is an enriching experience for them exception. Like in the past several years, we placed Christmas both personally and professionally. Besides the Christmas dintrees around in the company, which children from Ry day care ner for the homeless, we make annual donations to help people came and decorated with their homemade decorations. One at Christmas together with Lions Club Ry. The Christmas help is of our employees dressed up as Santa, and the children made given to extend a helping hand during the holiday to people in drawings of their Christmas wishes for him. We also hosted a need in our local area. Christmas party for our employees and families, where Santa arrived in a horse carriage and brought candy for the children. In November 2016, Pressalit won 3F´s honorary award. With the There was a Christmas choir and together we sang and danced award came 25,000 DKK, which we asked our employees how around the Christmas tree. to spend. The employees decided to give the money to “Julemærkefonden”, which helps children fight bullying, loneliness It is not only at Pressalit that Christmas is special. For the last and obesity. In February 2017, CEO Kim Boyter presented the nine years, we have been delighted to invite the homeless for check to Vice Principal Klaus Rasmussen. Christmas dinner and fellowship at the drop-in center in Aarhus. The day is organized by our employees, who volunteer to spend their workday preparing and serving the Christmas dinner. It is a popular event among both the homeless and the employees; in fact, it is such a popular event among our employees that there are more volunteers than needed every year. 23 CSR 2018 GOALS FOR OUR EFFORTS IN 2018: • We will continue partnerships with NGO’s and associations and identify at least 1 new potential collaboration. • Enter partnership with UNICEF. • We aim to enter one or more relevant partnerships with NGO’s or associations. • We want to launch at least three new initiatives that specifically support the global goals number 4, 6 and 12. • We work for the expansion of decent and proper sanitation nationally and globally and we aim to improve the sanitary conditions for the 2.3 billion people, who do not have access to basic sanitation. • Maintain and expand the diversity of our range of interns. We want to reach further than Eastern Jutland. • Maintain a level of at least 5%of employees on special terms. • Reduce our environmental impact, cf. our annual environmental accounts. • We aim to increase the average score of the pulse survey. The aim for the “Can”-score is 75 and the aim for the “Will”-score is 80. • We aspire to obtain the working environment certification. Pressalit A/S • Pressalitvej 1 • 8680 Ry, Denmark • T: +45 8788 8788 • pressalit@pressalit.com www.pressalit.com 24
