2017 REPORT TO SOCIETY SUSTAINABILITY R E I M AG I N I N G soci E tal v alues About this report I n 2008, KCB Group launched the first vision as a bank. We are reimagining what we Sustainability Report demonstrating believe a bank can and should offer towards the Bank’s commitment to social the path to sustaining the trust of all our and environmental concerns while still stakeholders including investors, employees, supporting our customers in meeting their and customers through transparent and financial ambitions. responsible banking. As the largest financial service provider in This report has been prepared in accordance Eastern Africa, we play a fundamental role with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRIin society by lending money to people and 4) framework, the most recognized and businesses and investing capital on behalf of comprehensive guidelines for sustainability our customers to achieve good risk-adjusted reporting globally. The summarized version returns. Therefore, integrating sustainability is in the KCB Group Integrated Report. perspectives in these activities is both an opportunity and a responsibility for our To download a copy of the report please visit business. the KCB website at www.kcbbankgroup.com In this fifth report for the year 2017, we are taking a look back over the progress we have Contact Us: made in the last 10 years. The integration Company Name: of Sustainability into our business has been KCB Group PLC progressive and steadily internalized by our employees, customers and the wider Address of Headquarters: stakeholders in the industry. Through the KENCOM House, Moi Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya lens of sustainability, we highlight the Post Code: 48400-00100 GPO business activities for the year aligned to our 10-point Action Point Plan that constitutes Tel: 254 (20)327000 | +254 (711) 087000 | also our material issues. In addition, we +254 (732) 187000 have included the environmental and social SMS: 22522 risk governance for our clients who have also shared their journey towards internalization Website: www.kcbgroup.com of sustainability into their business that has Email: contactcentre@kcbgroup.com led to their growth. Contact Department: The report also highlights the progress made Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Division in integrating Sustainable Development We value feedback and welcome any Goals (SDGs) in Kenya and across all our comments or suggestions you might International Businesses in Tanzania, South have on our sustainability report and our Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. performance, which can help us improve The elaborate process of engaging all our our reporting. Please contact us at employees across the business to identify sustainability@kcbgroup.com eight goals that were aligned to our strategic PAGE 2 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We are reimagining what we believe a bank can and should offer. Over the past decade, we have stretched ourselves to operate beyond societal expectations. And we are challenging the notion of banking as we know it, to uphold the values that matter most. OUR 2017 REPORT TO SOCIETY PAGE 3 REIMAGINING societal values Editor-in-Chief Special Thanks to: Disclaimer Judith Sidi Odhiambo Anne Mathenge The entire content of this publication is Charllotte Obado protected by copyright laws. Reproduction Editor Russel Mwadena in part or whole requires express written Peter Mwaura Irene Wambui Odhiambo consent from the publisher. Project Editors Peter Swaka Harun Kiogora Donald Kogai © May 2018 Jacob Unda Felix Okwany PAGE 4 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF Content About this Report.........................................................................2 Regional Footprint and Presence...............................................6 Societal impact results and business highlights.......................7 Group Chairman’s Statement ....................................................8 Group CEO and MD’s message.................................................10 About KCB and its road to creating shared value....................13 Material issues and strategic responses.................................25 Employee empowerment..........................................................33 Transforming the World through SDGs....................................39 Community Impact ...................................................................59 Customer testimonials .............................................................65 Embracing best practices.........................................................73 Measuring our Impact...............................................................81 Social Return on Investment.....................................................89 Product innovation highlights...................................................95 Moving forward........................................................................101 GRI compliance.......................................................................104 Acronyms.................................................................................106 PAGE 5 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s REgional footprint and presence KCB Bank Kenya Ltd KCB Bank South Sudan (Ethiopia Representative Ofﬁce) KCB Bank Uganda KCB Bank Kenya KCB Insurance Agency KCB Bank Rwanda KCB Foundation KCB Capital KCB Bank Burundi KCB Bank Tanzania KShs. 105b PAGE 6 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Societal impact results and business highlights KShs. 61.3b KShs. 8.7b KShs. 512.6m KShs. 528m KShs. 29.6b PAGE 7 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Group Chairman’s Statement Reimagining societal values to maintain our relevance tomorrow K CB has been in business for over 120 years. And, as East Africa’s leading financial services provider, our goal is to maintain our relevance into the next century. The Group longevity cannot be attributable to its financial success alone. Its strength rather, lies in its ability to adjust the lens through which it views its responsibility to society. In this way, we are reimagining what we believe a bank can, and should, offer its staff, clients, community and shareholders. Over the past decade, we have stretched ourselves to think outside the box, while challenging the notion of a typical financial services provider. Underlying all that we do are the important goals of attaining equality for all – rich or poor, men or women, young or old – and eliminating poverty. These are not attainable by ourselves alone. But by working in partnership with other like-minded organizations and government, they are achievable. Many of our new products and services provide bottom up solutions that are relevant, effective, successful and sustainable. This sets us apart from internationally-based lenders, who are typically more risk averse in such offerings due in some cases to a more limited view of the opportunities available within a society. We are now commemorating 10 years of sustainability integration into our overall business operations. The journey has been defined not only by our financial responsibilities, but also by our ability to balance our business goals with larger development priorities and socio-environmental concerns. The Group has therefore worked tirelessly to bring financial services innovation and community-driven responses to the most vulnerable persons. Most recently, the Group formally launched the process of integrating achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals into operational goals. The SDGs, as they are commonly known, provide us with a new way of looking at how our business is contributing to the needs and ambitions of developing the international community as a whole. PAGE 8 22 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability is not a new concept for business leaders around the world, those who have taken a holistic approach to understanding the potential opportunities in the face of risks, are more likely to be the front-runners of tomorrow.” — Ngeny Biwott As a result, they are also selves accountable to the highest services which customers and challenging us to provide new standards of governance throughshareholders have come to expect solutions that further help out our operations. We will push from KCB. This report provides anticipate consumer needs and technology to the limit in order to further insight into the process, enhance our position as a market bring innovative financial products how the SDGs go hand-in-hand leader, while allowing us to better and services. This is essential to with our strategy, and what we hope manage our risks. adding value to the society and will to achieve in the coming years. remain so moving forward. We have confirmed that embracing On behalf of KCB Group, we wish and blending environmental and It has also allowed us an opportunity to thank you for picking up this 5th social aspects of sustainability has to transition to a green economy by anniversary edition of Our Report enabled the bank to drive stronger financing projects that accelerate to Society. We hope it is inspiring business performance over the last greening and support clients and that it helps jumpstart the decade. that provide practical solutions conversation beyond the Group to environmental and social to boardrooms and organizations We do appreciate that sustainability challenges in the market. throughout the region. Such has enabled us to generate revenue, dialogue is essential to safeguarding manage costs, attract talent and We have therefore spent the past what we value most in our society. future-proof our business. year reflecting upon how the Group can make the greatest contribution Ngeny Biwott To ensure we maintain this momento achieving these goals, while Group Chairman tum, we will continue to hold ourmaintaining the level of quality PAGE 9 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Group CEO and MD’s message The bottom line is that if we do not invest in our society today, our business will not be around tomorrow. Reducing inequalities and eliminating poverty are essential to the future success of our society whether we are in East Africa or anywhere else in the world.” – Joshua Oigara Reflecting on a decade of redefining banking expectations O ver the past decade, KCB Group has aimed at providing opportunities in enterprise development and education to those who made considerable progress in terms would otherwise be left without. Over 10,000 of redefining herself to be more to people have received vocational skill building support through our 2Jiajiri program alone. our stakeholders than just a lender. Meanwhile, over 13 million customers have We have made a concerted effort to step access to competitively priced loans through beyond societal expectations of solely offering our KCB M-PESA platform which processed services in return for profit, to building longloans worth over KShs. 40 billion by the end of term relationships necessary to offer the latest 2017, with an average loan size of KShs.2,450, technology and create innovative solutions to we have enabled greater access to financial reach customers previously left behind. services to many including the non-banked In 2007, we launched KCB Foundation. To individuals. Last year alone, over KShs.580 date, we have invested an estimated KShs. 1 million was paid out to policyholders of KCB billion in customized community programs Insurance Agency. PAGE 10 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT rate capping. This may have deterred many organizations from pursuing their sustainability-related goals, but it should not. At KCB, our experience is that these goals are central to seizing opportunities that lead to better business in both the short and long-term. We believe responsible business is about establishing and nurturing the foundation of growth for the next generation. This year, the Group underwent an internal stakeholder engagement to determine how it could best integrate the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals into its operations. We started by identifying the goals which most closely aligned with our current strategy, its sustainability-related material matters and where we would like to position KCB in the future. As a result of this process, the Group adopted eight of the seventeen SDGs. These are the goals upon which the Group believes it can, and will continue, to have the greatest impact over the next three to five years. We are therefore challenging ourselves to work towards contributing to the relevant targets within these goals. We are also committing ourselves to three larger initiatives, which The Group has also ramped up its include launching our first green bond international participation in sustainabilityby 2020, attaining carbon neutrality and related forums to share our experiences, providing products which increase access while learning from others and adopting to finance for all by 2027. Our hope is that relevant best practices. We launched our if we lead by example, others in region will first Sustainability Report in 2008, which follow. helped pave the way for the launch of the It is thanks to our stakeholders—staff, our first Integrated Report in 2015. clients, shareholders, suppliers, and We believe we have reached this success government—that we are here today. We because we had the foresight to think invite them and challenge them to join us outside the box by challenging the notion of in not only envisioning the society in which what a financial institution should provide they wish to operate, but in solidifying their and embracing what it values most. In contributions to its improvement as well. recent years, our industry has witnessed Joshua Oigara increasing regulatory requirements and Group CEO and MD industry challenges, such as the interest PAGE 11 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 12 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT road to creating shared valuE PAGE 13 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s road to creating shared valuE Our Mission Our journey T To drive efficiency whilst growing market share in he oldest financial institution in East Africa, KCB has not always order to be the preferred been known via the three letters that have gained it such global financial solutions provider recognition today. in Africa with global reach At the time it first launched from January 1, 2016 – and all operations in Zanzibar, Tanzania KCB regional units in Tanzania, Our Vision in 1896, it was then known as a South Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, To be the preferred financial branch of the National Bank of Burundi and a representative solutions provider in Africa India. After entering the Kenyan office in Ethiopia. It also owns KCB market eight years later, it would be Insurance Agency, KCB Capital, with global reach almost another 70 years before the KCB Foundation and all associate government of Kenya would acquire companies. Our Purpose a 100 percent stake in the company Simplifying your world to and rename it, Kenya Commercial The holding company was set up Bank Limited. to, among other things, enhance enable your progress the Group capacity to access During the next five decades, KCB unrestricted capital. In addition, Our mission expanded throughout the East it also enables investment in African region. Today, registered new ventures outside banking vision and purpose strive to as a non-operating holding regulations, enhances operational create shared value for our company, “KCB Group Plc” started and strategic autonomy for the stakeholders. operations as a licensed banking Group operating entities, improves institution on January 1, 2016. The corporate governance across the holding company oversees KCB Group, as well as oversight in Kenya – incorporated with effect management of its subsidiaries. PAGE 14 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Stakeholders PAGE 15 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s 1896 1904 KCB starts operations KCB extends operations to Nairobi OUR 122yeAR J OU R NE Y 1 1896 – The Beginning KCB, Eastern Africa’s oldest and largest commercial bank started its operations in Zanzibar 7 1997 – First Subsidiary KCB Tanzania opened first branch in Tanzania as a branch of National Bank of India. 8 2003 – KCB Rebrands Rebranded to KCB Bank Limited 2 1904 – The East African Railway The bank extended its operation to Nairobi, which had become the headquarters of the 9 2006 – KCB South Sudan KCB entered South Sudan market making it the expanding railway line to Uganda first Kenyan Bank to invest in the new country 3 1957 – The Merger Grindlays Bank merged with the National Bank 8 2007 – KCB Uganda & KCB Foundation KCB opened its first branch in Uganda | KCB Foundation was launched of India to form the National and Grindlays Bank which upon independence was to spearhead the economic empowerment of local citizens. 4 1970 – Government Acquisition The Government of Kenya acquired majority shareholding and changed the name to Kenya Commercial Bank 5 1972 – KCB acquires S&L In order to provide 2017 KCB selects and adopts 8 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) access to home ownership, the bank acquired Savings and Loan (K) Ltd, the largest mortgage finance company. 6 1988 – KCB IPO The Government sold 20% of its shares at NSE through an IPO that saw 120,000 new shareholders come on board PAGE 16 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Nairobi 1957 Grindlays Bank merges with the National Bank of India to form the National 1970 and Grindlays Bank The Government of Kenya acquires majority shareholding and changes the name to Kenya Commercial Bank 1988 The Government offloads 20% of its shares at NSE through IPO bringing on board 120,000 new shareholders 10 2008 – KCB Rwanda KCB entrance to Rwanda | Launch of the first KCB sustainability Report | KCB 12 2012 – KCB Burundi KCB completed its Eastern African Regional presence with the opening of implemented T24 core banking system the KCB Bank Burundi in all countries of operation 11 2011 – KCB Posts Record profits KCB posted a record KShs. 15.1 Billion 13 2015 – KCB spreads into Ethiopia Launch of Representative office in Ethiopia trading profit making it the most profitable bank in Eastern Africa. 14 2017 – KCB adopts UN SDGs KCB Executive Committee approved the selection and adoption of 8 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) PAGE 17 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s 2009 KCB launched its Green Agenda. The environmental blue-print guided KCB’s focus on issues related to waste 2011 2007 management, carbon and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as global warming. KCB pioneered agent banking (KCB Mtaani) an alternative channel aimed at supporting the available channel KCB Foundation established to implement the Group’s network of branches and ATMs | Launched internet corporate social responsibility programs and as a banking solutions.. sign of commitment to sustainable development to alleviate poverty and enhance well-being. 2012 2008 KCB launched its Launch of KCB’s first Sustainability Report. Showing the Diaspora Banking world that it was ready to share how it aimed to meet such goals and that it was holding itself accountable for such | 2010 KCB Insurance Agency Ltd Launched Tuungane Account for women and youth groups. commenced business. The road to creating shared value… The KCB Group approved its Social repayment periods ranging from and Environmental Management one to six months. System (SEMS) in March 2015. Later that same year, KCB began KCB Sahl Banking was introduced to utilize the provisions of the SEMS in April 2015. In an effort to meet in assessing loans above KShs 500 the growing demand for Islamic million and trained 50 key staff on financial products across the East environmental and social risks African region, KCB introduced the assessment. Sharia-compliant products as part of the Group long-term vision to Twenty years ago, there The SEMS helps identify ways in embrace innovation to reach more which clients may contribute to citizens across the region, who was little talk of sustainability reducing waste, maximize efficient have been otherwise left out of the except perhaps with respect to use of resources, reduce social and traditional banking system. the concept of inclusion. Over environmental risk and improve the past four years however, the overall sustainability of operations. In November, KCB partnered with intensity with which the topic the Alliance for a Green Revolution Also in March that same year, KCB in Africa (AGRA) on a project largehas become mainstreamed into Group partnered with Safaricom ly funded by the Mastercard Founour conversations has become to launch a new mobile banking dation to develop and implement a apparent. Sustainability is no product enabling customers to platform that enables smallholder longer a strange topic. It has obtain loans using their mobile farmers across the East African rebecome embedded in the way we do phones and pay at a rate of 2 gion to access credit, savings, and percent per month. KCB M-PESA, insurance immediately through things and the way we think.” as it is known, offers loans with their mobile phones. Known as KCB – KCB Group Chief Operating Officer Samuel Makome PAGE 18 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 KCB launched its Sustainability Framework. Centred around four key pillars—financial, economic, social and environmental sustainability— outlining ways in which corporate strategy could helping the Group drive revenue, reduce costs, risks and build on its brand and reputation. 2015 2017 KCB Group approved its Social and EnvironAdopted Sustainable mental Management System (SEMS) Development Goals 2014 2016 KCB signed onto UN Global Compact |KCB M-Benki was Launch of KCB rolled out | KCB Foundation launched Mifugo Ni Mali 2Jiajiri Program | program | Biashara Smart in partnership with Safaricom | Inua Program launched. KShs. 850 million availed to SMEs in the health sector. Mobigrow, the banking system also among other things, introduced the report, integrated reporting aims links smallholders to other players vetting of influential nonsignificant to more fully communicate how across the agricultural value chains shareholders and amended the KCB manages its long-term value from inputs to markets thereby Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money creation by taking an integrated boosting their creditworthiness. Laundering Act, thereby requiring approach to both traditional risks and permitting the seeking of and greater sustainability risks. At the Second CEO Roundtable information and documents related on Sustainable Finance held on to the financing of terrorism. The same year, KCB launched a March 31, 2015, the Kenya banking five year Women in Leadership industry, through its umbrella body, Meanwhile, the Group also Program to encourage women Kenya Bankers Association (KBA), prepared itself for compliance with within the Group to apply for and adopted the Sustainable Finance the Companies Act, 2015, aimed at assume leadership roles within the Initiative (SFI) Guiding Principles. enhancing corporate governance. company. These principles enable banks The Act does this by increasing to balance their business goals the responsibilities and skill In March 2016, KCB Foundation with the economy’s development requirements for board members to launched 2Jiajiri, a job creation priorities and socio-environmental enhance accountability of company initiative targeted at today’s youth concerns. boards. operating within the informal sector. The initiative aims to provide In addition to new partnerships, In 2015, implementation of the beneficiaries with the vocational the year saw increased scrutiny requirements surrounding the and enterprise development skills within Kenya’s banking industry Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2012 necessary to drive employment and following the closure of two banks and the Persons with Disability wealth creation in select sectors, by the regulator due to unsound Act, 2003 also began. The year such as agricultural enterprise, aubanking practices. At the same further marked the launch of the tomotive engineering, construction, time, KCB worked to comply with first Integrated Report. Stepping beauty and domestic services. The the Finance Act, 2015 (which, beyond its traditional annual initiative also launched the televiPAGE 19 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s sion series, “Lion’s Den,” which features promiscollective voice to advocate for greater awareness ing entrepreneurs pitching their business ideas to of women’s vital economic roles as consumers, a panel of successful entrepreneurs who will evalinvestors and job-creating entrepreneurs. uate them for possible funding opportunities. The year also saw KCB partner with UnionPay KCB announced a partnership with the MasterCard International to roll out the UnionPay Prepaid Foundation in 2016 to promote financial inclusion Travel Mate Card. Using near field communication for at least two million smallholder farmers and technology, the card enables the user to make pastoralists in Kenya and Rwanda, 60 percent of payments quickly without the need to even swipe whom are female. Through the partnership, KCB the card, showcasing the next generation in pledged to extend mobile-based financial services payment processing. Perhaps more importantly, to some of the most excluded rural populations the technology is highly secure, eliminating most of Kenya and Rwanda. MasterCard and KCB each risks inherent in electronic payments. pledged to contribute US$ 15 million to the effort. In September 2017, KCB Group CEO, Joshua KCB also formally became known as KCB Group Oigara, as the only CEO from the African continent, Limited in 2016 when it became registered as a attended the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit non-operating holding company to oversee all in New York where he participated in a panel KCB regional units including KCB Bank Burundi, discussion on how today’s business leaders have, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and can continue to, embed sustainable practices and Uganda. It also owns KCB Insurance Agency, into their philosophy and operations. This further KCB Capital, KCB Foundation and all associate helps demonstrate that leadership and innovation companies. is coming from within the continent, combined with learnings and adoption from global experience. The Group joined the Global Banking Alliance for Women in 2016. Membership in the Alliance provides The year also saw the beginning of the UN financial institutions access to a unique global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) integration community of peers that have proven the business process. During the year, KCB underwent an case for serving women. Membership provides internal stakeholder engagement to determine a wide range of services to help organizations which of the 17 SDGs most closely align with KCB design, implement and refine effective women’s vision and strategy. Those selected are outlined in market programs. The Alliance also seeks to use its this report. In 2017, we began a portfolio review to identify customers with potential for refinancing or funding through a green bond program. Moving forward we are also looking to expand our corporate portfolio in green lending, such as through financing more green buildings and cleaner technologies in line with international green standards.” Solar panel installations – KCB Director Corporate Banking Moezz Mir PAGE 20 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Governance Framework The Group sustainability framework is executed as outlined in the diagram below: Oversight • KCB Group Board • Board Strategy Committee Working Group • Risk Committee • Group CEO • Business unit • KCB Subsidiary representatives Managing Directors on sustainability related matters. Role 1. Review, challenge, approve sustainability framework and strategy 2. Ensure resource availability for Implementation of sustainability Strategy Daily Management Implementation • Sustainability • Chief Operating Officer Manager • Chief Financial Officer • Head of Credit/ • Director Information Social and Technology Environmental • Head of Corporate & Manager Regulatory Affairs Communication • Director Credit & Monitoring Role • Chief Risk Officer 1. Responsible for the day • Director Human • KCB Legal Division to day running of all Resources • KCB Group Corporate sustainability programes • Company Secretary Communication Department for KCB and key coordinator • Risk Division with different units in • KCB Group Internal Audit getting the periodic reports. Role 1. Leadership and implementation of 2. Monitoring sustainability Role initiative across the the sustainability strategy. 1. Organizing and facilitating an Internal and business. 2. Development of innovative external comms, strategy on KCB program products and services that promote to stakeholders. sustainability. 2. Sustainability Provide proactive monitoring persuasive guidance and, Reporting on the overall Sustainability risks. PAGE 21 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Brand positioning KCB Bank Kenya carried out a Corporate Reputation benchmarking among local and global peers. By Index survey in 2017 to gauge on reputation of the bank tracking the bank’s overall reputation index enables us from thought leaders in the market and influencers. to plan well on programmes and activities to be adopted The survey focussed on five areas which include: to address the weak points. advocacy, trust, favourability, familiarity and awareness CORPORATE REPUTATION INDEX: 83.5% All companies average 55.7%; Banks average 52.7% ADVOCACY: 69% All companies average 40%; Banks average 38% TRUST: 87% All companies average 56%; Banks average 50% FAVOURABILITY: 81% All companies average 53%; Banks average 50% AWARENESS & FAMILIARITY: 97% All companies average 75%; Banks average 72% PAGE 22 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY KCB Towers: Setting the trend in green building technology Solar panels Fitted with solar panels to reduce the consumption of power Water harvesting Facilities for rainwater harvesting and greywater recycling have been= installed Natural lighting Design incorporates use of natural lighting during the day Ventilation Tapping of natural ventilation with no mechanical systems employed Energy efficiency Low wattage energy saving technology is employed Atrium An atrium and triple storey landscaped sky courts allows for natural ventilation PAGE 23 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 24 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT material issues and strategic responses PAGE 25 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s Sustainability material issues and strategic responses K CB Group is committed to doing its part to help safeguard our society. It is embracing innovation by leveraging technology and foresight to create financial products and solutions with the greatest reach. It has built and will continue to build upon its solid foundation through like-minded partnerships and sound governance, which are positioning it to take a lead in helping address the most relevant challenges the region faces. Factors affecting our economic, environmental and social impact Broadly speaking, our ability to create, preserve are likely to significantly impact our ability to and erode its economic, environmental and deliver in the short to long terms: social impact, depends on six identified main factors, based upon our knowledge of industry • Empowering youth and community trends and realities. These factors, often • Resource scarcity & environmental referred to as “material issues” have been, and challenges will continue to be, key drivers in influencing our sustainability strategy as they influence • Technology and innovation the company’s ability to deliver upon its • Cyber security economic, environmental, and social impacts. While representing potential risks as much as • Governance and integrity possible opportunities, the following themes • Strategic partnerships PAGE 26 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material issues defined i) Empowering youth and community country’s GDP comes from agriculture, mining, It is no secret that management across the busiforestry, and fishing. Over the past year alone, ness world faces constant pressure to make their severe water shortages brought upon by climate businesses thrive. Most often essential to this goal change in many parts of the region were just as is the ability to attract new customers, in addition unfortunately, counterbalanced with rampant to retaining existing ones. With today’s youth popuflooding elsewhere. Meanwhile, domestic and inlation, those 35 years and younger, comprising over dustrial pollution, ongoing deforestation, soil ero75 percent of the population in Sub Saharan Africa, sion, desertification, and poaching have further KCB Group understands the value in supporting depleted our resources. As a result, livelihoods today’s youth to thrive, which in turn will support of more people today than ever before are more them in becoming potential bankable customlikely to be threatened due to some unforeseen ers tomorrow. In the same stead, the Group has event resource depletion. extended this approach to the community at large and aims to reach as many people as possible, including those individuals who would otherwise have been unable to access finance. In supporting youth and local communities today, KCB is further harnessing the opportunity to gain potential lifelong customers tomorrow. ii) Resource scarcity and environmental challenges Kenya’s economy is highly dependent on its natural resources base—more than 50 percent of the PAGE 27 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s It is therefore imperative efforts begin today to iv) Cyber security invest in mitigation and adaptation investments For as much as technology has simplified our which will lessen the negative effects. world, it has also brought with it important security-related challenges. It is therefore The world’s natural resources are a shared imperative KCB continue to meet these challenges good. It is important therefore that organizations head on by installing, monitoring and constantly assume responsibility in managing them upgrading our state of the art security systems responsibly. Internally, KCB Groups has, and will to safeguard the integrity of our systems and our continue to practice sound resource consumption customers’ personal data. In doing so, it boosts and management practices. It has also begun confidence in investors, customers and staff that working with its corporate clients to help them do their information and finances are secure. the same and is also placing strategic emphasis on further expanding its lending portfolio in v) Governance and integrity sectors that provide solutions to these challenges, A company or organization is only as good as such as green real estate, cleaner technologies those that it employs and those that it serves. It is relating to energy and water and climate smart therefore important for those operating within the agri-business practices. Its new product line banking sector to uphold themselves to the highest of Bancassurance products are further helping governance standards, both internally, as well as safeguard individual clients and small businesses when working with external stakeholders. This from such unforeseen circumstances. brings increased confidence to investors, customers and staff. Without abiding by such standards, iii) Technology and innovation companies are less likely to attract investors and are Today’s customers are smart and savvy. They more susceptible to opening themselves up to cases know what they want and when they want of theft, fraud and reputational risk. KCB Group has it. Businesses that do not innovate and find therefore built a strong, qualified Board of Directors, new solutions to help make lives easier are established a clear governance policy, board charter therefore at risk of losing potential and current and code of ethics to ensure it holds itself to the customers. KCB Group understands this. highest standards. Competition is fierce. We are therefore in the business of simplifying your world to enable your vi) Strategic partnerships progress. This has led us to harness the power of Across the world, companies are working together technology, including through the use of mobile with other like-minded companies to offer new phones to bring financial services directly to products and services as a way of meeting you. Our 2.9 million active mobile customers in customer demand. KCB Group is open to forming Kenya and in the region now have direct access to new partnerships which contribute to its overall financial services at their fingertips. vision of becoming the preferred financial solutions provider in Africa with global reach. PAGE 28 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Aligning strategy with material matters In general, company strategy is informed by industry risks and opportunities in relation to its The way in which KCB is associated with economic development and growth strengths and weaknesses. In terms of sustainability, these factors are has made us a trusted partner. We want to continue to see the success of markets directly reflected in the material in which we are involved from a sustainable growth perspective. We have therefore matters. Today, as more and more incorporated this aim into our strategy and will continue to do so moving forward.” organizations adopt sustainable – KCB Head of Strategy Reginald Kikwai practices, strategy becomes the main driver of the ways in which a company creates shared value as tions and technology, risk manageMaintaining the momentum of well. ment, regional markets, human reits journey, KCB strategy for sources and social relevance as key 2015 to 2019, with the theme of The past decade has seen KCB to the businesses’ future growth. “Transformative Partnerships,” Group integrate sustainability into became more people centric and its operations and overall business In 2011, aligned with its social relis based upon seven pillars. During strategy. While it has a philanthropic evance pillar, KCB launched its the midterm strategy review, the history which precedes the past ten “transformation journey” aimed Group assessed progress made at years, it formalized the Group CSR at maintaining our relevance into achieving its goals and reassessed activities when it launched KCB the coming decades by examining areas in which it should focus its Foundation in 2007. The birth of ways in which it could further delivenergies for realization the strategy. the Foundation was a component in er upon business growth, increase Over the next year, in addition to KCB strategy for 2005-2009. productivity, drive efficiency, rationother areas of focus, the Group alize costs, enhance stakeholder will expand upon its “customer Between 2010 and 2014, KCB stratvalue and launch KCB Group to the experience” pillar to focus more egy focused on the following pillars: next level. closely on the internal employee customer service, financial, operaexperience. KCB Transformative Partnerships KCB Strategy for 2015 2019 01 03 05 07 Customer Youth New Strategic Experience Agenda Businesses Partnerships Network Digital Information Spread Payments Technology 02 04 06 PAGE 29 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Material Issues in Summary Empowering youth & community In supporting youth and local communities today, KCB is further harnessing the opportunity to gain potential lifelong customers tomorrow. Resource scarcity & environmental challenges KCB Groups has, and will continue to practice sound resource consumption and management practices. Technology & innovation Our 2.9 million active mobile customers in Kenya and in the region now have direct access to financial services at their fingertips. Material Issues Cyber security KCB continue to meet these challenges head on by installing, monitoring and constantly upgrading our state of the art security systems Governance & integrity It is therefore important for those operating within the banking sector to uphold themselves to the highest governance standards, both internally, as well as when working with external stakeholders. Strategic partnerships KCB Group is open to forming new partnerships which contribute to its overall vision of becoming the preferred financial solutions provider in Africa with global reach PAGE 30 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Business Strategic Objectives Fi t. en n tec h. m nd n a iro nv . es or iti t e c i cul rfo es rv diffi r i l se ma nce. s pr Pe es ci a log sin n a ss y. e merging risks in Ch ch lly gr ow our digital fina no sin te rience. ion tro am xp bu e u E class informat r nger B ce in Custome pion our sustainable International Strategic Pillars Ma n ag emen len Be te st i Ex c n el Ex ieve pe S rie Ac h ntia How they all relate Relationship between material matters, SDGs and action plan Strategic partnerships 10 Point Action Plan Added-value partnerships Governance & integrity Portfolio reimagining Material Themes Responsible lending Safeguarding Ethics & integrity our society Cyber security Cyber security awareness & fortification Technology & innovation Product development & innovation Embracing innovation Building solid through technology and foundations and foresight addressing global Resource scarcity & Environmental challenges challenges Environmental footprint Financial inclusion Empowering youth & community Empowering youth and community Talent management & diversity PAGE 31 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 32 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE EMPOWERMENT PAGE 33 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB staff during a staff engagement session. EMPLOYEE EMPOWERMENT A t the centre of all we do lies our team Staff engagement survey of 6,483 staff working across the One of the ways in which we assess how region. They are a key component in our staff view our organization and their place within it, is through the bi-annual our effort to reimagine societal values. They employee engagement survey. The survey help the Group work towards achievement helps us assess how we are doing in terms of supporting our staff in their day to say tasks, of our strategic goals. but as importantly, how we are helping them grow as individuals. They alone have the ability to help us achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. They are We make this a priority because we understand doing this by supporting the Group in its efforts that motivated employees contribute to to safeguard our society, embrace innovation business success. Research also shows that and build solid foundations that help address companies that engage with their staff are the most pressing global challenges. PAGE 34 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT more likely to see quality work performance, thereby significantly impacting financial and operational results. Employees who are For many years, our staff turnover has been less than 1%, more engaged are also less likely which means as an institution we must be doing some things right. But to be absent, claim workers’ we consistently challenge ourselves to do better for our employees. As a compensation, or terminate employment. Businesses with forward thinking institution, we also understand the need to adapt existing highly engaged employees enjoy staff to the future needs of the company as much as possible.” higher customer satisfaction, –KCB Group HR Director Paul Russo have lower turnover rates, and outperform businesses with lower levels of employee engagement. to it. This was among the lowest opportunities. In addition, the scoring indicators. Group is looking inward to place Today, KCB Group engagement internal staff in senior management score is 87 percent—one of the Since that time, the Group has positions. In 2017 alone, three highest engagement scores in worked to address some of these new managers were promoted the region. The level of employee concerns to provide development internally. engagement is measured by asking and career opportunities by employees the extent to which they helping develop career path and The Group is also committed to agree with the following items. development options for employees working with its female staff to in various roles to help them encourage them to apply for senior Employee development understand their options (e.g. level positions. As a result, 99 female and diversity lateral or rotational positions, not employees were promoted to “E” just upward) and create training level in 2017. Internally, KCB aims According to the 2016 Staff programs that provide employees to continue to reduce inequalities Engagement Survey, 62% of staff with the skills needed for the next by targeting to have 50% of women felt favourably toward their career job and ensure employees in managerial positions by the year development within the are given the time to 2020. It also aims to fill at least 15% Group, while 21% felt take advantage of new positions with the under 30 neutral, while 17%t of training population. felt unfavourably 250 99 Female employees Commissioned as wellness champions promoted to Senior Management • Staff head count: 6,483 Level • Permanent employees: 5,393 • Short term employees: 1,090 • Male: 57%; Female 43% 87% KCB Group employee engagement score PAGE 35 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s y P ri d ac e oc I would recomA dv mend KCB to I am proud to friends and family work for KCB as a great place to work t Ac h i e v e en m m it My colleagues en Co m m I intend to stay t are passionate with KCB for at about providing exleast another ceptional customer 12 months service e f fo r t Alignm a ry e nt My collegues are cretio I understand how D is willing to go beyond my role conn what is expected for tributes to the the success of KCB success of KCB Occupational health and safety proper sanitary facilities, water and lighting. A financial institution such as KCB has different A dedicated clinical officer to serve as the health and safety priorities than a factory, for staff wellness manager has also been hired. example. However, it does not make them any Through KCB Wellness Program, employees less important to the overall wellbeing of our and their family members are assisted in staff. Although our staff may not need to wear making voluntary behaviour changes which hardhats into the office, it is our responsibility reduce their health and injury risks, improve that they are provided a safe and sanitary their health consumer skills, and enhance their working environment. individual productivity and well-being. It also covers support to manage chronic illnesses, In 2015, we hired a Health and Safety Manager lifestyle diseases and case management. To responsible for overseeing evaluation of all date, at least 250 staff from various regions have our offices to ensure they are not only in been trained and commissioned as wellness compliance with legal requirements, but to champions, to propagate the wellness agenda. also create an action plan to ensure all sites meet KCB Group standards. Some of the basic Part of the Wellness Program included the standards include ensuring all branches have setting up of the KCB Group Choir. PAGE 36 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KCB Group CEO and MD Joshua Oigara with Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore during the launch of the business and sustainable development commission report in Nairobi. KCB staff at an islamic finance conference. KCB E-Learning Coordinator Ken Mwaniki during an induction for interns at the KCB Leadership Centre. Daystar University Vice Chancellor Prof. Timothy Wachira, KCB Bank Senior Manager Digital Payments Johnson Ondicho, HELB CEO Charles Ringera, and Credit Information Sharing Kenya CEO Jared Getengwa in a panel discussion during the the 2017 Universities Consultative forum held in Machakos. PAGE 37 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 38 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Transforming the world through SDGs PAGE 39 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Transforming the world through SDGs What are the Sustainable Development Goals and why are they applicable to KCB Group? T he Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the set of 17 goals, together with their 169 targets outlined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development aimed at transforming the world. Adopted by the international community in 2015, and entered into force in January 2016, the SDGs promote shared prosperity, while protecting the planet. Building off the momentum of the Millennium Although the SDGs are not legally binding, Development Goals, these new goals aim to governments are expected to take ownership mobilize private sector, government and civil of them and establish national frameworks for society, together with the United Nations, from their achievement. every country in the world to jointly end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle Acknowledging that achievement of these climate change. And, this is to be done while goals is a shared responsibility, KCB Group is ensuring no one is left behind. also committed to doing its part. In September PAGE 40 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017, our KCB Group CEO attended reasonably focus on to make the UN Global Compact Leaders’ progress over the next five years. Summit in New York where he These goals are the ones we feel participated in a panel discussion on are most closely intertwined with If we don’t make challenging the status quo and the our strategy and will enable us responsible decisions today we business-as-usual mindset. to make the most impact, while building support, both internally and will have exhausted many of The participation of our CEO externally for the SDGs. our possibilities for tomorrow. highlights the importance of The need for thinking regional participation in such In the following pages, we have forums to ensure that solutions to therefore highlighted the most sustainably is therefore both our unique challenges come from relevant targets for each goal that our greatest risk, as much as within. We cannot wait for solutions apply to our business. By including our greatest opportunity. By to be brought to us. We must take the goals and targets in this report, the lead in this new revolution we are therefore holding ourselves championing sustainability to empower ourselves to create accountable for doing our part in integration at the management innovative solutions, which allow us contributing to achievement of these level, the Group is taking to contribute to advancing the global SDGs. SDG agenda. tremendous strides in pushing The Group remains committed the agenda forward.” In 2017, the Group underwent an to these goals and their relevant – KCB Group Chief Financial Officer internal stakeholder engagement targets as we continue to simplify Lawrence Kimathi to determine which goals it could worlds to enable progress. SDGs Vision Statement Through sound systems and partnerships, KCB Group is reimagining societal values. This vision includes a world free from poverty and inequality, resulting from employment and growth opportunities, which arise from enhanced innovation and infrastructure. We see a future with cities that are thriving sustainably and adhering to the principles of responsible consumption and production. PAGE 41 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Integrating Sustainable Development Goals Our products aimed at enhancing access to KCB Group is committed to finance for those who would otherwise be left SDG 1 and contributing to the behind, are one way in which we contribute to achievement of the following this goal. By making banking more accessible targets: to everyone everywhere through KCB M-Benki, KCB M-PESA, KCB Mobigrow, Sahl Banking, • Reducing poverty by 2030 (1.2) and table banking, to name a few, KCB has • Supporting the implementation of revolutionized the way banking is done. appropriate social protection systems (1.3) KCB has further partnered with the government of Kenya to help deliver its national social • Helping ensure all men and women protection system, the National Safety Net have equal rights to economic Programme. Launched in 2015, Inua Jamii resources, basic services, ownership runs three cash transfer programmes in 47 of land and property (1.4) counties aimed at orphans and vulnerable • Reducing exposure to economic, children; older persons; and persons with social and environmental shocks to severe disabilities. Under the programme, help build resilience of the poor and beneficiaries receive a stipend of KShs. 2,000 vulnerable (1.5) in monthly support. Based on pre-set criteria, the cash transfers aim to mitigate chronic or T shock-induced poverty, address social risks and o support our commitment to contributing reduce economic vulnerability. to the achievement of the SDGs, the goals were chosen based upon their relevance Through our Foundation flagship programs such to the Groups’ Sustainability material matters, as : Mifugu ni Mali, 2Jiajiri and scholarships, which in turn, directly relate to KCB Group KCB has been contributing for years in the fight strategy. against poverty. The bank has enhanced access to loans for women segment that was previously KCB Group is committed to do its part in excluded. ending poverty in all its forms. We believe that eliminating poverty has the trickle down benefit Meanwhile, KCB Bancassurance products aim of helping achieve many of the other SDGs as to empower and improve the quality of life for well, especially those related to hunger (SDG No. customers through the provision of affordable, 2), health (SDG No. 3) and education (SDG No. 4). value-adding and appropriate insurance solutions. Moving forward. As a regional financial Measurement| Results to date | Target services provider, we believe our contribution to inequality and poverty reduction begins • Poverty reduction: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) with our ability to expand access to finance to • Social protection systems: Total amount disbursed through Inua jamii to date: all. In terms of our social protection systems, KCB Group will continue to work with the KShs. 40.7 billion since 2014 government of Kenya to help distribute funding • Financial inclusion: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) to seniors and persons with disability through its Inua Jamii program. • Property ownership: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) The Group will also explore ways in which it • External shock reduction (Bancassurance): Total amount disbursed may work more closely with government and via Bancassurance: KShs. 1.1 billion via 4,164 claims since 2014 developers to finance more low cost housing where it is needed the most. PAGE 42 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY The funds received from Inua Jamii help me to buy food, pay medical bills and pay for Kimberley’s day care. This money has really helped compliment my salary and has impacted me both socially and financially. I am now able to pay rent and afford our basic needs. I am also able to pay for Kimberlee’s medication and her NHIF insurance cover.” – Inua Jamii beneficiary Eunice Kibira Kenya’s social protection system at work in Ruiru E unice Kibira (above) has an all with hydrocephalus, a condition “The funds received from Inua too common story in that she in which there is excessive Jamii help me to buy food, is a mother responsible for accumulation of fluid in the brain. pay medical bills and pay for caring for her child all alone. The This means that she requires Kimberley’s day care. This money difference in her case is that she round the clock general care has really helped compliment my has a daughter who is physically and daily medication to prevent salary and has impacted me both challenged. Upon realising convulsions. When her mother is socially and financially. I am now the condition of her daughter, working, Kimberley spends her able to pay rent and afford our Kimberley, her husband left her time in day care. Kimberley is basic needs. I am also able to pay to fend for both of them. almost immobile, relies on her for Kimberley’s medication and mother to take her to school, her NHIF insurance cover,” stated “It was a time in my life when I church and family visits. The Eunice. was filled with many different wheelchair she owns is not emotions. I was both excited for effective on the rough roads in She also plans to create more the birth of my new baby, but their rural setting. awareness on hydrocephalus and then at the same time, scared of plans to lobby for an increase what our future would look like In 2016, she heard about Inua in local therapeutic centres. and how I would take care of my Jamii through a local Baraza She hopes that more people daughter. I overcame these fears gathering. She went to register learn about the benefits of Inua because she is a blessing to me,” in Ruiru where she was approved Jamii and that both KCB and said Eunice reminiscing about for support. Shortly after, she the government will reach out to the birth of Kimberley. received her Inua Jamii card. more beneficiaries. Since then, every two months she In Kimberley’s case she was born receives KShs. 4,000. PAGE 43 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s T he Group product line is aimed at simplifyKCB Group is committed ing customers’ worlds to enable their proto SDG 8 and contributing gress. KCB has stood out in its innovative to thachievement of the product offerings, specifically those related following targets: to harnessing the power of mobile technology, such as KCB M-BENKI, KCB M-PESA, and • Achieving higher levels MobiGro, as well as offering the latest in safe of economic productivity through card technology. diversification, technological upgrading and innovation (8.2) KCB Foundation’s Mifugo ni Mali program aims to increase income for communities working in • Achieving full and productive the agricultural and livestock sectors through employment and decent work for all training, mentorship and provision of business women and men, including for young development grants. people and persons with disabilities (8.5) Meanwhile, Foundation initiatives, such as 2jiajiri are helping empower today’s youth. At • Reducing the proportion of youth not in the same time, KCB Scholarships Program employment, education or training (8.6) has also opened the doors for many bright, yet disadvantaged youth. Measurement| Results to date | Target • Economic productivity: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) • Productive employment: Number of youth assisted with vocational training and/or educational support 10,740 through 2Jiajiri (10,020) and KCB Scholarships (720). • Reducing youth unemployment: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) Moving forward. KCB will continue to work to create opportunities in the above mentioned sections. The Group intends to act upon many of the recommendations provided in the 2017 Social Return on Investment study to further A vet administers a vaccine during a Mifugo ni Mali event. enhance our reach and ability to provide the most relevant support where it is needed the most. KCB Foundation’s Mifugo ni Mali program aims to increase income for communities working in the agricultural and livestock sectors through training, mentorship and provision of business development grants.” PAGE 44 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY From using rudimentary fishing methods that yielded low returns, I now sell 100 tins of Omena (sardines) a day up from 50 per day. This achievement is thanks to my motorised boat and new fishing nets that I bought using the loan.” – KCB 2Jiajiri beneficiary David Owino Increasing economic productivity along the shores of Lake Victoria F isherman David Owino (above) the training, KCB Bank gave me marketing strategies. Not one to Odhiambo has been plying KShs. 100,000 loan to expand my be left behind in the new media his trade along the shores of business.” era, David has created a Facebook Africa’s largest freshwater body, account where he interacts with Lake Victoria for years. While his David has been receiving 2Jiajiri his customers. basic fishing skills and manual business development services boat provided him some income, support from a marketer, lawyer Meanwhile, support he received it was not consistent. As a result, and accountant. Through the supto develop a comprehensive David’s income from his fishing port of an accountant, David has business plan is helping him reach business always fell short. In need been able to generate and keep rehis established business goals, of additional income to provide cords of his business and track his which enable him to provide for his for his family, he was relentlessly profits. Now able to better track family now solely from his fishing pursuing supplementary activities his revenue, David adds, “From business while repaying his loan to just to make ends meet. using rudimentary fishing methKCB. In addition, David’s expanding ods that yielded low returns, I now business has created employment In 2016, KCB Foundation sell 100 tins of Omena (sardines) opportunities for two people—a sponsored David for six months a day up from 50 per day. Each tin boat crew member and one to study fish farming and weighs 1 kilogramme and sells labourer at his landing bay shop. entrepreneurship at Jaramogi at between KShs. 240 and KShs. Oginga Odinga University of 400 depending on the season. This The future is bright for David, Science and Technology in Bondo achievement is thanks to my mowho plans next to venture into Town, Siaya County. torised boat and new fishing nets cage fish farming and acquire that I bought using the loan.” two more boats by next year. He According to David, “The course has also commanded admiration enabled me to sharpen my Thanks to marketing advice and respect from his peers due fishing and marketing skills for received through 2Jiajiri’s services, to his business prowess and my business, Hakuna Kulala his customer base has also is empowering them to help Investments, located in Lake expanded as he has been able to modernise fishing in the area. Victoria’s Uhanya Beach. After increase his reach through diverse PAGE 45 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB Group has empowered its staff to KCB Group is committed understand the value and purpose behind to SDG 9 and contributing expanding access to banking, insurance and to the achievement of the financial services for all. following targets: • Increasing access of small-scale industrial and other enterprises to financial services, Measurement | Results to date | including affordable credit, and their Target integration into value chains and markets (9.3) • SME access to financial services: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) • Supporting the development of sustainable infrastructure and/or • Sustainable infrastructure/retrofitting: (New industries and/or the retrofitting of indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) such to ensure increased resource efficiency and the adoption of environmentally friendly processes (9.4) Moving forward. The Group sees future F possibilities in terms of its ability to influence or many people, when they first read corporate clients in adopting sustainable the word infrastructure, roads, bridges infrastructure within their industries. Following and waterways often come to mind. In the implementation of the Group Social and the financial services industry however, Environmental Management System (SEMS), the infrastructure relates to the established Group has been more able to ensure it finances structures and processes in place which clients who are aware of such environmental, enable customers to access finance or any of social and governance standards and similarly the other products and services offered by the wish to meet them. Moving forward, KCB hopes institution. In this way, KCB plays an important to finance more clients in the green building, role in bringing this service to as many people renewable energy and other infrastructure as possible across the region. sectors. KCB Customer Touch Points in 2017 263 15,082 6,476 KCB Mtaani KCB branches POS/ Merchants Agents 962 24hr 763,084 ATMs Call centre KCB App downloads PAGE 46 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Growing the nation’s food supply one seed at a time N estled in Western Kenya’s former Rift Valley Province of Trans-Nzoia County, lies Kireka Farm. Spanning over 460 acres, the third generation family farm specializes in growing seeds to support the country’s agribusiness value chain. With 12 permanent staff and some 300 casual workers depending on the season, Kireka Farm produces KEPHIS-certified high quality seeds, which are an important mainstay in ensuring the future of the country’s food security. With 300 acres dedicated to maize, 40 acres to grass, from US$ 30,000 to US$ 300,000. In the future, the Lugonzo’s plan 25 acres to beans, 20 acres to As a result, the number of annual to convert the farm to a limited coffee, 30 acres to wheat, 5 acres casual employees required to run company to facilitate ease of for dairy and 47 acres currently the farms also increased from 50 management and leverage it under forest cover, the farm to 300.” as a single purpose investment caters to a wide variety of needs. vehicle. In addition to increased Over the past decade, the father profitability and productivity, KCB In addition, Regem Lugonzo and son duo, Regem and Michael financing has also helped Kireka states, “In the next two to five Lugonzo, have expanded the Farm access new markets, years, we aim to become the farm to increase its acreage receive product certification, leading seed multiplier in the of production. For this, they enhance employee skills, and North Rift region. We hope to reached out to KCB for both improve upon its environmental, secure further asset financing to operational and mechanization health and safety practices. purchase additional equipment capital which helped improve the to help us reach our goals, such farm’s efficiency and expand. The A significant proportion of as more powerful tractors and a partnership also enabled staff to the farms’ value creation is harvester.” receive training in ways to better in the impact it has made to manage capital. Kireka Farm staff and causal For Kireka Farm, more powerful employees, many of whom are tractors will increase efficiency According to Regem Lugonzo, part of families that have been of land preparation activities “We chose KCB because they with the farm for decades. For and reduce preparation costs. had a realistic outlook of the three generations, the farm has Meanwhile, a dryer and combined agribusiness sector that made provided respectable employment harvester is expected to reduce the partnership easier. In five empowering workers to help feed, post-harvest losses by 70 years’ time alone, KCB financing educate, and facilitate healthcare percent, up from the current 40 helped expand the farm from 60 for their families. percent. to 450 acres, growing revenue PAGE 47 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB staff Miranda Ndegwa (left) and Rosemary Wamucii Measurement | during a Women in Leadership Network forum. Results to date | Target • Income growth: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle K CB Group believes that Inclusion: (New indicator to be includKCB Group is reducing the number of people ed in 2018 reporting cycle) committed to living in poverty cannot be SDG 10 and achieved without reducing existing Equal opportunity outside of KCB: contributing to inequalities. We therefore believe (New indicator to be included in 2018 the achievethat all individuals have the right to reporting cycle) ment of the following targets: access some form of appropriate financial services, which address • Achieving and sustaintheir needs. Providing access to relevant policies are also in place ing income growth of the such services for all via many of in credit and employees to manage bottom 40 percent of the the aforementioned programs can this strategic direction. population (10.1) provide the necessary support enabling micro and small business Moving forward. Internally, KCB • Empowering and promotowners to grow their businesses, aims to continue to reduce inequaling the social, economic increase their income, employment ities by targeting to have 50% of and political inclusion of all and livelihoods of those they touch women in managerial positions by (10.2) regardless of age or sex. Foundation the year 2020. It also aims to fill at activities similarly support this aim. least 15% of new positions with the • Ensuring equal opportunity under 30 population. Externally, KCB and reducing inequalities Internally, KCB has also worked will continue to implement the plauand promoting appropriate to ensure more females take on sible recommendations on its Social legislation, policies and leadership positions within our Return on Investment study to imaction in this regard (10.3) offices. In 2015, KCB lunched a prove upon its program reach and five year Women in Leadership ability to help reduce inequalities. As Program. The following year it KCB moves forward in its integration became a member of the Global journey, specific targets will be set Banking Alliance for Women. The more clearly. PAGE 48 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Empowering Baringo’s beekeepers to receive fair market value B aringo County, commonly referred to as the “Beekeeping is practiced by rural farmers, land of great diversity, is largely known for mostly who either hawk the honey along the goat rearing. But along the Nakuru-Marigat road or sell to other traders at low prices. Road lies a small centre, which is home to Society membership is therefore import for their Rachemo Marketing Honey Cooperative Society. bargaining power to ensure they received fair market value for their product,” said Kiplagat. Started in 1996 as a self-help group, the Society was formally registered by the Ministry In 2015, KCB Foundation through its Mifugo ni of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives in 2015. Mali program gave the society an interest-free Retired teacher, Jackson Kiplagat, was loan of KShs. 1.5 million to help the beekeepers appointed Chairman. “After two decades as a scale up operations. In addition to this, the self-help group, we registered Rachemo as a Foundation trained them on industry best cooperative society. Our vision was to scale up practices to help maximise product output. operations, but we couldn’t access financing, so with the help of the county government The cooperative used the money to procure we registered as a cooperative in 2015,” said modern beekeeping hives for members and Kiplagat. to build a processing plant at Radat Market. The Society attained their biggest milestone in One of the most successful beekeeping societies 2017, when they got an offer to supply a local in Baringo County, Rachemo Marketing Honey supermarket. Cooperative Society is comprised of more than 800 beehives in Radat, Marigat and Mogotio. Today, Rachemo Honey is a leading supplier of The Society brings together more than 200 honey to two supermarkets in Nairobi and plans beekeepers and supports the members by to produce up to 500 tonnes of honey for the processing, branding and marketing the honey. local market, targeting supermarkets in Nairobi, In order to ensure that they produce quality Nakuru and Eldoret. In addition, members have honey, the society carries out quality control more reasons to smile since they now receive tests on the product. regular payments, which are also often higher than what they were previously receiving. Beekeeping is practiced by rural farmers, mostly who either hawk the honey along the road or sell to other traders at low prices. Society membership is therefore import for their bargaining power to ensure they received fair market value for their product.” – KCB Mifugo ni Mali beneficiary Jackson Kiplagat (pictured left) PAGE 49 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB Group is committed to SDG 11 and contributing to the achievement of the following targets: • Ensuring access to adequate, safe and affordable housing (11.1) • Reducing direct economic losses caused by disasters, including water-related disasters, with a focus on protecting the poor and person in vulnerable situations (11.5 • Financing sustainable and resilient building utilizing local materials (11.7c) is actively involved in an affordable housing project in which shelter is Measurement | provided to everyone. The project Results to date | Target I uses local materials to manage n spite of the efficiency gains that costs and time taken to complete can be realized by high city density, • Increase access to affordable projects. such rapid urbanization exerts housing: (New indicator to be pressure on fresh water supplies, included in 2018 reporting cycle) Moving forward. As mentioned in the sewage, the living environment section related to SDG 1, KCB Group • Reducing direct economic loss: and public health. Proper city is exploring ways in which it may Total amount disbursed via Bancaswork more closely with government planning is therefore necessary to ensure access to adequate, surance: 1.1 billion KShs. via 4,164 and developers to finance more low safe and affordable housing and claims since 2014 cost housing where it is needed the transportation for all. Air quality • Sustainable building: (New most. In addition to that, the Group and waste management must is also aiming to help finance more indicator to be included in also be kept in check. Meanwhile, green building and in doing so, 2018 reporting cycle) hopes to be able to encourage a sustainable communities require individuals who are protected local industry capable of supplying in one way, shape or form from such products. direct economic and health losses ones can also feel less financial due to disasters and otherwise stress during times of medical unforeseeable events. emergencies, enabling them to focus their energies on what really KCB Bancassurance products help matters. In this way, Bancassurance KCB Group is cushion the blow for families affected products offer economic continuity exploring ways in which it by such uncontrollable losses. for those affected. In turn, such may work more closely with Thanks to a wide array of insurance peace of mind directly contributes to keeping communities thriving. government and developers offerings, a business owner may to finance more low cost continue to rebuild her business after a fire or a delivery professional In addition, through partnerships housing where it is needed may be able to buy a new motorcycle with government and other the most.” following an accident. Loved stakeholders, KCB S&L Mortgages PAGE 50 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Sustaining our cities, one person at a time N estled in Western Kenya’s Baringo County, were paid. As a result, he was able to continue Eldama Ravine is a town of about 18,000 to help the roughly 175 people who visit his people. It is largely an agricultural trading clinic each month, while feeling confident his town that produces popular Fairtrade certified wife was receiving the best possible care. Given roses for export. It is also home to Ravine Tumo runs one of the few clinics in Eldama Medical and ENT Clinic, a private practice run Ravine, it means his services provide critical by Clinical Officer, James Tumo. support where it is needed most. According to Tumo, “I learned of KCB in 1993 “Without the Simba Health coverage we would when I started my clinic. It was the only bank not have been able to afford the surgery. I that was here by then and I opened an account honestly don’t know what we would have with them. In 2015, I learned about KCB done. Having the cover made a big difference Bancassurance from a local KCB Agent and as we were able to treat my wife without any took out a Simba Health cover.” additional strain on ourselves,” said Tumo. In January 2017, Tumo’s wife, Margaret This is the true value of KCB Bancassurance Tumo fell ill. She had to travel to a hospital product line. It aims to help people in their in Eldoret where she was diagnosed with a greatest times of need to avoid additional brain tumour. Her treatment included two financial strains. months of radiotherapy and three months of chemotherapy. Then, she was told she Today, Margaret Tumo is doing well and has required brain surgery urgently if she was to made a full recovery. She is a great farmer and survive. After her surgery, she spent one week looks forward to a long and prosperous future. to recover in hospital. While Tumo had been able to offer a comfortable life for his family, Meanwhile, Tumo is happy to have his wife such treatment and surgery costs millions comfortable and by his side. He continues to of Kenyan Shillings, much more than his life see patients at his clinic and says life is good. savings would have covered. Thanks to KCB He is a proud proponent of KCB Bancassurance Simba Health cover, all of Tumo’s medical bills having witnessed firsthand its benefits. incurred for his wife’s surgery and treatment Without the Simba Health coverage we would not have been able to afford the surgery. I honestly don’t know what we would have done. Having the cover made a big difference as we were able to treat my wife without any additional strain on ourselves.” – KCB Bancassuarance customer James Tumo (pictured left) PAGE 51 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s minimize the need for electrical lighting during KCB Group is committed to the day and solar hot water heating and is set up SDG 12 and contributing to to harvest rainwater for use within the building. the achievement of the following targets: To shuttle between offices around Nairobi, the Group also utilizes a van which helps cut back • Achieving sustainable management on individuals driving alone to meetings in other and efficient use of natural resources offices around town. (12.2) • Substantially reducing waste Measurement| Results to date | generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse (12.5) Target • Efficient use of natural resources: (New • Encouraging companies, especially indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to • Reduce waste generation: (New indicator to be integrate sustainability information included in 2018 reporting cycle) into their reporting cycles (12.6) • Encourage companies: Number of corporate • Promoting public procurement clients undergoing SEMS practices that are sustainable, in assessments 69 and number of site visits to accordance with national policies and assess E&S 93 priorities (12.7) • Public procurement: Number of active local suppliers 1,028 and S ince the launch of its Green Agenda in local spend on procurement 91% of procurement 2009, KCB has taken the initiative to budget become a responsible consumer and producer. The 24 point blueprint for green office practices focuses on resources utilization and Moving forward. KCB is working with suppliers management and environmental impacts of to determine in which ways it can help further the business. The Group has considerably cut instill the need for responsible consumption and back on paper consumption, instilling a “print production in their operations as a prerequisite only when necessary” psyche around the office for working with KCB. and installed user codes for photocopying. We have further automated the majority of its The bank hopes to finance more clients in the paper heavy processes, such as those related green building, solar and other infrastructure to Board meetings and dealing, the credit sectors. process, deposits, etc. We are also exploring undertaking at least one The bank has also worked to replace all initiative in the next five years in partnership lightbulbs with more efficient LED lighting. In with government or private sector, which speaks 2017, we opened the doors of our new green to the importance of embracing sustainable office building in Nairobi’s Upper Hill district. lifestyles and/or operations. The building relies upon natural light to KCB is working with suppliers to determine in which ways it can help further instill the need for responsible consumption and production in their operations as a prerequisite for working with KCB.” PAGE 52 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Radisson Blu Hotel Nairobi, Upper Hill: Transforming the way hotels operate E lgon Road Developments Ian Rydin, General Manager, prestigious ecolabel represents Limited is a local company Radisson Blu Hotel Nairobi. a commitment by businesses incorporated in 2005. It that their premises adhere to developed the hotel under the the strict criteria set by the Radisson Blu brand located in Foundation for Environmental Upper Hill, Nairobi. Officially KShs. 4.6b Education. opened in January 2016, the 271 Amount KCB extended to the Radisson Blu project room hotel is fast emerging as According to Ian Rydin, General the premiere venue for summits, Manager, “The hotel was built conferences, corporate dinners 95% Waste water is recycled for sustainably to rely upon natural and cocktails, weddings, sanitation and gardening lighting from its large central seminars and launch events. atrium, while residents may “As a relatively new hotel, we 271 Rooms benefit from its green wall concept. Its lighting system runs had both the opportunity and, we (accomodation capacity) on energy-saving bulbs, while felt, the responsibility, to design its water is heated from solar our hotel in a way that not only panels. In fact, it has the largest satisfied the market demand for solar heating system of all hotels our services, but also one which The Radisson Blu Hotel is proudly in East Africa.” considered the environment and certified with the international local community. As a result, Green Key eco-label. The Green A carbon offsetting program we have worked to create a Key award is the leading standard further leverages the use of modern facility which leverages for excellence in the field of green meetings, which seek environmentally friendly environmental responsibility to conserve energy and offset technology, while creating jobs and sustainable operation carbon emissions through tree for the local community,” stated within the tourism industry. This planting initiatives in Limuru. PAGE 53 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s effect from 1 January 2016. The Group underKCB Group is committed to went an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment SDG 16 and contributing to Process (ICAAP) and approved implementation the achievement of the of the subsequent recommendations. following targets: The Board has adopted a Board Charter and a • Reducing corruption and Group Governance Policy that clearly defines bribery in all their forms (16.5) its role and how its powers and responsibilities are exercised, having regard to principles of • Developing effective, accountable and good corporate governance, international transparent institutions at all levels best practice and applicable laws. The Board (16.6) Charter regulates Board composition, the Board • Ensuring responsive, inclusive, parmeeting process and defines the relationship ticipatory and representative deciand interactions between the Board and sion-making at all levels (16.7) management. O The roles and responsibilities of the Group ver the past decade, the region has seen Chairman and the Group Chief Executive many regulatory changes affecting the Officer are separate with a clear division of way financial institutions do business. The responsibility between the running of the Board Group has fully embraced changes and remains and the executive responsibility of running KCB at the forefront in adopting best practices in business. corporate and risk management. The Board and management of the Group continue In terms of ensuring responsive, inclusive, to comply with the Corporate Governance participatory and representative decisionGuidelines as prescribed by the Central Bank making at all levels, members of the Executive of Kenya being the primary regulatory authority Management Committee have regular of the Group and KCB Bank Kenya Limited as meetings with staff to discuss issues of most well as the Capital Markets Authority Code of relevance and relies upon departmental Corporate Governance Practices. management teams to further assist in driving the participatory process home. KCB adopts a zero tolerance position to all forms of corruption, Measurement| Results to date | bribery and unethical business Target practice at the workplace, and • Reducing corruption: Number of unsuccessful requires all persons associated with internal fraud attempts 73 the Group to adhere to standards • Transparent institution: Number of suppliers defined in the Group Code of Ethical signed up to Code of Ethics 100% Conduct.” • Representative decision-making: (New indicator to be included in 2018 reporting cycle) KCB Group has also updated the Anti-Money Laundering system. The Group is also in compliance with the 2015 Companies Act and the Moving forward. KCB has been, and will 2015 Finance Act. continue to be, a proponent of governance standards. It will also continue to speak on In 2015, KCB established itself as a non-operatbehalf of the importance of good governance in ing holding company – KCB Group Limited and a creating and operating businesses that are built new subsidiary – KCB Bank Kenya Limited, with to last. PAGE 54 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Working with ethical supply chain partners S ince 2014, KCB Group has been a Those adhering to the Code pledge to treat participant in the United Nation’s Global stakeholders with respect, run businesses Compact. A voluntary initiative based on responsibly, act in compliance with applicable CEO commitments to implement universal laws, and be actively involved in corruption sustainability principles and to undertake prevention. partnerships in support of UN goals, the Compact sets out ten principles for business According to Christopher Tiren, KCB Head leaders to incorporate into their strategies, of Procurement, “The Group continuously policies and procedures, thereby establishing reviews its existing policy to address areas of a culture of integrity. weakness and strengthen the supply chain process. At the same time, we examine our These principles assist companies to not only own policies to ensure they align with best uphold their basic responsibilities to people practice, especially with respect to good and planet, but also set the stage for their governance.” long-term success. By holding themselves accountable to such standards, they are also Moving forward, “KCB will continue to better positioned to request those with whom support the activities around supply chain they work, namely their suppliers, to uphold management, whose main objective is to similar ideals. enhance the supply chain practitioner role and professional competences. The Group Committed to the fundamental values of will also push for greater awareness and integrity, transparency, and accountability, acceptance of the Sustainable Development KCB has also adopted a zero tolerance policy Goals by the Group’s partners to optimize due towards all forms of corruption, bribery diligence, protect reputations and credibility,” and unethical business practices. The stated Mr. Tiren. Group’s Code of Ethical Conduct outlines the behaviours and standards of conduct required of staff and others acting for the Group. Ethics training is conducted for all staff while internal and external whistle-blowing channels are available. The Human Resources Department is in charge of reporting cases of bribery to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission after disciplinary processes. Meanwhile, an antimoney laundering monitoring framework is also in place. One such way the Group is effecting change outside of its own walls has been by embedding the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya not only its own operations, but also into its supply chain policy. As a result, all KCB suppliers are now required to sign the Code of Ethics if they wish to work with the Group. PAGE 55 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s 2014 2016 KCB became a participant KCB joined Global Banking in the Global Compact. Alliance for Women 2015 2017 KCB adopted the Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) KCB adopted eight UN Sustainable Sustainable Finance Initiative guiding principles Development Goals (SGDs ) We also believe that our potential Since KCB launched its SustainKCB Group is to innovate and give back to sociability Framework in 2013, it has committed to ety through a wide array of proddeveloped a measurement system SDG 17 and ucts and solutions is strengthened to track its contributions to suscontributing to thanks to our partnerships with tainable development. It has been the achievement other organizations that share the doing this through its 10 Point Acof the following targets: same goals. tion Plan. Having met many of the goals set out in the original Action • Enhancing the global Meanwhile, working together with Plan, this year, the Group is intropartnership for the MasterCard Foundation is producing an updated Action Plan to sustainable development, moting financial inclusion for at track KCB progress for the next five complemented by multileast two million smallholder farmyears. stakeholder partnerships ers and pastoralists in Kenya and that mobilize and share Rwanda, 60 percent of whom are knowledge, expertise, female. And, through the use of Measurement| Results to technology and financial near field communication technolresources, to support the date | Target ogy from UnionPay, KCB has been achievement of SDGs (17.6) able to offer a next generation deb• Enhancing global partnership: it card, which is not only quick, but (New indicator to be included in • Encouraging and promoting highly secure, eliminating much of effective public, public2018 reporting cycle) the inherent risk during electronic private and civil society partnerships (17.7) payments. • Encouraging partnerships: (New indicator to be included in 2018 KCB also collaborates with the reporting cycle) A ttaining the Sustainable Ministry of Labour, Social Security Development Goals will require and Services in helping distribute partnerships. They cannot be funding to Kenyan’s receiving social Moving forward. KCB will continue achieved alone. KCB understand security payments. KCB also works to work with local, regional and this, and as such, has worked to closely with local schools to offer international partners to promote forge relevant partnerships which them ease with which they may the achievement of the SDGs. further add-value to promoting the collect student school fees into one goals. account. PAGE 56 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CASE STUDY Partnering with Safaricom to create products that improve livelihoods I n the middle of Nyeri Town, to begin using KCB M-PESA good savings plan that gives me Nyeri County, lies a small which was readily available on confidence that I can save, yet cereal stall operated by one the Mpesa platform. As a result, still have access to my money budding entrepreneur, Beatrice she was able to gain access to when necessary,” said Beatrice. Maina. A graduate in business additional financing needed to finance, Ms. Maina has run her expand her business to meet The App has really impacted her own cereal business for the customer demand. as it has motivated her to save past two years serving as the more and plan for the future. middle woman between cereal Earnings from her cereal busiTo date, Beatrice has saved producers and buyers. ness enable Beatrice to support enough money in KCB Mpesa three family members, including to expand her business and According to Beatrice, “The two younger siblings and her open a general hardware store business has been good due to daughter. As her husband’s work supplying construction materials the demand for my products. I consists of short-term contracts, on wholesale. These savings faced a few challenges meeting at times, she may be the family’s have come in handy when she the growing demand when I only income earner. Her busineeds money and doesn’t wish to started due to limited resources, ness therefore provides money borrow from friends or family. namely capital.” for school fees and supplies, as well as groceries and other basic “I recently found myself in a Although Beatrice has had her needs. situation where I was admitted own bank account with KCB in hospital and didn’t want to since 2012, she only learned “KCB-MPESA has worked quite bother my friends so I used part about and joined KCB M-PESA well for me. First of all, it is of my savings in KCB Mpesa to in 2017. Familiar already with very easy to use. Having been pay for the bills,” said Beatrice. Safaricom’s M-PESA service and an M-PESA user before, it was She plans to expand her their loaning service Mshwari, simple for me to learn. It is also business to other areas. it was an easy transition for her reliable, cheaper and offers a PAGE 57 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s PAGE 58 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Community IMPACT PAGE 59 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB Foundation programs are customized in each of the subsidiary to ensure that they address the most relevant development priorities.” KCB 2Jiajiri beneficiaries in their mobile food van. COMMUNITY IMPACT KCB Foundation I n 2007, KCB Foundation was established to implement the Group corporate electrical work and mechanics. It also aims to close the skill social responsibility programs and as a sign of commitment to sustainable and financing gap for small development to alleviate poverty and enhance well-being. business owners in need of further credentials and skills to grow their Foundation programs are designed Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, businesses and apply for financing. to address issues of relevance Tanzania and Uganda. specifically within the thematic The program contributes to this areas of education, enterprise Flagship Foundation activities mission by: development, health, environment include: 2jiajiri, Mifugo ni Mali and and humanitarian intervention. KCB Scholarships. • Providing technical skills scholThe programs are customized arships for out of school youth in each of the KCB countries to KCB Foundation’s 2Jiajiri program aged 18-35 years (upskilling) and ensure that they address the most aims to help match young existing micro entrepreneurs relevant development priorities. To entrepreneurs with the skills (skilling); date, KCB Foundation has invested required specifically to fill positions • Offering business development an estimated KShs. 1 billion in in high demand, including “blue services and discounted ascommunity programs in Burundi, collar” trades such as plumbing, PAGE 60 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT set and capital financing for the livestock that are dominant within graduates of the above; and various localities such as goats, bees, and camels; • Supporting necessary market and industry linkages, for exam• Smallholder dairy and fisheries ple, to link suppliers together on the Coast; and While KCB has focused on with buyers. activities which are either • Herd improvement in Western The KCB Foundation Mifugo ni Kenya lowlands. philanthropic in nature, or Mali program aims to address A total of KShs. 83 million has been that fall under the category of some of these concerns based advanced to livestock farmers to Corporate Social Responsibility upon stakeholder needs, to assist households relying upon livestock as support enterprises in community for many years, in recent years ranches, cooperative societies and our shift has been to work more on a source of income to better utilize beach management units To date, their animals more effectively. To 10 partnership agreements have projects within communities that access program benefits, livestock been signed with various counties create shared value for society. owners are required to constitute namely; Baringo, Taita Taveta, Kwale, Essentially, we look at challenges and register with cooperative Kilifi, Narok, Mombasa, Samburu, societies through their county Laikipia, Marsabit and Kajiado. in community and try to solve a livestock ministries. problem. In doing so we aim to Through these partnerships, KShs. KCB supports solutions that are 833 million has been committed to economically empower individuals support productivity, value addition, therefore customized to meet market access and access to credit. to not only have the financing to individual needs by working with contribute to today’s immediate A total of KShs. 100 million has been county governments to help identify the greatest needs. Such supports advanced to livestock farmers to need, but are working to prepare support enterprises and cooperative them for tomorrow’s needs as mostly focuses on: societies. In the last two years, the Foundation has disbursed KShs. well.” – KCB Foundation • Pro-poor value chain development in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands 110 million in interest-free loans to Executive Director Jane Mwangi cooperatives. (ASAL), including the types of The KCB Foundation provides secondary education scholarships for bright students, who would otherwise be unable to continue their education due to lack of finances. The program targets 240 beneficiaries annually, including 40 of whom are living with a physical disability. Students benefit from a full four year scholarship to enable them to complete their secondary education in government schools. The programme has a completion rate of 98 to 99 percent. 240 scholarships 40 Students with special 1,312 KCB scholarships awarded in 2017 needs were awarded awarded since 2007 PAGE 61 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Additional KCB Foundation initiatives and contributions to society Inua Jamii beneficiaries during the launch of the Older Persons Cash Transfer Programme in Kitui. I n addition to its flagship activities, over County Government beginning in 2014 to the past decade, KCB Foundation has also revive and support the annual goat auction. supported a number of other initiatives, which The main objective of the auction is to create contribute to improving health, education, a market for goats and ensure farmers get enterprise development, and environmental fair returns. During the 2016 goat auction, preservation. These include: a total sale of KShs. 24 million was raised, with goats going for an average of KShs. • Through the “My School, My Community 12,000. On a normal market day, the same Initiative,” the Foundation has supported goat would fetch about KShs. 3,000. the construction and refurbishment of • KCBF has supported the Kidney for Life over 200 school structures, as well as Program since 2011. learning materials—desks, books, and water harvesting equipment—for over 500 • Over the years, the Foundation has schools. undertaken a number of projects to protect the environment including: Planting 20,000 • KCB Foundation partnered with Ahadi Trust seedlings on Mau Likia, Kenya in partnership Kenya to support the Banana Livelihoods with the local communities (The seedlings project in Kigumo in 2013. planted in the forest are sourced from the • In 2013, in partnership with the African Sand communities’ nurseries). In Burundi, KCB Dams Foundation, KCB Foundation donated staff planted trees at the Wangari Maathai KShs. 9 million for the construction of four corner in Bujumbura. County environment sand dams in Kibwezi, set up more than 30 days and clean-up activities through water tanks in different schools and also branch network in Kenya. In Rwanda all built four rock catchment areas in places the branches participate in the Umuganda without rivers. The project provided access ‘National cleanup day’. In Rwanda, Gitarama to clean water for domestic purposes, Health Centre in Muhanga received new livestock, and agricultural use for over 5,000 environment friendly roofs to replace the people. harmful asbestos roofs. Now they can harvest rain water. • KCB Foundation partnered with the Baringo PAGE 62 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KCB Insurance Agency E stablished in 2010, KCB Insurance for the agriculture, healthcare, offers both life and non-life motor vehicle, life assurance, and insurance products and services. pension sectors, in addition to its It has partnered with leading and already existing portfolio of risk We are proud of our wide array of reputable insurance companies in management and professional Bancassurance products, which the market to ensure that it provides insurance advisory services to its appeal to individuals as well as customers with optimal insurance corporate clients. the smallest business owners. solutions and unmatched service to These offerings have been made meet their expectations. KCB Insurance Agency currently has a staff compliment of 172 dedicated possible because we don’t assume In 2014, KCB Insurance Agency insurance staff comprising of irresponsible risk. We know that launched an array of Bancassurance management, officers and sales if we do that, our underwriters products to empower and improve representatives. will assume huge losses and will the quality of life for our customers be unable to sustain the business through provision of affordable, Our integrated technology offers the value-adding and appropriate capability to effectively and efficiently moving forward.” insurance solutions focusing on the distribute a wide range of insurance – KCB Insurance MD & Principal micro, retail and small & medium products to diverse market segments enterprises. The expanded offering of insurance consumers across all Officer Peter Kathanga includes insurance solutions suited KCB branches countrywide. KCB Capital K CB Capital Ltd. offers both advisory and brokerage services as the Group investment arm. Essentially, it provides strategic and financial advice to meet the growing and dynamic needs of the Group institutional and individual clients, as well as governments. Launched in 2014, the subsidiary has been instrumental in helping introduce KCB Foundation activities to its corporate clients that share similar values. This may lead to partnership on Foundation program or activity. KCB objective is to integrate Enviromental. Social and Governance (ESG) across all its business operations, including its investment banking services. This is exemplified KCB Director Corporate Banking Moezz Mir, presents a certificate by evaluating the short, medium to KCB Assistant Manager Investor Services Christine Adhiambo and long-term ESG risks and during a KCB Capital Market Authority Certification program at the opportunities related to any given KCB Towers. transaction. PAGE 63 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Uganda We financed Tasco Industries Ltd to expand its operations through the finance and purchase of a state of Kampala the art refinery plant. Oil Refinery Expansion financed by KCB Rwanda We approved a facility of US$ 18 Million to Africa Improved Foods Rwanda Ltd to support its working capital needs. US$ 18m Working capital facility Kigali (KShs. 1.8b) Burundi We financed a local printing enterprise, Hope Design, to purchase a plot of land for business expansion. The new business has created 45 new jobs in Bujumbura the next five years. PAGE 64 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT South Sudan We supported a contractor helping to transition from working with a wheelbarrow to using a bulldozer, grader and an excavator all worth US$ Juba 1.5Million US$1.5m KCB funding for heavy machinery (KShs.150m) Tanzania We approved an SME financing loan of TShs. 800 Million to help construct Texpalace Hotel. The hotel’s turnover has improved to TShs. 6.5 billion per year, from TShs. 5 billion in 2015. Morogoro TShs.800m KCB funding for Texpalace Hotel construction (KShs.35m) *Maps not not drawn to scale CUSTOMER TESTIMONIALS PAGE 65 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Burundi From small enterprise to a printing industry H ope Design launched its helping us expand our business.” Its printing business, operations in 2009 as a small communications agency and sister printing company responding An increase in revenue following company, are also doing quite to the need for high quality these upgrades further allowed well. Since 2012, the printer has products such as business and the company to acquire high expanded from seven permanent invitation cards. Three years later, performance machines from staff to 37. Its profitability has also it also launched sister company, its own funds that have allowed increased significantly—by 40% — BURUNDI Eco newspapers, a Hope Design to significantly during that time. socio-economic weekly print improve quality, expand newspaper that produces its product range and In January 2016, KCB Burundi 3,000 copies per shorten delivery times. helped finance the purchase of week. Today, the The development of Hope Design’s first plot of land company has the digital and offset upon which it will build its own grown tremendously departments allows office and printshop in 2018. The and even makes its Hope Design to print plot of 7500 square meters, located own environmentally a variety of quantities in Bujumbura’s industrial area, friendly professional Bujumbura and sizes, which have affords enough space so that Hope stamps and runs a enabled it to be competitive Design can expand its operations. communication agency. in the country’s graphic New business generated following industry. the expansion is also expected KCB Bank has been to create 45 new jobs in the next financing Hope Design since Hope Design has also emerged as three years. 2013. According to Hope Design a local leader in the professional CEO, Mr. Mélance Buregeya, “We stamp field having reduced delivery “Moving forward we are looking to chose KCB Burundi because we times from three days to 30 expand our partnership with KCB liked their quality of service. It minutes with a two-year warranty. as we look into innovative ways to was professional and they rapidly To contribute to the protection of offer new products that enhance responded to our requests. KCB the environment, its stamps and our customers’ experience. KCB financing allowed us to purchase all its components are ISO 14001: has helped us improve livelihoods printing machines and raw mate2004 certified and ISO 9001: 2008 and reduce unemployment,” statrials which were instrumental in quality certification. ed Mr. Buregeya. Moving forward we are looking to expand our partnership with KCB as we look into innovative ways to offer new products that enhance our customers’ experience. KCB has helped us improve livelihoods and reduce unemployment.” – KCB customer Mélance Buregeya Hope Design staff collate and bind printed material PAGE 66 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Rwanda 1,700,000 Refugees and Internally Displaced Persons supplied 300 People directly employed 25,000t Metric tonnes of food exports in 2017 90,000 Expectant mothers have benefited USD 18m KCB extended facility to meet working capital needs Bringing affordable nutritious food to Rwanda and beyond S ince 2015, Africa Improved Rwanda and the Clinton Health For consumers, the benefits are Foods Rwanda Ltd. Access Initiative, its activities also equally as valuable. According has focused on ending assist farmers to produce the to Ali, “Our products are rich in malnutrition by making required high quality maize and essential vitamins and minerals available nutritious foods from soybeans at competitive prices. that many Rwandans currently locally sourced grains. With In this way, it creates shared lack in their diet. a manufacturing facility value for local farmers and in Kigali’s prime consumers alike. And for The products are made available economic zone AIF, it firmly believes to the poorest via a subsidized that produces high that the social impacts programme sponsored by the quality food from of its business go hand Rwandan Ministry of Health locally grown Kigali in hand with long-term and the Clinton Health Access soya and maize commercial success. Initiative. for infants, pregnant and “Buying maize from Products are purchased at breastfeeding local farmers at a fair price cost price by the Ministry and women, products improves local livelihoods and distributed to all health centres are manufactured to European also makes economic sense as where registered pregnant and quality standards. local maize is often cheaper than breastfeeding mothers can receive imports. If possible, we would buy enough free nutritious porridge to Formed as a result of an initiative all our grains locally,” stated Amar feed themselves and their children between the government of Ali . three times per day.” PAGE 67 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s South Sudan From Wheelbarrows to Bulldozers A You could say that KCB s a child, when Peter Atem Ngor (pictured right) was forced to join changed my life. That the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement to fight for his native South set of machines made all the difference in helping Sudan, he had no idea what the future had in store for him. me to become a verified Today, married with two children, Kiir, which facilitated his passage contractor” Atem owns a construction through Nimule to Uganda in 2007. – KCB South Sudan customer company and a maize flour factory thanks to his experience and KCB “At the time I was a volunteer. I did Peter Atem Ngor South Sudan’s loan services. not have a ‘dream’ per say because I was just doing my job which Born in 1973 in Juba, Atem required me to repair bridges for learned everything he needed to free. It was a service I was happy know about building and repairing to do for my community,” Mr. Ngor bridges during his military service. recalls. One of the defining moments of his military career, happened According to Atem, that recognition when he used his know-how to helped him create a name for repair the River Aswa Bridge for himself. When USAID began to South Sudanese President Salva work in country, it contracted him Juba PAGE 68 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT overdraft document they supplied me, to help me secure funding to pay my workers at the Kator water project. I saw the former Managing Director who asked me how much I needed. When I told him I needed US$ 10,000, he referred me to the loan department”. One week later Atem received the funding. He used the money to buy food for the workers and some materials to finish the work. After repaying the first loan, he received another overdraft from KCB to repair a bridge in Juba. “At the time, I was working with wheelbarrows. In 2011, KCB helped me finance a bulldozer, a grader, out to repair five bridges for which an excavator and a roller worth he was paid US$ 350,000. This was over US$ 1.5 million. This helped the first time he had ever received me open Rhino Star Construction compensation for such service. Company, ” added Atem. Following this contract, he received “You could say that KCB changed another for a water project in Kator my life. That set of machines made and Munuki. For this project, he all the difference in helping me required assistance to finance to become a verified contractor, the work. Having his money stuck and eventually one of the leading for the third time in another local construction local companies in commercial bank, he was advised South Sudan,” he says. With the to open an account at KCB to help help of KCB Uganda, he later him buy food for his workers. managed to acquire a maize flour factory in Uganda upon “The first time I went to KCB recommendation from KCB South in 2008, it was with a USAID Sudan. 5 bridges $1.5m Flour Mill Constructed successfully KCB funding for heavy machinery Acquired in Uganda PAGE 69 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Tanzania Diversifying from beverage supplier to hotelier Patrick Munishi This eventually led to an SME financing loan from KCB Tanzania A in the amount of TShs. 800 bout 200 kilometers west of Dar es Salaam, lies the town of million, which helped to complete Morogoro in Eastern Tanzania. Home to about 300,000 people, construction of the hotel. With the excess income generated it is the country’s largest city and commercial centre. It is also from the hotel, the business has home to Manyunyu Traders Ltd. started a pig farm due to the demand of pigs within Morogoro Established in 2010 to meet local which government could host and Dar es Salaam. demand from beverage sellers its conferences and seminars,” seeking to deal specifically stated Manyunyu Traders “The hotel is also working with a beverage distributing Managing Director, Focus Patrick towards operating in a green company rather than individuals, Munishi. manner. Trees have been planted Manyunyu Traders Ltd. in the hotel garden and near the has been a wholesale Although the business was bar. In the future we are also supplier of hard and doing well, in order to planning to recycle water and soft drinks ever create our vision, we paper. In addition, the company since. Over the needed to secure plans to invest in social services years, the business financing. to cater across additional areas in has expanded from need,” stated Mr. Munishi. its beginnings as Morogoro According to Munishi, a beverage supplier “I chose financing Since the hotel opened in 2015, to operate a mini from KCB because the company has increased its supermarket, a bar and we had built a good revenue from TShs. 5 billion eventually, the KCB-financed, rapport having had Tanzanian to TShs. 6.5 billion per Texpalace Hotel. a personal account with year. Aside from the additional them for many years. In 2009, revenue growth, company “In Morogoro Town, there was they reached out to me to see if I expansion has generated no spacious, clean lodging. needed any additional financing employment opportunities for There was also demand for an to help grow my business.” more than 60 citizens. appropriate establishment in PAGE 70 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Uganda Creating shared value in Uganda’s manufacturing sector K ampala based Tasco Industries Limited, is a leading manufacturer therefore issued safety equipment and taken appropriate measures to of cooking oil and laundry bar soaps in Uganda. In 2013, the company ensure their safety at all times. We launched its soap making operations following the importation of the have also adopted energy saving appropriate equipment. Two years later, the company went on to expand methods that are already saving us at minimum US$ 5 per ton of its operations into the cooking oil sector following the importation of an oil production,” said Tasco Financial refinery machine from India. Controller, Prabaharan. The company’s vision is to leverage enabled us to achieve substantial Aside from securing its certification its competitive advantages in cost growth in the last two years, while with the Uganda National Bureau to bring an affordable quality offering timely support on of Standards, Tasco has also product to the Ugandan any banking questions we implemented essential occupational market, while exploring had. We consider them a health and safety requirements. opportunities for exporting trusted partner.” Employees working in factory to neighbouring Congo, areas are provided and expected to Rwanda and South Kampala The new refinery helped wear protective gear and clothing, Sudan. them increase revenue including a helmet. In addition, the by over 50% between workplace has been planned and In 2015, Tasco was 2015/2016 and 2016/2017. arranged in a safe manner with looking to expand Meanwhile, the expanded business proper signage of any potential its operations required the support of an additional hazards and all fire exits are clearly through the finance 125 people to raise its total to 250 marked. All staff must also undergo and purchase of a state of the art staff, 30% of whom are female. proper training on workplace safety. refinery plant to improve efficiency and capacity, to in turn, improve cost When securing financing in 2015 With almost 20% of the current efficiency. The company secured through KCB, Tasco was also one of market shared in its industry, Tasco’s a term loan, letter of credit and the first clients in Uganda to apply CEO envisions that the company will overdraft with KCB. for a loan through KCB Group newly grow at a faster pace assuming a launched Social and Environment larger market shared in the coming According to Tasco Financial ConManagement system. two to five years and emerge as one troller, Prabaharan, “We chose KCB of the country’s prominent consumer because it is known for its commer“The application process for the goods manufacturing companies. In cial banking and trade finance opfinancing really opened our eyes to doing so, it envisions its shared value erations that support investments, the future of lending practices and coming from increased employment especially those in the manufacturwhat financial institutions are truly opportunities and additional tax ing sector. They structured facilities looking for. Our employees are above revenue for the state. for us at affordable rates which all, our number one priority. We have $5 Savings per 250 30% People Employees PAGE 71 tonne (EE*) employed are female e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 72 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMBRACING BEST PRACTICES PAGE 73 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Embracing best practices in environmental, social and governance within KCB systems Governance, risk and incentives Over the past decade, KCB Group has KCB Group Plc. is governed by a Board of worked to embrace international best Directors elected largely by its shareholders, practices for financial institutions into with the exception of the Group Chief Most company failures its systems and operations. Such best Executive Officer and the Group Chief are attributable to practices aim to make institutions more Financial Officer. The Board is accountable substandard governance. sustainable by providing guidance to preto the shareholders for the overall Group At KCB, we recognize empt or address challenges in internal performance and is collectively responsible governance, risk, credit departments and for the long term success of the Group. this and have therefore human resources departments. The Board achieves such success by worked toward adoption setting appropriate business strategy and of a clear governance Governance overseeing delivery against the set strategy. policy, board charter, It ensures that the Group manages and code of ethics, The banking industry is, above all, founded risks effectively and monitors financial upon trust. If a customer entrusts his or performance and reporting. which help ensure directors act in the best her money to a financial institution, that person or company expects that it is in KCB Group has built a strong, qualified interest of company good hands. It is therefore imperative that Board of Directors. With a clear governance strategy, assume full financial institutions operate in a manner policy, board charter and code of ethics, responsibilities, and in which they are accountable to their today’s directors are fully aware of their customers, shareholders, staff and society roles and responsibilities and assume operate along the lines full ownership of them. The Board’s Risk of international best at large. Such accountability starts in the boardroom. By ensuring first and foremost Management Committee meets quarterly practices.” that boards are structured and operate to discuss issues pertaining to sustainability – KCB Group Company properly, they are better equipped to ensure integration. Every year board members undergo a review process and every three Secretary Joseph Kania the proper oversite of corporate functions years they meet with an external service and risk management, while guiding the long-term strategic vision. provider to do a formal review of internal governance practices. KCB Corruption & Bribery KCB Whistle Prevention Framework Blowing Procedures KCB Group KCB Handling Conflict of KCB Group Rules Code of Ethical Interest Procedures on Business Gifts Conduct KCB prevention of Insider Procedures on Prevention Dealing Procedures and resolution of Harassment in the Workplace PAGE 74 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KCB Governance Milestones • Updated Memorandum and Articles of Association; • Monitored and adopted 2014 Finance Act; Adopted Board Charter and • Appointed two new non-executive directors; Governance Policy; Added corporate • Introduced secure on-line portal for Board papers; governance training and compliance • Underwent a corporate governance review requirements for directors Reconstituted the composition • Supported the Group in reorganization into a • Approved first interim dividend; of Board Committees non-operating holding company; • Seven directors retired and five • Reviewed KCB Internal Capital Adequacy were appointed Assessment Process (ICAAP); • Underwent an internal audit on governance compliance; • Introduced paperless meetings through the implementation of e-board; • Complied with 2015 Companies Act and approved Code of Governance Risk management the overall risk appetite and risk Credit Department under which it profile of the business. It meets was previously housed. KCB maintains a robust enterprisequarterly to advise the business on wide risk management framework all matters pertaining to risks. Today, staff are encourage to talk in line with Basel II and Basel openly about credit risk. Staff are III Standards. Covering credit, Business continuity issues are required to take a mandatory risk operational and market risk, as also discussed by the Committee. training to increase their ability to well as information, compliance, Current and/or potential risks are detect operational errors or fraud. reputational and environmental then escalated to the Board for It also discusses how to manage and social risk, the framework decision, with a recommendation any cases of such, once spotted. places emphasis on ethics and from the Committee. In addition, every month, branches fraud prevention. Staff are trained to dedicate an entire day to discussing detect, analyse and manage risk on Credit, operational and market risk risk. Any significant issues raised a regular basis. during these meetings that cannot Over the past decade, KCB Group has be mitigated at branch level, are worked to integrate the importance Long-term risks and opportunities escalated to regional teams. of risk management into the psyche relating to E&S issues are Meanwhile, at Group level, a risk of its staff. Whether it is risk from regularly monitored by the Board’s committee chaired by the CEO has bad credit or fraud, today, KCB is Risk Management Committee. been set up to discuss pressing prepared to address it head on. Since The Committee oversees the issues, in addition to the Group 2007, a specialized Risk Department enterprise-wide view of risks regular risk assessment. was born, breaking away from the and controls and brings together PAGE 75 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s 1 Credit Risk 3 Market Risk 5 2 Operational Risk 4 Information Risk 1. Credit risk may fail to meet their obligations. contingency planning and By assigning a credit risk rating training and professional To manage the risk associated with to individual customers, the development. our lending business and without Group is better equipped to compromising the ability of our • Resource efficient (green) remain within its acceptable risk qualifying clients to access the buildings and infrastructure appetite threshold. credit they need. is also an operational risk • KCB has also established consideration for KCB. • A fair, comprehensive and robust behavioural credit scoring credit assessment in compliance • The Group has a forensics models to enable lending with the standards set by the team embedded within the Risk decisions based on information CBK to ensure customers do not Division, which provides training extracted from customer become over-indebted and to and awareness for staff on fraud accounts. protect the Group reserves. prevention. • We have increased the amount 2. Operational risk 3. Market risk of information that is provided Operational risk is the risk of direct to customers about forthcoming At KCB, market risk typically or indirect loss arising from a wide changes in conditions attached to includes: interest rate risk, foreign variety of causes associated with our facilities, including our rates. exchange risk, investment risk, the Group processes, personnel, settlement risk, liquidity risk and • KCB has developed a dynamic technology and infrastructure. country risk. internal risk rating system to • Strict requirements related to evaluate the risk that a borrower responsibilities and monitoring, PAGE 76 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This year we worked to embed a risk culture into the Group by communicating the message that 5 7 and Compliance Environmental risk is everyone’s businesses. Risk Social Risk In this way, it has become an integral part of day-to-day operations and staff have become more comfortable to discuss it. We have become more proactive in using data to help us catch irregularities, while we have increased our anti-fraud 6 Reputational Risk and anti-money laundering awareness. By better managing our risk we are helping ensure longevity of the Group.” – KCB Group Chief Risk Officer John Mukulu • We regularly monitor this risk monitors its IT systems and 6. Reputational risk against appetite limits, such processes. as exposure and risk limits and Publicity regarding the Bank’s • KCB has established business business practices, whether liquidity and solvency ratios continuity plans true or not, will cause a decline contained in the market risk framework, which incorporates • Maintains stringent information in customer confidence, costly market and country risk policies protection processes and litigation or a reduction in revenue. approved by the board. policies. • KCB has worked to position • KCB is expanding its outlook itself first and foremost as a to investigate ways in which it 5. Compliance risk responsible lender. may better consider regional Risk arising from violation of climate-related risk within its applicable laws and regulation. 7. Environmental and country risk profile. social risk. • KCB has worked to remain compliant with all new required KCB has worked to integrate 4. Information risk regulations. environmental and social Any threats arising from considerations into its risk • Identification of changes to framework. The following table weaknesses in data integrity, the regulatory compliance highlights ways in which KCB has system availability or weaknesses universe, gap analysis and or will work to continue integrating in the lCT environment, constitute enhancement of the internal E&S into its risk system. KCB information risk. policy environment. • KCB maintains a tight IT • Compliance training for staff. security policy, regularly PAGE 77 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Incentives KCB Social and Environmental ESG integration cannot happen without relevant sustainability objectives Management System and targets incorporated into colSince 2015, KCB has incorporated a social and environmental management system (SEMS) into lective and individual performance our lending process. This system, which is aligned with IFC Performance Standards, adheres management and evaluations. Such to the principles of best practice. The SEMS is enabling us to better identify and manage process incentivizes staff to considexposure from environmental and social risks posed by our clients. The roughly 100 questions er sustainability during their regular posed during the loan application process for our corporate clients include: operations and business. At KCB, our human resource policies on perfor• Does the project/company have a history and material inputs that are in line with mance management incorporate our of environmental, social incidents and good international industry practice? corporate targets which are cascaded fines? to management level, to department • Does the company have procedures for level to individual level. • Has the company allocated resources storage, handling, and disposal of solid to support capacity building of relevant wastes? By the end of 2018, all staff will see at staff on E&S issues? least one relevant sustainability-re• Does the company have safety procelated key performance indicator with • Does the company have a mechanism dures in place to deal with hazardous corresponding target included in their for identifying its stakeholders (affected material release, transport and disposal performance scorecards. Over the next communities and other interested stakein order to avoid or to minimize exposure three years, we expect to improve upon these indicators to ensure they are holders in the company’s activities)? of local communities to those materials? the most relevant and best indicators. • Has the company established a grievance • Has there been any physical and/or These individual indicators will furmechanism for workers to review and economic displacement as a result of ther feed into our overall department and management scorecards, which address employee complaints? land acquisition for this project? will also be enhanced to ensure we • Does the company implement measures • Has the company identified and assessed are capturing the most relevant envifor improving efficiency in its consumpthe impacts on biodiversity as part of its ronmental and social indicators which help KCB Group in created true value tion of energy, water, and other resources operations? to its stakeholders. Lessons learned incorporating sustainability into the credit process Since our implementation of the SEMS, we have noted several lessons we wish to share as they may be helpful to others venturing along the same path. Lesson 1. Establishing a separate unit on Lesson 2. Although we are increasing financial Lesson 3. Learning by doing it ourselves: sustainability will make the sustainability ininclusion, at this stage, we cannot expect all By incorporating technology into our credit tegration process smoother and more efficient. our smallest clients to immediately and openly process, we have been able to save a lot of In terms of the credit department, current lack embrace sustainability measures. It will take time and resources. Cutting back on our paper of capacity in terms of monitoring, follow-up time for such thinking to become ingrained usage has therefore been as beneficial to the and mitigation is a challenge. KCB is therefore in the regional practices, even though today’s environment as it has been to our bottom line. looking into ways in which it can work with youth are more in-tune with this way of thinkKCB will is therefore a proponent of automation branch-based sustainability champions in order ing. KCB is therefore working with, and training, and is sharing best practices to help other to help mitigate some of these challenges. its corporate clients first in adopting sound organizations in the region on ways in which it E&S practices at this time, with plans to focus may automate its processes to create similar on its retail customers in the future. efficiencies. PAGE 78 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Best Practices Recommendation Best Practices Recommendation Starting in the 2018 Integrated Report, KCB Group will include qualitative and, where Integrate E&S risks in the possible, quantitative statements on acceptable E&S risks in the RAS. In order to do risk appetite statement (RAS) this, we will begin by developing a tool and/or method for translating such qualitative statements into quantitative risk management controls. In recent years, KCB has been exploring ways in which E&S factors are already included in its capital models. In the next two years, it will work to establish at least one Integrate E&S factors viable business case for full integration of E&S into one of its capital models. It will in capital models also work with the Kenya Bankers Association to promote the inclusion of E&S factors in capital models. In 2017, KBC underwent a Social Return on Investment study (discussed later in the report) to further integrate E&S factors into its business models. Over the next 2 to Further integrate E&S factors in 5 years, the Group will also aim to develop an assessment framework for client and bank models for credit risk analysis transaction due diligence that capture externalities and assess the likelihood and materiality of these externalities. In 2015, the Group introduced its social and environmental management system Integrate E&S factors in portfolio (SEMS) into the Group lending practices. In the coming two years, KCB will also monitoring and management increase its ability to monitor more closely and better follow-up on its clients’ E&S practices to ensure they are adhering to all environmental and social procedures. Over the next 2 years, KCB Group will undergo an exercise to map its activities that create a positive impact; identify opportunities for levering these activities in a cost-efApply a more top-down approach on fective manner (e.g. information sharing on product development, applying strategies managing opportunity-driven activiacross sectors); develop a top-down strategy for financing activities that create impact ties and strategies and/or contribute to the transition to a more sustainable economic model; and set realistic targets and KPIs for lines of business in the annual capital allocation and budgeting process. Advance structuring and arranging capability to facilitate sustainable By 2020, KCB aims to launch its first green bond. investment In 2017, the Group actively embraced an open risk culture. However, given that finanInvolve middle management in cial objectives often outweigh E&S-related objectives due to more advanced performanaging E&S risks and mance measurement techniques on financial objectives, KCB is also reviewing how opportunities it may include E&S targets and KPIs in the performance dashboards of departments and business managers. Integrate E&S factors in In 2018, KCB will include a minimum of at least one relevant sustainability-related performance management key performance indicator in every employee’s scorecard. Stimulate dialogue on E&S risk and In 2017, KCB saw the mainstreaming of risk into every employee’s responsibilities. opportunity management within the Moving forward, it will continue to reinforce the relevance of incorporating E&S risks organization and opportunities during its regular risk discussions. Moving forward, the Group will work to actively discuss in its annual reports its sustainability strategy as well as any E&S trends that impact the way clients do business Improve E&S risk reporting and any risk associated with engaging with such clients (i.e. real estate developers) and how the bank has worked to integrate this risk. PAGE 79 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 80 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Measuring our impact PAGE 81 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Measuring our impact Redefined 10 point action plan KCB launched its 10 Point Action Plan in 2013 to help it better track and monitor its progress in contributing to creating societal value. Having been met with much success and achievements in reaching many of its short term goals, the plan has been slightly redefined to help challenge KCB further over the next five to ten years. How it all relates Portfolio reimagining New action point Added-value partnership Financial Inclusion New action point Cyber security Empowering youth awareness & 10 POINT and community fortification Redefines previous ACTION PLAN Redefines previous “Community “Security” action point investment” action point Talent management Environmental footprint and diversity Merges previous Merges previous “Employee “Environmental development,” “Capacity impact”and “Energy building” and “Diversity” conservation” action points action points Ethics & integrity Product development & Innovation Inclusive of previous “Security” New action point action point PAGE 82 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 Point Action Plan * New indicator, no data available for that year ** New indicator, target to be determined YOY change Point Action Plan Target 2016 & 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 Responsible Lending Less than Non-performing loans (% or value) industry average 8.36% 7.70% 5.97% 5.18% (9.5% in 2017) Non-performing loans in n/a 14.73% 12.54% 7.62% 9.40% microlending portfolio (% or value) Number of social-environmental 100 69 42 41 25 assessments undertaken in the year 1 site visit per Number of site visits undertaken year for high and 93 50 30 20 to assess E&S risk medium-risk clients 100% of high and Number of corporate clients with medium-risk 50 50 30 20 environmental & social or OHS policies clients Value of facilities that have undergone >100 m 61.3 89.1 98.7 61 social-environmental assessments (in KShs. billion) Percentage integration of Social and Environmental 100% 100% 100% 50% 50% Management System (SEMS) in the Group Percentage achievement rate on Business Process Reengineering (BPR) implementation i.e. simplification 100% 100% 100% 50% 0% of products and services Cost to income ratio (CIR) 49% 46.2% 47.6% 50% 50% Customer satisfaction index 85% 74% 74% n/a 77% Financial Inclusion Number of agency banking outlets 20,000 16,085 13,562 11,948 10,102 Number of transactions processed 24.6 22.8 15.8 7.6 3.3 under agency banking (in millions) Number of registered mobile 4 2.9 3.3 >2 >1.08 banking users (in millions) Number of registered KCB M-Pesa 10 12.1 7.8 4.7 users (in millions) Number of transactions processed 50.9 39.2 33.7 21.6 9.7 under mobile banking (in millions) Number of loans processed 8.90 8.30 5.70 4.20 .10 under mobile banking (in millions) Value of loans processed under 31.7 29.7 13.6 7.8 0.6 mobile banking (in KShs. billions) PAGE 83 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s YOY change Point Action Plan Target 2016 & 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 Empowering Youth and Community Number of scholarships awarded 240 p.a. 240 240 240 n/a under the Scholarship Programme Amount disbursed in the Inua = n/a 8.7 18.0 9.2 n/a Jamii Program (in KShs. billions) Amount allocated to mobilization through partnerships 80 512.60 166.20 268.90 180.0 to support Livestock Project (in KShs. millions) Number of youth upskilled under 2Jiajiri 10,000 10,020 3,000 Number of farmers reached under 50,000 39,008 30,000 26,000 10,812 the Mifugo ni Mali project Number of Bancassurance policies TBD 25,327 22,370 16,954 6,545 Number of Bancassurance claims TBD 1,932 1,427 699 106 Value of Bancassurance claims TBD 582 274 255 <1 paid out (in KShs. millions) Percentage spent on procurement local spend 60% 91% 89% 83% 90% Percentage spent on 40% 9% 11% 17% 10% procurement international spend Talent Management and Diversity Total number of Group employees at year end n/a n/a 6,262 7,344 7,509 5,627 Number of new hires n/a n/a 144 55 1,024 946 Number of employee exits n/a n/a 745 195 273 43 Employee Development Employee satisfaction rate (%) 85% 87% 87% 82% 80% Staff attrition rate (%) >5% 10% 6% 5% 5% Average training days per employee 5 7.1 8.3 7.3 5.7 Number of employees who have 6,262 6,753 5,506 5,475 6,113 undergone online training Capacity Building Number of employees having undergone sustainability 6,262 baseline 2,582 n/a n/a n/a awareness training Number of staff trained on environmental and social 100% n/a n/a 3633 300 0 risk assessments Number of staff trained on the industry Sustainable 3786 n/a n/a 3786 0 0 Finance Initiative (SFI) Diversity Number of male permanent and pensionable 50% 3,074 4,221 4,229 3,078 employees Number of female permanent and pensionable = 50% 2,331 3,177 3,283 2,461 employees PAGE 84 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT YOY change Point Action Plan Target 2016 & 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of women trained under the Women in 250 250 250 200 100 Leadership Programme Percentage composition of women on the KCB Board 33% 20% 27% 27% 27% (Group Board and country boards) Percentage composition of women at senior 33% 22% 30% 27% 27% management Incentives Number of sustainability-related Minimum 1 baseline 0 n/a n/a n/a targets included in KPIs per employee Product Development and Innovation Number of new products developed ** 8 8 n/a n/a Number of new products launched ** 10 8 n/a n/a Ethics and Integrity Number of fraud cases reported All cases (100%) 27 22 33 20 Percentage of staff undergoing anti-fraud training (%) 100% 99% 98% 73% 82% Number of employees having undergone annual 6,262 5,928 5,506 5,475 6,113 mandatory ethics e-learning courses across the Group All confirmed Number of employee dismissals relating to fraud employee fraud 34 31 33 20 Number of successful internal 0 401 447 528 267 fraud attempts (incidences) 100% detection Number of unsuccessful internal of unsuccessful 173 75 111 87 fraud attempts (incidences) fraud attempts Number of suppliers signed up to the code 100% 200% 100% 50% NA of ethics (all signing completed in 2016) Percentage achievement of anti-money 100% 95% 70% 80% 50% laundering awareness across the group Environmental Footprint Environmental Impact Adoption of KCB Green Agenda (%) 100% 35% 30% 20% 5% Fuel for generators and fleet (Millions of ℓitres) 5% Reduction p.a. 2.0 2.9 2.2 6.8 Electricity consumption (MWh) 5% Reduction p.a. 16,423 20,970 13,982 13,243 Water ( Millions of litres) 236 249 304 295 68,850 84,629 110,073 60,894 Paper (Reams) PAGE 85 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s YOY change Point Action Plan Target 2016 & 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 Carbon Additional targets related to Management n/a n/a n/a n/a achieving carbon neutrality Plan to start in 2019 Energy conservation Green technology adoption (%) 100% 35% 30% 20% 5% LED lighting adoption (%) 100% n/a n/a 30% 20% 5% Indirect emissions/value chain footprint TBD n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Number of in-person meetings requiring travel 100 60 60 50 50 replaced by video-conferences Cyber Security Awareness and Fortification Number of staff trained on cyber security 100% 1,545 2,460 * * Number of cyber attacks prevented New Target * * * * * Added-value Partnerships Number of external partners with whom New Action Plan n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a KCB engages on institution-wide initiatives Number of schools operating accounts through KCB New Action Plan n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Number of active local suppliers New Action Plan baseline 1,028 700 500 500 Portfolio Reimagining Percentage of portfolio in lending 15% increase * 0 * * * for affordable housing over next 5 years Percentage of portfolio financing 15% increase * 2.8 4 * * agribusiness (including small scale agri) over next 5 years Percentage of portfolio in green lending, ie. 15% increase green buildings, cleaner technologies in line over next 5 years * 10 * * * with international green standards 15% increase Percentage of portfolio lending to SMEs over next 5 years * 39 * * * New indicator, no data available for that year ** New indicator, target to be determined Since the launch of our social and environmental management system, we have started to see a gradual shift in client perception and how they think about social and environmental risks. For KCB, the system helps us avoid and manage loans with potential social and environmental risks by conducting relevant due diligence prior to loan disbursement.” – KCB Group Director of Credit Apollo Ong’ara PAGE 86 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Playing our part in reducing Carbon Footprint Promoting sustainable consumption and production are we track our power, water, fuel and paper consumption. important aspects of sustainable development, which We have made deliberate efforts to minimise the depends on achieving long-term economic growth that environmental impact of our resource consumption. is consistent with environmental and social needs. The Below is a comparative resource consumption for the bank continues to promote responsible consumption, and period under review. 235m Litres of water 7,192 248m Employees Litres of water 6,483* 16,423 Employees Megawatt/hour 20,970 2017 2016 Megawatt/hour 84,629 Reams of paper 2.9m Litres of fuel 2.0m Litres of fuel 68,850 Reams of paper Resources Consumed 2014 2017 Group Resources / Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 Power (MWH) 13,243 13,982 20,970 16,423 Water (Litres) 295,042,027 303,887,505 248,743,161 235,842,269 Co2 Paper (Reams) 60,894 110,073 84,629 68,850 Assumptions Equivalent Fuel (Generators & Vehicles) Litres 6,833,590 2,227,826 2,937,797 2,017,229 1 KWH 0.94Kg CO2 400 Reams of Calculation of Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint 5690 Lbs CO2 paper Power 12,448,420.00 13,143,080.00 19,711,800.00 15,437,620.00 1 Lbs 0.45Kg CO2 Paper 392,909.49 710,229.68 546,056.05 444,244.40 1 Gallon Fuel 22.61 lbs CO2 Fuel 18,514,086.84 6,035,797.29 7,959,305.25 5,465,231.73 I Gallon Fuel 3.79 Litres Carbon footprint (tonnes) 31,355.42 19,889.11 28,217.16 21,347.10 1Tonne 1000 Kgs PAGE 87 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 88 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social return on investment Additional impact on Inua Jamii, 2Jiajiri and KCB Inua Jamii 2Jiajiri KCB Mpesa • For every KShs. 1 invested in the • 1:2 to 1:7 overall SROI for every KShs. 1 invested • KShs. 1.8 trillion total social programme, each beneficiary in the programme, each beneficiary received value impact received KShs. 11 in additional between KShs 2 -7 in additional benefits • KShs. 47 million total human benefits • KShs. 166 million total invested in the resource impact • KShs. 185 billion estimated amount programme to date • KShs. 875 million total of total social value created by the • KShs. 238 million to KShs. 1 billion estimated investment in KCB-Mpesa programme amount of total social value created • KShs. 17 billion total invested in • Indicators of change: • KShs 1 billion total economic the programme to date Increased career perspective impact Improved communication skills • KShs 108 million total Gained professional and entrepreneurial skills environmental impact I Inua Jamii n 2017, KCB Group commissioned Vulnerable Children (OVC), Older a social return on investment Persons (OP) and Persons with study on the three KCB products The Inua Jamii Programme was Severe Disabilities (PwSD). Under with the greatest reach — Inua launched in 2015 by President the programme, beneficiaries Jamii, 2Jiajiri, and KCB M-PESA Uhuru Kenyatta as one of the receive a stipend of KShs. 2,000 — to help shed light on who these channels that the government monthly support. products were helping, in what of Kenya use to aid in tackling ways they were creating shared poverty in the region and catering The cash transfers are based value and also to discover any for the underprivileged in society on a pre-set criteria, and aim at challenges customers were facing. and boosting economic growth. mitigating chronic or shock-induced The following provides a breakdown The three major cash transfer poverty, address social risks and of what the study revealed per programmes running in 47 reduce economic vulnerability. product. counties go to the Orphans and The initiative was created to assist PAGE 89 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s poor people in meeting their basic consumption needs and improve livelihood opportunities. Based upon a sample size of 230 people out of the programmes’ 557,551 beneficiaries, the SROI ratio for the Inua Jami programme is 1:11.19. This means that for every one KShs. invested into the programme, there is a return to beneficiary individuals of just over Kshs. 11 (KShs. 11.19 to be precise) each. The programme provides benefits to community groups that otherwise do not receive any support from any other organisation. Additionally, it demonstrates the high impact on beneficiaries, their families, and overall society. A KCB staffer registers Inua Jamii beneficiaries. Time efficiency Easy access 79% of the beneficiaries have stated Due to the widespread of KCB branches across the country that they spend less time queuing and their strategic locations,56% of the beneficiaries said at the disbursement centres, which they requires less travel time to the disbursement centres helps them manage their time and which saves them time to do other things during the day. concentrate on other daily activities. Sense of security Enable education KCB has placed high security systems as a result 80% 30% of the beneficiaries are able Of the beneficiaries find KCB system to be reliable now to pay school fees for their and efficient which gives them a sense of satisfaction. children and grandchildren. Moreover, 75% of the beneficiaries have a sense of security as KCB handles the process privately. Improve living standards Better Health Condition 39% have used the funds 82% of the beneficiaries received received to enhance their the funds have stated that it business which has led to enabled them pay their hospital increased income and raise bills hence live healthier life. the living standards. Afford basic needs The programme has enabled 61% of the beneficiaries to afford their basic needs such as (food, clothing, shelter) in addition 9% are able to afford the cost of public transport thus they are able to visit and interact with their families. PAGE 90 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2Jiajiri counties out of the program’s 2,234 two years, stakeholders might have beneficiaries. The SROI study’s calover-claimed the value of changes 2jiajiri is a skills development culated results involved three difresulting from the programme. and job creation program being ferent methods: primary, secondary There is a risk if the programme implemented by KCB Foundation and combined sources revealing continues to run in the same way that seeks to catalyse employment a SROI ratio between 1:2 to 1:7, and other organisations add more and wealth creation among existing meaning that for every one Kenyan elements to their programmes, ‘jua kali’ entrepreneurs and the shilling invested in the programme, stakeholders will value less about youth. The program seeks to reach each beneficiary received between the programme and the ratio will 50,000 youth and informal sector KShs. 2 and 7 in additional benefits drop in the future. entrepreneurs in the next 5 years. based upon a total value creation between KShs.238 million to KShs. The secondary source scenario drew The programme aims to empower 1 billion. upon values that were benchmarked and equip unemployed and outagainst global values and adjusted of-school youth to grow micro The first primary sources scenario to inflation and country value. It enterprises by providing them with relies upon values driven directly reflects a more accurate value of a technical skill training opportunities from stakeholders. The values programme that has been running as well as up-skilling and certifying reflect stakeholder feelings, for a longer period. These values existing micro-entrepreneurs who emotions, and other social impacts, have been studied and assessed wish to move their business from thereby capturing local reality. The by experts in the field, yet they the informal to the formal sector. values indicated by stakeholders are take into consideration the local four times above the global average reality of the study area, therefore The study was based upon a samvalues, resulting in an above it might miss some elements that ple of 74 face to face interviews; 97 average SROI ratio of 1:7.56 based are unique to the Kenyan context. A questionnaires; and 10 valuation upon a total social value creation of 1:2.43 SROI is derived based upon games throughout Ahero, Busia, KShs. 1,073,725,406.56. Given the a total social value creation of Eldoret, Kisumu, Mombasa, Naiprogramme has been running for KShs. 238,218,648.87. robi, Nakuru, Nyeri, and Mombasa KCB 2Jiajiri beneficiaries undergoing training at Toyota Center, Nairobi. PAGE 91 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Confidence boosted 64% Stated that it resulted in increasing their confidence to Creativity enhanced Skill transfer pursue employment and operate 48% Gained technical and practical 75% Stated that they have own business. skills during the internship phase which gained new soft skills and have helped enhancing their creativity technical skills. and prepared them for employment opportunities. Professional skills acquired 47% the participants have Improved communication skills gained professional skills The programme has improved related to their job which has the communication skills of the empowered them to participants, which led to an become self-employed. increase in their confidence. Self-employment Better relationships 42% have stated that the skills they 73% Stated that they have gained have helped them open their better relationship with business and earn more income, friends and family which and that has improved their living have made them happier. standards. Improved customer service 48% Stated that they are better able to interact with customers which has led to an increase in their client base Entrepreneurial skills 39% of the interviewees have gained entrepreneurial skills and financial support which has helped to expand their business venture leading to more customers and increased income. Beneficiaries have experienced various personal, financial, and mental changes as a result of 2Jiajiri Program. They have also gained key professional skills that has empowered them to become entrepreneurs PAGE 92 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The combined sources scenario Beneficiaries have experiences various changes as a result of KCB-MPESA service examined the secondary sources and adjusted against the inputs received from primary sources. It Improved living standards takes into consideration factors that may have been omitted by Improve financial behaviour using only secondary sources such as programme duration, local context of Kenyan regions, Time efficiency and participates feelings of the programme. Under this scenario, Sense of security 1:4.94 SROI ratio is derived based upon a total social value creation of KShs. 655,972,033.55. Able to afford basic needs 0 20 40 60 80 100 KCB M-PESA With some 7 million beneficiaries, Yes No KCB M-PESA is a mobile based account offered exclusively to phones at attractive low interest Based upon a sample size of 278 M-PESA customers. Possible due to rates of 1.16% per month with a one beneficiaries the study found that a partnership with Safaricom, KCB off negotiation fee of 2.5% with a 60 the KShs. 875 million investment in M-PESA enables customers to save day loan payment period. KCB M-PESA resulted in total social or access loans through their mobile value impact of KShs. 1.8 trillion. 60 day Loan repayment period 7,000,000 KCB MPESA customers 1.16% Interest rate per month. KShs. 1.8tr Value of social impact PAGE 93 R E I M AG I N I N G soci E tal v alues PAGE 94 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT INNOVATION PAGE 95 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s KCB Head of SME Naomi Ndele presents a token to KCB Biashara Club members during a trip to Maasai Mara. Product innovation highlights O ver the past decade, KCB Group has of KShs. 4 billion over three months alone. We also launched Mobi Salary Advance via worked tirelessly to create a portfolio mobile phone service for times when a little of financial solutions tailored to meet help is needed before that next paycheck. At some 5,000 merchants across the region, with the needs of its diverse customer base. a scan of a code, customers can also now pay with their mVisa mobile wallet through In addition to its personal and corporate an app or USSD service. Thanks to our ATM accounts and services offerings, the Group Recyclers, cash may now be disputed instantly has taken innovation to a new level by at any ATM. During our pilot phase alone leveraging technology, regional knowledge and we collected KShs. 1 billion through 40,000 partnerships enabling it to offer customized transactions. Thanks to Mykash, users are solutions for persons operating both in and not able to send money and make payments outside of the formal sector. to paybill or till numbers straight from their KCB accounts. Two card acquiring services Many of our new products and services provide were also launched: Union Pay Int and Verve. bottom up solutions that are relevant, effective, We have also launched our social platform, successful and sustainable. This sets us apart Workplace, which enables staff to interact and from internationally-based lenders, who are share experiences within Facebook. typically less risk averse in such offerings due to their limited knowledge of the environment. KCB plans to launch an education insurance cover called Elimisha in the beginning of In 2017, we launched a Goal Saving Account 2018. An online checkout digital wallet called that enables our customers to save towards Masterpass will also be launched extending their business goals, which banked deposits the reach of our cashless checkout options. PAGE 96 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Product Category Description M-Benki is an ordinary mobile-based bank account possible to open using the M-PESA Pay Bill option, thereby excluding any in-person registration requirement. ID and further registration is only required KCB M-Benki Account should you wish to transact sums larger than KShs. 140,000, take out a loan, make SWIFT transactions, etc. It is purely a KCB product that uses Safaricom platform for some functions. A mobile based account offered exclusively to M-PESA customers enabling you to: Access loans at attractive low interest rates of 1.16% per month with a one off negotiation fee of 2.5%. The cost for the one KCB M-PESA Account month loan is 3.66% with excise duty applicable on fees. Save for a fixed period of time (Fixed Deposit Account) or save a little at a time for a set period (Target Savings Account) and earn interest of up to 7% p.a. Transfer money in and out of the KCB M-PESA Account for free. An interbank switch providing the banking industry with a capability for bank customers to transfer money directly from their accounts to PesaLink Account accounts held in other banks on a real time basis. The service also allows transfers to a mobile number linked to an account in a bank. Mobile app that enables individuals and businesses carry out transactions instantly by accessing their bank account, using their Account (money MyKash mobile phone. MyKash allows you to receive and send up to KShs.. 1 transfer app) million, to any bank account pay bills directly from your bank account; and borrow money. A load and transact, a tap and go card available to both KCB and non Pepea Prepaid card KCB customers. A safe and convenient alternative to cash available to both KCB and Me Cash Prepaid card non KCB customers. Unsecured This loan is granted to individuals in order to meet their personal (Unsecured) Loan personal needs without the requirement for a security deposit. A special type of loan that is open to employees of Government Unsecured Check(Unsecured) Loan institutions and companies that have a check-off agreement with off KCB. Intended for educational advancement, this loan can be taken out by Masomo (Unsecured) Loan parents/guardians for students or by salaried individuals who wish to further their studies. This short term loan is open to all salaried employees who have a Salary advance (Unsecured) Loan KCB bank account in order to meet their urgent needs. Accessible to those with MPESA account. Access loans at attractive low interest rates of 1.16% per month with a one off negotiation fee KCB M-PESA Loan Loan of 2.5%. The cost for the one month loan is 3.66% with excise duty applicable on fees. Investment Enables East African citizens living overseas to invest back home with Diaspora Banking solutions KCB investment solutions. PAGE 97 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Product Category Description Business Micro current Tuungane Current This is a current account targeted for Investment groups account Micro This is an attractive and affordable transactional account tailor-made Boresha Biashara transactional to help your business grow to the next level. The account is targeted account for small scale traders. Micro Aimed at young upcoming businesses, this account has no monthly Bankika Business transactional fees for affordable day-to-day trading. The account is targeted for account youth in business. Micro Tuungana transactional This is a savings account targeted for Investment groups Investment account This short-term loan is specially designed for individual traders who Boresha Biashara Micro loan require financing to run their business on a daily basis. For individuals Loan operating informal business or a registered business entity. This loan is designed to finance micro entrepreneurs with annual Boresha Biashara Micro loan sales turnover of up to KShs. 10 million who require working or Plus Loan investment capital to grow their business. Boda Boda Loans aimed at financing purchase of Boda Bodas (motorcycles) and Micro loan Tuk Tuk Loan Tuk Tuks Tuungane These loans target group members running successful micro Micro chama loan Chama Loan enterprises who have been brought together by common interests. These loans are designed to avail financial solutions to investment Tuungane groups through financing collective groups’ projects and not for Micro chama loan Investment Loan individuals. The loans provide financing for purchase of property, for construction, asset finance, shares, bonds and agribusiness. Allows members of a Chama to perform various transactions at their convenience through their mobile on the KCB Mobi platform. This Mobi-CHAMA Micro mobile solution allows for accountability of deposits and withdrawals, request for loans as well as empowering officials of the chama to approve loans through the mobile platform. SMEs KCB offers a wide array of products and services for its small business clients. SME current A charge free account tailored to meet the needs for learning School Account account institutions seeking a collection account for school fees. Tailored to meet the SME proposition of cheaper banking service SME transactional Entrepreneur that match their financial needs as it’s charges are applicable per account transaction SME transactional A charge free account to meet the needs of Non-Profit Organizations, Community account charities and religious bodies. We offer fantastic overdraft facilities to extend your credit and enable Overdraft Facilities SME financing you drive business growth. Secured short-term loans give you quick and convenient access to SME Term Loans SME financing cash to meet your daily business needs. PAGE 98 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Product Category Description This unique solution offers you financial backing against issued Invoice Discounting SME financing invoices, while you await payment. We offer you financing against a local purchase order from any LPO Financing SME financing reputable organization to enable you to deliver the goods / services. KCB partnered with Safaricom to offer a suite of services aimed at helping small business owners open a bank account, purchase a website domain and pay for mobile usage through the business. The Biashara@smart SME solution SME solution also allows small business owners to access additional tools for business, such as M-Pesa, insurance, business tips and payroll processing services. A platform that enables smallholder farmers across the East African region to access credit, savings, and insurance immediately through their mobile phones. The banking system also links smallholders Mobigrow Agri financing to other players across the agricultural value chains from inputs to markets thereby boosting their creditworthiness. A result of KCB partnership with the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) on a project largely funded by the Mastercard Foundation. This is an affordable account for farmers with a minimum operation Mavuno Account Agri account balance This loan is specifically designed to give tea farmers seasonal credit Mavuno Tea Loan Agri financing for farm inputs, working capital or farm development These targets individual farmers and Cooperative in need of working Dairy Instalment Agri financing capital and acquisition of dairy herd. The loan is available to both new Loan and existing KCB clients who are engaged in dairy production. This medium term semi working capital loan allows farmers to boost Dairy Herd Agri financing production by giving them financing to buy better breeds of dairy Improvement Loan cows. Mavuno Sugarcane This targets Sugarcane farmers contracted by reputable sugar Agri financing Working Capital companies looking for working capital or farm development. Mavuno Sugarcane This targets Sugarcane farmers contracted by reputable sugar Advance Payment Agri financing companies looking for working capital or farm development. Loan Corporate KCB offers a wide array of financial products and services for its corporate clients. SACCO Banking In addition to providing deposit and loan facilities to Savings and & Non-Banked Corporate Credit Cooperative Organizations (SACCOs), we also offer on-lending Financial services to members of these SACCOs. Institutions PAGE 99 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G s oc i E soci e tal ta l v alues a lu e s PAGE 100 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Moving Forward PAGE 101 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s Moving forward T his year we did many things well. But as to building support for SDG adoption within the always, there are some things we can do larger business community. We will therefore better. After all, we are challenging our seek out further opportunities to work with business and ourselves to continually hold government, private sector, and civil society true on our promises to deliver products and where relevant, to determine possibilities for services that add value to our society. future collaboration. Over the next five years, KCB Group will The Group has also set three flagship goals, continue to mainstream the relevant which will drive its efforts and ability to Sustainable Development Goals into its contribute to SDG achievement. These are: business and operations. In doing so, it will launching KCB first green bond by 2020, monitor progress in achieving the targets set achieving partial carbon neutrality by 2022, forth within the 10 Point Action Plan, most and achieving complete carbon neutrality and notably those that relate directly to KCB eight increasing access to financial services for all adopted SDGs. We will also remain committed by 2027. KCB Group flagship sustainability goals 2016 50% 2028 Launch first • Increase financial services for all Green Bond • Achieve full Carbon Neutrality 100% 2022 Attain 50% Carbon Neutrality In addition, KCB Group aims to achieve the • Increase lending to SMEs and Youth: Act below as they relate to each adopted SDG. upon recommendations from the Social Over the next year, as KCB advances in its Return on Investment study to further integration journey, clearer targets will be expand our ability to help others achieve established to benchmark its progress. higher levels of economic productivity and reduce the proportion of youth not in • Affordable housing: Increase financing employment, education or training. for affordable housing projects to ensure • Green lending: Increase our portfolio of more men and women have equal rights clients in the green building, renewable to economic resources, basic services, energy and other infrastructure sectors ownership of land and property. PAGE 102 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT to support the development of • Sustainable cities: Action in this responsible consumers and sustainable infrastructure and/ area is captured by the actions in producers. or industries. SDGs 1 and 9. • Governance: Speak on behalf • Gender equality: Continue to • Sustainability in the supply of the importance of good reduce inequalities by targeting chain: Work with suppliers to governance in creating and to have 50% percent of women determine ways in which KCB operating businesses that are in managerial positions by year can help further instil the need built to last. 2020, fill at least 15% percent for responsible consumption and • Partnerships: Partner with of new positions with the under production and undertake at least government and/or private sector 30 population and continue to one regional-wide initiative in to undertake at least one public implement recommendations the next five years in partnership awareness initiative aimed at made in our 2017 Social Return with government and/or increasing public awareness of on Investment study to improve private sector which speaks to the Sustainable Development upon program reach. the importance of becoming Goals to those in our region. Further integration of environmental and social (E&S) opportunities into Group processes Over the past decade, KCB can be quantified and accounted for on the social and environmental Group has worked to embrace in its risk weighting models. In the management system to ensure international best practices for next year, it will work to establish they are adhering to environmental financial institutions into its at least one viable business case and social procedures. Over systems and operations. Such best for full integration of E&S factors the next two to five years, the practices aim to make institutions into its risk weighing model, with Group will also aim to develop an more sustainable by providing the end goal of this being reflected assessment framework for client guidance to pre-empt or address in loan pricing. KCB will seek to and transaction due diligence that challenges in internal governance, further work with the Regulator, captures externalities and assesses risk and credit departments. Kenya Bankers Association and the likelihood and materiality of Having made many changes over the Sustainable Finance Initiative these externalities. the past five years to ensure our Principles to promote the inclusion corporate governance policies and of E&S factors in risk weighting and Social Return on Investment: procedures are aligned with best regulatory capital risk weighting Over the next two years, KCB practice, we are now focusing our models. Group will undergo an exercise attention to further integrating E&S to map its activities that create into our risk process. Credit risk assessment and new a positive impact. We will also business opportunities: In the work to further integrate relevant Incentives: In 2017, risk was coming two years, we will also recommendations from the 2017 mainstreamed into every employee’s increase our ability to monitor Social Return on Investment Study responsibilities. In 2018, we will more closely and better follow-up into our business models. include a minimum of at least one on our clients’ E&S practices based relevant sustainability-related key performance indicator in every employee’s scorecard, which will then feed into updated performance KCB will seek to further work with the Regulator, dashboards of departments and Kenya Bankers Association and the Sustainable Finance business managers. Initiative Principles to promote the inclusion of E&S factors in risk weighting and regulatory capital risk weighting Credit risk weighting models: models. In recent years, KCB has been exploring ways in which E&S factors PAGE 103 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s GRI compliance Background The information made available through S sustainability reporting allows internal and ustainability reporting, as promoted by external stakeholders to form opinions and to make informed decisions about an organization’s the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), is contribution to the goal of sustainable an organization’s practice of reporting development. publicly on its economic, environmental, and/ or social impacts, and hence its contributions Application to KCB Group The GRI Standards are structured as a set of – positive or negative – towards the goal of interrelated standards. As adopted by KCB sustainable development. Group, they have been developed primarily to be used together to help an organization prepare The GRI Standards create a common language for a sustainability report which is based on the organizations and stakeholders, with which the Reporting Principles and focuses on material economic, environmental, and social impacts of topics. organizations can be communicated and understood. The Standards are designed to enhance the global Preparing a report in accordance with the GRI comparability and quality of information on these Standards demonstrates that the report provides impacts, thereby enabling greater transparency and a full and balanced picture of an organization’s accountability of organizations. material topics and related impacts, as well as how these impacts are managed. Through this process, KCB Group as an organization has identified its significant impacts based upon The tables below summarizes the topics covered in identified material issues (See pages 28 to 33 of this report and the alignment to the GRI Standard this report) on the economy, the environment, and/ showing the various sections where they have been or society and discloses them in accordance with a highlighted and referenced. globally-accepted standard. Table 1. General Standard Disclosure Report page and GRI Category GRI Indicator page reference Statement from the executive GRI 101, 102, 103 11, 13 Key impacts, risks and opportunities GRI 101, 103 27, 8493 Organizational profile GRI 102, 103 2, 7, 1724 Commitments to external initiatives GRI 102, 103 39, 4259 Identified material aspects and boundaries GRI 101, 102 103 2833 Stakeholder engagement GRI 101, 102, 103 19, 24, 58, 59 Report profile GRI 101 23 Governance GRI 101, 102, 103 16, 7681 Ethics and integrity GRI 101, 102, 103 7681, Disclosures on Management approach GRI 101, 102, 103 16, 7681, 102103 PAGE 104 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Report page and GRI Category GRI Indicator page reference GRI 201, 202, 203, Economic indicators 6673 204, 205, 206 GRI 301, 301, 302, 303, Environmental indicators 9, 22, 23 305, 306, 307, 308 GRI 401, 402, 403, 404, Social indicators: labour practice and decent work 8, 3538, 4259 405, 406, 408, 409 GRI 410, 411, 412, Social indicators: Society 18, 19, 6164, 89 413, 414, 415 Social indicator: Product Responsibility GRI 416, 418, 419 17, 9699 Table 3. Financial Services Disclosure Report page and page GRI Category GRI Indicator reference Active Ownership Local Communities GRI 407, 412, 413, 419 6164, 89 PAGE 105 e Ii M R E m A aGg Ii N n Ii N g n G soci s oc i E e tal ta l v alues a lu e s Acronyms CBK Central Bank of Kenya CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Finance Officer COO Chief Operating Officer CMA Capital Markets Authority CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CRO Chief Risk Officer EBS Environmental Burdens Sustainability E&S Environmental and Social ESG Environmental, Social and Governance ESRA Environmental Samp; Social Risk Analysis GDP Gross Domestic Product GRI Global Reporting Initiative ICT Information communication Technology KPIs Key Performance Indicators KShs. Kenya Shilling KYC Know your Customers LED Light-emitting Diode MD Managing Director NGO Non-governmental Organizations NSE Nairobi Securities Exchange RAS Risk Appetite Statement SMEs Small and Medium-sized Enterprises SEMS Social and Environmental Management System SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SFI Sustainable Finance Initiatives SROI Social Return on Investment UN United Nations USAID United States Agency for International Development PAGE 106 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 107 R e i m ag i n i n g s oc i e ta l va lu e s GROUP Group headquarters KCB GROUP PLC Kencom House Moi Avenue P.O. Box 48400 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Regional subsidiaries KCB BANK BURUNDI LIMITED KCB BANK SOUTH SUDAN LIMITED Boulevard Patrice Lumumba KCB Plaza P.O. Box 6119 Ministry Road Bujumbura, Burundi P.O. Box 47 Juba, Southern Sudan KCB GROUP PLC (ETHIOPIA REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE) KCB BANK TANZANIA LIMITED Morning Star Mall, 4th Floor Harambee Plaza Bole Medhanialem Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road/Kaunda Road Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Junction P.O. Box 804 KCB BANK KENYA LTD Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Kencom House Moi Avenue KCB BANK UGANDA LIMITED P.O. Box 48400 00100 Commercial Plaza Nairobi, Kenya 7 Kampala Road P.O. Box 7399 KCB BANK RWANDA LIMITED Kampala, Uganda Avenue de la Paix P.O. Box 5620, Kigali, Rwanda https://kcbgroup.com/sustainability PAGE 108
