T H I N K I N G W O R K S B Y T H I N K I N G E R G O N O M I X P T Y LT D COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) Period of Communication: March 2017 March 2018 ThinkingWorks by C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2017 MARCH 2018 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia We are curious We follow a different path 1 OUR STORY Our journey towards sustainability was initiated not as a response to social trends, but because we truly believe it is the right thing to do. Our commitment to become a signatory to the UN Global Compact helps cement this commitment. The ThinkingWorks story began in 1984, when we arrived on the scene as the first designer and manufacturer of height-adjustable desks in Australia. We quickly established ourselves as the commercial furniture company who combined exceptional quality with ingenious creativity. From height-adjustable workstations and smart table systems, to acoustic furniture, quirky seating solutions, and convenient add-ons like power-boxes and monitor arms, our furniture is designed to solve problems in the most beautiful, practical and sustainable of ways. We strive for novel ideas We seek out better solutions With a head office and main manufacturing site in Moorebank and showrooms in Sydney, Melbourne and London – ThinkingWorks products are sold to office furniture and workstations suppliers, and marketed to the architectural and design industry across the world. ThinkingWorks by C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2017 MARCH 2018 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia 3 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS I am pleased to confirm that ThinkingWorks reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, DEAN KUCH MANAGING DIRECTOR 21 MARCH 2018 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T UN GLOBAL is ‘freely chosen’. They reported that they IMPLEMENTATION COMPACT complete a VEVO/DIMIA check for every candidate that does not provide proof of Our employee handbook (Life At ThinkingWorks) includes all polices relevant 10 PRINCIPLES Australian citizenship and their Human Rights to principles three, four, five and six. Staff policy includes the right for candidates to are aware that they have the support of ‘freely choose employment’. management should they wish to join a union Our ongoing commitment to our Human Rights or are free to collective bargain. Our second year as a signatory of the UN collective bargaining Policy is managed through a management We have developed an extensive grievance Global Compact is now complete and we • no forced, child or bonded labour system to ensure procedures, training, mechanism to ensure the staff are aware of would like to take this opportunity to report • allows staff to report any grievance responsibilities and monitoring are in place. how to communicate grievances relating to on our progress. or harassment. human and labour rights and what the course MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES of action will be. WORKPLACE HEALTH SAFETY (WHS) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ThinkingWorks has had no reports or In 2016 ThinkingWorks conducted a human Our new forklifts are fitted with auto safety investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other rights risk assessment of our top 4 suppliers. Principle 1: Businesses should support and events related to any breaches to human rights We choose the suppliers we felt we had most checks and impact detection sensors. These respect the protection of internationally in the last 12 months. We remain committed to influence on and in countries that could be 5 machines are connected using a pin code proclaimed human rights; and educating, training and bringing awareness to considered higher risk. We issued our suppliers system to eliminate unauthorised usage. All Principle 2: make sure that they are not these factors have significantly contributed to our Human Rights Policy. with a Suppliers Code of Conduct and spent complicit in human rights abuses. increased workplace safety. We continue to engage with our suppliers one-on-one time to educate them on human both locally and internationally and where and labour rights and what was expected. Fair working conditions and wages are OUR COMMITMENT AND POLICY implemented company wide. possible influence to ensure minimum human We continue the conversation and expect our rights are met. suppliers to meet minimum requirements; we ThinkingWorks continues to support and In addition to our Human Rights policy, monitor their progress on our overseas visits. respect the protection of internationally we have an employee handbook which proclaimed human rights and the International We continue to engage with our suppliers Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on we fondly call ‘Life at ThinkingWorks’. All new employees will be inducted using this LABOUR PRINCIPLES around human and labour rights as we Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. handbook. The ‘Life at ThinkingWorks’ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the understand that this is not only important to our handbook outlines all our human rights, labour freedom of association and the effective organisation, but important to our clients and Our purpose is to ensure human rights are the industry as a whole. and environmental policies. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; implemented within our company and the companies in which we conduct business and In 2016 ThinkingWorks conducted a human Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Our ongoing commitment to our labour rights have influence on. rights risk assessment of our top 4 suppliers. forced and compulsory labour; is managed through a management system to We selected the suppliers we felt we had most Principle 5: the effective abolition of child ensure procedures, training, responsibilities and The UN Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool monitoring are in place. helps drive our human rights programs and influence on, and in countries that could be labour; and assists us in continual improvement of policies, considered higher risk. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in procedures and implementation. We issued our suppliers with a Suppliers respect of employment and occupation. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our Human Rights Policy is on display and is Code of Conduct and spent one-on-one time ThinkingWorks has had no reports of to educate them on human and labour rights We have polices to address all of these labour communicated to all staff and contractors. principles and seek to influence our suppliers investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other and what was expected. We continue the events related to any breaches to labour, antiWe remain committed to engaging with our conversation and expect our suppliers to meet with regards to upholding labour rights within 4 their organisations. discrimination and or safety regulations in the suppliers both locally and internationally to minimum requirements. last 12 months. express the importance of honouring human rights at work. We continue to conduct human We monitor their progress on our overseas ThinkingWorks has a diverse workforce sight visits. OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS rights due diligence within our supply chain. with at least 15 different cultural and ethnic We continue to engage with our suppliers ThinkingWorks is committed to upholding the backgrounds. We employ staff of various age around human and labour rights as we rights of our employees in relation to freedom groups – from 18 years of age to 66. We have a IMPLEMENTATION of association and collective bargaining, forced, 40% female to 60% male ratio in management understand that this is not only important to our MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 We have a Human Rights policy which is our organisation, but important to our clients and compulsory or child labour and understands the positions. overarching policy on human and labour rights. the industry as a whole. importance of having a diverse workforce. We have polices to address all of these ThinkingWorks has processes in place to This policy demonstrates a commitment to: address principles 4, 5 and 6 to ensure In 2018 we conducted due diligence on our labour principles and seek to influence our • a safe and healthy workplace labour hire company to confirm they had compliance, for example all overtime is freely suppliers with regards to upholding labour • anti-discrimination processes in place to ensure casual staff have chosen and monitored. rights within their organisations. • zero tolerance to bullying the ‘right to work in Australia’ and employment • freedom of association and C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T DOWNLOADS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Though we do acknowledge freedom of materials, coatings and finishes we use on our under the global Verified Carbon Standard IMPLEMENTATION association and the right to collective table bases. (VCS). This also applies to our waste and In 2016 we developed an Anti-Corruption and bargaining, discrimination, compulsory and child In addition to the LCA technology, we use Finite recycling, which is also offset. Bribery Policy which sets out the requirements labour could be pertinent to our suppliers and Element Analysis (FEA), a computer program Last year we developed and implemented the for all staff to comply with. Employees are have included these principles in our Suppliers that assists our design team in assessing the Sustainable Product Guidelines and checklist expected to act with the highest standards of Code of Conduct. minimal material input for greater strength to ensure the design and procurement integrity in all business dealings. We will continue to engage with our suppliers and durability. departments are on track for designing and The policy directive reinforces bribery and monitor the labour principles against our As part of ISO14001 certification we continue to manufacturing sustainable products. We will and corruption, political and charitable 7 Suppliers Code of Conduct in the coming 12 educate our staff, suppliers and the market of continue to use this to help us build products contributions, gifts and entertainment expenses months. We plan to extend the code to other the importance of environmental protection. In that are fit for purpose, sustainable and healthy and substance-based due diligence. The policy key suppliers. 2016 we initiated a Suppliers Code of Conduct for indoor environments. sets gift limits and thresholds. which includes environmental compliance and On the 28th February 2017, ThinkingWorks We have introduced and conducted training on management of environmental impacts. Policies participated in the Clean-up Australia day the Anti-Corruption Policy with our sales and ENVIRONMENTAL and procedures assist our organisation to set which helps to promote a clean, healthy and marketing team. PRINCIPLES our commitment, and manage our environmental impacts. sustainable environment. We acted locally and hit Helles Avenue in Moorebank, (our Principle 7: Business should support a manufacturing facility) and collected 8 bags MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES precautionary approach to environmental In addition to our certifications, ThinkingWorks offsets the carbon emissions from our business of street litter. We really appreciate the staff’s ThinkingWorks has had no reports of challenges; involvement with supporting us by participating investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or operations by purchasing and retiring certified Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon in this event. other events related to any breaches in Antigreater environmental responsibility; and Standard (VCS). In 2018 ThinkingWorks will transition to the Corruption and Bribery in the last 12 months. Principle 9: encourage the development updated ISO14001: EMS – 2015 Standard. The We will continue to engage with our sales and and diffusion of environmentally revised standard has new clauses that address procurement teams to ensure the highest level MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES of integrity with all business dealings. friendly technologies. the needs and expectations of interested ThinkingWorks has been monitoring and parties, internal and external issues and a Anti-Corruption and Bribery has been included OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS measuring our environmental impacts since life cycle approach to product and services in our Suppliers code of conduct which we 2009. We have released these figures to include (amongst other new clauses). have issued to 4 of our top suppliers and will ThinkingWorks has been certified to ISO14001: emissions, energy and waste in our EMS certification since 2009. In addition to the continue to monitor over the next 12 months. 2017 Sustainability Report, found on our ISO14001 certification a number of our products company website. We plan to conduct further training with new have Type 1 Ecolabelling certification, Good ANTI-CORRUPTION sales staff and our procurement department. http://www.thinking.info/about-us/sustainability/ 6 Environmental Choice Australia (GECA) and PRINCIPLES AFRDI GreenTick. Both of these certification Our Australian manufacturing operations schemes are recognised by the Green Building saw a slight increase in energy in 2017 (based Principle 10: Businesses should work against Council of Australia (GBCA). on 2015/16 figures) 0.5%, so we updated our corruption in all its forms, including extortion existing air compressor with an ‘off timer ‘ and bribery. that assists in energy efficiency along with IMPLEMENTATION replacing old forklifts with new more energy OUR COMMITMENT AND GOALS ThinkingWorks understands the importance efficient ones. We saw a substantial increase The Managing Director of ThinkingWorks Dean MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 of environmental sustainability, using various in waste, which was up by 25%. Since we technologies to assist us in lowering our Kuch, is committed to ensuring that all business started recording our waste in 2010 we’ve had environmental impacts. activities are conducted ethically and according a reduction of waste to landfill of 34%, this is to all relevant Australian and overseas We’ve had a number of products undergo based on our annual production figures. standards and legislation. We understand the a life cycle assessment (LCA) to assist us in ThinkingWorks purchases 10% GreenPower importance of Anti-Corruption in all its forms, understanding the environmental impacts, and the remaining GHG emissions are offset by including extortion and bribery to our business emissions and embodied energy in the purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits and our stakeholders. C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ( C O P ) R E P O R T SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Goal 8: 3. The design team uses Finite Element We believe in transparency and have released 17 GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD Promote inclusive and sustainable Analysis (FEA) to identify environmentally our annual Sustainability Report (2017) which economic growth, employment and preferable materials along with minimal documents our progress on actions and ThinkingWorks understands the importance of material input for greater strength. initiatives for waste and energy. businesses, individuals and countries to take decent work for all action against the 17 Sustainable Development 4. Our recycling and reuse program includes Goals. We have outlined our participation, ThinkingWorks sources materials and a box-buy-back initiative which means our commitment and action for 6 of the Sustainable components from a global supply chain. Some clients are rewarded for returning our Development goals. of our manufacturing partners are in low and packaging, which is then reused to package middle income countries. We have a growing new products. We also recycled paper, 9 business and with this growth comes the growth cardboard, metals and comingle items. In AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY of our suppliers, this in turn helps their local addition, our Styrofoam packaging is given communities. to another supplier to be used as packaging Goal 7: We invest time and energy by assisting our in toys. Goal 15: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, suppliers and promoting high standards of 5. We have a Product stewardship policy in Sustainably manage forests, combat sustainable and modern energy for all health and safety in their manufacturing place for a number of our ranges for our desertification, halt and reverse land facilities. We encourage our suppliers and make Australian customers. degradation, halt biodiversity loss In addition to the 10% Green Power, recommendations to help them create a safe ThinkingWorks offsets the carbon emissions 6. We have developed Sustainable Product ThinkingWorks conducts due diligence on all working environment. from our business operations by purchasing and Guidelines to ensure all new products are sourced timbers to ensure we are not procuring retiring certified carbon credits under the global developed to be Fit for Purpose, sustainable illegally harvested timbers. Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon Goal 10: and healthy for indoor environments. footprint of our business is offset by supporting Reduce inequality within and among a HYDROPOWER project in China. countries Goal 13: This project supports the Chinese governments Take urgent action to combat climate objective to reduce the dependence on ThinkingWorks has policies in place to demonstrate our commitment to equal change and its impacts exhaustible fossil fuels by: opportunities, prohibiting discrimination in all ThinkingWorks evaluates climate change • Reducing the need for power generation; its forms. Anti-discrimination is one of the key risks such as resource scarcity, resource price • Reducing air pollution by displacing coal-fired requirements which is included in our Suppliers volatility and takes appropriate mitigation and power plants with clean, renewable power; Code of Conduct. adaptive action. • Reducing the adverse health impacts from air pollution; ThinkingWorks monitors, measures and offsets Goal 12: carbon emissions from our business operations • Reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases, 8 Ensure sustainable consumption and by purchasing and retiring certified carbon to combat global climate change; production patterns credits under the global Verified Carbon • Contributing to local economic development Standard (VCs). The carbon footprint of our through employment creation. ThinkingWorks has in place a number of business is offset by supporting a hydropower processes and initiatives that support project in China. sustainable consumption and production The below business operations are included in patterns, these include: the carbon offsetting MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017 1. Ecolabelling Type 1 certification – for 5 of our • paper and cardboard product ranges • flights 2. The undertaking of a Life Cycle • waste and recycling Assessment (LCA) to better understand • hotel accommodation the environmental impacts of materials • advertising and coatings to ensure a more • taxis sustainable outcome. • freight ThinkingWorks by Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period of Communication: MARCH 2017 MARCH 2018 ABN 63 095 989 638 T +61 (0)2 9726 7177 E sales@thinking.info www.thinking.info 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank NSW 2170, Australia 10 MARCH 2016 MARCH 2017
