Communication on Progress 2016 www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Statement of Support As CEO of Forensic Pathways I am pleased to affirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. As signatories we ensure that all stakeholders are fully aware of the Company ethos and our commitment to the Principles. We are proud to be associated with the Compact and see the Principles as being an incredible support as we continue to expand globally. It is our commitment to doing ‘good’ business. So why sand? So why choose an image of sand for the front cover of our Communication on Progress? Is it that if we don’t take care of our planet all will be turned to sand, to dust. Well the answer is no – not so apocalyptic! In looking for images that represent how we feel about our commitment to the Compact and to doing ‘good business’ we felt this image captured the essence of our Communication on Progress and CSR generally. So let me explain Every grain of sand has a purpose. Each individual grain of sand contributes to creating the landscape. So it is for us. Every person has a purpose, a role to play, a contribution to make in order to ensure not only the business achieves its goals, but that the individuals also feel their contribution is valuable both professionally and personally. Every person creates energy, ripples and waves, sometimes big sometimes small, but there is always a value. Sometimes that value has a positive outcome, sometimes initially negative, but always with a learning outcome. The inhabitants of the dessert have to be adaptable, to brave challenges, adapt to uncertain environments. Business is no different. We can plan but ultimately we need to be ready to react to changes in environment. Many times reasons for the changes are beyond our control. Only through adaption, collaboration, energy and an appreciation and support of the people, the team, the stakeholders, can a business be the best that it can be. DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, D.Univ, FRSA, CCMI Chief Executive Officer www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 The Company Forensic Pathways was incorporated in 2001 following the development of an innovative product for the forensic market. Looking back to 2001 police investigation was focused largely on traditional crime scene forensics. To some degree prior to the release of the mobile phone and personal computers, crime was ‘local’, and investigation was heavily reliant on an investigator/police officer, knowing their community. In the beginning… Traditional Forensics: Transparent Anti-Contamination Stepping Plates This product, invented by the Company’s CEO, Deborah Leary, continues to be sold globally and continues to change and enhance the quality of investigative processes. Stepping Plates form part of Standard Operating Procedures within Europe and many countries are now replicating this standard, incl: South Africa, USA, Canada. The purpose of the Plates are to prevent cross-contamination, ensuring that investigators can work within a scene whilst reducing the opportunity for contamination. Previous Plates were made from aluminum, but with the invention of the transparent Plate, investigators are able to use these not only to work within the scene, The world’s first but are also able to still view the scene, and to use the Plates as Transparent Stepping Plate scene protectors. The ultimate aim is to ensure that the scene is processed correctly. If a scene is cross contaminated this could lead to a miscarriage of justice which damages the life not only the accused, but also the victim and the reputation of the investigator. It has also been shown that where Plates are not used, additional time is spent within an investigation eliminating the footprints of the investigators from that of the perpetrators. In one case alone in the UK, over 1000 footprints had to be eliminated from an investigation. This can delay the conclusion of a case, causing distress to the victim’s family as well as incurring significant cost to the organisation. The Plates are sold in a variety of kit forms. The kits reflect the needs of the end user and in particular with the increase in female investigators the kits are very adaptable in terms of size and weight. The kits all include rubber pads to ensure they can be used on laminate/wooden floors and the Plates themselves are stackable and easy to clean. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 During the early 2000’s individuals were just beginning to invest in personal computers, the internet was starting to become a household necessity, the majority using dial-up, with limited availability for wifi. Mobile phones were not the computer in your pocket that they now. Forensic Pathways recognized that with the increased availability of computers and mobile phones, the commodity that would become all important was that of data. The Company recognized that where there was value and great opportunities as a result of the new technology, there was also a motivator for criminality, and this criminality would affect the population and on a much wider scale and across a wider demographic than ever before. In response to this, we began to develop technologies to help law enforcement agencies handle the ever increasing amount of data they were being faced with as part of a regular investigation. Our motivation was not only enhance the work of investigators so that the ‘noise’ of the data was dealt with, leaving them with the key evidence they needed in order to assist their investigation, but to also help prevent and highlight some of the crime types that were beginning to unfold as the result of new technology. Over the years Forensic Pathways has developed a range of technologies focused on the management of cell phone evidence and forensic image analysis, running alongside its other technologies within the ballistics analysis space. This has led us into developing technologies and services within the Digital Forensics space. These services are of benefit both to the law enforcement community as well as the business community. We continue to pre-empt the changes in technology and what this means in terms of investigation and most importantly the protection and support of the most vulnerable in our society. In this way our products are never ‘complete’, but form a perpetual process of research and development. The Technologies: Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) allows investigators to identify the camera or mobile phone that photographed an image with speed and accuracy, thereby reducing costs and closing investigations faster than previously achievable. Forensic Digital Exchange (FDX) is designed to import and store data from mobile phone forensic acquisition tools. Its primary purpose is to act as a management system that normalises data acquired in different formats from multiple forensic tools, and as an automated data analysis platform. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Client trials have continued through 2016 and Forensic Pathways continues to enhance and develop its technical base, ensuring we are proactive and anticipate how technological changes influence criminal methodologies and work towards providing solutions that enhance the investigative skills of investigators globally. ALIAS (Advanced Ballistics Intelligence System) represents the next generation in ballistics analysis, providing exceptional support for Ballistic Examinations, Analysis and Gun Registration Systems. ALIAS enables firearms examiners and technicians to analyze expended cartridge cases and bullets faster and with greater accuracy. 2015 has seen the development of opportunities for ALIAS globally, both from a forensic criminalistics application, but also for its capacity to provide a comprehensive Gun Registration system. The Company continues to work closely with Pyramidal Technologies, with Forensic Pathways providing key algorithms for the correlation of bullets and cartridge cases. It is an interoperable system focused on reducing the time of the investigation and enhancing the capabilities and working conditions of the end user. The requirement for ALIAS is made evident by studies into firearms related deaths and the correlation between poverty, gun crime and violence in general. Examples of such studies include: https://businesstech.co.za/news/government/91284/south-africa-is-thesecond-worst-country-for-gun-deaths-in-the-world/ https://businesstech.co.za/news/government/90808/south-africa-is-one-ofthe-most-violent-and-unsafe-countries-in-the-world/ Digital Forensic Services Forensic Pathways provides a range of digital forensic services. These include computer and cell phone forensic services available to both our public and private sector clients. This includes the retrieval and analysis of cell phone data and digital images, primarily used as part of our Fraud Investigation services for Corporate/Private clients, as well as to support law enforcement as part of criminal investigations. Due Diligence Services Forensic Pathways has provided Due Diligence Services internationally for many years to both SME and Corporate clients, helping to ensure ‘positives’ don’t become ‘negatives’. In this way we help our clients mitigate risks, reducing their risk both financially and in relation to their reputation and brand. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 The Company provides daily monitoring and investigation services as part of its overall package of Due Diligence services on behalf of its Corporate clients internationally. Services include:  Identifying the ultimate beneficial owner of a business by tracing corporate structures;  Identifying where nominee shareholders or off shore havens are being used to conceal ultimate owners;  Exploring open sources for any relevant trading articles, negative new, litigation or court judgements concerning the individual/business;  Examining the previous/other business interests of key stakeholders including shareholders and directors in order to assess their commercial history and identify any conflicts or risks;  Analysing annual accounts and corporate reports;  Monitoring for any future changes in corporate structure or ownership or any key changes at the board level;  Monitoring the future financial risk of the individual/business by identifying CCJs, winding-up petitions and writs;  Monitoring for any future negative news. The Company applies these same methodologies and processes when entering into its own partnerships, whether that is with new suppliers, distributors, employees, consultants, contractors or clients. Forensic Pathways is also recognized as a significant innovator in the development of software technologies for criminal investigations and security, particularly in the digital forensics space and as a consequence has won many awards for innovation and business including the Digital Forensics Award 2015 and 2013. Our Communication on Progress aims to highlight our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, in particular SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all and SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses Forensic Pathways’ Stakeholders Since its incorporation Forensic Pathways has never had an incidence where it has been seen to be contributing to human rights abuses, either directly or indirectly through any of its stakeholders. External Stakeholders All agents/distributors/suppliers go through a due diligence process check and all stakeholders are made aware of the Company’s zero tolerance policy through the distribution of its Communication on Progress. The Company’s commitment to the Compact is stated in all contracts, along with all external Company communications. Stakeholders are made aware of their rights and responsibilities. Any Stakeholder found to be operating against the Principles and therefore their contract will have their contract withdrawn with immediate effect. Internal Stakeholders The Company recruitment induction process provides awareness training and recruits are guided through the Principles of the Compact as part of their induction. All contracts and Employee Handbooks reference the Compact, and signpost employees to the Principles and how it impacts them. All employees and interns are in receipt of full contracts and Employment Handbooks outlining their rights and responsibilities and opportunities for negotiation. All stakeholders are provided with copies of the Communication on Progress as part of their contract package. Any stakeholder found to be operating against the Principles will have their contracts withdrawn with immediate effect. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Personnel Provider Following a review of Employment Law and HR providers, Forensic Pathways appointed Ellis Whittam to provide Employment Law, HR and Health & Safety services. The key motivator for appointing Ellis Whittam was its overt commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. Ellis Whittam works with Forensic Pathways in the writing of all its employee contracts and employee handbooks and is fully aware of Forensic Pathways commitment to the UNGC. Ellis Whittam also supports the Company in all areas of HR and Employment Law. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Freedom of Association and Trade Unions Employees are encouraged to join professional organisations that help their professional and personal development and the cost of joining such organisations are paid in full by the Company wherever it directly relates to their role. Employees also have the right to join a Trade Union and to take part in collective bargaining. Social Media Forensic Pathways has a proactive Social Media policy, operating Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. All employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and to contribute to discussion forums and posts within the Company social media accounts and to join professional groups within social media platforms such as LinkedIn. This provides a valuable opportunity not only to promote the Company, but also promote the profile of team members and can provide opportunities for learning as well as developing strategic partnerships with potential clients or businesses. Whilst social media is seen as a valuable tool, we also recognize that that each employee must act responsibly. The use of the internet and social media is clearly outlined within our Employee Contracts and the standard Employee Handbook. Anyone found in breach of their contract through misuse of the internet or social media will face disciplinary procedures which could in turn lead to dismissal. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 4 & 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour Support Abolition of Child Labour To date Forensic Pathways has found no evidence of forced or child labour within its global operations. As with Principles 1 and 2 of the Compact, due diligence is completed on all stakeholders before any partnerships or contracts are begun. Forensic Pathways is a Due Diligence Service Provider and applies the same techniques to its own processes, checking any potential changes with its partners eg, negative news items, new partnerships, any changes that may impact on Principles 1-5. Should any evidence be found which may be seen as a breach of the Principles the stakeholder will be contractually removed and if necessary the reason for the breach disclosed to the appropriate authorities. All stakeholders are made aware of our commitment to the Principles and are provided with copies of our latest Communication on Progress and are reminded of these Principles in every communication, through reference to the UNGC on all correspondence. The UNGC support logo appears on all emails, correspondence and presentations, along with the relevant link to our latest Communication on Progress. Employees are reminded of their responsibility to ensure that they report any instances to the CEO where they feel there may be a breach and all new employees are informed of their responsibilities as part of their induction training. Any employee, consultant, agent or distributor found in breach of this Principle either through failure to report or through proactively encouraging negative behaviour will have their contract terminated. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s commitment to the UNGC. Work Experience Forensic Pathways continues to support the wider community by offering work experience placements and internships. Work Experience placements of secondary school age students are only accepted if the Company is approached directly by the School as part of an approved work experience placement or by a parent directly. All work experience students have to complete a full interview prior to being accepted for the placement and a full induction is completed to ensure that all students are fully integrated into the Company and are aware of codes of conduct as well as its commercial focus. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination People Invest Programme Forensic Pathways’ ‘People Invest Programme’ continues to bring success to the team and the Company as a whole. We continue to benefit greatly from the ongoing professional, academic and personal development of the team. It is also always a pleasure to keep in contact with former employees and interns through our Alumni group. The People Invest Programme offers a level playing field for development, so whether you are an intern, recent member of staff, or been with the Company for many years, the opportunity for development is there. All employees and interns are encouraged to seek opportunities for professional and personal development. These opportunities do not necessarily have to be related directly to their work, but can be part of a package of overall personal development. People Invest Programme Alumni Ben Leary, MBA, Director We are delighted to report Ben successfully completed his MBA (Marketing) with Merit, through Liverpool University. Ben has worked with the Company since 2002 and continues to expand the Company’s international profile as well as driving innovation and academic funded research projects. We are especially proud of Ben’s achievements as he continued his studies despite the death of his father, Richard Leary, Forensic Pathways’ MD Director, whilst still also running the Company, and having a very young family. Richard would be very proud of his success, his commitment and dedication. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Nir Tolkovsky, Senior Analyst Having completed his Masters of Science (MSc) in Criminal Investigations from the University of Derby supported by Forensic Pathways, Nir continues his PhD on Corporate Fraud and Computing Science with the University, due for completion 2018. We continue to wish him well in his academic studies and look forward to his successful completion in 2018. People Invest Alumni – Past Employees/Interns Graduated BSC Intern – 1 year placement Ryan Patel. BSc Business and 2015 Management with Integrated Industrial/Professional Training. Aston University Graduated PhD Employee – Company Dr Ahmad Ryad Soobhany 2013 Sponsored PhD Keele University Graduated PhD Employee – Company Dr Jenny Thomas 2011 Sponsored PhD University of Huddersfield Internships We are incredibly proud of the people that have spent their internships within the Company, who have successfully graduated and either gone on to exciting new careers or have decided to continue their journey with Forensic Pathways. We will continue to follow their journey into 2017. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Kelly Ashman Graduated 2016 BSc Digital Forensics (First) University of Staffordshire University Having joined Forensic Pathways in May 2015 on a year’s industrial placement, we are delighted to report that Kelly successfully completed her BSc Digital Forensics degree in 2016, obtaining a 1st. Kelly had an extremely successful year working with Forensic Pathways as part of the Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation Team and has continued to work on a consultancy basis in 2016. Alex Blackwell Graduated 2016 2:1 Business & Management Aston University, Birmingham Initially on a year’s industrial placement in 2015, Alex continued to work part-time for the Company whilst continuing his academic studies. We were therefore delighted that as a result of a very successful placement, Alex completed his academic studies, successfully attaining a 2:1 in Business and Management with Integrated Industrial/Professional Training from Aston University, Birmingham. As Marketing Assistant, Alex has continued to work on a contractor basis to Forensic Pathways, continuing to develop his knowledge of the Company and assist not only in the marketing aspects of the brand, but also to work closely with the Software Development teams providing research in terms of technologies and markets. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Diversity in the Work Place Forensic Pathways has always had an international focus. It was and is a born global company. This commitment to global, our involvement in major international collaborative projects and our association with many universities, has ensured our employees and interns have contributed to cultural diversity within the work place. From Mauritius, China, Taiwan, Pakistan, France, Italy and Greece as example, we have benefited significantly from the diversity of cultures. As an SME, we are proud of this level of connectivity and diversity. As an SME in the technology sector, there is also an awareness of the lack of women in technology and therefore when opportunities arise to recruit we are conscious of the need to recruit from a diverse talent pool. In this regard we have over the years successful provided a PhD internship to Jenny Thomas. Jenny’s focus was on ballistics analysis and technology. On completion of her PhD, Jenny continued to work with Forensic Pathways until 2012. Similarly, Kelly Ashman’s internship as a Digital Forensic Analyst supporting Carol Satchwell, Senior Forensic Analyst has meant that the team is not only culturally diverse, but also has a proactive response to gender balance. However disability and recruitment is an area we need to acknowledge. The fact that too date we have received no applications from any potential employee with a disability leads us to believe that we may be missing out on talent through not posting adequately our available positions or framing our job applications in an appropriate way. Having acknowledged this, we will ensure that in our recruitment process moving forward we will try to address this. 2016 saw no increase in personnel. However, Forensic will maintain its commitment to diversity in all its forms and will ensure that diversity and talent remain at the forefront of the recruitment process. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Wider Community Commitment The Dot Com Children’s Foundation Forensic Pathways proactively promotes the Charity and is the Company’s charity of choice. As promised in 2015, Forensic Pathways supported the Dot Com Children’s Foundation, initially attending a charity event in 2016 to raise money, donating just over £2,000 towards the Charity as part of their contribution to the silent auction. Throughout 2016 Forensic Pathways continued to support the Dot Com Children’s Foundation and in 2016 was the main sponsor for their inaugural Dot Com Foundation ‘Inspiring Children’s Award 2016’. This was a glittering event with performances from the BBC’s Strictly Come Dancing Team. Our very own CEO, Deborah Leary performed a dance routine with UK TV’s ‘Strictly’ star, Giovanni Pernice in order to raise money for the Charity. Deborah also presented the ‘Caring for Others’ Award to one of the many young award winners. Dot Com is a recommended PSHSE resource supported by the Home Office. It is a 'safeguarding tool' to raise awareness and keep pupils safe from the dangers of abuse, sexual exploitation, radicalisation and extremism. It promotes children's rights and fundamental British values. The programme will undoubtedly, help schools comply with the new legislation 'Keeping Children Safe in Education' and will give schools evidence that the children are being taught how to stay safe. The school can use this as part of their statutory risk assessment and as evidence for OFSTED that they are preparing children for life. Since the Dot Com programme’s inception, more than 1,000,000 children have used the programme across the United Kingdom. Forensic Pathways is proud to be supporting the Foundation and looks forward to continuing working with the team to help raise awareness and funds. Anyone wishing to learn more about the fabulous work of the Dot Com Foundation can find further information at http://www.dotcomcf.org/ www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 United Nations Global Compact UK Network Deborah Leary, Forensic Pathways CEO continues to actively participate within the UNGC UK Network. As a member of the Board and Advisory Group, Deborah contributes to the strategic development of the UK Network which forms part of the Company’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC overall and works with the Secretariat to help develop regional UK strategies. The Company also commits to speaking engagements to promote the UNGC overall. Further details re the United Nations Global Compact UK Network can be found at the following www.globalcompact.org.uk On the 12th May 2016 Prime Minister David Cameron hosted a landmark Anti-Corruption Summit in London. This was the first summit of its kind, bringing together world leaders, business and civil society to agree a package of practical steps to:  expose corruption so there is nowhere to hide  punish the perpetrators and support those affected by corruption  drive out the culture of corruption wherever it exists Preceding the event global leaders from civil society, business and government who are championing the fight against corruption gathered in London for a major conference Tackling Corruption Together. Forensic Pathways’ CEO was invited to contribute on a panel session ‘Preventing Corruption and Building Integrity’ which discussed the issues faced by companies/organisations in terms of policy and action with regards to preventing corruption and the impact and importance to brand. The discussion focused on good governance and transparency. Tackling Corruption Together was hosted by the Commonwealth Secretariat in partnership with Transparency International, Thomson Reuters, Omidyar Network, the Commonwealth Enterprise and Investment Council, the B Team, and ONE. More information and videos of the event can be found at: http://thecommonwealth.org/tacklingcorruptiontogether www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Member of the All Parliamentary Working Party Group on Women and Enterprise Forensic Pathways continues its support of the APPG on Women and Enterprise, continuing to lobby and debate and to draw on global best practice in the area of women’s economic development. Committee Room, House of Commons, UK Parliament ‘Shifting the Needle’: Roundtable 12th September 2016 saw the bringing together of the All Parliamentary Working Party Group on Women and Enterprise and delegations from the Women Presidents Organisation (WPO) including the US, New Zealand, Portugal. The WPO’s mission is to accelerate business growth, enhance competitiveness, and promote economic security through confidential and collaborative peer-learning groups. The organisation has more than 2,000 accomplished women entrepreneurs at the multimilliondollar level who aim to increase their business success. The roundtable discussion ‘Shifting the Needle’ focused on what it takes for women to become successful entrepreneurs. The discussions focused on what ‘needle changes’ needed to happen in order to start a business, to grow and to exit and how does government or any other agency encourage businesses to promote entrepreneurship skill development within their corporate cultures within their female development initiatives? Further debate and discussion focused on what are the advantages and drivers for businesses to include women owned businesses in www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 their procurement policy and what initiative have moved the needle the most in this area. Topics also included global trade, access to capital and accelerating business innovation. British Conservative Party Politician Craig Tracey, Member of Parliament (MP) for North Warwickshire since 2015, extended the invitation to WPO, in his capacity as Chair of the APPG Women in Enterprise. The session was followed by a meeting of the All Party Parliamentary Group for Women in Enterprise, and a reception for women entrepreneurs sponsored by NatWest Bank. The meeting took place at the Committee Rooms, House of Commons, UK Parliament, London. The event was attended by members of both organisations including Craig Tracey, Member of Parliament, Karen Tracey, WPO Chair for Birmingham and Marsha Firestone, Founder and President of the Women Presidents Organisation. A news link to this event can be found at: http://www.cwcity.co.uk/stories/all-party-parliamentary-group-women-in-business-at-the-houses-ofparliament/ www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Funny Women Deborah Leary holds the position of Advisory Board Chair and supports Funny Women providing strategic support to its Managing Director and promoting the organisation through Forensic Pathway’s networks. Funny Woman has been helping people in the UK to find their voice and use humour since 2002. Comedy is more than just entertainment it can be used to break down barriers, improve communication, build confidence and empower. Funny Women has developed a range of key practical strategies and enjoyable workshops that will help your staff utilise the positive effects of humour in the workplace. Funny Women provides corporate training, entertainment for corporate events and one-to-one tutorials, utilising the skills of persons prolific within the comedy industry. For further information www.funnywomen.com www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principles 7, 8 & 9 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility Encourage Environmentally Friendly Green Technology Forensic Pathways headquarters are based in Birmingham, UK. Operating out of fully serviced office, Forensic Pathways made a conscious decision in August 2014 to move to premises that were not only commercially well positioned but also were excellent in relation to environmental design and build. Forming part of the Colmore Business District the offices are ideally placed close to main transportation links, with Snow Hill Station situated five minutes from the office and the main station at Grand Central New Street Station being only ten minutes away. Its close proximity to transport routes has meant that the majority of employees use public transport to travel to work. Two Snow Hill was built following the Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) 2013 and is a BREEAM Excellent Design Building. The Breeam Assessment process evaluates the procurement, design, construction and operation of a development against targets that are based on performance benchmarks. Breeam measures sustainable value in a series of categories, ranging from energy to ecology. Each of these categories addresses the most influential factors, including low impact design and carbon emissions reduction; design durability and resilience; adaption to climate change; and ecological value and biodiversity protection. These categories include: Full information: http://www.breeam.com/ Two Snow Hill is built to high specifications with a commitment to reducing its environmental impact. Internal processes are also designed to limit impact on the environment and ensure all residents are committed to ‘thinking green’. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920  All glass, card, tin, plastics, paper is recycled  A variety of energy saving schemes already in place such as low lighting in car parks outside of peak hours, and the use of PIR’s and photocells to reduce unneeded lighting INTERNAL/EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Web based technologies are now the first line of contact with potential clients and distributors. All international meetings are initially undertaken via video conference, SKYPE or Powwownow as a commitment to reducing unnecessary travel. Sales and Technical teams also used web based technologies when initially demonstrating products and services and hard copy material is only used for specific events, reverting instead to USB and web based materials. With this shift in communication style the Company had intended to carry out a comparison of marketing spend and resources during 2015. However, due to significant events within the team during 2015, we were unable to undertake the comparison on marketing spend that we had hoped to complete. The Company was due to complete this comparison during 2016, but due to a continued restructure we have yet to achieve this target and will endeavor to undertake a comparison for 2017. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery Since its incorporation Forensic Pathways has found no evidence of corruption or bribery within its stakeholder network. However, as part of our commitment to the UNGC we continue to instruct, inform and enforce a zero tolerance stance with all stakeholders. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s stance on corruption and bribery though the publication of our Communication on Progress, which is promoted via our website and signposted on all contracts, marketing materials, emails, and presentations. All stakeholders are made aware of our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy. Our policy gives clear guidance as to the employee’s responsibilities and guidance on events that may be working against the Principle and steps to avoid situations that may challenge it. Should an employee be traveling internationally they are required to reacquaint themselves with the policy and to seek advice from a senior member of the team. Each employee is required to sign a copy of the Company’s Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy so that they are fully committed to ensuring its implementation. Any stakeholder found to be in breach of this Principle will automatically have their contract retracted and if necessary reported to the authorities. It is a disciplinary offence for any employee to ignore evidence of potential corruption and bribery. Suppliers, agents and distributors go through a due diligence process upon appointment and monitored on a regular basis. This Due Diligence process has been outlined previously in the Company outline at the beginning of this Communication on Progress. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Communication on Progress 2016 This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. www.forensic-pathways.com Tel: +44(0)121 231 3215 sales@forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920
