UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 EG www.global.eg.dk Contents 3 Statement of Continued Support 4 Human Rights Principles 6 Labour Rights Principles 8 Environmental Protection Principles 10 Anti-Corruption Principles Version 1.0 2018 Statement of Continued Support 28 September 2018 I am pleased to confirm that EG A/S reaffirms its support Our CSR policy is based on the ten principles of the UN of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Global Compact. We have identified a number of prioritised in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and issues and have initiated the process of optimising them. anti-corruption, and that we acknowledge and respect the We will follow up on our progress on a yearly basis. UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our As a Scandinavian technology partner with more than actions to continually improve the integration of the 1,700 employees working from 28 locations in UN Global Compact and its principles into our business Scandinavia and Poland, we provide digital solutions for strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to more than 12,500 public and commercial customers. sharing this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary chanEG serves private businesses and the public sector with nels of communication. equal dedication. As mutually trusted partners, EG always takes the long-term view as opposed to chasing shortterm gains. Our position as one of the leading IT service Best regards companies in Scandinavia is thus built on close relationships with our customers, industry knowledge, and solid Mikkel Bardram IT skills. CEO, EG A/S Trust is paramount in an accountable organization and is established by always being honest and straightforward in our advice and delivering as promised, with our word as our bond. Our overall CSR policy, which includes our code of conduct and business ethics, has been approved by EG’s management team and the board of directors. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 3 Human Rights Principles Commitment EG supports and respects the protection of internationally Of these employees, 33% are women and 67% are men. proclaimed human rights, and we make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We do not accept that any employee should ever be exposed to physical punishment, threats of violence or We respect cultural differences and do not do business physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination at maltreatment in the work place or in work-related situwork based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or ations. sexual orientation. EG supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We currently employ 1,700 people of a least 10 different We respect human rights within our sphere of influence nationalities at our 28 locations in Scandinavia and and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy Poland. manner. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 4 Human Rights Principles All EG employees with management responsibility unEG defines data privacy as a human right, and we want to dergo performance evaluation, which includes feedback be a 100% trusted data partner. Our public and private from employees on their ability to provide an open and customers should feel comfortable about the way we respectful work environment. handle the data they entrust us with. Action KPI Status Target Action KPI Status Target Management Management 82 79 Implementing All employees 90% 100% training and quality must group must be 360-degree be above index standards familiar with feedback 79 (index for data and have 2013 + 5%) protection signed the Information Security Policy We inform all our subcontractors of our view on human for the EG rights, and they must comply with the principles in order Group to work with us. Performance evaluation Action KPI Status Target EG sees no significant risk or indications that the company All subNo cases No No or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principles contractors involving cases cases 1-2. must sign an human rights agreement violations declaring that they comply with the UN Global Compact EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 5 Labour Rights Principles Commitment EG upholds the freedom of association and the effective Action KPI Status Target recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimiWorkplace All employees 78% 100% nation of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the assessment must effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of participate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. in a workplace assessment EG commits to providing a competitive salary package, a every safe and comfortable working environment, openly three years communicated career paths and well-established performance and development evaluation tools. We monitor employee satisfaction on an annual basis in We respect the rights of workers and operate a business order to detect employee issues in general and assess with safe and attractive working conditions. whether follow-up actions are required. All EG employees undergo annual performance reviews to Action KPI Status Target set individual plans and targets for advancement. Monitoring The overall 72 75 employee employee In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, satisfaction satisfaction EG conducts a workplace assessment every three years. must be at least index 75 EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 6 Labour Rights Principles We monitor employee satisfaction on an annual basis in Our employee handbook includes guidelines on labour order to detect employee issues in general and assess rights principles. whether follow-up actions are required. Action KPI Status Target Action KPI Status Target Maintenance All employees 100% 100% Monitoring The overall 2.72% 2.5% of our must read and overall sickness employee sign the sickness absence must handbook employee absence be at or below handbook the industry as part of average our onboarding (2.6%) procedure EG has a dedicated health and safety committee in place Performance evaluation to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment EG sees no significant risk or indications that the company at EG. or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principles 3-6. Action KPI Status Target Central and No reported No No local working occupational Cases Cases environment injuries activities EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 7 Environmental Protection Principles Commitment EG supports a precautionary approach to environmental We have improved and optimised our headquarters in challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater Denmark to be more energy-efficient, and we are environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the continually upgrading our company car fleet to include development and diffusion of environmentally friendly more environmentally friendly vehicles. technologies. Our waste management, including the handling of chemiEG actively supports sustainable environmental progress cals and dangerous materials, is in compliance with all apthrough the development and distribution of IT solutions plicable national laws and regulations, and we continually for various industries that enable them to reduce energy, educate our employees in this area. material waste and transport. We have published our company CSR policy and code of We recognise that unnecessary travel by car and plane conduct on our website. A ”no more than” policy on carbon has a negative impact on the environment, and we conemissions is enforced on company cars. tinually work to minimise this impact by promoting virtual meetings, investing in more environmentally friendly cars We strive to reduce our carbon emissions in a number of and using public transport where possible. ways, including optimising our car fleet and reducing the number of physical meetings. We constantly strive to become a more sustainable and environmentally friendly company. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 8 Environmental Protection Principles We aim to operate our buildings as energy-efficiently as Furthermore, we take steps to ensure that our waste possible. management vendors comply with all legal, ethical and environmental principles when handling our waste. This Action KPI Status Target includes the handling of mobile phones and used data equipment. ImplemenA rating D rating A rating tation of any Performance evaluation findings EG sees no significant risk or signs or indications that the in energy company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact assessment principles 7-9. reports EG A/S CSR REPORT 2018 9 Anti-Corruption Principles Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognised as barriers to susAction KPI Status Target tainable development and free trade, and EG supports ImplemenNo cases that No cases No cases the work against corruption in all its forms, including tation call for legal extortion and bribery. of a zero action tolerance EG acknowledges that small business gifts and reasonpolicy able entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways to build relationships and generate goodwill between business partners. However, this practice must always be A code of conduct addressing bribery has been distributed carried out in a transparent manner, and only to an extent to the organisation, and bribery is covered by our whistleappropriate to our integrity guidelines and business blower hotline. ethics. Action KPI Status Target Guidelines for handling issues of corruption, hospitality Internal No cases that No cases No cases (gifts and entertainment) and donations are provided to whistle-blower call for legal employees through our business ethics document, our programme action CSR policy and our code of conduct. The guidelines are also implemented in our employee handbook. Performance evaluation EG sees no significant risk or signs or indications that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principle 10.
