COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 20171015 To: 201811010 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 2018-10-10 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that HemoCue AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Christophe Duret President 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include:  Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities • HemoCue has a thorough Employers Handbook that is easily available on our intranet in Swedish as well as in English languages. • HemoCue has a team that regularly reviews the working environment and act on potential need for actions. (this team is called Arbetsmiljökommitte) and we also have appointed Safety representatives to which perceived issues can be reported to and Safety Inspections. • HemoCue AB also adheres to the Danaher Environmental, Health and Safety Policy • HemoCue AB have a Alcohol and Drug Policy  Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats • HemoCue has a Policy against Insulting Treatment. This is also included in the Employers Handbook. This is included also in the annual employee survey. • The company has performed a specific survey regards to Insulting treatment and the results was shared on a company level and broken down to department and team level,  Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products • This is included in the HemoCue Environmental Policy as well as in our Quality Manual. It is also included as a question to the Annual Employee survey. • HemoCue is ISO 14001 certified Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include:  Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • As a Swedish company HemoCue follows the Collective Agreements between the Company and the Labor organizations  Comply with minimum wage standards • HemoCue follows the Collective Agreements between the Company and labor organizations  Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria • HemoCue follows the Collective Agreements between the Company and labor organizations HemoCue HR and the representatives of the local labour committees have regular meetings where discussion are held regards to labour related questions –regulated in the “Medbestämmandelagen” MBL, The Codetermination Act. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include:  Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • HemoCue has an Environmental Policy and is ISO 14001 certified. We have removed all unnecessary single use material– we are to review our packaging for certain products to reduce paper material and to reduce weight which will have effect on transports and all print-outs that are necessary is printed on both sides as default. • The most important achievements made 2017-2018 has been to remove single use plastic material from company restaurant and coffee machines which resulted in a reduction of 300 kg of plastic per year; • All printers are default on duplex and black and white printout. This has resulted in 1a reduction of 120000 less printouts/year which equals to 600 kg paper or approx ca 22 trees) • Kaizen event for waste control and increased opportunities for sorting paper, biological waste, plastic etc in offices, products and canteen; In one year this ca reduce 10000kg plastic separated from production, the amount of residual waste is reduced the reusage has increased from 53% to 77%. • Replacement of old ventilation aggregates as well as changed from air-cooling to water cooling in production machines (to be finalized 2019). Total savings of approx. 700000kWh /year when fully implemented.  Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • HemoCue has clear instructions and training of staff to avoid accidents from happening  Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances • HemoCue has limited storage of chemicals and no dangerous substances. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include:  Assess the risk of corruption when doing business • HemoCue has zero tolerance to corruption and a thorough screening process of all our distributors • HemoCue follows Danaher Standard code of conduct and all employees has a mandatory annual retraining which is documented and need to be accomplished at a certain date.  Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners • This is included as part of our screening procedure for new partners and is included in our General Terms and Conditions of Sales which accompanies our quotations.  Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment • Internal procedures are handled by the Legal Department at Radiometer, the owner of HemoCue and the internal audits are handled by this team. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) • HemoCue AB has a staff of 268 employees with an average age of 45,7 years • 148 women • 120 men • HemoCue do not register ethnicity or religion.  Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism • During 2015 we have had the following rate out of office due to leave of absence • White collar 1,6% • Blue collar 3,9%
