ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 2017 UNGC Communication on Progress Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Contents About Lilly, About Elanco p 3 Health, Safety, and Environment p 24 UNGC PRINCIPLES Message from the CEO p 4 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 2017 Responsibility Highlights p 6 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and About This Report p 7 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Human Rights p 8 Anti-Corruption p 44 UNGC PRINCIPLES UNGC PRINCIPLES 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, internationally proclaimed human rights; and including extortion and bribery. 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor p 18 UNGC PRINCIPLES 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 2 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption About Eli Lilly and Company About Elanco Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with Founded in 1954, Elanco is a subsidiary of Eli Lilly discovery to make life better for people around the world. and Company. We provide comprehensive products and We were founded more than a century ago by a man knowledge services to improve animal health and foodcommitted to creating high-quality medicines that meet real animal production in more than 70 countries around the needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our world. At Elanco, we value innovation, both in scientific work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover research and daily operations, and strive to cultivate and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, a collaborative work environment for more than 6,250 improve the understanding and management of disease, employees worldwide. Together with our customers, we are and give back to communities through philanthropy and committed to raising awareness about global food security, volunteerism. To learn more about Lilly, visit us at lilly.com and celebrating and supporting the human-animal bond. and newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels. Our worldwide headquarters and research facilities are located in Greenfield, Indiana. Visit us at Elanco.com and EnoughMovement.com. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 3 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Message from the CEO In September, we announced actions to streamline many of our operations to more efficiently develop new impact, we have set a bold goal to increase access to quality health care in communities with limited medicines for patients around the world. Global workresources for 30 million people on an annual basis by force reductions affected approximately 3,500 posi2030. We call this Lilly 30x30. Reaching this goal—which tions— the majority occurring via a voluntary early is a six-fold increase over today—will require more than retirement program in the United States. Throughout philanthropy. As part of a five-year, $90 million global the restructuring we strived to adhere to our core value health commitment through 2022, we are exploring a of respect for people, offering free financial planning variety of approaches, including alternative business assistance and enhanced benefits for those who models, pricing strategies, and new uses for existing accepted early retirement. medicines and Lilly molecules that target conditions disproportionately affecting people living in lower-inEven amidst this restructuring, we increased our come communities. To speed progress, we have created commitment to diversity and inclusion—which is critical an internal innovation fund to engage our employees in to generating the scientific, clinical, and customer finding the best global health solutions that will help us insights that make innovation possible, and enables us reach our 30 million goal. to execute with excellence. In 2017, we began a multi-faceted, multi-year set of initiatives to embed We also recognize that people are concerned about the diversity and inclusion into every aspect of our business cost of medicine, and that some people cannot afford —and took action to increase the representation of the medicines prescribed by their doctors. Lilly sells minorities in managerial and leadership roles in the medicines in 125 countries and we consider counUnited States and women globally. Progress has begun. try-specific conditions when pricing medicines to help Representation of women across management ensure patients have affordable access. We are particuDear Stakeholders, increased by three percentage points—a faster gain larly conscious also of the economic circumstances in As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact than expected. We expect to see gains for minorities in many developing countries that can make access to since 2009, Eli Lilly and Company is pleased to affirm management over the next few quarters, and new goals medicines difficult. In response, we are exploring new our commitment to the responsible business principles will be set at the end of this year. value-based and outcomes-based arrangements, in represented by the Global Compact. This annual review developed and developing markets, to better achieve the Through Lilly’s global health work, we strive to extend highlights our corporate responsibility activities and right level of pricing. In the United States, we’ve worked the promise of better health to more people around the progress, including our work related to the UN to keep out-of-pocket costs low by negotiating discounts world. We focus on communities and individuals not Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, in the midst of with private payers that help Americans pay for pretypically reached through our business—including those a productive yet challenging business environment, Lilly scription drugs. Lilly cut the average U.S. list price of without health insurance, those without access to continued to advance our environmental and social our medicines by 51 percent in 2017 via rebates and quality health services, those who can’t afford our goals, including our efforts to reach millions of people discounts—nearly twice as much as we did just five medicines, and those who have diseases that lack who don’t have access to Lilly products today. years before. suitable treatments. To accelerate our global health LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 4 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption As we work to reach more people in need of medicines, participate in the Innovative Medicines Initiative. Our RECOGNITION FOR RESPONSIBILITY: 2017–2018 Lilly is committed to continually reducing our environanimal health business, Elanco, has developed a mental footprint and to publicly reporting our progress comprehensive Antibiotic Stewardship Plan to help toward our goals. For 2017, Lilly received a CDP ensure safe, long-term access to antibiotics for people ETHISPHERE INSTITUTE (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) score of B on and animals. World’s Most Ethical Companies, 2017-2018 climate change. On water stewardship, we received an From our founding in 1876 to today, Lilly has changed in A-, which is considered leadership level. We also almost every conceivable way except for our mission— reduced our total solid waste by one third—or nearly to make high-quality products for patients—and our THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX 30,000 metric tonnes—compared to 2016. We take a values of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. (No. 14) broad approach to understanding and managing our The value that we create for society rests upon this environmental impacts—not only across the life cycle of legacy of responsibility and is powered by the dedication our products, but also in our supply chain. We’ve bolstered engagement with our suppliers around of our employees. On behalf of the entire Lilly team, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES health, safety, and environmental issues, including thank you for your interest in our work. Top Companies for Executive Women environmental capability-building in China and India, and we continue to invest in green chemistry approaches in R&D and end-product engineering. To DIVERSITY INC. better assess and reduce the impact of active pharmaDavid A. Ricks Top 50 Companies for Diversity (No. 16) ceutical ingredients in the environment, we actively Chairman and CEO WORKING MOTHER 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers, 23 Consecutive Years HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION Corporate Equality Index Perfect Score CORPORATE KNIGHTS 2018 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World Index (No. 37) FORBES “Just 100” 2018 (No. 28) LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 5 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 2017 Responsibility Global Day of Service In 2017, we celebrated our 10th annual 2017 CONTRIBUTIONS AT A GLANCE Highlights Lilly Global Day of Service, on which Total Cash Donations $33.6 M Lilly and Elanco employees help neighbors and communities around the including $30M from the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. Lilly has a long, proud heritage of world. Since the program launched, strengthening the communities where employees in over 65 countries have we work and live. We do this through given more than 1 million hours and $938 M giving, volunteering, and focusing on created a lasting legacy by completing thousands of projects—from assemTotal Product Donations issues that affect our business: health and education. We actively encourage bling cancer-care packages for patients our employees to volunteer and give to beautifying neighborhoods by plantback in ways that are personally meaning thousands of trees. Insulin Vials Donated as of 2017 to the ingful to them. Disaster Relief In 2017, Lilly responded to a string of 1.4 M International Diabetes Federation's Life for a Child Program Connecting Hearts Abroad Lilly sponsors at least 100 employees devastating earthquakes and hurricanes each year to volunteer in impoverin Mexico, the U.S. mainland, and Puerto Total United Way Contributions ished communities through Connecting Hearts Abroad. They serve as health Rico. In Puerto Rico alone, where Lilly employs about 1,400 people, the company donated 10,000 insulin vials and $13.1 M including $6.8M from the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation. volunteers on community projects across Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin pens, and the Lilly Foundation—includAmerica. Challenged and inspired, they ing matched contributions from Lilly return with unique stories and insights that help us become a better, more employees—donated $850,000 in cash. $90 M Total Amount Committed to Global Health Programs through 2022 globally aware company. United Way Lilly and United Way are celebrating a 100-year relationship dating back to 1918. So far, Lilly has raised $285 million for United Way. In 2017, contributions 1M Number of Volunteer Employee Hours in Global Day of Service since 2008 from Lilly U.S. employees and retirees, plus a matching gift from the Lilly Foundation, totaled $13.1 million dollars. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 6 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption About This Report significant events and initiatives that occurred in the first half of 2018. This we report, to ensure appropriateness and accuracy. We consider external Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System requirements. report does not include joint ventures, standards in deciding what data to colWe welcome feedback on this content, partially owned subsidiaries, or outlect and report. For example, following This report represents our Communicaas it helps us to prepare future reports. sourced operations. guidance from the World Resources tion on Progress for 2017 in implementInstitute, we report progress toward Nicole Chase ing the principles of the United Nations ERM Certification and Verification environmental goals on an adjusted Corporate Responsibility, Global Compact. Services (ERM-CVS) provided indepenbasis accounting for mergers, acquisiEli Lilly and Company dent, third-party verification on selected Data and other updates contained in tions, and divestitures as appropriate, environmental data and progress E-mail: chase_nicole_a@lilly.com this report are focused on the 2017 to ensure comparability, unless stated against selected 2020 goals as referPhone: 317-655-7570 calendar year and include global operotherwise. Our global Health, Safety, and enced in the assurance statement. ations, unless otherwise noted. We also Environment management system is discuss data and trends from previous Lilly follows structured processes to certified by an independent, accredited years, where relevant, and include some collect, evaluate, and calculate the data auditor in accordance with the American SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Throughout this report, we indicate where our work aligns to the Sustainable Development Goals announced by the United Nations in September 2015. These intersections are noted by icons adjacent to relevant text. 1 NOPOVERTY 2 ZERO HUNGER 3 GWELL-BEING OOD HEALTH AND 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE CLEAN ENERGY AND 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 IINNOVATION NDUSTRY, AND INFRASTRUCTURE 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SCITIES USTAINABLE AND COMMUNITIES 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 14 LWATER IFE BELOW 15 LONIFELAND 16 PAND EACE, JUSTICE STRONG INSTITUTIONS 17 PFORARTNERSHIPS THE GOALS LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 7 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Human Rights Governance of Protecting Research Lilly supports the UN Global Compact’s 16 PAND EACE, JUSTICE STRONG INSTITUTIONS principles on respecting internationally proclaimed human rights. As a global pharmaceutical company, our activities Bioethics Bioethics at Lilly Subjects’ Rights in cut across a broad range of societal issues: activities such as ensuring the Lilly has a longstanding commitment to Lilly’s Bioethics Program is an independent organizational unit reporting Clinical Trials safety and availability of our medicines, bioethics—which focuses on the ethics to the chief medical officer, including Lilly is committed to protecting the promoting global health, and enhancing of health care, biomedical research, and a senior leader and full-time staff with rights and well-being of research access to medicines for those who have biomedical public policy—as an integral pharmaceutical industry expertise and subjects and patients who use our trouble affording them. We are commitcomponent of corporate integrity in the specialized training in bioethics. These medicines. Lilly applies a single global ted to respecting privacy and upholding pharmaceutical industry. In 1999, Lilly individuals serve as resources for the standard to the conduct of medical trials labor standards. That same commitbecame one of the first pharmaceuticompany and are responsible for the involving human subjects. This standard ment extends to our supply chain, where cal companies to establish a standing program’s development, deliverables, is based on well-respected ethics guidwe work with our suppliers to promote Bioethics Committee to systematically and oversight. In addition to this fullance and other requirements including: strong health, safety, and environmental identify, evaluate, and communicate time effort, employees participate in • The World Medical Association’s (HSE) practices. bioethics issues, and in 2008 created a key bioethics activities beyond their Declaration of Helsinki; Bioethics Program with dedicated fullregular work responsibilities, including In this section, we discuss our work in the • The Council for International Organizatime staff. We embrace a comprehensive a Bioethics Committee. This committee following areas related to human rights: tions of Medical Sciences’ Internationapproach to bioethics, providing a variety includes academic experts in bioethics. bioethics; the availability and safety of our al Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical of resources and educational offerings products; sourcing in our supply chain; Research Involving Human Subjects; to help employees navigate ethical scerespecting patient privacy; the affordabil• The International Conference on narios and apply bioethics principles in ity of medications; and our global health Harmonisation’s Guideline for Good their daily work. initiatives. Further information on our Clinical Practice (E6); support for labor standards can be found in the Labor section of this report. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 8 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • The Pharmaceutical Research and 13 essential elements for conducting Manufacturers of America’s Principles ethical human biomedical research and LILLY’S COMPANY MISSION, VISION, AND VALUES on Conduct of Clinical Trials; and sits within the context of Lilly’s broader • Applicable laws and regulations of the company mission, vision, and values. It Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research country or countries in which a study specifies and compiles Lilly’s bioethical Basic Bioethics Principles Essential Elements for Ethical Biomedical Research is conducted. responsibilities to multiple stakeholders. The framework informs the development Respect for persons Scientific validity Lilly’s commitment to protecting the of bioethics positions on topics importBeneficence Social value rights of research subjects is articuant to pharmaceutical research and Non-maleficence Equitable selection of countries/communities lated in two company guidance docuJustice and participants development, and informs advice the ments—Principles of Medical Research Relationships with investigators and study sites Bioethics Committee provides. and Bioethics Framework for Human Reasonable benefit-risk profile Biomedical Research—and upheld Independent ethics review through company policies, standards, Fostering Industry Incentives for research participants and procedures. Collaboration in Bioethics Informed consent Fair treatment of research participants To encourage collegial, non-competitive Protection of privacy and confidentiality Lilly’s Principles of discussions regarding the application of Fair access to post-study benefits bioethics concepts in the bio-pharmaMedical Research ceutical industry, Lilly has hosted two Public transparency Stakeholder engagement The Principles of Medical Research Bio-Pharmaceutical Industry Bioethics specify Lilly’s standard for conducting, summits, with attendees representing funding, and communicating results from eight different companies. its medical research. For more information on how Lilly shares information Bioethics Consultations Patient Safety and from clinical trials, see the Transparency section of this report. Lilly’s Positions on Since 1999, Lilly’s Bioethics Committee Product Availability has offered an internal consulting Current and Emerging service, providing a forum for employLilly’s Bioethics Framework Bioethics Issues ees to seek advice regarding bioethics We work tirelessly to make our medLilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human and research ethics issues. Using the ications safe and effective—from the Biomedical Research provides a bioLilly has developed position statements Bioethics Framework and bioethics posiearly stages of design and drug develethics foundation for the company’s on bioethics issues such as stem cell tions, this service increases awareness opment through ongoing monitoring and biomedical research so that it is aligned research, pediatric medicine, and multiabout bioethics, empowers employees to understanding of the patient experience with broadly accepted ethics principles national clinical trials, among others. raise concerns, and helps them reason once a medication is on the market. We and Lilly’s core values. The framework through challenging issues. recognize that taking the right medicaconsists of four basic principles and tion at the right time is a critical piece LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 9 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption of a person’s overall health. Therefore, ensuring our products are available Ensuring Product help to safeguard the supply of Lilly medicines, and allow us to provide safe Preventing Counterfeit wherever and whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities. Availability and effective finished drug products to patients and healthcare providers. The Medicines The mission of Lilly’s global manufacturintroduction of product serialization, Counterfeit medicines have been found being rolled out in the United States in Global Patient Safety ing team is to provide a reliable supply of high-quality medicines. Because Lilly 2018, with other countries to follow, will in all therapeutic areas in every region of the world. Their impact is wide-reachmanufactures medicines that people rely add an additional level of security to our ing and potentially deadly, both due to Beginning with the discovery of a upon and that can be critical for health, distributed products. toxic substances sometimes found in potential new medicine, Lilly’s goal is we know that we have a responsibility to the counterfeit medicines and because to ensure that the benefits and risks of safeguard both the materials needed to they undermine a patient’s confidence the medicines we market are continuously monitored and well understood by manufacture these medicines and the supply chain logistics that help to ensure Supply Chain in legitimate medicines and the credibility of healthcare providers. Lilly’s regulators, healthcare providers, and their availability. anti-counterfeiting strategy is composed patients. Lilly’s Global Patient Safety At Lilly, our efforts to ensure the safety of three key objectives: organization, consisting of more than Our Manufacturing Policy Committee 300 physicians, pharmacists, nurses, and integrity of our products begin with • Securing the integrity of Lilly medioversees the maintenance of Lilly’s and other professionals, is dedicated the procurement of materials and extend cines through the legitimate supply inventory of essential raw materials. to the continuous collection, monitorthroughout the production process. This channels; Before they enter the Lilly system, our ing, evaluation, and reporting of safety includes our interactions to promote • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly raw material and component suppliers information. Even after medications are strong HSE practices with suppliers medicines through targeted invesare evaluated for technical competence, approved for general use, Lilly continwho provide us materials for research tigations, internet monitoring, legal and the ability to provide high-qualues to collect adverse event reports and development, as well as with the actions; and ity, efficacious and cost-effective raw from around the world. Lilly enters this contract manufacturers who help make materials to Lilly . More information can • Partnering with governments, information into a company-specific our medicines and other pharmaceutical be found in the Supply Chain section of non-governmental organizations, and adverse event database to further evalproducts. It extends to our work to stem this report. trade associations to raise awareness, uate the safety of our medications. New the tide of counterfeit medicines and to and to strengthen, enact, and enforce safety findings and emerging concerns As an additional safeguard, we have ensure we comply with governmental anti-counterfeiting laws. are shared openly with regulators and mitigation plans in place for our drug efforts around conflict minerals. healthcare providers to appropriately product components, including mateIn addition to the topics we discuss in this manage risks associated with the use of rials critical to manufacturing finished section, more information on our work our medicines. drug products. Continuous improvearound HSE in our supply chain can be ment initiatives in our manufacturing, found in the HSE section of this report. packaging, and distribution capabilities LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 10 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Working to Deter Counterfeiters coding, serializing, and tracking pharthe raw material content of all of our Lilly, along with other pharmaceutical maceutical products. Lilly is making global commercial products and seek companies, provides rebates and disOnline and In the Field considerable investments in its packto identify the origin and source of these counts to payer customers and supply Patient safety is the foundation of Lilly’s aging operations, distribution centers, raw materials. Our goal is to develop a chain entities, and these have continued global anti-counterfeiting efforts, and and IT infrastructure to support this better understanding of the supply chain to increase in recent years. Overall, we are engaged in efforts to combat initiative, which includes new technoland to avoid the inadvertent support average discounts to U.S. list prices counterfeiters. We are a founder and ogy deployments, which will eventually of businesses associated with human have grown from 30 percent to 51 permember of the Alliance for Safe Online impact all of our packaging lines around rights violations. cent in the past five years. Pharmacies a global coalition of stakethe world. These efforts help to ensure holders with an interest in protecting Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers Several factors continue to drive this that doctors, pharmacists, and patients patient safety and ensuring patients will source their materials responsibly trend. While changes to Lilly’s portfolio can be confident in the medicines they have access to safe and legitimate online and abstain from procuring materihave played a role in year-over-year prescribe, dispense, and receive. pharmacies. Lilly advocates for proals from areas or sources that might discounts, further increases in comtections for patients from the growing promote conflict in the DRC and that petition among pharmaceutical mannumber of illegitimate and unsafe online drug sellers. Lilly also supports the dedConflict Minerals our suppliers conduct their own due diligence regarding the source of any ufacturers and increased negotiation leverage by pharmacy-benefit manicated domain name “dot-pharmacy,” an Lilly is concerned with the variety of materials they provide to us in order agers (PBMs) have resulted in consisinitiative of the National Association of human rights violations that occur to ensure those materials are contently deeper discretionary discounting Boards of Pharmacy that helps patients throughout the world. We are aware that flict-free. We filed our latest conflict over the last several years. In addition, distinguish safe and legal online pharthe ongoing conflict in the Democratic minerals disclosure documents with Lilly’s mandatory government discounts macies. Lilly cooperates with customs, Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surthe SEC in May 2017. have continued to increase. police, and other law enforcement offirounding countries is understood to Lilly is committed to continue to underThe consistent increase in discounts on cials around the world to investigate and be financed, in part, by the mining and stand the origin of these materials and Lilly’s medicines continues to widen the prosecute those who make and distribtrade of certain minerals, including will take appropriate action to avoid the gap between list prices and net prices, ute counterfeit Lilly medicines without tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold. We inadvertent support of businesses assowhich are the actual prices realized by regard to the law or patient safety. are committed to making every effort to ciated with human rights violations. Lilly. While both list and net prices have ensure we understand our supply chain increased, net prices have done so at a and the potential upstream impacts of Serialization significantly lower rate. Serialization is the unique identificaour supply and purchasing decisions as they relate to the minerals at issue. Pricing in the The factors that create the gap between tion of individual packs of medicines to ensure the security of the legitimate From 2014 to 2017, Lilly filed annual United States list and net prices also contribute to the rising out-of-pocket costs that consumsupply chain. One of Lilly’s major legislareports with the U.S. Securities and Lilly is committed to expanding access to ers pay for medicines at the pharmacy. tive efforts has been to advocate for the Exchange Commission (SEC) relating medicines in the U.S. healthcare system, The trends towards high-deductible establishment of a uniform standard for to the conflict minerals rule. As a part in part by providing greater transparhealth plans and greater consumer cost of that reporting process, we examine ency into the way we price our products. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 11 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption sharing through co-pays and co-inThe U.S. healthcare system is designed benefit of the rebates that pharmaceutiAVERAGE DISCOUNTS TO LIST PRICE surance have exposed an increasing so risk is shared among all payers for cal companies provide to PBMs. We are ACROSS THE U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO1 number of people to the list price of healthcare services, including prescripalso committed to working with insur(% TOTAL AVERAGE DISCOUNT 2) medicines. Under this type of insurtion drugs. Working together, we can ance companies and PBMs to develop ance design, consumers are more often find solutions to make medicines more value-based payment arrangements 50 50% 51% paying the list price for medications until affordable for the people who need that tie medicine’s price to the value and 40 45% they meet their deductible and a perthem. In the case of high-deductible outcomes they provide to patients. 41% centage of the list price thereafter. health plans, patients’ affordability could 30 Please note: The amount of rebates, 30% be improved if they directly receive the discounts, and returns is estimated by 20 the company, and methodologies used may differ from methodologies used by 10 other companies. These data are not INCREASING ACCESS TO LILLY INSULINS audited and should be read in conjunc2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tion with the Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount COMPARISON OF LILLY LIST AND NET Lilly’s commitment to working for greater affordability and access to our medicines can be seen in Accruals section of the company’s 10-K PRICE CHANGES FOR U.S. PRODUCT our efforts to make sure people with diabetes get the insulin they need. In the United States, Lilly filings with the Securities and Exchange PORTFOLIO1 is actively seeking solutions both within and outside the current system to address the affordabil(% CHANGE VERSUS THE PRIOR YEAR) ity challenges. We currently offer several insulin products at deeply discounted prices directly to Commission. patients using new or improved technological platforms. In 2017, Lilly started participating in Blink YEAR LIST PRICE 3 NET PRICE 4 Health and Inside Rx, access programs that allow people who pay retail prices for insulin to save 40 percent at the pharmacy. Pricing Around 2013 15.0 11.9 the World 2014 11.8 1.6 Blink Health: Blink Health, a smart phone app that has no membership fees or monthly premiums, 2015 16.3 9.4 permits people to pay deeply discounted prices outside the insurance system. Patients pay online Lilly sells medicines in approximately 2016 14.0 2.4 and the prescriptions can be picked up at virtually any U.S. pharmacy. Initially, this third-party 125 countries around the world. patient discount program was administered through a contract with a large PBM, Express Scripts. Each nation values medications and 2017 9.7 6.0 However, effective 2018, Lilly contracts directly with Blink for administration of this offering. innovation differently and must balance competing demands for limited U.S. Product Portfolio includes all human pharma1  ceutical products marketed in the U.S. for which resources—including other healthcare Lilly is the holder of the new drug application InsideRx: InsideRx is a coupon program accessed through a smart phone or a kiosk located at a (NDA). This represents approximately 95 percent products and services, as well as meetpharmacy. Pre-payment is not required and can be utilized at nearly 40,000 pharmacies (federal of total U.S. human pharmaceutical revenue. Total Average Discount is calculated by dividing ing other social needs such as education 2  healthcare program beneficiaries are prohibited, by law, from participating). This program is admintotal annual rebates, discounts, and channel costs or infrastructure. At Lilly, we consider by total annual gross sales. istered through the PBM Express Scripts. 3 List Price represents the weighted average year country-specific conditions when pricing over-year change in the wholesale acquisition cost medicines on a market-by-market basis, (WAC). 4 Net Price represents weighted average year More information about these programs can be found at www.insulinaffordability.com. to help ensure patients have affordable over-year change in net price, which is WAC minus rebates, discounts, and channel costs. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 12 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption access to the innovative medications and outcomes-based reimbursement efforts to decrease the final price of millions more people around the world we develop. We support public policies are models that can be adopted globmedicines to patients, such as minimizing and partnering with leading experts and to meet this same end. We strive to ally. These payment initiatives offer taxes of all types and limiting markups organizations to expand our reach. Our price our medicines to enable affordhealthcare systems around the world applied in the supply chain. In addition, global health efforts focus on commuable access for appropriate patients, the ability to deliver greater economic Lilly has a long-standing policy of not nities with limited resources and peoreflecting the value provided to patients, and health value to their patients. When seeking or enforcing patents for mediple who aren’t typically reached by our providers, payers, caregivers, the countries look at health costs and cines in any of the “least developed countraditional business operations. We use health system, and society as a whole. related outcomes holistically, rather tries,” as defined by the United Nations. a mix of approaches and concentrate on We define value in clinical, human, than in budget silos, it is clear that meddiseases where we have deep technical and economic terms, and we base our ications deliver substantial benefits in expertise, including diabetes and cancer. assessment on the results of clinical trials, economic analysis, projected and both human and economic terms. Global 3 GWELL-BEING OOD HEALTH AND 17 PFORARTNERSHIPS THE GOALS Elanco, our animal health division, directs its global health efforts toward ending Health As a global company, we are particularly measured health outcomes, as well as hunger and improving food security. conscious of the economic circumstances market research. in many developing countries that can Lilly is exploring new ways to achieve the right level of pricing in different make access to medicines difficult. In response, Lilly has developed alternaAs a leading biopharmaceutical comLilly 30x30 pany, Lilly has an important role to play markets and we advocate for policy tive business models, recognizing that To accelerate our global health efforts, in improving global health. Our comchanges that will help increase access the poorest nations must pay less than we established Lilly 30x30—a bold goal mitment includes working to extend the to medicines. For example, value-based wealthy nations. Lilly also supports to increase access to quality health care Lilly promise of caring and discovery to 2017 2030 Outside of our traditional business, we reached We'll continue to expand our efforts so that by 2030, we'll 5 million people in resource-limited settings in 2017. reach 30 million people in need each year. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 13 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption in communities with limited resources include exploring and expanding alternathat hit the U.S. mainland and Puerto Inc., a separate nonprofit organization for 30 million people on an annual basis tive business models, alternative pricing Rico. During this difficult time, Lilly created to assist qualifying patients in by 2030. That’s a six-fold increase over strategies, patient support programs donated $12.3 million in medicines and obtaining certain Lilly medications at no the number of people Lilly reaches in and product donations. In addition, we the Lilly Foundation contributed over cost. In 2017, Lilly Cares helped more these settings today. Reaching 30 milhave created an internal innovation fund $1 million in cash for recovery efforts, than 111,000 people in the United States lion people on an annual basis by 2030 to engage our employees in finding new including matched contributions from obtain the Lilly medications they needed will require not just philanthropy, but global health solutions. The fund will be Lilly employees. in the areas of mental health, diabetes, an increasingly stronger mix of novel used to advance the best ideas that will cardiovascular disease, men’s health, access approaches across our business help us reach our 30 million goal. Patient Assistance Programs osteoporosis, oncology, psoriasis, and and with our partners. It is important to us to ensure that those growth hormone disorders. Lilly 30x30 initiatives will include activProduct Donations who can benefit from our medicines In China, we offer a patient assistance have access to them. One way we do ities across three key areas: Pipeline, From natural disasters to helping people program for oncology and osteoporosis this in the United States is by donating Programs, and Partnerships. with limited resources, Lilly donates patients. Products are donated to the product to the Lilly Cares Foundation medicines to vulnerable people and China Primary Health Care Foundation Patient Assistance Program, also Pipeline communities. We work with leading known as Lilly Cares. This program is through which patients qualify and receive Through our 30x30 pipeline, Lilly is partners to identify when Lilly products their medicine. In 2017, over 6,000 patients operated by the Lilly Cares Foundation, working to develop new medicines and are needed and to ensure our medicines were helped through this program. to find new uses for existing medicines can reach the greatest number of people that target conditions that disproporand have the greatest impact. tionately affect people living in lowerincome communities. These efforts Disaster Relief LOOKING AT LILLY COMPOUND FOR SNAKEBITE ANTI-VENOM include reexamining molecules that When major disasters strike, Lilly have been shelved during commercial responds with cash and product contriAs part of our commitment to reaching 30 million more people per year—in addition to those exploration at Lilly. We will also evalubutions to help people in desperate situations. Every disaster is different, and reached through our traditional business—Lilly is exploring new ways to use existing medicines ate and support external research for immediate needs in the aftermath vary. and compounds as treatments for overlooked or underfunded medical needs. One of these is a tuberculosis, malaria, and neglected tropical diseases. When responding, Lilly donates items previously-shelved Lilly compound that shows promise as a potential treatment for snakebite. that are specifically requested by relief It’s estimated that more than 100,000 people a year worldwide die from snakebite—with another agencies, and we partner with those 400,000 injured—mainly in impoverished areas where bare feet are common and health resources Programs agencies to maximize our donations and few. In June 2017, the World Health Organization responded by adding snakebite to its official list Through Lilly 30x30, we are strengthensure that contributions get to the peoof neglected tropical diseases. As explained in the documentary Minutes to Die: Snakebite, The ening existing programs and developing World’s Ignored Health Crisis, this painful death almost always occurs outside of a hospital setting. ple who need them most. new approaches that help people in lowLilly is currently sharing data and partnering with Ophirex, Inc., a U.S.-based start-up that aims to er-income settings get greater access to In 2017, Lilly responded to devastating create the world’s first field antidotes to snakebite. Lilly products and services. These efforts earthquakes in Mexico and hurricanes LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 14 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LEAP: LILLY EXPANDING ACCESS FOR PEOPLE IN CHINA LILLY’S LEAP: EXPANDING ACCESS WITH A NEW COMMERCIAL MODEL With a rich heritage of developing innovative diabetes medicines and solutions, in 2015 Lilly aligned What: Innovative business model that expands access to more with the Chinese government’s efforts to help more people with chronic ailments like diabetes and their communities through a program called Lilly Expanding Access for People (LEAP), a shared valpeople through additional investments. ue initiative that reaches people beyond the scope of our traditional commercial investment model. How: Provides a coordinated approach to help strengthen capacity In China, diabetes affects an estimated 114 million adults —accounting for about 25 percent of of healthcare providers and help people manage their diabetes closer 1 global cases of the disease. This prevalence is expected to rise as more people in China are diagnosed, and many more Chinese are likely living with prediabetes, but may not be aware that they to the communities they live in, including: are at risk for developing the disease. • Improved training and support for primary care physicians While large, urban hospitals in China typically provide high-quality diabetes care, specialists at • Patient education and support through Lilly diabetes educator. these facilities are often overwhelmed with thousands of patients each day. As a result, the Chinese government wants to enable people with diabetes to receive the care they need closer to the Why: Creates value for society by improving health for more people; communities where they live, from local primary care practitioners and clinics. Unfortunately, these clinics are often lacking in their capacity to provide good diabetes care. creates value for Lilly by reaching new populations through an alternative business model. Through LEAP, Lilly has worked to improve training and support for primary care physicians to increase their confidence and skills to manage diabetes across all stages of the disease. LEAP has LEAP operates in 13 out of 32 Chinese provinces. From April 2015 also empowered people to better manage their disease with the support of Lilly diabetes educators who provide disease management information and training on the proper use of insulin. through December 2017, through LEAP, Lilly has: International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes Atlas, 8th edn. Brussels, Belgium: International Diabetes 1  • Introduced its insulin products to approximately 5,000 institutions Federation, 2017. and 165,000 patients; • Provided training to 40,000 primary care physicians; and • Taught more than 33,000 people with diabetes self-management skills. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 15 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption AFTER MARIA: DELIVERING LIFE-SAVING SUPPLIES IN PUERTO RICO Patient Support Programs Internal Innovation Fund Lilly provides nearly 150 patient supOur 30x30 commitment requires a conport programs across 55 countries that tinuous cycle of learning and solution Less than 48 hours after Hurricane Maria knocked out electricity and nearly all phone service on reach over 1 million people annually. generation across the company. To help the island and left roads impassable, Lilly’s employees in San Juan had one priority: find a way to Patient support programs help manage advance Lilly’s commitment to global get insulin to patients who needed it. a patient’s medication/disease—and/ health, we have created an internal or provide assistance for medication innovation fund to tap employee ingenuOnce the storm passed, and all Lilly employees were accounted for, the local team began working access, including individual discounts ity. The fund will help advance new ideas in close collaboration with local officials and international partners, including Direct Relief, to get and reimbursement support. We estifrom employees on how to increase supplies to people in need. Five days later, Lilly made the first of several emergency shipments to mate that of the 1 million people reached access for people living in communities the island that included insulin, food, water, generators, and other necessities. In all, Lilly sent six through our patient support programs, with limited resources. shipments—including enough medicines for thousands of patients—along with vital supplies for our more than 400,000 live in settings with employees and facilities. Through regional consultations, we are limited resources. actively engaging and soliciting ideas to help Lilly reach 30 million people by Getting the supplies on the island was only part of the challenge. Lilly, Direct Relief, and local 2030. Funding decisions will be based officials worked together to identify where insulin was needed most, and where people could on established 30x30 criteria, including access it—including hospitals, dialysis centers and pharmacies—many of which were still closed long-term, sustainable approaches with or struggling to reopen. The Lilly team took turns waiting in long gas lines to fill up company cars, the potential to reach more people and traveling on flooded and nearly impassable roadways, to deliver the life-saving medicine. alignment with business priorities. In 2018, Lilly will continue our commitment to helping Puerto Rico recover, sending two teams of medical professionals to the island—including nurses and diabetes educators—to volunteer with the international nonprofit organization Project HOPE through our Connecting Hearts Abroad global service program. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 16 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Partnerships LILLY GLOBAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP FOCUS AREAS, 2018-2022 Lilly is engaged in numerous partnerships with leading global health Working with expert partners, the Lilly Global Health Partnership helps people living in organizations and governments. These limited-resource settings, with a focus on five countries. partnerships work to strengthen health care systems and increase access to quality care in lower-income communities. We use our molecules, technology and expertise in collaborations with other organizations to find new approaches and solutions to pressing China Kenya Mexico South Africa U.S. global health concerns, including diabeDiabetes tes, cancer and tuberculosis. Cancer Lilly Global Health Partnership The Lilly Global Health Partnership develops patient-centered models of care for diabetes and cancer to expand access and new models of care, share the data and for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) Life for a Child improve health outcomes at the primary lessons learned to inform policy, and include: Since 2008, Lilly has donated over care level for people in resource-limadvocate for the scale up and replication • Developing new, standardized proto1.4 million vials of insulin to the ited settings. The partnership works of proven, cost-effective solutions. cols for diabetes care in primary care International Diabetes Federation’s “Life to advance government priorities and settings for a Child” partnership. The program strengthen local healthcare systems by The Lilly Global Health Partnership • Applying early learnings for NCDs currently provides access to care, developing and testing models of care. advances more than 20 years of into existing and future efforts to education and lifesaving medicines and Lilly’s global health work that seeks We use our Research, Report and strengthen health systems. supplies to nearly 15,000 children with to improve access and care for Advocate framework to measure and diabetes in 48 developing countries. tuberculosis, diabetes and cancer. • Implementing technology-based tools evaluate effectiveness of our partnerExamples of how the Lilly Global Health at the primary care level to drive ship and reach the greatest number of Partnership is strengthening commuadherence to treatment and reduce people. Through this approach, we pilot nity-based and primary care services complications. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 17 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Labor At Lilly, our company values—integrity, to promote diversity and inclusion within The streamlining efforts were part of a who retired under the program received excellence, and respect for people— our company, as a key driver of business broad productivity plan to improve our enhanced retirement benefits. shape our approach to attracting and success and growth. cost structure and help us continue to Some additional reductions in positions developing a highly skilled workforce. adjust to a rapidly changing healthcare came in late 2017 and early 2018 from With these values as our guide, we are environment so we can better meet the Workplace other actions, including select site clocommitted to fairness and nondiscrimneeds of patients for innovative medicines. sures. For example, we began moving ination in our employment practices, Restructuring The majority of the positions eliminated production at an animal health manuand we value diverse backgrounds, came from a voluntary early retirement facturing facility in Larchwood, Iowa, to skills, and global perspectives. We want program in the United States. Those who our existing plant in Fort Dodge, Iowa. our company to be a place where our were eligible to participate in the volAnd a research and development office employees enjoy meaningful work, build In September 2017, we announced untary program received access to free in Bridgewater, New Jersey, and the successful careers, and make important actions to streamline many of our operafinancial planning assistance, and those Lilly China Research and Development contributions to society. tions to more efficiently focus efforts to develop new medicines for patients In this section, we discuss our efforts to around the world. Global workforce provide employees with a safe, supportreductions, including those from a U.S. ive, and rewarding work environment, to EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELLNESS voluntary early retirement program, offer fair compensation, career training affected approximately 3,500 positions. and development, and to help employees balance their work and personal We recognize that decisions like these Keeping our people safe and healthy—whether at home or at work—is one of our highest priorities lives. We highlight our commitment to affect people’s lives and we don’t take and aligns directly with our company values. maintaining a workplace that upholds all them lightly. We strive to adhere to our applicable labor standards and is free core value of respect for people as we We realize that the journey toward safety excellence never ends, and we are constantly evaluating from coercion, discrimination, and retalcarry them out. Depending on location, approaches to improve our programs and to integrate injury prevention into everyday work. At Lilly, iation. We also underscore our efforts Lilly offers workforce transition services employee safety and wellness are managed by our Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) team. For and severance pay. more information, see our discussion in Employee Safety. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 18 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LILLY’S SUPPORT OF LABOR STANDARDS Center in Shanghai, China, were closed Lilly employees have access to learnas we streamlined our pharmaceutical ing and development programs, beyond research and development activities. We their immediate job responsibilities, to The UN Global Compact's principles state, in part, that both adults and children should be free from also further consolidated some work gain new skills and achieve career aspicompulsory or coerced labor, and that people should have the right to associate freely and bargain to existing shared service centers in rations. These programs include leadcollectively. Lilly fully supports these standards that are upheld in U.S. law. Ireland and India. ership training designed to build strong, inclusive leaders. In 2018, we continue to improve effiFreedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining ciencies and shift resources—reducing Pay and Benefits Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association in the workplace and respects the right in some areas and adding in others—to of our employees to join associations of their own choosing. We interact with works councils and meet our customers’ changing needs. unions in several countries; we support these bodies and work productively with them. The vast All of these efforts are handled consismajority of our workers globally are not covered under traditional collective-bargaining agreements. tent with applicable local requirements. At Lilly, we support a culture of well-being by providing competitive pay, comprehenIn some countries where we operate, governments mandate working conditions, such as salary increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working hours, vacation time, and overtime rates. These vary by country, and we follow these mandates wherever they are required. Training and sive employee benefit programs, training and development resources, and opportuDevelopment nities for employees to serve in their communities and around the world. Several of our affiliates have employee councils that meet regularly with management to discuss We are committed to ensuring pay equity workforce-related issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizationOngoing employee development is for all of our employees. For many years, al changes. As laws and guidelines change wherever we operate, we will continue to work with critical to our success. Lilly employees we have regularly conducted pay-equity employees, advocacy groups, and governing bodies to maintain compliance and respect the right of receive the training they need to ensure studies in the United States. In 2017, we free association. that they have the capabilities to do their broadened these efforts to include all jobs, and that they understand corporate employees in the United States and the Forced and Child Labor policies, such as those contained in our UK. The results were favorable, with just code of conduct. a small percentage of the population Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with local minimum-age laws and requirements and does not employ child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any of our facilities globrequiring an adjustment. To further support our employees, we ally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global standards and procedures to include specific language about work to cultivate a culture of lifelong While our company’s programs vary human rights, including our expectation that vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights standards learning, encouraging employees to around the globe, we take a holistic as one piece of our Supplier Code of Conduct. seek ongoing education and growth approach to our employee benefits. These experiences as a strategic element of may include flexible work arrangements; their career at Lilly. We strive to provide on-site conveniences, such as cafes, opportunities for employees to build fitness centers, and child care; competicareers that reward them personally tive time-off programs; retirement and professionally. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 19 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption benefits; and health and disability Beyond that, we are taking steps to U.S. WORKFORCE ETHNIC DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY AT LILLY IN 2017 programs that are available for eligible further diversify our leadership ranks employees when they need support. In by ensuring that everyone has equal some locations, certain benefits are opportunities for career growth and extended to family members. Read more advancement. in our Employee Wellness at Lilly section. Our commitment to diversity goes There are four beyond our employees. We partner with 2017 U.S. Workforce women on the board of directors—about 29% Diversity advocacy groups, professional societies, community organizations, public and and Inclusion private healthcare administrators and The average 5 GENDER 21.8% EQUALITY others to help reduce health disparities 1 for Fortune 500 companies is at Lilly and to address the unique healthcare needs of all communities. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion also Lilly also has six 43% extends through the full spectrum of women on its We believe that a diverse, inclusive cul22% Minority Employees our business, including our clinical trial executive committee ture provides fertile ground for scientific strategies and our supply chain. and clinical innovation and also sparks Leadership Positions2 new customer insights. Embracing 59% 41% diversity at Lilly means understanding, Governance of 8% Asian respecting and valuing differences— men women including, but not limited to, aspects of identity such as race, religion, sexual Diversity and Inclusion: 7% African American Global Workforce orientation, gender identity, disability staA Commitment tus, work style, national origin and age. 53% 47% The future of our business depends on from the Top men women 4% Latino us finding solutions to complex diseases, and we want to recruit the best talent We believe that creating a diverse and inclusive workplace helps us to better U.S. Workforce from around the world. Once people serve the global marketplace in which we 2% Two or more races 52% 48% join the Lilly team we want them to feel welcome and included in our company operate. We hold our leaders accountable for developing an inclusive workforce, men women culture, able to contribute their best including performance objectives ideas, and comfortable bringing their focusing on mentoring, sponsorship of >1% 1 2020 Women on Boards, 2017 Gender Diversity Native American Index. “whole selves” to work. promising talent, and career planning. 2 Percentage of those who supervise others or hold high-level strategic roles. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 20 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 2017 LABOR RECOGNITION Lilly’s senior vice president for human izes our approach to creating an incluresources and diversity reports directly sive, nondiscriminatory environment. to our chairman and CEO. Top leaders FORBES: The Just 100 America’s Best Corporate Citizens #28 We maintain a presence at top colleges receive quarterly updates on our diversity and universities and work with a wide and inclusion strategy—including updates ETHISPHERE: World’s Most Ethical Companies, 2017 and 2018 on Lilly’s progress toward diversifying range of professional associations to recruit a diverse workforce. We also our management ranks. This information THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX: #14 globally attract top talent through an extensive is then shared with all employees. global MBA internship program. WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE: 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers, 23 consecutive years We seek to embed diversity into our talent-management processes—recruitDIVERSITY INC.: Top 50 Companies for Diversity #16 overall; #8 for People with Disabilities; #9 for Mentoring; #8 for Progress; #11 for Employee Resource Groups ing and staffing, learning and developCreating an Inclusive Culture ment, coaching, performance reviews, and succession management. Super­ FORTUNE MAGAZINE: World’s Most Admired Companies visors are expected to interview a We strive to create a workplace in which diverse slate of candidates for every NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES: Top Companies for Executive Women all Lilly employees feel welcomed, staffing opportunity, whether hiring from respected, valued and heard, which HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION: Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score within Lilly or considering outside enables them to do their best work for candidates. Our Code of Business the people we serve. We stress inclusive BLACK ENTERPRISE MAGAZINE: Best Companies for Diversity Conduct, The Red Book, also summarSCIENCE MAGAZINE: Science 2017 Top 20 Employers DAVE THOMAS FOUNDATION: Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces “At Lilly, embracing diversity and inclusion is a means to drive excellence 2020 WOMEN ON BOARDS: Winning Company, Corporate Champion across our organization. We cannot deliver exceptional value to our customers if we do not understand all of those customers for who they are and how LATINO MAGAZINE: Latino 100—Best Places for Latinos to Work they see the world. “Inside the company, we want to build greater empathy across the many dimensions of difference. We want to harness that empathy—that understanding—and turn it into workforce engagement and accelerated innovation. Diversity and inclusion are core to our strategy for changing the lives of patients with serious disease.” – Dave Ricks, Lilly chairman and CEO LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 21 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS IN 2017 leadership for all supervisors—and encourage them to participate in a powfrom other backgrounds are preparing for global assignments, ERG members Major Initiatives in Employee Resource groups are critically imerful training program—and we provide opportunities for employees to openly help them understand the language and culture of their destination country. 2017 and Early 2018 portant to our company’s business strategy. discuss and examine often-sensitive topLilly ERGs also participate in recruiting In 2017, we launched or continued other ics related to diversity and inclusion. events at universities and career fairs to strategies and initiatives to improve the help us attract a diverse pool of prodiversity and inclusiveness of our comWe understand that diversity means spective employees and interns. 11 pany culture. Among them: Employee different things around the globe. Resource Groups Our leadership teams formulate their ERGs include members representing all • Talent management review. With the diversity strategies by considering our levels of the company, and each ERG has help of an external consulting group, we corporate perspective and then cusa senior leader as an executive sponsor completed an assessment of our talent tomizing their own plans based on local who takes an active role in ERG events management program and in 2018 we have begun redesigning key parts of it 14,600 demographics and culture. For examand activities. This means that ERG Members ple, some build plans that are related to members have interactions with leadto ensure consistency and fairness. gender, provincial, generational and/or ers they might otherwise never have a • Aspirational diversity goals. In 2017, disability diversity. chance to meet, which offers opportuwe began measuring progress toward nities for informal or formal mentoring aspirational goals for increasing the numbers of women in leadership 75 relationships. Satellite Groups Globally Employee Resource At Lilly, ERGs support an inclusive workglobally and minorities in leadership positions in the United States. We have Groups place environment by: begun seeing progress, with a three • Creating cross-cultural learning oppercent improvement in the numbers of One key element of our inclusive culportunities women in management roles in 2017. 15,000 Internal ture is our Employee Resource Groups • Providing networking and cultural • Conscious inclusion training. By the Volunteer Hours (ERGs), which help us connect with the support among employees with comend of 2018, nearly 2,000 Lilly leaders diversity of our patients and customers mon backgrounds or interests and supervisors will have experienced around the world. In recent years, Lilly’s • Offering experiences for employees this training—and we intend to make it ERGs have been expanding into areas from diverse backgrounds to build available for many more employees at that will have a more direct business 8,000 External Volunteer Hours impact, becoming even more central to our company’s success. For example, leadership skills About 14,600 Lilly employees are memall levels going forward. • Minority Employee Journeys. In our ERGs frequently consult on market2016 and 2017, Lilly began applying a bers of at least one of our 11 ERGs, ing and workplace programs, and assist market-research approach to more which include more than 75 chapters with corporate executive training profully understand the experience of our located at Lilly offices, research sites grams on topics such as cultural awareemployees. This data is helping Lilly and manufacturing operations around ness and inclusion. When colleagues identify areas to improve the experithe world. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 22 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption ence of all employees as they progress is helping us articulate each minority Many leading U.S. employers and coladvantage for us by linking the fresh in their careers, and to help us further group-specific journey and understand leges have implemented voluntary LGBT perspectives and nimble thinking of ethdiversify our leadership ranks their similarities and differences. self-identification programs. In order nically diverse, women-owned, and/or to make progress toward a richer and small businesses to our internal The insights gleaned from the Minority more inclusive workplace culture, in the business needs. Lilly’s Minority Employee Journeys, along with those first quarter of 2017, we invited employEmployee Journeys of the 2016 Women’s Journey, are being ees in the United States to voluntarily Diverse suppliers are defined as those Modeled after the research we conduct used in 2018 to inform our talent manwith at least 51 percent ownership and self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, to understand our patient populations, agement program improvements and to control by an ethnic minority, a woman, transgender (LGBT), or heterosexual. the Minority Employee Journey study develop action plans to address other or someone who is LGBT. Small supwas designed to help us understand the areas—including psychological safety, About two percent of our U.S. workforce pliers are defined as per U.S. Small experiences, unmet needs, and career executive sponsorship of top talent from chose to identify as LGBT in our 2017 Business Administration small busitensions of our employees. all backgrounds, and greater accountemployee survey. In 2018, we will conduct ness size standards. We actively seek to ability for inclusive leadership. a similar survey in the United Kingdom. expand relationships with these types of We partnered with an outside firm to We believe LGBT self-identification is a suppliers, which we view as an often-undesign and execute this research initiaUltimately, our objective is to do an even good practice that, where permitted by tapped source of talent. tive. Through surveys, interviews and better job of ensuring career growth and country-specific laws and culture, can focus groups, we captured insights from equality for all of our employees. In 2017, the U.S. Small Business help Lilly make progress toward a richer more than 5,000 Lilly employees in the Administration recognized us as “outand more inclusive workplace. standing” in our efforts to promote and United States at all levels and across all LGBT Self-identification maintain supplier diversity. In 2017, functions. In the United States, we are required Supplier Diversity we spent approximately $366 million to collect data on the race, gender, and The reported experiences of African with suppliers classified as diverse, ethnicity of our employees as well as Americans, Latinos and Asians at Lilly— woman-owned, and/or LGBT-owned those who are military veterans or have their Journeys—were compared with businesses, as well as more than $587 disabilities—but there is no legal manWe believe that doing business with a those of Caucasian employees who were million with more than 1,000 suppliers date for similar data collection on sexual diverse set of suppliers delivers value to also surveyed. This information classified as small businesses. orientation or gender identity. the company and creates a competitive LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 23 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Health, Safety, and Environment Making medicines that help people action at every point in our value chain: LILLY’S POLICY ON PROTECTING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR ASSETS live longer, healthier, more active lives from the researchers who explore requires the use of valuable resources, complicated chemical reactions, to the such as energy, water, and raw materimanufacturers who may work with hazWe strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which we als. At Lilly, we believe that promoting a ardous substances, and to the adminisoperate and serve. We are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices to healthy environment, maintaining a safe trators who manage complex regulatory promote the well-being of our people. We are committed to conducting business in a responsible workplace, and operating responsibly responsibilities. and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust security culture to protect are linked to our business and supour people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft, or damage. Each Lilly employee is This section covers the broad range ported by our mission and values. As a responsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities. of our health, safety, and environmenresult, Lilly manages health, safety, and tal activities, from our approach and the environment (HSE) under a unified management systems, to our work governance structure. addressing environmental and safety We strive to understand and systematiissues across our value chain, to perIn 2017, Lilly scored a rating of B on climate change and an Aon water from CDP, formerly the cally address the human behaviors and formance data and examples demonCarbon Disclosure Project. CDP is the world’s largest repository of environmental management inforchoices that can improve HSE perstrating our progress. mation. It allows companies and their stakeholders to assess environmental performance. For CDP, a formance. We encourage responsible score of A or Ais considered “leading” level, and a score of B is considered “managing” level. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 24 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE Materials, water, and energy, HSE management system and standards Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing We consider environmental factors from Our stakeholders, including customers, Our Elanco and Pharmaceutical manuthe earliest stages of design and developgovernments, and suppliers worldwide, facturing health, safety, and environment ment. We use the 12 principles of green are increasingly focused on the materials (HSE) committees oversee sustainability chemistry, environmental risk assessand chemicals used to make products. performance and compliance with applicaments, packaging manufacturing reviews, We have a chemical management proble HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and an Environmental Development gram and work to reduce our use of and standards while ensuring we continReview process to evaluate potential envimaterials, water, and other natural ually measure, report, and reduce Lilly’s ronmental impacts during the scale-up of resources when possible. environmental impacts associated with human health pharmaceutical production our own as well as contract manufacturing to manufacturing levels. organizations. Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging Product Use Product End-of-Life At many Lilly sales and marketing offices Lilly tracks the GHG emissions of our prodLilly is committed to understanding the Due to patient safety considerations and worldwide, we manage projects to imuct transportation and distribution venpotential effects of pharmaceutical prodmedicine regulations, reuse and recycling prove environmental performance while dors, and we collaborate to reduce those ucts in the environment. We support using are not applicable to our products. We increasing employee awareness and impacts while ensuring product integrity. science-based evaluations to assess and are working with stakeholders to ensure action. Lilly continually works to improve We consider many factors in selecting reduce the environmental risks of our cost-effective approaches are available for the fuel efficiency of our sales force fleet product packaging, including sustainability pharmaceutical products. Through collabproduct end-of-life disposal that balance through vehicle choice and optimization of aspects such as materials use and recyorations with industry partners, academic environmental protection, patient privacy, driving and work practices. These efforts clability. We require packaging vendors researchers, and regulatory agencies, we legal compliance, and security. also reduce associated greenhouse gas in China, Europe, and the United States to continually work to further understand and (GHG) emissions. certify that they source all paper and cardproactively address any potential impacts board used to package our products from from our products. sustainable forests. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 25 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption LILLY'S 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY GOALS 1 RECORDABLE INJURY AND LOST-TIME INJURY RATE Lilly’s Safety Progress RECORDABLE LOST-TIME And Performance YEAR INJURY RATE INJURY RATE In 2013, we established new interim ENVIRONMENT goals for the three occupational safety 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 metrics we track: recordable injuries, 20% 20% 15% 20% 2017 2016 0.81 0.93 0.27 0.32 lost-time injuries, and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were develReduction in Improvement in Reduction of Improvement in oped to reduce our injury rates across a greenhouse gas energy efficiency2 phosphorus waste efficiency5 2015 0.88 0.27 seven-year period: 2014–2020. emissions2,3 (baseline 2012) emissions while increasing recycling (baseline 2012) in wastewater4 rate above 70% and 2014 0.90 0.36 (baseline 2014) decreasing waste to landfill below 10% of total waste (baseline 2012) 2007 1.44 0.60 HSE Governance PROGRESS THROUGH 2017 PROGRESS THROUGH 2017 PROGRESS THROUGH 2017 PROGRESS THROUGH 2017 MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION Structure 8.4% 0.7% 25.5% 16% Reduction Decrease Increase Improvement MOTOR VEHICLE recycling rate increased HSE management at Lilly is integrated YEAR COLLISION RATE 6 to 55%, waste-to-landfill through a formal, company-wide strucdecreased to 17% 2020 GOAL 12% ture, including the following groups and individuals. SAFETY 2017 15% • Global HSE Committee, which in2016 16% cludes senior executives from key 0.70 0.25 12% 2015 16% areas of the business, ensures proper oversight, and plays a central role in Total recordable Lost-time Motor vehicle 2014 18% monitoring corporate HSE strategy, injury rate injury rate collision rate compliance performance and per2007 25% formance against goals, as well as Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward environmental goals is reported on an ad1  A new goal for measuring motor vehicle 6  justed basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, collisions was established in 2015. continuous improvement; unless stated otherwise. • Vice President responsible for CorPer square foot of site space. 2  porate Engineering and Global HSE, This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity, 3  steam, chilled water) and on-site fuel combustion. a member of the Global HSE CommitIn absolute terms. Significant source reductions are planned to move us toward our 2020 goal. 4  tee who works closely with HSE and Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed 5  “beneficially reused” without extensive processing. other functional leaders to ensure an LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 26 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption appropriate and thoughtful response to HSE risks and opportunities, moniLilly’s HSE Policy the organization to effectively manage compliance with Lilly HSE standards, Audits tor emerging and evolving issues, approve appropriate metrics and goals, Statement, Procedures, applicable regulatory requirements, and other external HSE standards to We conduct audits of Lilly sites following protocols for each of our Global and oversee compliance with all HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and and Standards which we commit. • Global Engineering Requirements: HSE Standards as well as regulatory requirements. Our five-year audit plan standards worldwide; For clarity, Lilly has brief, principleestablish requirements for the design is updated annually and identifies which • Manufacturing HSE committees, based policy statements that are impleand operation of facilities and equipsites to audit based on risk, with sites which support these efforts and drive mented in two ways: through our global ment, to ensure compliance with inassociated with high-risk operations ongoing improvement throughout procedures, which describe basic printernal and external requirements, and being audited more frequently. This manufacturing; and ciples and general expectations; and responsibly manage environmental results in annual audits of approximately • Executives and lead teams in each of through our global standards, which aspects of operations. 25 to 30 percent of our sites globally. our business groups, manufacturing, provide auditable, detailed requirements. • Product Stewardship Standard: In 2017, we audited 25 sites . All audit Lilly Research Laboratories, and genThese key governance documents, provides a systematic approach to results are shared with senior manageeral and administrative functions, who and our related management systems, managing product and process risks ment, and sites are required to respond ensure good governance and oversee together detail Lilly’s HSE management throughout the product life cycle, from to all audit observations and track action performance for HSE in those areas. and performance expectations. research and discovery to product plans . We also hosted 75 external Lilly’s global standards clearly articulate end-of-life. agency visits which resulted in no critiour commitments and guide our efforts. cal observations and no related fines. GOVERNING HSE AT LILLY They include the following. • Protecting People, the Environment, Management Systems and Our Assets – Policy Statement: sets environmental expectations Our Management System Standard Environmental Management BO A R D O F D I R E C T O R S requires that sites and business areas related to compliance and environadhere to an HSE management sysmental protection for our people and tem that is consistent with third-party EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE operations. standards such as the International Lilly takes a broad approach to under• Environmental Standard: provides Organization for Standardization (ISO) G LO B A L H S E C O M M I T T E E standing and actively managing the risks more detailed requirements and es14001, Occupational Health and Safety and opportunities associated with HSE tablishes the core governance requireAssessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, ELANCO1 PHARMACEUTICALS 1 issues across the product life cycle. Our ments to manage the environmental and the American Chemistry Council’s Product Stewardship Standard provides 1 Our Elanco and pharmaceutical operations have and energy-related aspects of our Responsible Care Management System separate but aligned HSE governance structures a systematic way to manage product operations. (RCMS®) standards. Our global HSE for manufacturing, research and development, and and process risks, from the discovery of general and administrative functions. The Elanco • Management System Standard: demanagement system is also certified to and pharmaceutical governance structures share new medicines through use, to product common Lilly policies, standards, and assurance fines requirements to ensure a robust the RCMS. systems and establish their own as appropriate. end-of-life and disposal considerations. process is in place within each part of LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 27 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Reflecting the breadth of product-re• Suppliers, contract operations, and • Eliminating or reducing the hazardous manufacturing processes, our establated sustainability issues we consider alliances: Evaluating and influencing materials used to make a product; lished business practices hold our and manage, the Product Stewardship the HSE performance of suppliers, • Focusing specifically on removal of development teams accountable for Standard guides us in these areas: contract operations, and alliances; and substances of very high concern, process efficiency, the type and quantity • Emerging issues: Identifying, ana• Supply chain management: Establishclassified as potentially carcinogenic, of materials used, and safety. At major lyzing, and managing environmental ing plans to ensure business continuity mutagenic or toxic for reproduction by milestones, we evaluate success and issues as they arise; and appropriate emergency response, the European Chemicals Agency; share feedback with development teams. if needed. We share guidelines, such as the Lilly • Procurement: Considering environ• Shrinking the waste profiles of certain molecules through reduced solvent solvent selection guide and safety informental factors in purchasing decisions; mation, with our external partners to • Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research operations to Green Chemistry and water use; • Increasing the overall efficiency of ensure consistent objectives, processes, and outcomes. foster high HSE standards; • Product development: Using inherand Engineering in material use; • Advancing the underlying green Employing green chemistry and engiently safer design principles, such as green chemistry, as well as engineerResearch and 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION chemistry of medicine development and making production both safer and neering, we have been able to enhance the safety profile of manufacturing proing innovations, to identify and reduce Development more environmentally friendly through cesses by significantly reducing the risk scale of the most hazardous manufacHSE hazards from new production a commitment to continuous process The research and development phase turing steps. We are also focused on the processes where possible; improvement; and, significantly impacts the environmental adoption of greener and safer solvents • Product packaging: Reducing the • Implementing new manufacturing techfootprint of pharmaceutical manufacturwhere possible. For example, we have amount of packaging and using ennologies which minimize environmental ing. At Lilly, we strive to embed environreplaced several hazardous solvents with vironmentallypreferred materials, impact, including continuous flow promental innovation early in the product safer alternatives, including significant, when possible, while satisfying regcesses, which Lilly has worked to addevelopment lifecycle through our focus nearly carbon-neutral, efforts to limit the ulatory and customer requirements, vance in the pharmaceutical industry. on green chemistry and end-product use of dichloromethane (a hazardous air meeting marketing objectives, and engineering. Our green chemistry initiaWhen we are developing a new human pollutant and suspected carcinogen). preserving product integrity; tives include developing manufacturing medicine at Lilly, green chemistry • Distribution: Ensuring safe product processes which use less-toxic chemical considerations are a complement to transport and warehousing while alternatives where feasible. We explore other criteria such as quality, cost, and Global Chemical Management reducing associated environmental innovations that can lessen the total negGovernments around the world and speed to market. In fact, in most cases impacts; ative environmental outputs which can across many of the regions where green chemistry improvements are • Marketing and sales: Working with result from production of a medicine. directly proportional to reduced product we operate have developed chemical customers to enhance the patient costs as these improvements typically management legislation—such as the experience related to product environGreen chemistry and engineering has REACH regulation in the European deliver higher product quality and yield. mental performance; been a focus area at Lilly for many Union (EU)—which requires companies From the selection of candidate molyears. We engage in a variety of activito collect and register information about ecules, through the identification of ties, including: the chemicals they manufacture or use. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 28 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption These regulations may require replacing were involved in the following pre-comgreen chemistry formulations, and • Research Grants: Through the ACS chemicals identified as hazardous with petitive collaborations: introduces a new green scorecard for Pharmaceutical Roundtable, Lilly safer alternatives, when available. To • American Chemical Society (ACS) use across the supply chain. is active in selecting and funding address these concerns, Lilly has begun Pharmaceutical Roundtable. Lilly pres• Training Future Scientists: Through the researchers who are advancing the implementation of a formal program and ently co-chairs this important group ACS Pharmaceutical Roundtable and field of green chemistry. Since 2005, screening process to evaluate desigwhich has grown from three compaIQ Consortium, Lilly collaborated with the Pharmaceutical Roundtable has nated “chemicals of concern” throughout nies in 2005 to 22 today. In 2017, Lilly other pharmaceutical companies to deprovided more than $2 million in the research and development process. led a new subgroup focused on greensign and implement a green chemistry research grants. In 2017, a record five Our process also addresses mitigaer peptide, oligonucleotide, and anticurriculum for use at colleges and other researchers were funded, three in tion steps where new restrictions may body-drug conjugate development and organizations, which will be presented at continuous flow chemistry and two for impact our existing operations. We are manufacture. Over the past decade, the 2018 ACS meeting in New Orleans. greener biologics processes. committed to ensuring that our facilities peptides have shown great potential as and supply chain remain in compliance therapeutic targets in both human and with chemical management laws. animal health, but their manufacture routinely involves hazardous reagents, COLLABORATING ON A GREEN CHEMISTRY SCORECARD In addition to our green chemistry assessproduces high waste-to-mass ratios, ments, during the scale-up of medicine and requires solvent-intensive purifiproduction to manufacturing levels in our cation systems. By investing early in Suppliers Materials human pharmaceutical business, we use environmentally-friendly production an Environmental Development Review methods, participating companies hope (EDR) process to evaluate other potential to create the scale necessary for these environmental issues and opportunitechnologies to become cost-competiSupply Chain Government ties. This process helps us identify and tive in the long run. • Regulate E-factor labeling of address potential impacts arising from chemical raw materials and manufacturing, suggest process improve• IQ Consortium: Lilly continues working commodities ments, and share learning as new mediwith the IQ Green Chemistry Working Group to promote the Green Aspiration Green Aspiration • Fast-track approve green cines transition from the laboratory to the chemistry process changes Level (GAL) tool. Until now, the use of Level manufacturing facility. green chemistry metrics among pharmaceutical companies has been hamExternal Collaborations pered by the lack of an agreed-upon Lilly actively pursues wider industry standard. This new tool makes the collaborations to help advance green Pharmaceutical development of objective goals, like chemistry, through a combination of Industry process efficiency and mass intensity, dialogue and leadership with peer • Standardize metrics with simple and easier. It uses industry benchmarks complete E-factors companies, scientific partnerships, and to create a unified scoring system for sponsorship of research. In 2017, we • Set goals using Green Aspiration Level LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 29 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Manufacturing • Designing for energy efficiency in new or updated processes and facilities; To help identify and assess energy management and technology best increasing their overall energy use per square foot of space. At the same time, The majority of Lilly’s direct environ• Operating our facilities and equipment practice, Lilly is an active participant several of these largest sites improved mental impacts are from the manufacefficiently; in the U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR Focus their energy performance as measured turing of medicines. We measure and on Energy Efficiency in Pharmaceutical per unit of production. While production • Facilitating the use of advanced energy manage these impacts as they relate to Manufacturing partnership. In addiincreases present challenges to our permonitoring and control solutions; energy and water use, greenhouse gas tion to our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG formance against our goals, we encour• Measuring and internally and exter(GHG) emissions, and the generation of emissions reduction efforts, we monage and reward these process energy nally reporting energy use and related waste and wastewater throughout the itor several categories of Scope 3 intensity improvements. GHG emissions; manufacturing process. GHG emissions and are committed • Conducting and acting on energy auRecent energy initiatives include the to expanding the scope and quality of dits and implementing recommended following: related data and disclosures. In 2017, Energy Use and projects to improve energy efficiency; CDP, formerly known as the Carbon • Puerto Rico – Began a pilot project to 7 AFFORDABLE AND 13 CLIMATE Greenhouse provide advanced energy efficiency ACTION • Evaluating and incorporating alternaCLEAN ENERGY Disclosure Project, recognized our tive energy sources, new technologies, efforts with a score of B, which is conmonitoring, installation of LED lighting, Gas Emissions and best practices for energy use and sidered “managing” level. and optimization of heating, ventilation, Lilly set aggressive targets for improvGHG emission reductions; and and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. ing energy efficiency and thereby • Participating in local, regional, and Goals and Trends in 2017 • Indianapolis – Optimized chiller reducing our GHG emissions. We have national forums to understand and Lilly’s 2020 goal is to improve both our performance at the Lilly Technology an established global energy manageintegrate energy management best energy efficiency and Scope 1 and Scope Center, saving an estimated $1 million ment program to ensure continuous practice and to support responsible 2 GHG emissions intensity, measured annually. Implemented an electronic improvement and advance progress and cost-effective decision-making per unit of site space, by 20 percent as energy and fault monitoring system for towards our goals. Our multi-faceted and policy development. compared to our 2012 baseline. Through over 230 air handlers, which optimizes approach includes: 2017, we decreased our emissions intenenergy efficiency. sity by 8.4 percent compared to our 2012 • Sesto, Italy – Installed a high-effibaseline. Total energy consumption was ciency, uninterruptable power supply up slightly in 2017 as well as our energy unit, variable frequency drives, and PROMOTING COGENERATION intensity. There are several reasons for higher-efficiency electric motors on this. Our goal measures both emischilled water pumps, and implementCogeneration, which uses combustion to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable sions intensity and energy intensity per ed high-efficiency belting on some air heat, presents another opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in our operations. In 2017, we began square foot of site space. Since 2012, handling units. the design process for a new nine megawatt combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico eight of our 11 largest energy-confacility. This unit is expected to be completed in 2019, resulting in greater than $7 million of energy suming sites—representing nearly 88 Renewable Energy savings annually and approximately 15 percent reduction in GHG emissions for our Puerto Rico percent of our total energy consumpWe will continue to evaluate further use facility. We also operate combined heat and power systems in Kinsale, Ireland; Sesto, Italy; Speke, tion—increased production, in turn of renewable energy to diversify our England; and Clinton, Indiana. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 30 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption energy sources, decrease our GHG emisIn 2017, our efforts received an Arating This work will take several years to comGoals and Trends in 2017 sions, and lessen our energy use intenfrom the CDP’s water program, above plete and is progressing well. We expect In 2013, we introduced a goal to achieve sity over time. In 2017, energy sourced the average for the pharmaceutical efforts to result in significant improvea 20 percent improvement in waste from renewable sources accounted for industry. Our Engineering Technology ments beginning in 2018 and 2019. efficiency by 2020, as compared to our 48,000 MWh. We are members of the Center helps Lilly sites around the world 2012 baseline. We also aim to increase In 2017, Lilly’s total water intake was Rocky Mountain Institute’s Business identify water-saving technologies, and our recycling rate above 70 percent and nearly 14 billion liters, an increase of Renewables Center and are currently Lilly sites can apply for capital project decrease our waste-to-landfill below 10 just under three percent from 2012, evaluating the feasibility of incorporating funding through Lilly’s dedicated Energy percent of our total waste generated. For due primarily to production increases. more renewable energy sources through and Waste Reduction Fund. purposes of tracking progress toward power purchase agreements. our waste goals, “total waste” does not 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Goals and Trends in 2017 AND PRODUCTION include material that is directly reused for 6 CLEAN WATER 14 LWATER IFE BELOW Water Use and In 2013, we introduced a goal to reduce Waste other purposes, because the bulk of the AND SANITATION absolute phosphorus emissions in our “wastes” we generate are directly reused. Wastewater wastewater discharge by 15 percent by Lilly generates both nonhazardous and Manufacturing operations account for hazardous waste from its manufacturing In 2017, Lilly generated 294,000 met2020, as compared to our 2014 basethe majority of the water used by Lilly. processes. Examples include broth from ric tonnes of waste (including material line. This goal addresses an issue that is Our manufacturing locations that profermentation operations and waste soldirectly reused), representing a seven increasingly important to communities, duce injectable medicines require excepvent from the extraction processes used percent increase as compared to 2012, regulators, and investors. In 2017, while tionally high-quality water, while our in the manufacture of small molecule and a zero percent increase as compared still in the project planning and early exeutility operations use water for cooling pharmaceuticals. Lilly uses the following to 2016 amounts. However, we were able cution phase to achieve this goal, our total and to support steam boilers. Some sites hierarchy of approaches to disposition to designate 233,000 tonnes of this waste wastewater phosphorus emissions grew have updated equipment to use waterwaste generated across our operations: for reuse, much of it as fertilizer. After to approximately 160 metric tonnes, a 26 less cooling systems, and others reclaim • Eliminate or reduce the amount of reuse, 60,000 metric tonnes of waste percent increase from 2014. Production water for this purpose. To a lesser waste produced; remained. This amount was 19 percent changes that increase the amount of extent, we consume water for domestic • Reuse materials when possible (inless than our 2012 goal baseline. phosphorus materials used at several use in our offices. Lilly has assessed large sites negatively impacted our cluding closed loop recycling); From 2012 through 2017, our waste our water risks, and while we generally overall progress on this goal. However, • Recycle spent materials to make new efficiency increased by 16 percent. operate in locations where water scarcity significant source reduction projects are products; Processing changes in our animal health and quality risk is low, we will continue planned that include phasing out and • Recover energy from waste (through business and the process of upgrading our focus on conserving water, reducing replacing selected cleaning agents with combustion), where possible; equipment in our production facilities, our intake, and improving water qualnon-phosphorus-based alternatives. • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volaccount for the fluctuations in this time ity. Potential future regional water risk, In addition, technical teams at Lilly are ume; and period. We will continue to seek opporunpredictable costs, and climate change evaluating existing cleaning processes tunities to improve waste efficiency, and concerns have further strengthened our • Send waste to landfill (as a disposal and plan to apply phosphorus-reducing we forecast improvement in this area in commitment to use this resource wisely. method of last resort, or when legally improvements to key sites worldwide. the coming years through 2020. required). LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 31 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption We improved our recycling rate to Encouraging Eco-Efficiency Lilly has invested more than $43 million by granting annual HSE awards. 55 percent in 2017, up from 47 per­in this fund, enabling the implemenNomination for these awards represents cent in 2012, and we sent 17 percent Across Our Operations tation of 171 projects, which all told, a significant accomplishment on behalf of our waste to landfills, compared to We established the Energy and Waste garnered nearly $22 million in savings. of project teams, and we seek to reward 28 percent to landfill in 2012. During Reduction Fund in 2006 to encourage These projects collectively save more teams that have shown an exemplary the year, nine of 28 Lilly manufacturing projects that reduce our overall envithan 972 billion BTUs of energy annucommitment to helping Lilly achieve sites globally reported zero waste-toronmental impacts. The fund supports ally, avoiding more than 116,000 metric energy and GHG emissions reduction landfill status, indicating that they send projects that demonstrate the greatest tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent goals. In addition to criteria such as a less than 0.5 percent of the waste they potential for reductions in emissions (CO2e) of GHG emissions each year. project’s energy and GHG reductions, generate to landfill. and energy use, which are not covered we consider the potential to replicate the by local capital budgets. Since 2006, We actively recognize innovation approach in other locations. and excellence in HSE management LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 32 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Lilly’s Environmental Performance, 2012-2017 1,2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) (metric tonnes CO2e) 1,547,000 1,593,000 1,559,000 1,555,000 1,464,000 1,473,000 Scope 1 432,000 481,000 458,000 476,000 463,000 483,000 Scope 2 1,115,000 1,111,000 1,101,000 1,080,000 1,001,000 990,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal) 57.1 58.3 58.7 56.1 52.3 52.3 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet)3 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metrics above)4 (metric tonnes CO2e) 303,000 298,000 288,000 301,000 294,000 259,000 ENERGY USE Energy Consumption (million BTUs) 10,900,000 11,400,000 11,300,000 11,400,000 11,100,000 11,400,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet)3 456 472 477 464 449 459 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs)5 4,170,000 4,520,000 4,380,000 4,560,000 4,380,000 4,770,000 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs)6 6,720,000 6,860,000 6,930,000 6,800,000 6,690,000 6,590,000 WATER USE Water Intake (billion liters)7 13.4 13.7 15.0 14.2 14.5 13.8 Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) --127 133 170 159 WASTE Total Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 285,000 310,000 295,000 251,000 297,000 294,000 Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse (for recycling goal) 74,000 75,000 89,000 112,000 90,000 60,000 (metric tonnes)8 LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 33 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 WASTE DISPOSITION Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 34,300 32,500 46,700 57,000 54,000 33,300 Treated (includes combustion without energy recovery) (metric tonnes) 18,700 19,900 30,100 26,500 23,900 16,600 Landfilled (metric tonnes) 20,700 22,600 12,000 28,400 11,900 10,500 Waste Recycling Rate 47% 43% 53% 51% 60% 55% ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances9 8 5 3 5 5 6 Number of Significant Spills 10, 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid (USD) $732 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 ENERGY, WASTE, WATER, AND NATURAL RESOURCE USE REDUCTION FUND Expenditures (million USD) $1.1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.7 $0.9 $3.3 1  Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. 2  In 2015, adjustments were made to data for all years to reflect the acquisition of animal health operations from Lohmann (closed April 30, 2014) and Novartis (closed January 15, 2015). 3 Data includes GHG emissions and energy use related to manufacturing facilities and other entities with more than $50,000 annual energy spend. Data for these entities is estimated based on square footage. 4  Data includes Scope 3 emissions from employee business travel (personal and rental cars, taxi, rail, and air travel), employee commuting, contracted product transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, and non-Kyoto compound emissions (refrigerents, VOCs, etc.) Data does not include sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly aircraft, or product distribution with Lilly vehicles. Those items are Scope 1 and included in the data above. 5 Data includes energy from combustion of coal, fuel oil, natural gas, and liquid propane. 6 Data includes energy from purchased electricity, steam, and chilled water. 7  “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater intake not included in other water intake subcategories. 8  Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 9  Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. 10 In November 2017, Lilly personnel discovered an equipment malfunction at our Indianapolis active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturing site in Indianapolis. The malfunction was not detected for several months due to a pressure gauge that had failed. The malfunction was immediately fixed upon discovery, however, during those months, Lilly exceeded our permitted emissions limit of acetonitrile, a solvent used in manufacture. Lilly reported this deviation to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management shortly after it was discovered. There has not been any enforcement action to date related to this event. We do not believe this impacted our surrounding community as it immediately dissipated into the air. “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance that resulted in damage to the environment 11  (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 34 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Governance of submit, if requested, to audits that Other Supplier Education assess compliance with the principles. Supply Chain Supply Chain at Lilly Lilly has a formal process for targeting and Engagement PSCI, with its member companies, crethose suppliers that we believe represent Lilly is an active PSCI member and our We rely on our suppliers—including ated and maintain the Pharmaceutical the greatest potential HSE risk for this HSE professionals have led or particthose who supply us with materials for Industry Principles for Responsible additional scrutiny. We intervene quickly ipated in a number of PSCI sponsored research and development, active pharSupply Chain Management (the PSCI when we become aware of serious HSE webinars and in-country events. In 2017, maceutical ingredients (APIs), and other Principles). The PSCI Principles provide issues. If a supplier in question does not Lilly professionals participated in third contract manufacturers—to ensure the our industry with consistent supplier take swift corrective action, as is our party auditor training in China and India. availability of our human and animal performance standards in the areas of expectation, we reserve the right to halt Other events in India included a four-day medicines. As we have broadened our ethics, labor, health and safety, the enviproduction or terminate contracts. HSE supplier environmental capability-buildmanufacturing base and integrated new ronment, and related management sysconsiderations are integrated into Lilly’s ing workshop, a green chemistry roundacquisitions into our operations, we tems . At Lilly, we have aligned several formal, annual process for evaluating table discussion, and an education and have taken significant steps to reduce codes, policies and procedures with the manufacturing suppliers. awareness meeting with local supplier our exposure to the risks inherent in PSCI Principles, including the following: chief executive officers. managing a global supply chain. Lilly • Lilly’s Global Product Stewardship continues to strengthen our ongoing Assessing Contract efforts to monitor our supply chain for Standard, which details our approach to managing risk across the value Manufacturers and Research Sales and Marketing performance on health, safety, and environmental (HSE) indicators. We chain and directly addresses our supLaboratories Our sales and marketing affiliates ply chain due diligence and supplier For more than a decade, Lilly HSE around the world develop goals and have also taken steps to educate and HSE risk assessment and manageprofessionals have worked to assess implement improvement strategies as engage our suppliers more directly on ment practices and strengthen performance at the part of our GREENDirections program, HSE issues, and we have taken a more • Lilly Supplier Code of Business Conexternal research laboratories and which focuses on fleet fuel economy and active role in helping our suppliers duct, applicable to all suppliers contract manufacturing organizations GHG emissions, office energy conserbuild expertise around HSE topics. This • Relevant procurement standards (CMOs) with which we do business. We vation, and waste reduction. Each year, includes our ongoing work as part of the • Standard contract language applicause a standard auditing methodology our affiliates look for opportunities to Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative ble to providers of contract manufacand reporting framework for addressenhance their environmental perfor(PSCI), a non-profit business memturing services ing risk, and a summary of results mance by identifying and implementing bership organization founded in 2006 is included in the quarterly reports new projects and setting targets. which counts Lilly as one of its inaugural Lilly manufacturing procurement conreceived by the board of directors' Public members. In 2017, Lilly HSE profestracts ask that suppliers support the On the road, Lilly optimizes the fuel Policy and Compliance Committee. We sionals led several PSCI committees PSCI Principles and conform to the HSE efficiency of our sales force fleet by designate suppliers that are critical to and, beginning in 2018, hold a seat on expectations outlined in our Supplier choosing vehicles with better fuel our business as “suppliers of focus,” and the PSCI Board. All told, a total of seven Code of Business Conduct. Standard economy, and promotes driving and take a special interest in their capabiliLilly HSE professionals serve on PSCI’s contract language also requires that work practices that emphasize safety ties and performance. In 2017, we conboard or committees. manufacturing suppliers agree to and fuel savings. These efforts, in turn, ducted onsite audits at 65 CMO sites. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 35 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption also reduce the GHG emissions associWe require packaging vendors in China, Lilly continues to work with customers, Industries and Associations (EFPIA), ated with our sales fleet. Lilly centrally Europe, and the United States to cerindustry partners, and public health as well as in Canada (Health Products manages vehicle selection across the tify that all paper and cardboard used officials to address these product endStewardship Association). European Union and across the United to ship our products is sourced from of-life issues. Our Product Stewardship Lilly believes that recommendations to States, which improves efficiency while sustainable forests. For folding cartons, Governance Committee meets quardispose of most unused and unwanted enabling us to implement strong safety leaflets, labels, and combination prodterly and regularly engages with our medicines in household trash are and environmental standards. ucts, we accept certifications provided leadership to better integrate product well supported by current and ongoby the Forest Stewardship Council. For stewardship efforts into our business. ing research as environmentally safe, fiber sourcing, chain of custody, and We promote policy decisions that are Packaging and product labels, Lilly accepts certification efficient, effective, and that protect both effective, and easy for consumers to understand. However, there are excepTransportation from the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. human health and the environment. We tions. For certain medications that may also support educating patients and In transporting our products, we have be diverted or pose an immediate risk caregivers on proper disposal of medLilly tracks the GHG emissions of our made strides in reducing the volume of to human health, the U.S. FDA recomicines, as well as disposal of syringes, product transportation and distribution empty space in the packages we ship, mends disposal by flushing down the needles, and other sharps used in home vendors, and we collaborate to reduce which has increased our overall fleet toilet. When in-home disposal is not settings. We communicate this inforthose impacts while also ensuring prodefficiency. We have changed the shipping preferred or allowed by law, we support mation to patients through product user uct integrity. We consider many factors mode for some of our pharmaceutical voluntary industrywide, cost-effective manuals, and through The Lilly Answers in selecting product packaging, including products from air to ocean, resulting in disposal solutions for unused medicines Center, a hotline that answers frequently sustainability considerations, such as over $12 million in savings, a reduction that are safe and easy for patients, preasked questions and provides metrics to materials use and recyclability. in GHG emissions, improved product vent misuse of prescription drugs, and our management team on the type and protection, and an overall reduction in ensure environmental protection. Pharmaceutical packaging must meet volume of inquiries we receive on prodpackaging. As of 2017, Lilly ships 30 perstringent regulatory and internal stanuct end-of-life issues. cent of our product via ocean. dards. In some cases, this prevents us from using recycled content in packagWe are actively involved in the Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PiE) Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship ing, as is the case with containers that come into direct contact with our prodProduct End-of-Life Work Group, a U.S.-based membership association of manufacturers of preucts, where we require virgin materials Unlike many consumer products that After they are used to improve human scription and over-the-counter medbe used to deter counterfeiting. Where can be recycled, or are composed of and animal health, medicines enter icines that supports compliance with we can, we continually seek to improve materials that can be reclaimed at the our natural environment through the U.S. household disposal regulations packaging design to reduce the amount end of their usefulness, medicines are normal biological processes of waste for unused medicines and sharps. We of packaging used, include lower-impact by nature different. Public health regulaelimination. They may also enter the also engage with other industry stakematerials, and ensure recyclability. Our tions often prohibit the use of recovered environment from improper disposal of holders in the European Union, such as Product Stewardship Standard helps set materials from pharmaceutical products unused products or through manufacEuropean Federation of Pharmaceutical expectations for these efforts. like those produced by Lilly. turing discharges. Residues of these LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 36 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption medicines may pass through waste and Environmental Protection Agency and The LAEG program determines conenvironment can transfer resistance to sewage treatment facilities and enter U.S. Geological Survey on the prestainment needed at our manufacturing pathogenic microorganisms and if these rivers, streams, or lakes. While reported ence of contaminants in drinking water sites to protect environmental species resistant pathogenic microorganisms in concentrations of pharmaceuticals in the and surface water have concluded that living in downstream surface waters in the environment can then infect humans environment (PiE) are usually extremely the concentrations of pharmaceuticals addition to humans and wildlife using to negatively impact health. Despite low, their presence and biological in drinking water are unlikely to have those surface waters. This program has these unknowns, additional controls potency raise questions about potential a direct impact on human health and been in place for many years for Lilly for manufacturing effluents containrisks to humans and the environment. aquatic life. However, some health advofacilities. As we have begun outsourcing antibiotics are being proposed by cates and researchers are concerned ing segments of our manufacturing external stakeholders. Lilly is committed to ensuring that the that low concentrations of antibiotics in processes, we have begun to impleactive pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) As a precaution, and to minimize the the environment comprise an indirect ment our LAEG program with contract used in our products do not have a negpotential for microbes to develop threat to human health by promoting the manufacturers (third party suppliers) of ative impact on the environment whether resistance as a result of any discharge development of antimicrobial resistant targeted products and active pharmaexposure is associated with end use or of antibiotics in wastewaters from our genes in bacteria. Questions have also ceutical ingredients. manufacturing. We are committed to production facilities, Lilly is implementbeen raised about the impact of the understanding the public’s questions ing additional control criteria on top pharmaceutical supply chain, especially and concerns related to PiE. While the when those suppliers are located in Antibiotic Resistance of our existing discharge limits. These measured concentrations of PiE are typcountries that may lack rigorous enviAssociated with Wastewater controls are consistent with internationically lower than those expected to have ally recognized guidance established by effects on environmental species, there ronmental protection standards. Discharges Veterinary International Cooperation on are infrequent examples where effects Production and use of antimicrobial Harmonisation Expert Working Group to 12 RESPONSIBLE 14 LWATER IFE BELOW Governance CONSUMPTION can be linked to pharmaceuticals. Such AND PRODUCTION compounds to control diseases inevevaluate the safety of antibiotic residues. itably results in residues from those examples are usually associated with of PiE at Lilly compounds being discharged into Our efforts to minimize the possibility of pharmaceuticals of particular mechaDue to the importance of PiE issues risk from production facility wastewanisms (e.g., steroids) or particular uses wastewater treatment facilities, thereby ters will continue to evolve as we evalto Lilly and our stakeholders, we have (e.g., birth control). In addition, there resulting in concentrations far below uate future scientific information and established a PiE Governance Committee are many “legacy” pharmaceuticals for their therapeutic effect levels. Some approaches, and participate in helping to that reports to our executive-level Global which risk assessments and modern researchers have hypothesized that low develop new guidance. HSE Committee. The PiE Governance datasets aren’t available. concentrations of these residues in the Committee sets strategic direction In addition, our animal health division, environment will make the growth of Reports such as the World Health related to PiE and provides long-range Elanco, is continuing to implement its resistance bacteria more likely. Organization’s Pharmaceuticals in oversight for the program that control comprehensive eight-point Antibiotic Drinking Water (2012) and the multiactive pharmaceutical discharges from The role of residual antibiotics in the Stewardship Plan to ensure safe, longple publications following an extenmanufacturing sites, our Lilly Aquatic development of resistant microbes in term access to antibiotics for people sive, three-year joint study by the U.S. Exposure Guideline (LAEG) program. the environment is not clear. It is also and animals. unknown if resistant microbes in the LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 37 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Environmental Data and Risk the Lilly wastewater discharge point on IMPROVED METHODOLOGIES FOR ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS any aspect of habitat quality in the study Assessments for Lilly APIs area. Results have been published in We assess our medicines for potential peer-reviewed a scientific publication1 Lilly participates in the Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment project environmental impacts, ensuring that and several project reports. This project (iPiE project), a program supported by the Innovative Medicines Initiative, a public-private partnership they meet regulatory requirements and continues to support academic research coordinated by the European Commission and the industry group EFPIA, in collaboration with universities internal standards before introducing for university students. and other research organizations, public bodies, and nonprofit groups. our products to markets. We use procedures recommended by U.S., Canada The iPiE project develops frameworks, methods, databases, and software tools to support environmental and European regulatory agencies for External Collaborations testing for new pharmaceuticals and prioritizes the testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) identifying and minimizing risks from We continue to partner with industry, academia, and governments to improve that were approved for use before 2006 and that remain in use today. The frameworks draw upon existresidues of our products in the enviboth our understanding of, and our ing data on the environmental impact of APIs, toxicological studies, and computer models. Our current ronment, and for determining predicted response to, PiE. Among ongoing efforts commitment to the project runs through 2018. A second phase to continue iPIE project efforts beyond no-effect concentration values for our in 2017, Lilly scientists and technical 2018 is under consideration. medicines. We also make information on the environmental hazards and experts have: impacts of our pharmaceutical products • Supported the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewavailable through product safety data ardship plan in collaboration with EF• Served on technical committees vironmental performance, including sheets and through the FASS product PIA and the Inter-Association-Initiative addressing topics related to PiE for PiE, is evaluated. database published by the Swedish on PiE, including a proposal for exindustry trade associations such as Pharmaceutical Trade Association. tended environmental risk assessment EFPIA, Animal Health Europe and the evaluations, and a model for wastewater control limits for pharmaceutical U.S. Animal Health Institute; and Elanco: Enriching Environmental Impact Life Through Food • Lilly is actively engaged with the residues at manufacturing facilities; Study of Manufacturing • Continued to review articles in scienPharmaceutical Supply Chain InitiaTo study the overall impact on the local environment, our site in Kinsale, tific journals, present at conferences and workshops, and participate in tive (PSCI) team developing training for external manufacturing partners and Companionship on risk-based approaches to managIreland, initiated a continuous evaluation meetings concerning the safety of ing APIs in manufacturing effluents. of aquatic habitat quality in 1978. The pharmaceutical residues in water, in Elanco, Lilly’s animal health division, PSCI is planning on-location capaKinsale Harbour Study is maintained collaboration with the U.S. EPA, and provides comprehensive products and bility training for partners in India by the National University of Ireland the Society of Environmental Toxicoloknowledge services to improve animal and China in 2018. As a PSCI memGalway and is one of the longest studies gy and Chemistry; health and food-animal production in ber company, Lilly conducts health, of marine coastline conducted anywhere more than 70 countries around the world. Kennedy, R, Arthur, W, Keegan, B, 2011. Long-term 1  safety, and environment assessments in the world. The evaluation has shown trends in benthic habitat quality as determined by At Elanco, we focus on two causes: Multivariate AMBI and Infaunal Quality Index in reof its supply chain partners where enno evidence of an adverse impact from food security and the human-animal lation to natural variability: a case study in Kinsale Harbour, south coast of Ireland. Marine Pollution Bulletin 62: 1427–1436. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 38 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption bond—both extensions of our company magnified by the misuse and overuse of animals raised for food—we have a Today, we are: vision: food and companionship enriching of antibiotics. At Elanco, we believe that direct connection to helping feed people • Raising awareness about the growing life. Our cause-driven business strategy the concern over reduced effectiveall over the world. challenge of food insecurity and partengages our employees as well as the ness of antibiotics is real and needs to nering with others to develop solutions We work to ensure nutritious food is communities where we live and work, be addressed. All those involved—the through the ENOUGH Movement, a accessible and affordable to all through and aims to provide sustainable solutions human, animal, and environmental global community working together to hunger-related initiatives that help to global health challenges. health communities—must take responensure everyone has access to nutribreak the cycle of hunger for thousands sibility and work together to develop tious, affordable food. of people around the world. This work long-term, responsible solutions. Promoting Responsible For our part, Elanco is committed to is made possible through partnerships with Heifer International and United • Ending hunger and improving food security for 100 communities by Use of Antibiotics bringing greater clarity to issues around antibiotic stewardship and engaging Way Worldwide. 2020, bringing 100,000 families out of in Food-producing 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION in collectively shaping science-based recommendations on responsible use, Animals animal welfare, and the long-term OUR ANTIBIOTIC STEWARDSHIP PLAN sustainability of the food system. In Antibiotics, including those manufacJune 2015, human and animal health tured by Elanco, are one way, but not the Elanco’s comprehensive eight-point Antibiotic Stewardship Plan is designed to ensure safe, longleaders gathered at the White House only way, that farmers keep their animals term access to antibiotics for people and animals. The plan uses a “One Health” approach that in Washington, DC, to discuss antibihealthy. Feeding animals carefully balrecognizes the interconnection between healthy people, healthy animals, and a healthy planet. otic stewardship and how to protect the anced diets to strengthen their immune Through this work, we have: long-term effectiveness of antibiotics. systems and providing clean, comfortBuilding on that event, Elanco developed • Worked with producers, veterinarians, and food chain partners globally to improve the responsiable, well-maintained housing are also an aggressive, multifaceted plan to comble use of antibiotics—including delivering health monitoring and tracking data to producers to important. But because bacteria and bat antibiotic resistance, which includes help them make more informed decisions and potentially reduce the need for antibiotic treatment other microbes are constantly evolving a significant research investment and and found everywhere in the environ• Ceased marketing of growth promotion uses for shared-class antibiotics a landmark, first-of-its-kind antibiotic ment, it’s virtually impossible to prevent stewardship summit for the global animal animals from being exposed to disease. • Eliminated over-the-counter sales of shared-class antibiotics, where veterinary oversight exists protein industry and food chain leaders. This is true whether animals are kept on • Not supported concurrent use of shared-class antibiotics to treat the same disease open ranges or housed indoors. Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally Promoting 2 ZERO HUNGER • Supported veterinary oversight and responsible use—including building infrastructure such as veterinary education where gaps exist over time, as bacteria develop resistant genes that are then passed on to other Food Security • Developed new animal-only antibiotics and committed a significant portion of our food animal bacteria. This natural process can be Because Elanco is dedicated to improvresearch budget to creating alternatives to shared-class antibiotics ing animal health—including the health LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 39 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption hunger in the coming years through a partnership with Heifer International, Employee Safety to Lilly employees across the globe. In 2013, we established new interim goals safe operation of company vehicles, including measuring the percentage of projects in Asia and Africa, as well as for the three occupational safety metrics our sales representatives that receive support of the East Africa Dairy Develwe track: recordable injuries, lost-time “behind-the-wheel” defensive driving Lilly focuses on creating a companywide opment project. injuries, and motor vehicle collision rate. training, and the percentage of sales culture where best-in-class practices • Working to improve animal health and These goals were developed to help representatives that receive two faceare intuitively and consistently followed. productivity in dairy herds and poultry reduce our injury rates across a sevto-face safety coaching sessions per To do this, we assess and continuously flocks for smallholder farms in Kenya, en-year period: 2014–2020. year from their supervisor. These two strive to improve our safety performance Uganda, and Tanzania through the East leading metrics have a proven impact across our entire enterprise. We believe In 2017, Lilly established two new leading Africa Growth Accelerator project. on lessening collisions. this ongoing commitment promotes the indicators designed to reduce company well-being of our employees and helps to injury and illness rates. Both of these Promoting the safeguard communities where we operate. metrics are shared with the executive Promoting a Culture of Safety at Lilly committee quarterly, emphasizing the Human-Animal Bond At Lilly, we measure both leading and lagging indicators when assessing our importance of maintaining an employee safety culture and minimizing risk. We celebrate the benefits of pets in our overall safety performance. We have We promote our company safety cul• Office ergonomic risk: This area ture by including our employees in the daily lives through increased interacfound that tracking leading, or prediccontinues to constitute the highest process of improving performance. We tions with companion animals, better tive indicators, such as ergonomic risk percentage of recordable injuries educate employees in identifying and access to veterinary care, and global and vehicle safety training, contributes across the company. We use Workspeaking up about unsafe behaviors and programs that support the human-anigreatly to our company safety culture. Pace® software, which is designed to conditions, from acute hazards in need mal bond. Together with measures of lagging monitor computer use and to prompt of immediate intervention, to those with indicators, that have recorded events Pets enrich our lives through companemployees to take regular breaks. the potential to cause chronic health that have occurred, such as our recordionship, the service they provide, and We are measuring the percentage of issues, such as poor ergonomic design. able and lost-injury rates, we are able the proven health and social benefits employees using WorkPace® software, to paint a comprehensive picture of the they bring to people and communities. as well as the percentage of those emIn 2017, Lilly continued to instill a culture areas that most influence employee At Elanco, we support and highlight ployees identified as high-risk based of safety. Key examples included: safety across Lilly. This approach allows research proving pets are good for us. on software diagnostics. High-risk • Conducting our second DuPont Safety us to both influence change where And we support the animals that supemployees (due to duration of computPerception Survey (SPS) across the needed, and track our safety progress in port us—from assistance and therapy er use, and/or lack of breaks) receive pharmaceutical manufacturing organiconcrete ways over time. animals to search, rescue, and police personalized assessments. zation. The survey demonstrated strong dogs—working through partnerships Since we introduced our global safety • Motor vehicle collisions: When improvements for all facets of safety with therapy and service organizagoals in 2007, our total recordable injury employees travel for work, their risk culture from our initial 2014 SPS; tions, such as Pet Partners and Canine and illness rate has declined by nearly for accidents and personal injury • Completing our first DuPont SPS for Assistants, and in coordination with our 45 percent, equivalent to the prevention increases. At Lilly, we have estabtargeted sales affiliates to establish veterinary customers’ programs. of hundreds of injuries and illnesses lished leading indicators around the baseline culture scores; LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 40 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Partnering with an external organizaLILLY'S SAFETY PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE tional effectiveness consultant, to develop and implement a HSE leadership course across our pharmaceutical 11% RECORDABLE LOST-TIME 12% development organization; INJURY AND INJURY AND YEAR ILLNESS RATE ILLNESS RATE • Completing significant enhancements to our internal system designed for 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 employee safety engagement (BSafe 5.0), and growing BSafe usage across 19% Total Recordable 2017 0.81 0.27 the entire company; and, Injuries by Accident 2016 0.93 0.32 • Continuing our growth and investCategory 2017 2015 0.88 0.27 ment in behavioral-based safety pro47% grams, focusing on key risk factors 2014 0.90 0.36 11% for human error, and expanding the 2007 1.44 0.60 SafeStart® program, a global initiative focused on human error prevention, to reduce injuries within pharmaStruck by / Caught between 1 Ergonomic Risk 2 Motor Vehicle Collisions MOTOR VEHICLE ceutical manufacturing and Lilly Slip / Trip / Fall Other YEAR COLLISION RATE 3 Research Laboratories. 2020 GOAL 12% Reducing the Potential 8% 14% 2017 15% for Serious Injury 2016 16% While the most common work-related 2015 16% injuries are covered by our safety proLost-Time Injuries 2014 20% 18% grams, we have also committed to 38% by Accident 2007 25% systematically addressing infrequent but Category 2017 severe events, where the consequences A new goal for measuring motor vehicle 3  collisions was established in 2015. can be life-threatining, if not fatal. To prevent such serious injuries and fatalities (SIF), we subscribe to the following model: 20% • Train employees at all levels on the SIF Prevention model and key SIF 1 Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in abrasion, contusion, and laceration. definitions Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which 2  increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 41 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Measure SIF events and potential SIF events across the entire company Sales and Employee 3 GWELL-BEING OOD HEALTH AND to a healthier and more active life. Employees can meet with a health coach • Identify and mitigate SIF Precursors • Integrate SIF prevention into existing Marketing Safety Wellness at Lilly on-site, by phone, or through group webinars at no cost. Lilly also offers At Lilly, sales and marketing employThe mission of the well-being and health plan coverage to employees and business processes ees represent nearly 30 percent of our productivity team mirrors the Lilly their eligible dependents, and our covIn 2017, we improved our global perforglobal workforce. Their jobs require Promise—uniting caring with discovery erage for preventive health services go mance in SIF by: them to spend significant time drivto make life better, including for our own well beyond the requirements estab• integrating sales affiliate data into ing, subjecting them to accident risks employees and their families. Lilly is lished under federal healthcare reform. existing manufacturing and laboratory which are often out of their control. committed to creating a work environAt our Indianapolis headquarters, an SIF metrics; In 2009, we launched a motor vehiment that supports employee efforts on-site medical clinic allows employees • finalizing global “control of hazardous cle safety program, HSEDirections, to manage both work and personal to have annual preventative screenings energy” assessments and authoring a designed specifically for the thousands life responsibilities. We have a broad and routine lab work. We also have sevtechnical paper; of Lilly employees who are on the road view of wellness at Lilly, designed to eral on-site fitness centers for individual • creating a revised protocol for assessevery day, visiting physicians, hospicreate a culture of well-being across and group exercise activities in addition ing safe operation of powered industritals, clinics, and other customers. Our five dimensions: physical, financial, to providing access to a national network al trucks and forklifts, then delivering HSEDirections investment has resulted social, community, and sense of purof more than 10,000 fitness centers. We regional assessment instruction; and in a decrease in motor vehicle collisions, pose. The well-being and productivity partner with our food service vendors to and, consequently, a significant reducteam has direct responsibility for our • communicating one page summaries provide a wide range of healthier dining tion in motor vehicle-related injuries. In global well-being strategy, which is of potential SIF events to share SIF choices and snacks—some of which are 2017, we saw further progress. As part implemented by teams in the United precursors. subsidized. We provide showers and bike of this effort, we: States and our international locations. racks for more than 150 Indianapolis Lilly participated in, and presented com• continued to improve our motor vehiRelated programs include a wide variety employees who commute to work by pany accomplishments at several SIF cle collision rate year-on-year, with a of topics focused on work-life balance, bicycle. We have also made all U.S. sites prevention conferences in 2017. These 43 percent decrease in collision rate physical activity, healthy eating, financial smoke-free. opportunities allowed Lilly to benchmark since the program began in 2009; wellness, as well as medical and disabilour results with peer companies. ity leaves of absence. Other U.S. efforts to support our employ• defined and implemented leading ees’ physical and emotional health indicator metrics, which are reviewed include access to a dietitian, frequent quarterly at the executive level; and, Well-Being in the United States fitness challenges, and a comprehensive • implemented the “Drive Safe, Arrive In the United States, our myBestLife employee-assistance program. New Safe” program to help reduce disprogram offers a set of tools and mothers may receive support through tracted driving and the devastating resources to help employees better robust maternity leave programs, on-site effect it can have on individuals and manage their health, as well as idenchildcare centers and back-up care their loved ones. tify those things that can contribute LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 42 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption options, nursing rooms, and parentWellness in Our • The Fegersheim plant in France com• The Kinsale plant in Ireland ran their ing education opportunities. We also pleted construction of a new fitness fifth annual Live4Life week-long celpromote financial well-being through a International Sites center in early 2018 designed to proebrations in 2017 focused on physical variety of online financial tools and finanLilly affiliate sites around the world offer mote health and well-being through and psychological well-being, financial cial advisory programs, as well as offer their own wellness programs. Some employee exercise and relaxation. well-being, work-life balance, goal individual financial counseling on-site. examples from our manufacturing sites setting, first aid in the home, cancer • The Alcobendas plant in Spain operMany of the benefit offerings also are include: awareness, and positive psychology, ates an employee well-being program available to spouses, domestic partners, • The Sesto plant in Italy provides a hodesigned to increase health and injury among other topics. The site incorand qualified dependents to promote listic, integrated approach to employee prevention, build morale and workplace porated feedback from an employee well-being for the entire family, not just health, safety and well-being. Sesto participation, and improve quality of life survey to create a well-being calendar the person directly employed by Lilly. created a wellness team in 2017 and for employees. As part of their wellness featuring informational sessions with one of their first initiatives was develfocus, the plant has also introduced keynote speakers and on-site events oping well-being initiatives for their a nutrition and physical activity plan throughout the year. night shift workers—including identifyfor employees, supported by healthier ing healthier food options. choices in the cafeteria on-site. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 43 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption For more than 140 years, Lilly people Conduct, our compliance management conduct and foster a culture of trust and is also Lilly’s chief ethics and complihave approached our company’s busisystems, and our training programs—all integrity, which we continue to refine and ance officer. This position reports to ness with a deep sense of responsibility of which reinforce ethical behavior and improve. We train all of our employees the CEO and has direct access to the to all our stakeholders. Our actions, help avoid corruption and other unacin ethical business practices and have board of directors’ Public Policy and now as then, are grounded in our core ceptable activities. This section also systems in place to detect potential vioCompliance Committee. company values of integrity, excellence, highlights our efforts to be more translations of the law and company policies and respect for people. Recognizing our parent about our operations, including as well as to correct processes to avoid efforts to operate responsibly—including our clinical trials, educational grants, errors going forward. Our ethics and Code of Conduct, Policies, our strong ethics and compliance proand payments we make to physicians. compliance program includes deliberate and Procedures gram—the Ethisphere Institute honored assessment of risks, training, and comOur ethics and compliance program Lilly as one of the World’s Most Ethical munications designed to prevent issues includes policies and procedures. We Companies in 2017 and 2018. Ethics, Compliance, from arising, as well as reporting, auditing, and monitoring to detect potential communicate our key compliance-related expectations through the followand Governance We train all of our employees in ethical ing channels: compliance gaps. We also have a robust business practices and have systems in investigation process, and we develop • The Red Book: We regularly update place to detect violations of laws, regulations, and company policies, including at Lilly corrective and preventive action plans to address issues we identify. and disseminate our Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book. Available in 24 those related to anti-corruption. We languages, this document and associhave developed—and we continue to ated training emphasize the company’s Ethics and Compliance At Lilly, our policies, our Code of refine and improve—an anti-corruption Business Conduct (which we call The values and the importance of ethical program designed to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture of integrity. Red Book), our compliance management systems, our training programs, Program Oversight decision-making, summarize key principles from global company policies, In this section, we discuss our commitand our communications all reinforce and provide examples for employees The ethics and compliance organization ment to work against corruption in all its ethical behavior. We have implemented to practice applying these principles to is headed by the senior vice president forms. We detail our Code of Business programs designed to promote ethical their decisions and actions. The founof enterprise risk management, who LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 44 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption dational principles of The Red Book ethical foundation, preventing corrupbusiness actions through a system of • Corporate Auditing: Our internal are designed to help our employees tion, respecting privacy, communicating monitoring and audits. corporate auditing function conducts navigate an increasingly complex globhonestly, speaking up, protecting infor• Internal Reporting: Lilly employees both financial and nonfinancial audits al business environment. mation assets, and many other topics. are required to report to the compaof all Lilly affiliates globally to evalu• Policies, Procedures, and Related ny any known or suspected violations ate compliance with various company Materials: Our policies, procedures Reporting, Monitoring, of the law, The Red Book, company policies and procedures. These audits and other materials provide additional and Auditing policies, or official orders or decrees include reviews of our anti-corruption program and the policies that govern details and are available to employTo detect possible compliance violaapplicable to our business. Employees ees on the company’s intranet. These are also encouraged to report any othethical interactions. tions, we maintain an internal disclosure documents govern Lilly’s actions with system that includes a mechanism for er ethical concerns or issues. Our tollrespect to specific areas, including our anonymous reporting. We also review free Ethics and Compliance Hotline Training and Communications is staffed by an independent firm, 24 All employees play a role in the success hours a day, seven days a week. Due to of our ethics and compliance program. differences in local law, local reportTherefore, we consider training and ing processes can vary. communications an essential compoLILLY HONORED FOR INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY WORK • Monitoring: Lilly maintains an ethics nent of promoting and nurturing ethical and compliance monitoring program behavior throughout the business. Our Lilly’s ethics and compliance program was recognized at the 2017 Corporate Governance Awards in that includes a global monitoring commitment to training and communiNew York City. The awards are a global program of the organization that publishes IR Magazine and strategy, a risk assessment and cations is visible through many of our Corporate Secretary, read by executives around the world. monitoring plan with standard tools, activities, including the following: and a process for reporting metrics • Each year, all Lilly employees (and Lilly took top honors for Best Use of Technology and was one of five finalists for best compliance to business leaders and key company certain company contractors) must and ethics program in the “large cap” category comprising large publicly traded companies. The stakeholders. The purpose of the procomplete training on The Red Book recognition highlighted the development of our myIntegrity app—available on iPhone and iPad—that gram is to assess whether: and certify that they have received, provides quick and easy access to country-specific ethics and compliance procedures and informa–– Ethics and compliance policies and read, understand, and will abide by its tion. Lilly also unveiled a new dashboard to help track ethics and compliance activities around the procedures are implemented and requirements. world. These technologies enhance our ethics and compliance program and help employees get the followed; • Employees receive targeted ethics and information they need to make good decisions quickly. –– Employees are trained on the policompliance training related to their cies and procedures; and specific job responsibilities. “We have made great progress simplifying our programs and raising awareness, and we are com–– Managers provide sufficient oversight • New employees in the ethics and committed to continuing to find new ways to help employees do the right thing. I am so proud of all the of business processes and related pliance organization participate in a work that contributed to this recognition.” results to support compliance with training and education curriculum that company policies, procedures, and helps them understand and implement — Melissa Barnes, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Risk Management and Chief Ethics government laws and regulations. the elements of an effective ethics and and Compliance Officer compliance program globally. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 45 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption • Our leaders communicate regularly pearance that we do—to inappropriately professionals (HCPs) and healthcare conducting an educational program for with employees to ensure they underinfluence a decision or gain an unfair organizations (HCOs) helps to build trust Lilly with their peers. By disclosing our stand that Lilly holds each employee advantage. Our commitment to operatwith patients, caregivers, and other key financial relationships with both HCPs responsible for making decisions and ing with high ethical standards extends stakeholders. and HCOs, patients, caregivers, and taking actions that reflect our compato all business relationships, dealings, other key stakeholders can better see ny’s values of integrity, excellence and and activities around the world. and understand the collaborations and respect for people. Lilly uses anti-corruption, due diligence Payments to Physicians interactions their own medical profesand Healthcare sionals have with Lilly. processes to assess the appropriateInvestigations and ness of interactions with certain exterIn the United States, Lilly follows Corrective Actions We take all reports of known or susnal parties, including the following: Organizations disclosure requirements at the local, • Individuals who may be authorized by state and federal levels. Lilly adheres pected violations of company policies Lilly collaborates with both HCPs and to the requirements set forth by the Lilly to interact with government offiand procedures seriously, and we HCOs, focusing on a single goal: improvfederal law known as the Physician cials on the company’s behalf; appropriately investigate all claims of ing the health and quality of patients’ Payment Sunshine Act (also called • Prospective recipients of grants and potential wrongdoing that are brought to lives. Being transparent about the “Open Payments”), which is part of donations; and our attention. We seek to address inapnature and extent of our relationships the broader U.S. Affordable Care Act. • Prospective business development makes it possible to build trust about propriate conduct as early as possible It requires the biopharmaceutical and partners. how we work to benefit patients. and to prevent future recurrences. To medical device manufacturing indusaccomplish this, a global investigation Lilly also uses an institutional notificatry to report certain financial interacWe believe HCPs should be compenprocess conducts timely, thorough, and tion process to mitigate risk relating to tions to a defined group of “Physicians” sated at a fair market rate for their time professional investigations. All inveshealthcare providers whom Lilly pays and “Teaching Hospitals.” Interactions and expertise whether they are scientigators are trained to understand and for services, including clinical trial include items such as payments for sertists helping to research a potential new follow this process and to meet local research, or to whom Lilly provides vices provided for research, or food and treatment, HCPs advising us on medical procedural and privacy requirements. other items of value, such as educational beverage provided during an educational and scientific matters, or physicians opportunities. Anti-Corruption Due Diligence We strive to earn and maintain the trust of people we serve by acting with integrity in all that we do everywhere we Transparency and • Learn more about Lilly’s commitment to transparency at Lilly.com Disclosure at Lilly Lilly engages in dialogue directly with members of the healthcare system and other interested • operate around the world. We recognize parties about ethical interactions through our EthicsPoint hotline (1-877-237-8197), the Lilly that bribery, fraud, and other acts of EthicsPoint website, or through means provided by disclosure code administrators such as govdishonesty are a betrayal of that trust, ernments and trade associations. so we do not offer, provide, authorize, or Lilly is supportive of transparency initiaaccept anything of value—or give the ap tives globally. We believe openly report• Learn more about Lilly sharing the results of our clinical trials in the Clinical Trials Data Transing financial interactions with healthcare parency section of this report. LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 46 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption program. Lilly reports these financial interactions to the Centers for Medicare Clinical Trials Data The summaries will be translated into the local language(s) where the studies FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND LOBBYING ACTIVITY and Medicaid Services (CMS). On an annual basis, CMS makes all reported Transparency took place and made available for the research sites and study participants. industry financial interactions public in Lilly has a history of commitment to In 2017, Lilly spent the a searchable Open Payments Database. On the site, you can view if a physician transparency of our clinical studies, and we recognize that responsible sharing Respecting Privacy following amounts on or a particular teaching hospital has had financial interactions with a biopharmaof clinical study data has the ability to At Lilly, we are committed to the ethical direct political activity1: enhance public health. Currently, Lilly management of all personal informa$1,427,000 ceutical company, including Lilly. registers and posts results of all clinical tion, whether it is that of a customer, an trials on clinicaltrials.gov. In 2014, Lilly Outside the United States, in addition to employee, or any other individual. enhanced our transparency initiatives in political financial support in the adhering to legislated requirements for in alignment with the PhRMA/EFPIA We are open and honest about how we countries in which we operate, Lilly parUnited States Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial collect, manage, use, and disclose perticipates in voluntary disclosure codes Data Sharing. sonal information, and we are intentional led by local or regional trade associaabout protecting it. We strive to only tions. One such example is the European Lilly makes patient-level data available share it with those who are authorized— Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries from Lilly-sponsored trials on marand have a legitimate business need—to and Associations (EFPIA), which has keted drugs for approved uses followsee it. Our global privacy office and chief established the EFPIA HCP/HCO ing acceptance for publication. Lilly is privacy officer oversee a global privacy Disclosure Code as well as the EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure Code. one of several companies that provide this access through the website clinprogram that is designed to protect the $347,000 to state candidates in Lilly views our commitment to transparprivacy rights of all individuals whose corporate contributions; and icalstudydatarequest.com. Qualified personal information is entrusted to ency and disclosure as an opportunity to ensure that patients, HCPs, HCOs, researchers can submit research proposals and request anonymized data to us. Key components of that program $1,080,000 through the and business partners feel confident include a principles-based policy that Lilly Political Action Committee (LillyPAC). test new hypotheses. is supported by an infrastructure of when engaging with Lilly. The EFPIA procedures, job aids, training, and other $7,035,000 website has additional information on In 2013, Lilly begun conducting pilot projects creating summaries of Phase materials governing the collection and the HCP/HCO and Patient Organization II and III clinical trial results in patientuse of personal information. Codes. You can also view more on Lilly’s friendly language using simple, everyday on federal lobbying activities commitment to HCP/HCO transparency Our goal is to always deliver on the in Europe, or view our EFPIA Patient terms. In 2018, Lilly will begin makin the United States promises we make to individuals whose Organization Disclosure. ing these clinical trial “plain language This information is reported to the U.S. personal information we collect and summaries” available to study sites and use. We are respectful of an individual’s Congress in accordance with the Lobbying piloting reliable distribution methods. Disclosure Act of 1995. 1 Rounded to the nearest thousand LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 47 Contents Human Rights Labor Health, Safety, and Environment Anti-Corruption privacy, and we demonstrate, in every activities are overseen at the board level in organizations that report lobbying • Has the candidate historically voted business operation, in every location by the Public Policy and Compliance activity to the U.S. government, and to or announced positions on issues of around the world, that people can trust Committee, which is composed entirely which we contribute $50,000 a year or importance to Lilly, such as pharmaus with their personal information. of outside directors. All decisions are more; and the activities of our Political ceutical innovation and health care? made without regard for the private, Action Committee, the LillyPAC, which • Has the candidate demonstrated leadpersonal preferences of the company’s is funded solely by U.S. employee ership on key committees of imporPolitical officers and executives. contributions. tance to our business? • Does the candidate demonstrate poEngagement All of our employees must also comply In the United States, we are committed with our global policies, core values, to backing candidates of any party who tential for legislative leadership? and legal obligations, which are outsupport public policies that contribute • Is the candidate dedicated to improvlined in our written Code of Business to pharmaceutical innovation and the ing the relationship between business When engaging in lobbying efforts or and government? Conduct, The Red Book. Our annual health needs of patients. When reviewmaking political contributions, we comreport of Political Financial Support ing U.S. candidates for support, we ply with the laws that govern such activiprovides details of our company’s U.S. consider a number of factors, including ties. All financial support and lobbying political contributions; our memberships these examples: LILLY UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS page 48
