R T H E B E R F O F I L D W O R 2 016 B I L I T Y T A I N A SUS T RE P O R SECTION 2 SECTION 1 SUSTAINABILITY SECTION 3 INTRODUCTION P.03 AT AKSA P.13 INDICATORS P.39 P.04 P.05 Aksa at a Glance P.14 P.18 P.40 P.41 About the Report Message Goals Primary Financial Generated Economic Value About Aksa from the Indicators Chairman P.16 Message from the General Manager P.06 P.42 P.43 Aksa Vision Model P.20 P.22 Human Resources Environmental P.07 Aksa Supply Chain Sustainable Operations Indicators Performance Governance at Aksa P.44 P.08 Aksa’s New Brands GRI G4 Content Index P.49 Four Touch The Life... P.29 UN Global Compact New Our Environmental Performance Communication on Progress Brands P.31 Value Contributed to the Employees P.34 Value Contributed to the Society AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 # fiberfortheworld P.03 SECTION I INTRODUCTION DID YOU KNOW? With the 315,000 tons of acrylic fiber Aksa produced in 2016, THE WORLD COULD BE CIRCLED 300 TIMES WITH KNITTING YARN. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION G4-17 G4-20 G4-21 G4-22 G4-23 # fiberfortheworld P.04 ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT AKSA Carbon fiber is a high value-added and strategic product that provides innovative Based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Aksa Akrilik, established in Yalova in 1968 solutions to the most important problems Reporting Guidelines, we have continued to with a capacity of 5,000 tons per year to facing the world. These solutions include publish a sustainability report each year since meet Turkey's acrylic fiber needs, began increasing the energy production of wind 2005. Through this report, which we have production in 1971 following the completion turbines, reducing fuel consumption in now prepared for the 12th time, we disclose of the construction of the factory and automobiles, strengthening infrastructure in a comprehensive and transparent manner successful trial production. Since then, it has and reinforcing structures to extend their the social, economic and environmental grown to become the world's largest acrylic operational lives. performance that Aksa has demonstrated in fiber producer by constantly growing and all its operational activities and present to all developing its own technology. stakeholders valuable information. With 1,248 employees, Aksa has an area We have prepared our report in accordance of 502,000 square meters. It is the biggest with the GRI G4 Guidelines core option. producer in the world with a capacity of This report, which also represents our 315,000 ton per year and the only acrylic commitment to the ten principles set out in fiber producer in Turkey. the United Nations Global Compact to which we are signatories, is also a report on our Focusing on active marketing activities in progress. the domestic market during the year, Aksa Akrilik succeeded in maintaining its market We have included in this report our activities share and sales volume thanks to the 100% and performance results from Turkey, utilization of capacity. Aksa Akrilik has where our activity takes place. We have reached about 1/6 of world acrylic fiber prepared our report in accordance with production in 2016. As of the end of 2016, it the GRI G4 Guidelines reporting principles has reached 17% of the global market and and we include not only our production69% of the domestic market. driven impact, but also our broad impact on the various phases of our value chain Aksa exported to more than 300 customers within the broad scope of our sustainability in more than 50 countries on 5 continents priorities. We are committed to increasing and achieved 61% of 2016 sales in the performance in communication with domestic market, with the remaining 39% in stakeholders in service of transparency and foreign markets. accountability. The company, which has an energy We are publishing the PDF version of the production license of 142.5 MWe, is able to Aksa Akrilik 2016 Sustainability Report produce all of its own energy. digitally for our stakeholders in order to minimize environmental impacts (available at As a result of R&D efforts, Aksa entered the www.aksa.com). carbon fiber market in 2009. As a result of similar efforts, Aksa joined DowAksa, a joint You can contact us at surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com venture based on 50% equity with Dow with requests, suggestions, complaints or Europe Holdings B.V. in 2012. As the first any kind of feedback about our reporting and only Turkish company operating in the performance. carbon fiber sector, the Company's carbon fiber production maintains a capacity of 3,500 tons per year. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION # fiberfortheworld S.05 AKSA AT A GLANCE y ears of experience 44 47 2012-2016 50 TL 2 BILLION Capacity 100% Utilization Continuous 2016 turnover financial growth ISO 500 GIB Waste 100% in 5-year period Turkey’s Turkey’s Management 44. 47. 1,248 Self-required LARGEST corporate company TAXPAYER energy 100% production employees 502,000 m2 142.5 installed energy The world's largest single location MWe production capacity acrylic fiber SOLE production plant The World's TL 161 MILLION 9.60 Türkiye’s sole ton/year 315,000 LARGEST The highest acrylic fiber producer Turkey's highest acrylic fiber producer dividend corporate governance rating Market Share Distribution of Sales + 1 Customers 300 + TURKEY 69% 61% DOMESTIC 6 50 Countries Continents The part of world acrylic fiber WORLD 17 % 39% EXPORT production that is covered by Aksa 5 ISO: Istanbul Chamber of Industry GİB: Tax Revenue Administration AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION G4-14 # fiberfortheworld P.06 AKSA VISION MODEL WHAT WE ARE FOR To direct the sector that we are leading, OUR MISSION To create value for our stakeholders and To carry the value we create sustainably into the future WHERE WE ARE HEADING In order to reach sustainable profitability; OUR SUPERORDINATE Investing in our technology to maximize GOALS operational excellence Discovering new usage areas for Acrylic Fiber Growing through new products or strategic collaborations WHAT DEFINES OUR STAND HSE Awareness OUR CORE VALUES Compliance with Ethical Values Openness to Cooperation Customer Orientation WHAT OUR BEST FEATURES ARE Participatory Management OUR BASIC QUALITIES Locking onto Common Targets Continuous Learning Experience and Knowledge Accumulation Motivated, Engaged and Solution-Producing Employees AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION # fiberfortheworld P.07 AKSA SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT R&D Solvent Recovery LAND SEA RAW MATERIAL PRODUCT PRODUCT SUPPLY BRANDS DELIVERY PRODUCTION Chemistry Fields Textile Fields PORT LAND SEA SUPPLY ASH: INDUSTRIAL RAW MATERIAL ENERGY PRODUCTION BY-PRODUCT PROVIDING ENERGY TO SISTER COMPANIES AND THE GRID WHAT IS ACRYLIC FIBER? Acrylic fiber is the fiber most similar to wool among artificial fibers. Acrylic fibers are classified as either textile or technical fibers. Textile fibers are used in clothing and home textiles, while technical fibers are used in for industrial materials and outdoor purposes. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 FOUR NEW GENERATION BRANDS # fiberfortheworld P.08 Aksa’s new brands touch the life... Textile Outdoor Fibers Fibers Acrylic Industrial Filament Fibers Aksa Akrilik, the world's leading producer of acrylic fiber with 50 years of experience and a customer-focused approach, has introduced four new brands that touch every aspect of life. Maintaining and increasing client support with expertise, product quality, technical service and reliability, Aksa Akrilik continues to grow with customer needs in mind. Aksa is empowered by its new-brand mentality to implement its vision of providing the highest quality and always meeting customers' expectations. Aksa Akrilik aims to give new vision to the acrylic fiber sector with its new brands Acryluna, Acrysole, Acryterna and Acrylusion, to the point wherein Aksa becomes the world's leading acrylic fiber producer. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ACRYLUNA # fiberfortheworld P.09 Acryluna is with you at every moment of your life, from knitwear to carpets and hand knitting to upholstery as well as blankets... Acryluna, produced with superior technology, could wrap itself in thousands of colours, would make you feel the naturalness and warmness of wool, everywhere you touch it. Acryluna is there to offer you a warmer, more comfortable and more colourful world. · Easy to wash and maintains its shape · Resistant to moths, moulding and chemicals · Can be dyed into bright colours with a perfect fastness · Resistant to sunrays · Naturalness and warmth similar to wool, both in appearance and feel · Odour resistant · Has a range of more than 10.000 colours TEXTILE FIBERS At Every Moment of Life! CLOTHING HOME TEXTILE Knitwear Rugs Plush Carpets Hand knitting Velvet Fabric Sportswear Blankets Children's Upholstery Wear AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ACRYSOLE # fiberfortheworld P.10 There is no more wear, mold or deterioration with Acrysole, instead, durability and a long life like never before... · Perfect light and air fastness · Maintains its shape as a fabric · Long term use · Highly resistant to abrasion · Resistant to mold, mildew and chemicals OUTDOOR FIBERS Perfection in Durability! Sun blinds Marine fabrics Indoor and outdoor furniture Convertible cars with fabric ceiling AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ACRYLUSION # fiberfortheworld P.11 Your carpets will remain like the first day with Acrylusion. Vivacious colours and elegant feeling will be everywhere with Acrylusion. The Solution Dyed Acrylic Filament Yarn Acrylusion , developed by Aksa, gives a silky apperance to the carpets through superior color brightness. · Silky gloss and softness · Durable and vivacious colours · Easy cleaning · Zero dusting · Dirt resistant · Resistant to mold, mildew and chemicals Bright Colours and ACRYLIC FILAMENT Silky Touch in Carpets! CARPET UPHOLSTERY AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ACRYTERNA # fiberfortheworld P.12 Meet Acryterna, which has been developed by Aksa, for filtration, construction industry, smart batteries as well as brake linings to guarantee higher efficiency. Acryterna is Aksa’s symbol of the technology with its endurance to high temperatures, excellent filtering characteristics, resistance to shrinkage and high modulus... · High strength · Low residual shrinkage · Excellent chemical resistance · High thermal resistance · Strong endurance to hydrolysis · High modulus · Long term operation at temperatures up to 130 oC High Performance in INDUSTRIAL FIBERS Industrial Applications! Hot gas filtration (cool operated power generation) Car batteries Construction industry Brake linings AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 # fiberfortheworld P.13 SECTION II SUSTAINABILITY AT AKSA DID YOU KNOW? With the 315,000 tons of acrylic fiber Aksa produced in 2016, 623 MILLION SWEATERS COULD BE MADE. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMANG4-XX G4-1 G4-2 # fiberfortheworld P.14 total experience Distinguished Shareholders, Business Partners and Due to a decline in confidence, investment and consumption contracted along with the 50 YEARS Stakeholders, economy in the third quarter. The Turkish lira experienced a decline in value and export 2016 was a year that defied expectations figures remained low. Consequently, Turkey’s m² total due to many unpredictable global and local credit rating was lowered. 502 K installed field events. The withdrawing of investment from developing countries in the name of Our trust is in our country risk reduction constituted one of the pillars of the worldwide recession. World trade Despite the structural challenges and risks has dramatically slowed due to declining faced as a result of the current situation, employees commodity prices. China’s economic AKSA’s expectations for 2017 remain positive. fluctuation had a large impact because of their increasing share in the world economy, and elections/referendums around the world Economic recovery is anticipated due to a stabilization of exchange rates and an overdue shift in investment and consumption 1,248 (major EU countries, the USA, and Brexit) in the real sector that has been delayed due also gave direction to the markets. New to coping with crises. We believe that the US President Donald Trump’s protectionist economy will gradually recover because economic policies may influence world of the implementation of short-term market decisions, triggering high inflation stimulation measures and long-term structural and increasing the value of the US Dollar. improvement plans. Europe has tended to carry the ongoing and potentially long-lasting recession through AKSA in 2016 to 2017. After Brexit, the balance of the EU is shifting. Elections in other EU economic Despite foreign and domestic negative bulwarks such as the Netherlands, France and conditions, AKSA strives to support the Germany, have weakened expectations of a economic recovery process with all of its European economic recovery. The slowdown efforts. As of the end of 2016, we are the of China, the engine of growth in the world world's largest producer of acrylic fiber, economy, has also slowed developing with 1,248 employees operating on premises countries. totaling 502,000 square meters, and an annual production capacity of 315,000 tons. Turkey passed an important We export to over 300 customers in more test than 50 countries on 5 continents. 2016 saw exports rise to a 39% share of our total sales, Against a backdrop of low worldwide helping Aksa close 2016 with a turnover of Despite many negativities in the economic and economic performance, Turkey has around 2 billion TL. We concentrated our political arena, the successful performance undergone agenda-altering events. A country investments mainly on modernization and made moribund by terror attacks in the first support units. AKSA completed a successful of AKSA in 2016 is based on sustainable half of the year was then shocked by a coup and profitable year due to our provision of ethical business practices that it has attempt in the summer. Actions taken in added value to our country’s exports with a built up along with many years the wake of these events for the purpose of rich product portfolio. of experience and experienced ending terror movements in Turkey’s east and southeast, along with conflicts in Syria and management. Iraq, greatly affected social and economic life. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN G4-1 G4-2 # fiberfortheworld P.15 Sustainability is at the Corporate governance and sustainability are center of our business processes that nourish and interact with each mentality other. Success in sustainability is also possible if these two processes are carried out together. Aksa is one of Turkey's leading companies At this point, our proudest achievement of the in terms of implementing a vision of year is rising from third to first place in 2016's sustainability and the conscientious sharing Corporate Governance Rating announced of sustainability reports with stakeholders. by the Corporate Governance Association of In our country, where the sustainability Turkey (TKYD). reporting trend has been more welcomed Our sustainable future plans customers + in recent years, we are publishing our 12th sustainability report in 2016 as a company with considerable experience and knowledge in the field. Aksa owes its successful performance to a well-balanced analysis of the needs of all stakeholders and to managing all their 300 At Aksa, sustainability has been a priority for processes in a balanced manner. However, years; its acceptance and influence are deeply we can say that the strategic plan made five rooted in our organization. At the heart of years ago and the resulting action constitutes tl turnover our sustainability strategy is an understanding a crucial milestone, as it is mostly accountable of Turkey’s socio-economic development, especially the surrounding geography, a for the successful point that the company reached. In this report, we therefore did not just examine 2016, but we also found it useful 2 BILLION demonstration of manageable environmental performance, and at the same time, a drive to conduct a retrospective five-year analysis. to sustain accountability. As our top priority, sustainability includes sustainable operations, I believe with all my heart that we will reach environment, employees and social the targets determined by establishing contributions. We determine and construct systems to enable performance to continue In the next five years, one of the most our core strategies based on sustainable increasing in the coming years. In the next five significant issues for us will be water profitability as the basic output. All strategic years, one of the most significant issues will be management, which is one of the decisions are checked according to this vision water management, which is one of the most crucial issues for the world and our country. important issues of the world and our model to determine whether they align with our strategic plans, our sustainability priorities, With the projects we have developed, we will country. With the projects we have our core values, and our basic features. create strategies for extracting water balance developed, we will create strategies maps and consuming resources at optimum for extracting water balance We maintain responsible supply chain efficiency. At the same time, climate change management will be atop our agenda. maps and consuming resources management, and supplier selection and evaluation practices are based on social and at the optimum level. At the environmental criteria in addition to financial We thank all of our employees, especially same time climate change criteria. We aim to disseminate the concept of the company's executive management, management will be one of sustainability not only throughout our own for the accomplishment of this successful statement and their conscious contributions to our important agendas. operations, but also to the entire value chain. Communications, auditing and performance sustainability. appraisal are conducted continuously in our supply chain management, and we act on the Best regards, basis of mutual development. Mehmet Ali Berkman Chairman of the Board AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER # fiberfortheworld P.16 Distinguished Shareholders, Most corporate company Our Business Partners and We began 2017 with the pride and happiness YEAR OF RECORDS Stakeholders, of being the Most Corporate Company of Turkey . We are the winners of the 7th 2016 was a difficult year for our country. In Corporate Governance Awards organized addition to the global economic downturn, by the Corporate Governance Association terrorist incidents in our country and the of Turkey. In a study conducted by Saha, subsequent coup attempt created an the leading independent corporate rating full capacity uncertain environment. As a reflection of the ambiguous environment, the tendency of acting cautiously adopted by both company in Turkey, we lead all 50 companies listed on the stock exchange with a Corporate Governance Rating of 9.60. Along 100% companies and consumers generated a with this award, we have achieved success tons production 315 K negative economic spiral effect. This was in the fields of fairness, transparency, reflected in macroeconomic figures, and our accountability and responsibility and economy suffered a downward trend in the maintained activity in these areas. export third quarter after a long period of trending upward. Aksa's sustainability agenda A record-setting and in 2016 39% successful year for Aksa One of the main developments of the year 2016 was our branding work, which was Despite all negative atmosphere around shaped by our product groups. We brought 9.60 highest corporate the world and in our country, our company 4 new brands to the sector, touching every governance achieved much success in 2016. In a year of aspect of life. Our acrylic fiber products, rating note fluctuating demand in important acrylic fiber which feature softness, warmth and color markets, Aksa still managed to close the year world are branded Acryluna. We have strongly thanks to a full range of product two technical fiber brands: Acrysole, which variety and sales policies. Focused on active provides the best solution for awning and domestic marketing during the year, Aksa outdoor applications and Acryterna, for In spite of the difficult economic conditions, Aksa managed to maintain its market share and use in industrial areas. Acrylusion is our volume thanks to a 100% capacity utilization brand that showcases the innovative and continues to achieve success without compromising rate. As of the end of 2016, Aksa had a 17% distinguished side of our acrylic filament our sustainability principles. At the close of share in the global market and a 69% share products. our 2012-2016 strategic planning cycle, we in the domestic market. 61% of sales were are focused on creating lasting value made to the domestic market and 39% to Acrysole played a significant role in for the world, our country and all our the foreign market. We have reached our increasing the sales volume and market share highest dividend thus far with 161 million in the pigment-based acrylic fiber product stakeholders, using annual data and TL. A record was broken with 315,000 tons group, adding to a profitable 2016. observation to enter the 2016-2021 of production. We had an 11% increase in strategic planning period. EBITDA. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER # fiberfortheworld P.17 Productivity in energy also positively In addition, investments according to our affected our profitability by creating a cost new business and product development advantage. In the past year, we launched strategy also have a significant share in our New Turbine project, which will improve the portfolio. These investments have cycle cost, increase capacity and provide a contributed significantly to achieving reliable, top-notch electricity supply. optimum levels of production cost. We continued our investments without Our future plans hesitation. Our newly developed pigmentcoated acrylic filament yarn, Acrylusion, has We believe that achievements will only been transformed into a product that is happen through collaboration with especially demanded in the woven carpet stakeholders and that ethical principles industry thanks to its silky softness, touch are of utmost importance. To this end, we and superior color brilliance. We started to evaluated and re-examined our strategic increase capacity investments due to a high plans five years ago. In reaching a record demand in the carpet sector because of 315,000 ton capacity, we also made strategic the product’s spongeability and dust-free steps by ensuring that product diversity, features. innovation and branding will be of equal importance in the future. Our new 5-year We also completed modacrylic fiber R&D strategic plan constructs a framework to work, resulting in a product that has a meet trends and maintain sustainable high degree of non-flammability. At growth in the future. I see Aksa in the present, efforts are being made to make upcoming five years, as a company that will environmental and ecological life more achieve these goals and looks forward to a harmonious. We plan to start supplying future that includes all stakeholders. Aksa modacrylic fibers on an industrial scale in produces value for itself, its country and all its 2017. Modacrylic, which is a product of stakeholders, and places new goals that focus high added value preferred especially for on development-innovation-sustainability. protective work clothes, plastics and artificial hair, can only be produced by a limited It is our experienced, hardworking and number of producers in the world. dedicated employees that help us put these goals into action and achieve success. I am In 2016, our company achieved successful very happy to work as part of this team and I economic results. We achieved our highest am confident in Aksa’s future. dividend distribution to date, with TL 161 million. A record was broken with 315,000 Best regards, tons in production. The EBITDA closed with a year-on-year increase of 11%. We are at the Cengiz Taş zenith of corporate governance. Between Board Member and General Manager In 2016, our company achieved successful economic 2012 and 2016, we invested USD 296 million in total. During the last five years we focused results. We have reached the highest dividend on efficiency and quality-enhancing projects distribution we have made to date, with TL that are compatible with our operational 161 million. The record was broken with 315 excellence strategy. thousand tons in production. The EBITDA closed year-on-year increase of 11%. We are at the zenith of corporate governance. Between 2012 and 2016, we invested USD 296 million in total. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4-4 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 # fiberfortheworld P.18 In 2011, Aksa Akrilik laid the foundation of its recent success by establishing the “Operational Excellence Strategy” in the Strategic Planning Workshop. From 2012 to 2016, the company expanded on the strategy, shaping and contributing value to the world by adding programs and strategic action plans. Evidence for the effectiveness Basic Economic Indicators Regarding Last Five Years, TL Million of this meticulously-applied strategy can be found in the 100% capacity utilization rate shown in our financial and operational efficiency reports. Adding to posted yearly financial gains from 2012 to 2016, Aksa Akrilik saw much success in 2016. The production of 315,000 tons with a 100% capacity ratio broke a record. With a net sales of 1,981,963,090 TL in 2016, Aksa (%) 187 Akrilik became Turkey’s 44th largest company according to the results of the 500 Largest Industrial Enterprises of Turkey survey by the Istanbul 390 161 Chamber of Industry (ISO). 350 As a result of its developmental and operational excellence over 285 125 the last five years, Aksa Akrilik has managed to double its level of EBITDA. Aksa distributes profits with stakeholders as a basic 252 22 111 principle, and paid out 161 million TL in nominal dividend 196 19 90 profit in 2016, over a three-fold increase from 2012. Thus, the highest dividend distribution in a single year was reached. 14 16 15 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 After posting uninterrupted yearly EBITDA BRUT PROFIT DIVIDEND growth for the five-year period During the period 2012-2016, Aksa succeeded in completing the year Aksa increased the amount of between 2012-2016, Aksa Akrilik Aksa increased its EBITDA by 2016 by raising brut profits by 8% on dividends distributed by 108% over continued carrying this stable 97% on aggregate and by aggregate and by 3% year-on-year in the five-year period and by 21.6% growth line in 2016 with more 19.4% year-on-year. spite of economic crisis and all negativity. year-on-year. success. 97% 8% 108% AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4-4 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 # fiberfortheworld P.19 Aksa aims to maintain sustainability and targeting, and constantly invests to meet these goals. These investments, in addition to accelerating Aksa Basic Economic Indicators Regarding Last Five Years as it progresses towards its targets, create new employment capacity and increase the number of employees. (Quantity) (%) (USD, MILLION) 1,248 1,217 1,248 83 * 100 75 896 98 98 98 57 711 45 36 95 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Revenue Administration announced EMPLOYMENT CAPACITY UTILIZATION INVESTMENTS * On December 31, 2013, The Company merged with Aktops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş., in which it had a 100% share 2015 Turkey's Corporate Taxpayers prior to this date. Top 100 Rankings in July 2016 that Despite the small decline seen In the last five years, Aksa did not only increased Between 2012 and 2016, Aksa Akrilik, rose 11 steps higher in 2016, Aksa increased its its capacity, but also was able to use its total USD 296 million were invested than the previous year, and employment by 15.1% year on capacity most efficiently. With a capacity in total. found itself among the Turkey’s year and by 75.5% in total in utilization of 100% in 2016, a new record is tax champion companies by the period of 2012-2016. reached in company history. becoming the 47th largest corporate taxpayer. 76% 100% 296 MILLION USD AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.20 WE BECOME ONE TO CARRY TURKEY'S ACRYLIC FIBER TO THE WORLD FOR QUALITY AND TRUST WITH OUR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES REACHING 1,248 FOR LEADERSHIP IN FIVE CONTINENTS AT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Aiming to reach a fair company level by AT ENVIRONMENTAL APPLICATIONS supporting its financial achievements AT OHS AND SEVESO with corporate governance practices, AT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Aksa seeks to create sustainable value TO DEVELOP PRODUCT AND INNOVATE for its stakeholders. Through effective TO SHAPE THE FUTURE.... communication channels, the company AND WITH THE HIGHEST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RATING ensures the spread of company strategies IN THE AWARDS GIVEN BY THE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT to the entire organization, and follows the ASSOCIATION OF TURKEY goals of effective control mechanisms and WE BECOME # 1 business and sustainability. Dissemination of Vision and Strategies Each year, for over 10 years, Aksa has developed new approaches to increasing performance. In order to increase awareness of this strategic vision among its employees, Aksa conducted “Vision and Strategies for Dissemination” presentations under its ETHICAL MANAGEMENT In addition, stakeholders can report nonGeneral Manager’s guidance. All employees compliant or ethically-unfavorable situations above the expert level were reached by these The Code of Ethics, which is the most to the Corporate Governance Committee workshops by the end of November 2016. important guide for harmonizing the and the Ethics Committee via an ethical These workshops reminded employees of company's corporate governance principles, phone line or e-mail. Akkök Group of Aksa’s vision model, high goals, basic values serves as a reference for developing a Companies Training Sessions were held and basic features, and also transferred to common mode of behavior in relation at the manager and director level during employees data for the previous five years to Aksa's stakeholders. The Akkök Group the reporting period in order to ensure along with strategic plans for the next five of Companies Business Ethics Principles dissemination of the Code of Conduct and years in a comparative manner. published in 2014 reflects the ethical adoption by all companies involved. The approach and corporate values of the Ethical Rules can be accessed at companies involved. The Akkök Ethics Line, http://www.aksa.com/tr/i80. Aksa Akrilik was selected as the Most Corporate Company of Turkey. which was created to report violations of the Code of Business Ethics and managed by an In all its activities, Aksa acts on the principles Aksa Akrilik, the world's largest producer independent third party, actively serves Aksa of fairness, transparency, accountability of acrylic fiber, was the winner at the 7th Corporate Governance Awards organized stakeholders. and responsibility, and steadily develops by the Corporate Governance Association its corporate governance performance of Turkey. Aksa Akrilik, which has achieved CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RATING BY TKYD by committing to and complying with a Corporate Governance Rating of 9.60 in Year Rating Rank these principles. the audit performed by Turkey's leading independent corporate rating company 2014 11 Saha, is the first company with the highest rating in the Corporate Governance Index, 2015 3 leaving behind 50 companies in the stock exchange market. 2016 1 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.21 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CONTRIBUTION ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Aksa’s product reach extends to many parts of the world, TO SOCIETY EMPLOYEES resulting in a wide range of social, environmental and economic impact. The company seeks to generate value for all stakeholders by making this impact measurably positive, and views this task as central to pioneering OUR MATERIAL PRIORITIES sustainable operational geography. Aksa’s history of involvement with Akkök Group's sustainability practices is exemplary in both the sector and Turkey in general, and this provides valuable corporate experience for the company. RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS IMPROVEMENT OF Making use of the stakeholder feedback collected over WORKING CONDITIONS PROCESS AND PRODUCT OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE years with proven communication mechanisms has served INNOVATION as the center of Aksa’s sustainability policies and practices, ENSURING PRODUCT SAFETY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT allowing the generation of sustainability priorities, and CUSTOMER INFORMATION PRESERVATION short, medium and long-term sustainability targets. REGARDING PRODUCTS In Aksa, the General Manager is responsible for the EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION OF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY MANAGEMENT COMPETITIVENESS POSITION financial and operational performance of the company, LEGAL COMPLIANCE/ OPEN DOOR PRACTICES EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT as well as the sustainability performance of the Board of COMPLIANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT Directors. Sustainability issues spread from the upper level WITH INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM to the lower level bi-directionally; performance results UNIVERSITY INCORPORATION OF QUALIFIED (AIRBORNE EMISSIONS – CHEMICAL INDUSTRY REGULATIONS in these areas are controlled by supervision mechanisms COLLABORATIONS WORKFORCE BY AKSA GHG/OTHER GASES) AND AGREEMENTS CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT and are sent back to the upper levels with reporting applications. LOCAL HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTION WATER MANAGEMENT COLLABORATIONS RIGHTS MANAGEMENT TO EDUCATION CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The vision model, company strategies and stakeholder OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH WASTE MANAGEMENT feedback especially play an important role in determining COLLABORATIONS WITH NGO'S AND SAFETY Aksa's sustainability priorities. Policy, implementation, target and performance results for Aksa's priority sustainability issues -Sustainable VALUE CHAIN PRIORITIES Operations, Employees, Environment and Societal Contributionwere and are presented to stakeholders. During the reporting period, stakeholder views were collected via one-on-one interviews with each division managers and stakeholders' opinions are transmitted . At the same time, priorities were highlighted in the strategic planning workshop with executive management. Aksa aims to create surplus value for all its stakeholders by making its social, environmental and economic impact measurably positive. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.22 laboratories SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS R&D work has been completed on modacrylic m² area 618 4 fiber, which can produce high-grade flame Continuing its activities since 1968, Aksa reached saturation with a 100% capacity retardant, in a field in which only a limited number of companies participate. The AKSA utilization rate in 2016. Having determined this saturation goal long beforehand, supply of the product on an industrial scale is planned to start in 2017. A high valueAkrilik R & D projects Aksa reached the goal with sure steps. At added product, modacrylics can be used R&D experts 39 11 the same time, Aksa remains unsatisfied in protective work clothes, in the plastics with this achievement and aims to grow industry and in artificial hair production. In new products and strategic alliances by finding new uses for acrylic fiber in the sector, which is the centerpiece of the new addition to creating new areas of use for acrylic fibers, studies of differentiation of acrylic fibers continue successfully. Laboratory Center vision model developed in 2014. Unique work is being carried out on the use of acrylic FOUR NEW PATENTS technical knowledge gained via new fiber on heat resistance and comfort for product development and R&D activity plays use in underwear and performance sports a significant role in creating new business products. Performance tests are carried out areas. In addition, Aksa aims to achieve these with numerous companies in the world and goals by focusing on new investments and progress with positive results. Acrylic Fiber Anti-Odour Acrylic Produced From sustainability. Acrylusion is a product that is demanded Fiber via Zinc Oxide Ternary Polymer Aksa Akrilik established its R&D Center in line especially in the woven carpet industry due Additive Mixture with the goals of finding new uses for acrylic to its silky softness and is essential for filament fiber and growing through new products yarn. In order to increase the capacity of or strategic alliances. The R&D Center was the carpet sector, necessary investments are recognized with the R&D Center Document planned. Acrylic Fiber by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Produced From Acid Dyeable Technology. It is our most important priority to produce a Acrylic Fiber Binary Polymer problem-free, high-quality, brilliantly colored The Aksa Akrilik R&D Center, founded in product that meets with customer desires. Mixture the beginning of 2017 and registered as Acrylic fiber, unlike other fibers, can be dyed in #432, seeks new areas for acrylic fiber usage a variety of colors, giving our products a clear and conducts new product development in advantage with customers who desire colorful line with Aksa’s vision and prioritization of products. operational excellence and sustainability. Eleven innovative and qualified projects are currently underway. The R&D Center, employing 39 specialists in the field, operates with a 618 square-meter area and 4 laboratories. The Center also files patent applications for new products and technologies developed. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.23 Acrylic fiber's excellent color fastness in dye absorption is highlighted by Aksa's rich spectrum of colors. TEXTILE At the Textile Directorate, the color bank and offices got a new face. An average of 500 new colors per year DIRECTORATE'S are placed in the new color bank with 17,000 capacity. NEW COLOR BANK Existing color banks and offices have been renewed under Color Bank and Sub-offices Renewal project. The color bank and offices, which are configured in a larger area than the old one, have been turned into a much more comfortable and effective working space in terms of daily workflow and archiving space. Color archives, color viewing area, prescribing and recreation areas were separated with the project. Thus, Aksa has provided a much more colorful work environment compatible for its institutional culture. Approximately 12,000 pieces of color are in the bank, and average 40-50 pieces of color start the journey to production by meeting acrylic fiber after passing through the renewed office. The new color bank with a capacity of 17,000 units, is being extended by 500 pieces per year on average. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-18 G4-XX G4-XX G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.24 ENERGY PRODUCTION Aksa Akrilik has launched the New Turbine Project , which is aimed at As a world brand, Aksa requires electrical increasing the security of energy supply, New Turbine Project and steam energy in the same place for its reducing conversion cost and increasing production phase. For this reason, in-plant profitability of energy operations. Within Aksa Akrilik has launched the New Turbine Project , energy production is seen as the most the scope of the project, the Energy which is aimed at increasing the security of energy supply, suitable method instead of using remotelyDirectorate, Purchasing Department and supplied electricity. In addition to other new reducing conversion cost and increasing profitability of MAN team signed on to successful process investments, Aksa constantly invests in energy, energy operations. Within the scope of the project, the management model, and started the USD based on its need for high-quality and costEnergy Directorate, Purchasing Department and MAN 35 million project. effective energy sources. In this context, the team signed on to successful process management model, existing natural gas power plant and the In 2016, it is planned to launch the New and started the USD 35 million project. new cogeneration type Aksa Power Plant are Turbine project, which will provide more and capable of producing 142.5 MW of electricity more reliable electricity supply, conversion cost and process steam at the same time. Aksa also supplies energy to Akkök Group companies and energy production capacity with the same DowAksa and Ak-Kim, both located in Yalova. boiler operation conditions. It is planned to be commissioned in 2017. As a main working principle, Aksa’s power Nature friendly Electricity production plants make use of new, environmentallyfriendly technologies. Flue gas emission values storage and transfer In 2015, electricity production of the mentioned plants and ESP (electrostatic grossed 786 GWh, and this figure precipitator), SCR (selective catalytic reduction) Aksa Power Plant has Turkey's increased in 2016 by 3% to 811 and FGD (Flue-gas desulfurization) units are first and only fully enclosed coal GWh. continuously monitored by the Provincial storage silos and underground Directorate of Environment and Urbanism coal conveyor systems. continiously 24/7 via an online emissionmonitoring systems. Aksa Power Plant has Turkey's first and only fully enclosed coal storage silos and underground coal conveyor systems. Thanks to these closed systems, problems such as dusting and flying are prevented. The whole system is closed until the cargo vessels used in the plant are transported to the power plant and transferred to ash silo transport vehicles. In 2015, electricity production grossed 786 GWh, and this figure increased in 2016 by 3% to 811 GWh. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-XX G4-18 G4-19 G4-XX G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.25 PORT ACTIVITIES AKSA AKRiLiK Within the scope of our port activities, Liquid and Dry cargo decks and the main raw materials that are required by the Aksa plant are transported safely, stored and operated, and the necessary raw materials are handled by providing services to the sister companies. RECEIVED THE The port facility is a private port facility for 300,000 tons per year liquid chemical raw material discharge terminal and 300,000 tons per year for coal power plant located in the plant. GREEN PORT Aksa successfully passed audits by the Turkish Standards Institute (TSE) under the Green Port / Eko Port Project, which the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications began at the end of 2014. Having the certificates of ISO 9001 Quality Management System , ISO CERTIFICATE. 14001 Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System certificates for many years, Aksa has passed the Green Port / Compliance with Sectoral Criteria and earned the eco port certificate. It was yet another great success for a company that already stands out among its peers due to work in fields such as reduction of environmental pollution caused by port operations, energy efficiency and prevention of work accidents. The General Directorate of Merchant Marine and the Turkish Standards Institute (TSE) emphasized that Aksa is the best facility they have observed in Turkey in terms of measures taken against coal dusting in coal handling operations and performance in this area. Aksa, was awarded the green-eco port certificate after audits by the General Directorate of Maritime Trade and the Turkish Standards Institute (TSE). AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.26 INVESTMENTS Aksa continued with its operational excellence Investment Expenditures for 2016 YEAR OF INVESTMENT EMPLOYMENT RAISE concept in 2016, focusing on efficiency and qualityenhancing projects. Also, Aksa 2017 will be the year of Increased investment continues with projects within the scope of 19% SEVESO Investments investment. Projects whose and labor, provided its new business and product development engineering and feasibility a 35% employment strategy according to plans prepared in previous seasons. 10% Process Product Development, New Product Investments study phases are completed increase in construction in 2016 are expected to be realized in 2017. and mechanical works. In 2016, Aksa continued to create new products and applications for acrylic fiber, 11% Energy Efficiency and pursue both operational excellence and Operational Excellence (infrastructure, R&D activities for process development and facilities maintenance, textile improvement. 60% investments, renewal, modernization, quality improvement, raw material warehouse port) In 2016, Aksa continued to work on the New LOCAL CONTRIBUTION MODACRYLIC Turbine project, which will provide increased and reliable electricity supply, improved cycle Several factors contributed to a contraction in demand toward the end of the year: concerns OUR CUSTOMERS Cooperation with PRODUCTION FACILITY cost and increased capacity with the same boiler operating conditions. The new turbine is stemming from an increase in terrorist threats Customer focus is among the local companies and 14 million USD is being scheduled to be commissioned in 2017. in the wake of the regrettable coup attempt in July, continuance of difficulty with collection, fundamental values that determine the local contribution to invested for Modacrylic stance of Aksa, and thus reaching customers Investments in compliance with the an increase in foreign currency exchange rates with products and services that will meet or projects is especially Fiber Production and financing issues experienced by the banking Regulation on the Prevention and Reduction sector. Acrylic fiber consumption and demand, exceed demand and expectations is a high preferred. Facility with a capacity of the Effects of Major Industrial Accidents , priority. To meet this goal, taking customer ongoing since 2011, continued in 2016 as well. having increased across world markets in 2015, continued to grow in the first half of 2016, feedback, constantly communicating with of 1,000 tons per year The Security Report prepared regarding harmonization process was presented to especially in Far East markets. Shrinking Chinese customers, and developing products and services as a result of feedback are crucial to until the end of 2017. demand post-June and anti-dumping practices the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on implemented by China led to aggressive efforts Aksa. 29.06.2016. by Korean and Japanese, also including Chinese producers to enlarge market share with fiercely The Aksa Customer Services Unit evaluates In order to create new products and product requests and complaints, focusing applications for acrylic fiber in 2016, 14 million competitive pricing in Aksa’s main markets: Turkey and Iran. The small revival of demand in on consistent and constant provision of MODACRYLIC FIBER PROPERTIES USD is being invested for production facility the European and US markets in the first half technical service support to customers. In with a capacity of 1,000 tons per year until the of 2016 did not continue as expected, especially this context, a total of 69 technical visits end of 2017. after August. The Iranian market, on the other hand, sustained high consumption of acrylic fiber were made in 2016. The unit also offers consultancy for customers who wish to Flame resistance Limited number of Protective clothing MARKETING AND SALES for the entire year, due to the relaxation of the improve performance, and 27 consultancies producers embargo and resulting excitement of opening were administered from 2012-2016. In the acrylic world, a niche Working in the production of The beginning of 2016 saw growing up to foreign markets. This especially fueled high product as modacrylic fibers, There are currently a limited number modacrylic fiber especially for uncertainty due to tension between Russia demand in the carpet industry. In the Iranian The Customer Satisfaction survey, which are preferred for products that of producers in the world. Aksa is the the protective clothing sector, and Turkey over a downed Russian aircraft. market, local producers had difficulty keeping measures customer satisfaction with only one in Turkey. Internationally, require high degree of flame R&D studies are continuing in Especially in the first half of 2016, two keys up with demand and some Far Eastern players technical services provided, is conducted Aksa is planning to compete against resistance (e.g. fire-fighting cooperation with the leader led to higher domestic demand: market had to exit the market, both factors leading to through an independent survey agency. garments, synthetic hair, Japan, China and Taiwan. company of the protective outfits confidence that commodity prices reached a significant increase in market share for Aksa. Results of the survey are analyzed and their lowest possible points and an inventory Demand increase in the Iranian carpet industry used to make action plans with the goal of protective clothing, etc.). sector in the world. deficiency that affected the entire supply chain. helped Turkish carpet yarn producers balance a increasing customer satisfaction. decline in the Turkish market. High-value It is a high-value-added product. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.27 AKSA received TS ISO/IEC 27001: 2013 investigated are questioned and operations . As of 2016, technical drawings made . Information Security Management are carried out according to OHS principles within the scope of our processes are now System Certification and working hours. The Supplier Performance supplied from local sources. As a corporate culture, Aksa highly values System, which is implemented on an annual confidentiality with customer information. To basis, ensures that the basic competence areas During our operational level staff selection achieve maximum security of company and of existing suppliers are identified, developed process, we have increased our number of stakeholder information, Aksa successfully and evaluated for their annual performance. qualified applicants through collaborations completed ISO 27001 Information Security with İşkur and Yalova Municipality. Management System studies, which During the reporting period, Aksa audited Efficiency of exam administration . began piloting in customer service in 2015, three companies that provided critical and evaluation has been increased by and expanded to include its thorough materials in a level that would affect transference to an electronic medium. documentation of all processes in 2016. production. Energy system security is of great Local contribution During the reporting period, no complaint Subcontractor Responsible, which operates importance for Aksa's sustainable During the reporting period, was received regarding violation of customer under the Directorate of Purchasing at Aksa, operations. Every year, many development projects are dedicated to this issue. In 2016, Yalova local suppliers' TL-based information privacy. An attempt is being serves as an operational structure to ensure that contractors and subcontractors are one of these projects was completed. On procurement rate for all active made to develop an approach regarding the regularly audited and monitored. 29-30 December 2016, heavy weather domestic suppliers was 44%. customer in complaint management. conditions and electricity interruptions The routine customer visit plan was revised to Subcontractor Responsible, working in affecting the Marmara region helped the cover the entire customer portfolio. Product coordination with the HR, Legal, HSE and project's significance be better understood development and quality improvement Administrative Affairs departments, ensures that the employees of subcontractors both in our company and the local region. Thanks to the project, there were no losses Local contribution projects are continuing to meet the customer demands reported in the survey. work in healthy, safe and human in terms of our company and the region As of 2016, technical drawings made dignified establishments via Subcontractor in which we live, when millions of dollars within the scope of our processes are SUPPLY CHAIN Management System. were lost throughout the country. now supplied from local sources. Internalizing responsible supply chain Abuse Our company, which is connected to the management, Aksa aims to implement Significant studies on abuse were conducted 154kV energy transmission line in the supplier selection and evaluation practices during the reporting period. In this year, project at one point, decided to establish based on social and environmental abuse training was repeated and employee new 154kV lines in 2013 with the aim criteria, as well as financial criteria, and to awareness was increased. of increasing energy system security. A Despite inconsistency in all major proactive approach was demonstrated promote sustainability in the value chain. at this stage and work with TEIAS, one acrylic fiber markets over the year, Communication, supervision and performance As a purchasing unit, a risk assessment was conducted on abuse and immediate actions of the key stakeholders, started in the Aksa succeeded in operating at evaluation applications are carried out in line with the concept of supply chain management were taken regarding identified risks. Our goal same year. With the excellent support full capacity, due to product on which continuous communication is based is to address the grand majority of identified provided by TEİAŞ, thanks to the new variety and sales policies, and and mutual development is carried out. The risks by the end of 2017. lines commissioned in December 2016, closed the year strongly. . selection of procurement policies that focus on the energy security of our company has sustainability, accountability and accountability LOCAL CONTRIBUTION increased and the energy operation and has commenced and is expected to be maneuvering ability in our region has Aiming to make the area of indirect been increased. completed by 2017. economic impact positive in procurement, Aksa contributes to the level of prosperity Aksa takes into account issues such as the of local people by prioritizing suppliers in selection of new suppliers, the environment the Yalova region where they operate. and OSH policies, ethical values and During the reporting period, Yalova local employee rights in the evaluation process suppliers' TL-based procuremen rate for all of existing suppliers. It is expected that the active domestic suppliers was 44%. compliance and quality certifications of the suppliers whose policies and approaches are AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4-15 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 G4-23 G4-26 # fiberfortheworld P.28 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AKSA applies both legal and voluntary practices and standards effectively in all The products are renewed every year by passing the Category 1 conformity tests. With this application, the production of Aksa products without harming human health ..Our Management System Certificates ISO 9001 Quality Management System . processes. Based on changing market and environment is guaranteed by inspection ISO 14001 Environmental Management conditions and customer-focused approach, and certification. System it follows innovation in technology . and market, producing a competitive Corporate Memory and Information OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and environment, high efficiency, superior quality Security Management System Studies Safety Management System and low energy consumption, all without Today, innovation in communication and .. compromising occupational health and information technologies necessitates Reporting of ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas safety. It applies the operational excellence the protection and strengthening of Emissions approach in all processes in order to ensure information sources and demands the the continuity of the value it creates with most efficient management of corporate ISO 50001 Energy Management System . its products and services. It carries out information capital. Aksa, who has been in its operations by using and observing operation for nearly 50 years, completed its ISO 31000 Risk Management System international standards. Corporate Memory and Information Security Management System project in 2016, ISO 27001 Information Security Product Safety which was launched in 2015 to manage its Management System Understanding customer and market accumulated corporate knowledge. With needs forms the basis of Aksa's business the project, lists of departmental-based style. Aksa always develops new and better corporate information were produced in products to add value to its customers and 2015 and were then made accessible both the environment. Efforts are being made to in electronic and hard copy. The results of ensure that products are produced and used the risk assessments carried out in terms of safely for the entire value chain throughout accessibility, integrity and confidentiality the life cycle. With this understanding, Aksa have been transformed into live resources carries out its operations in compliance by making them electronically accessible. with international standards for product In connection with this, actions taken for quality, environment and human safety. the risks above the acceptable level were By closely following local and international managed through the same electronic regulations (CLP, REACh, Ca Prop. 65, ETAD, system. ZDHC, INDITEX, etc.), human health and environmentally friendly working perception is being implemented throughout the supply chain from suppliers to customers. During the product development process, compliance with the human and environmental health regulations is actively and proactively pursued. In this direction, OEKO-TEX® Standard 100, an independent inspection and certification system covering all production stages of textile products, has been implemented by Aksa since 1995. G4-EC2 G4-DMA G4-EN3 G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN7 G4-EN8 G4-EN9 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE G4-EN10 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN21 G4-EN22 G4-EN23 G4-EN27 # fiberfortheworld P.29 We know that we can maintain the world as In 2016, 65% of total water consumption was Aksa evaluates climate change in the context Our greenhouse gas emissions were also a livable place for future generations, given handled by our Reverse Osmosis facility. This of risks and opportunities, and continues its added to the online system of the Ministry of that we can minimize our environmental contributed to the region's existing water operations according to legal and self-imposed Environment and Urbanization this year as part Total Amount of impact, implement environmental friendly resources and its balance. At the Yalkim regulations. In this context, our greenhouse of our legal obligation to the “Greenhouse Non-hazardous Waste processes, and create awareness in the entire Common Treatment Plant, 2,830,040 m3 gas emissions have been documented Gas Monitoring Plan . Reporting of our supply chain. We are rational in the use of resources and every effort is made with respect waste water was treated in accordance with regulations. with comprehensive assurance under ISO 14064-1 this year and our ISO 50001 Energy greenhouse gas emissions for 2015-2016 will be done in 2017 in accordance with regulation. 96% to the environment. We employ a transparent Management System documentation has approach toward our stakeholders regarding At the same time, in order to prevent soil been successfully completed. 96% of the waste our health, safety and environmental pollution and to protect the environment in is considered for performance. 2016, infrastructure projects for wastewater It is also fundemental to use energy efficiently, Energy Efficiency recycle and as lines were initiated. All subterranean lines despite the supply of continuous energy for raw material Aksa manages its operations and were converted into overhead lines, and the continuity of our operations. Processes are Energy efficiency projects in the environmental performance in full compliance possible accidental conditions may now improved via projects executed during the reporting period provided energy contribution in with laws and regulations, consistently seeking be detected instantly to avoid potential working year in order to save energy by using savings of 40.179 GJ thermal energy other sectors. to go beyond minimum legal requirements. environmental pollution. The project, which energy more efficiently. and 756 GJ electric energy. During the reporting period, USD 1.7 million reached 80% completion in 2016, is planned environmental protection expenditure and for full completion in 2017. Energy efficiency projects in the reporting investment was realized. It is crucial to educate period provided energy savings of 40.179 GJ our employees about the related subjects Waste Management thermal energy and 756 GJ electric energy. and processes in order to raise awareness As a manufacturing company, Aksa operates Due to these savings, we achieved 4,400 tons about environmental issues and to achieve with the awareness that processes producing of CO2 reduction. CO2 Reduction better performance. In this context, during waste must be managed with precision. the reporting period, our employees were Waste is strictly managed according to According to the regulation, the source Within reporting period, we achieved provided with 3,762 hours of environmental regulation. Reduction of wastes at source, and combustion emissions of our energy production 4,400 tons of CO2 reduction. education. In addition, training was provided separate collection and disposal according to facilities are monitored on-line by 24/7 ÇŞİM and to employees of the contractor companies. In type of waste are carried out in accordance ÇŞB with Continuous Emission Measurement 2016, 900 hours of environmental education with legislation. Systems. Thanks to the projects carried out were provided to contractor company throughout the year and the continuous employees. In 2016, transformer replacements were monitoring provided, the relevant emissions carried out within the scope of waste reduction values were well below regulation targets. Water Management works. Transformers over 30 years old have Taking necessary precaution to ensure been renewed and oil system transformers efficient use of and sustainability of natural have been converted to dry-type transformers. resources is of special importance for the entire In this respect, the oil / waste-oil problem The Amount of Waste Heat world. Water is one of the most essential was remedied, and at the same time, loss of Specific Steam Energy Consumption Specific Electricity Consumption Produced and Used natural resources, and water management is production due to substation faults decreased. becoming more and more critically substantial due to the impact of climate change. Energy Efficiency And Climate Change 99.5 80.1 75.7 According to our sustainable production In order to ensure operational sustainability, 100.8 100.4 philosophy, we have adopted a holistic water uninterrupted energy supply and energy 97.3 97.2 99.8 61.0 59.6 management approach that encompasses management has special significance for 53.5 diversity of water resources, efficient 96.6 97.7 Aksa. Systematic energy management consumption of water, and wastewater oversees procurement, efficiency, climate character issues given to the recipient. In this change, and other environmental impacts. 94.6 context, we devoted efforts to improve the We provide consistent energy production for 94.8 performance of our Reverse Osmosis and our subsidiaries in the same region, and excess Common Treatment Plants in 2016, which energy generated is supplied to the electricity were commissioned in 2015 for the sake of market. sustainable growth. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE G4-DMA G4-EN5 G4-EN9 G4-EN11 G4-EN12 # fiberfortheworld P.30 AKSA AKRİLİK WORKS FOR A THE HEADQUARTERS BUILDING OF Green IT Applications SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Biodiversity AKSA AKRİLİK CHANGED THE FACE In 2016, approximately 41,000 Thanks to work with the Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Assessment Foundation (ÇEVKO), Aksa Akrilik has met many obligations and contributed substantial environmental OF AKSA In 2016, together with Hacettepe University, Aksa prepared The transactions are processed via eBA new developed applications (e.g. benefits. Aksa moved all employees to a new headquarters Ecosystem Report by carrying out in situ observations and scientific Project Management, Incoming / As a result of Aksa Akrilik's work with ÇEVKO since 2011, building that better provides a healthy and ecological studies to cumulatively evaluate not Outgoing Documents, Meeting Notes, Announcements, Unit Work Permits, life. Applications are being prepared for the just Aksa but all industrial facilities Work Tracking Systems) via Electronic the following benefits have been realized: in terms of regional effect on flora, environmentally-friendly building's candidacy for the fauna and the ecosystem. As a result Document Stream and time and paper savings were realized. Green Building Certificate for LEED Leadership in of the studies, the bio-ecological 561 11 12,179,864 characteristics of the study area Energy and Environmental Design . and its immediate surroundings in kw/h terrestrial and marine areas were trees acres of of electricity was saved. The new Aksa Akrilik building changed the environment, ensures that Istanbul Akhan staff recorded. The studies concluded that were forest face of Aksa with a modern design. Marketing will also continue to work in new buildings in Sales and New Business Development Yalova. Applications for candidacy for the LEED the biological diversity of the region saved. land Directorate, Finance Directorate and Head Green Building certificate will also be made in terms of terrestrial and inland Office staff moved to the new building. for the new campus, which stands out as an water ecosystems were already quite This investment, initiated with the principle eco-friendly building property. low, and there were no endemic, 12,714 m sensitive or endangered species 3 of creating a healthy and ecological living storage space was 4,412 annual electricity observed. At the same time, it was reported that there would be no negative impact on the ecosystem if saved. consumption of 4,412 families Aksa continued its sensitive work to 5 protect the area while maintaining football-field 874,335 operations. sized area m3 of water was saved. 1,568,672 lt fossil fuel was saved. 4 34,859 full car gas tanks annual water consumption of four households AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4-11 G4-DMA G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA2 G4-LA3 G4-LA9 G4-LA10 G4-LA11 G4-LA13 G4-HR5 G4-HR6 # fiberfortheworld P.31 We base our human resources practices on Movement of Headquarters methods. Support for ongoing improvement In order to ensure continuing employee respect for human rights. Aksa believes that Since its establishment, Aksa has been is provided and studies conducted will lead development, experts and employees have employees who are talented, creative, open to to employees' career development. To this prepared development plans in line with THE SHIFT SYSTEM CHANGED operating in Yalova and Istanbul. learning and happy are key to global business Approximately 55 employees continued end, the competencies determined in Akkök's managerial feedback and developmental success. Investment of employees in their own careers will have direct impact on business to work in Istanbul, which is our holding headquarters. However, in 2016, a new field have been updated and the 360 degree evaluation and evaluation center applications needs. In 2016, 47 hours of training were organized according to organizational needs, FOR THE TEXTILE DIRECTORATE success. structure was set up to facilitate work between have continued. taking into account legislative requirements business units, increase communication quality and development plans. All employees A four-shift system was put in action by the Textile Aksa uses systems that ensure that all employees do the right job at the right time, and productivity, and maximize collaboration. It was decided that all employees would be AKSA School The AKSA School is held twice a year in order received the 16-hour Occupational Health and Safety Training and 2-hour Directorate, which previously had operated on a develop their knowledge and skills in line gathered under one roof and units located in to increase the awareness of all the processes Environmental Legislation Training required seven-shift system. The decision was received with with their needs, and receive constructive by legislation. Vocational qualification and timely feedback on their performance. Istanbul would be moved to the Yalova Plant by 1 January 2017. In this context, no employee in the factory, and to ensure professional and career development of operational level training has been completed for related great joy by employees of the Textile Directorate. Effective talent management practices was victimized, all rights were respected, employees who have completed their initial 6 employees in accordance with the law. In enable the selection of future leaders from and the transition process was successfully months at Aksa. The program covers all parts addition to this training, work, orientation, As of January 1, 2016, Textile Directorate announcement of the decision, all existing employees. Employee participation completed. of the factory and lasts for 2 weeks. At the personal development, professional employees who worked on a seven-shift our employees have met this news is strengthened through various internal end of the program, the first three employees development, management systems, and system switched to the four-shift system. with great happiness and they are communication practices, efforts are made Investment in Technology: Oracle HCM entering the degree are given the opportunity manager development trainings were Aksa General Manager Cengiz Taş made pleased with us. I am sure that with to increase employee commitment and all In 2016, the decision to switch to the Oracle to participate in personal development organized. Ethical training was delivered a statement about the change: This this change, which is a nice surprise measures are taken to provide a healthy and Cloud system was taken to integrate and training organized at the factory. In 2016, 15 of based on company strategies. was our dream for the last step of the for Aksa, we will see greater success safe work environment. make the execution of all Human Resources our employees completed the program. Aksa-Aktops integration. We knew that together, and we will push Aksa processes interactive within a single system. The Mentoring Program was initiated for the textile directors' employees expected forward more unified than ever. The Human Resources Department, in The infrastructure for this Core HR and CORASCI (task responsibility matrices) studies managers in Aksa to instill in future leaders this change for a long time. After the its development for 2016 and its longPerformance module was completed in 2016 to support operational excellence and the corporate culture and business style term goals, focused on improving talent according to the scope of the project plan. By productivity were made for all units, and tasks, and to ensure the continuity of employees' management, training and development, the beginning of 2017, Aksa is planning to be responsibilities and processes were analyzed. commitment. The program supports the leading of development, employee the first company to install the Oracle Cloud Improvement areas were identified and work employees' personal and professional loyalty, the dissemination of ethical values, HCM module in Turkey. definitions of the employees were restructured development and aims to contribute to the performance management system, the into new position-based definitions that employees’ individual success. In this context, wage and tier system and shift order, and EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT continued into 2016. mentor and mentee training was given. operational efficiency. Mentors consisted of the General Manager AND SKILLS MANAGEMENT and directors, and mentees were managers. In the process of selecting personnel, university As a result of the Great Place To Work Trust visits continued in 2016 with emphasis on At Aksa, utmost importance is given to Index Implementation in 2016, actionable perception-image work to better place new In 2016, 19 mentor-mentee matches were gathering a qualified workforce to the recommendations for improvement were employees within the organization. Within the made, and a one-year mentor-mentee company within the scope of strategic collected from our employees. To move scope of the Long-Term Internship Program, program was completed. The 19 mentors business targets. Effective performance Aksa forward, project groups were created 8 student internships were provided and the were our General Manager, Director and appraisal, employee development and career to ensure that employees were confidently company participated in a new graduate Managers, and the 19 mentees were selected management practices are continuously connected to the company, proud of their course in Akkök. from the executive level. In addition, 7 pursued to improve talent management work and Aksa, working in full harmony and employees participated in the Manager performance. cooperation with their colleagues, and inspired In 2016, 109 people joined the Aksa family, with an HR Cap program. to improve their working environment. including 1 executive, 28 experts and In line with the great prominence we give Actionable items approved by 12 project engineers, and 80 operational-level employees. We continued to support graduate and to talent management, the competencies groups were initiated. As of year’s end, the total number of doctoral programs to increase intellectual and development areas of our employees employees reached 1,248. capital and support employee development. are determined by modern human resources In 2016, 2 employees began pursuit of graduate degrees. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.32 WORKING LIFE IN AKSA the future with required knowledge, skills, Talent 4.0 at the Engineering Career HSE Directorate. When conducting the experience and competencies, all in harmony Fair of Turkey (TÜMKAF), held in Istanbul OHS activities, the OHS Code, regulations, We consider it paramount to provide with our corporate culture and values . between 14-15 November 2016. Qualified communiqués and national and international The new orientation The Guide a dignified work environment for our The participation activities and Akkök Group engineers and engineer candidates from different universities in Turkey sought career standards are applied. Since 2007, OHSAS 18001 has become an example in the sector. period has begun application is being employees. Across the organization, human resources processes are carried out with companies are as follows: opportunities in leading companies in sectors Orientation programs were passed on respect, employee rights are held inviolable, such as Aksa Akrilik in the fair. Executives of In Aksa, it is our primary responsibility and put in place to ensure that new discrimination is not tolerated, and global 1. ITU İKZ’16 (February, 22-23-24) – AKSA, Aksa Akrilik, with over ten years of institutional objective to create a healthy and safe working The guideline envisions AKENERJİ, AKTEK, AKMERKEZ experience in strategic and systemic planning, environment for our employees. Effective employees get the most out human rights principles are promoted. We also shortening and facilitation of the 2. YEDITEPE UNIVERSITY CAREER DAYS’16 came together with young engineers in an Occupational Health and Safety management of Aksa Akrilik from the day seek to spread these values to our value chain, adaptation process for all new and we are conducting studies on how to best (February, 29) AKSA intimate chat environment under the Tea & is conducted, in which operational risks are they begin their work. This new employees. The implementation do this. 3. METU CAREER FAIR’16 (March, 3-4) AKSA Talk event. On the first day of the fair, Aksa periodically analyzed, preventive measures orientation program ensures of the guide is timed to 4. YTU CAREER FAIR’16 (March, 22-23-24) – Akrilik Corporate Development Manager are taken and action plans are prepared for that Aksa can be seen as a tether with the introduction of From recruiting to hiring, to evaluating AKSA, AKENERJİ, AKTEK Yarem Başak Çimen shared her thoughts possible emergencies. Our performance in whole, through easy access to the new orientation program. performance, to career management practices, 5. TUMKAF ‘16 (November, 14-15 ) AKSA about the strategic planning process under OHS and our main sustainability priorities are management, through provision Guidelines will be applied to all Aksa sets a high standard for itself. We Lounge Sponsor the title, Strategy for a Sustainable Future , constantly being reviewed and improved, of information that can remove while Human Resources Manager and Ethics leading to practices that will cover all stages of new employees in order for them perform recruitment processes by evaluating question marks, by being a Our long-term internship program also Representative Özlem Tamer spoke about the our value chain. to quickly inherit institutional suitable individuals without discrimination and member of the Aksa family and avoiding gender discrimination or separation. continued, in order to establish image Ethics Compass . Berna Çetintaş, Manager culture, to speedily receive and by teaching the OHS culture. The We approach all potential employees from ambassadors that will spread awareness of Customer Services and Quality Monitoring, SEVESO retain training, to increase their objectives of the program include an equal distance, regardless of age, physical of Aksa and evaluate incoming talent that and in charge of Chemistry to Textile: Marvel 2016 was a year full of projects for Aksa. feelings of belonging, to receive introduction of the HR team, disability, race, ethnicity, gender, religion, will suit Aksa’s future needs. During 2016, 7 of Engineering , Erdinç Kazak talked about In order to comply with requirements correct information and to demonstration of unflagging belief or sexual orientation. We also aid the students who were approaching graduation corporate governance and corporate risk resulting from amendment of the directive's socialize easily. were employed as trainees for three months management under the title Who will support throughout the entire socio-economic development of the region implementation date and complete the within the scope of the İŞKUR Job Training survive? documentation process, Aksa continued to workday, establishment of a firm by placing our disabled workers in jobs that suit their physical condition and carry out our Program. We aim to hire a greater number increase its process security investments which open-door policy and emphasis operations according to local employment of qualified applicants by interacting with Guest Lecturer were initiated on the grounds. The Aksa on the importance of the policy. the university departments and students we This is a university activity aimed directly at Security Report was delivered to the Ministry individual employee's voice in all target, and also by increasing our recognition making contact with students and adding field of Labor and Social Security on 29.06.2016. processes. Job Evaluation Project sustainably. experience to their theoretical knowledge. Physical measures were undertaken for With the Job Evaluation Project, all business Courses were provided in the field by the prevention of large industrial accidents. With sizes in Aksa were re-audited, Aksa's special Employment of the new graduate recruitment relevant manager as a guest lecturer. Our this project, Aksa aims to reach international level, title and wage structure were created, process, jointly-carried in Akkök Holding from company, our culture and our processes standards every day by bringing the existing and the system was made transparent by 2010, will enable discovery and enhancement have been introduced to approximately 550 security level to the next level. defining transition criteria for positions of talent that will strengthen and guide Aksa in coming years. students via 10 activities. Our Budget and Cost Accounting Manager Erdinç Kazak gave a The OHS Board, which is the most important Explore Yourself! spreading to more than one level. total of 90 hours of Corporate Governance stakeholder engagement practice and guide, METU and ITU Career Days; The Explore Self activity was organized so that University-Industry Cooperation In 2016, a total of 54 new employees began Course at the Department of Economics of consists of 15 people elected, two of which students could discover their own values and learn about Company Values. In Akkök Holding, our employer brand Myth work, including 14 in expert or higher Istanbul University. were an employee representative and a or Reality was created, strengthening values positions, and 40 in operational level positions. foreman representative. The Board represents Each of the activities took place efficiently and included 17 participants (with from the inside to the outside. The Akkök the entire blue-collar workforce, and consists Aksa Akrilik was the sponsor of the Panoramic of employee representatives, subordinate a total of 34 participants). Group participated in various university OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND activities to recognition and awareness of Lounge at TÜMKAF'16 Turkey Engineering employer representatives, business security SAFETY the sector and participating companies. In Career Fair, the first and only nationally specialists, workplace physicians, a human 2016, during the recruitment and placement organized career fair organized specifically resources manager, a civil defense specialist Aksa conducts health and safety activities processes, university visits ensure the acquisition for the engineering profession. New ideas and an administrative affairs manager. The under HSE Management and Workplace of candidates who will carry the company into and developments arrived under the banner Board concerns itself with Aksa's policy Health Unit Management overseen by the on occupational health and safety and its application. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4-11 G4-DMA G4-EC3 G4-EC5 G4-LA2 G4-LA3 G4-LA5 G4-LA6 G4-LA13 G4-HR5 G4-HR6 # fiberfortheworld P.33 OUR OHS PERFORMANCE IN NUMBERS 1 WE WILL UPROOT THE CAUSES OF 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ACCIDENTS AT AKSA! Accident Frequency Rate 3.20 4.87 8.86 5.70 5.12 Aksa targets operational excellence in its operations. We believe that our most fundamental advantage in achieving this goal is not only our technological facilities spread over a wide area Accident Severity Rate 254.70 125.25 184.04 186.00 155.27 but also our employees. We want our employees to work on healthy premises and return Injury Rate 26.44 19.49 30.33 30.83 29.69 safely to their families. As Aksa, we operate on the principle of adopting and implementing the safest behaviors in the safest environments while focusing on production and ¹Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 Accident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 productivity . We are moving confidently with a goal of zero accidents that brings a safeInjury Rate = Number of Work Accidents *1,000,000 / Total Work Hour working culture to the highest levels. Business health and safety is a parameter that is naturally integrated into the main operations of the Company and is essential to our decision making OHS TRAININGS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES BY YEARS (PERSON X HOUR) process. In 2015, the APC (Accident Prevention Culture) project, which focuses on safe working behaviors, began with the well-known Behavioral Science Technology (BST) firm. Within the scope of the project, a questionnaire study was conducted to analyze the current situation. 28,630 28,138 The survey reported a 92% participation rate. AKAT (AKSA Accident Reduction Team) was 24,620 established with training and preparation. The process, including the LDI questionnaire and 22,404 21,060 coaching interviews, was undertaken with the aim of ensuring that our leaders comply and coordinate within the system. The participation rate of this portion of the project was 91%. The results of the survey confirm that we are right to be proud of our features. Action points 12,681 for improvement were identified and immediately acted upon. In 2016, our Business Security Leaders took the AKAT studies to the field and researched answers to the question 'How can we work more safely?' in a positive environment based on mutual trust. By collecting observations and directly contacting employees or teams, work stresses were evaluated together. 2,300 observations were made by 50 leaders and 144 AKAT observers, who contacted 3,750 persons. Our biggest goal for 2017 will be to ensure the sustainability of AKAT. During the reporting period, there were no accidents or occupational illness cases resulting in death. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2016 SAFETY FIRST! BEST PLACE FOR SAFE WORK Classified with Major Hazard Facilities, To answer 'How can we work Aksa does not employ people who are below 18 years old. In the same way, more safely?' question, 2,300 subcontractors or contractors do not The more OBSERVERS, the more OBSERVATION. observations were made by 50 The more OBSERVATION, the more CONTACT between employees. take workers on the factory area who leaders and 144 AKAT observers, The more CONTACT, the SAFER the WORK. are below 18 years old. who contacted 3,750 persons. The SAFER the WORK, the less PRONE to ACCIDENTS. The smaller the RISK, the more the CULTURE CHANGES. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.34 The Company, which is listening to its The Corporate Social Responsibility activities, Those who benefit from this process include artist Çetin Tekindor, 45 years story of acrylic information is shared, including current stakeholders' expectations through effective which the Company has continuously various stakeholders such as local residents, fiber was told. In the film, starting with lines as: developments, new investments, social and transparent communication mechanisms developed with new projects, added value non-governmental organizations, schools, Some touches affect every moment of life. , responsibility projects and acrylic fiber usage Open Door Visits and encouraging stakeholder participation with a voluntary approach, remains focused on to every region where the name Aksa passed in 2016. The expenditure details that employees' families, customers, benchmarking teams, domestic and overseas visitors. Aksa Akrilik's factory in Yalova, production processes and areas of use of acrylic fiber come areas. All stakeholders, including customers, partners and members of the press, can access Continue awareness-raising human and environmentAksa made under the name of Donation and to life in colorful images. In the promotional up-to-date information and news about the In 2016, Open Door Visits sensitive practices in its projects. Supported Social Assistance in 2016, including education, Aksa Puts Smiles on Children's Face on film, the softness, flexibility and solidity of the company through these proprietary social continued intensely. Within the by Akkök Holding's social responsibility culture, arts and sports activities, are given in April 23 acrylic fiber that touches every area of life media accounts. projects, Aksa pioneers concepts in sustainable the table. comes to the forefront. scope of the visits, NGOs, local Aksa Akrilik continued its traditional film community development, with practices in initiative in 2016 by presenting a film to the Aksa TV is on Air residents, schools, customers, education, culture, art, sports, environment Open Door Visits children of Yalova on April 23rd, National Aksa continues to grow in social media, In addition to developments in Aksa Akrilik, benchmarking teams, domestic and health. By making use of Open Door Visits, initiated in Sovereignty and Children's Day. More than now on Twitter and Instagram! Aksa TV, which includes current news from and overseas visitors, had the 1999 according to principles of transparency 2,000 children spent a wonderful time Continuing to meet its followers on social Turkey and the world, has begun broadcasting. opportunity to visit the Aksa Donations and Social Benefits and accountability, Aksa has become an watching the Bold Cock movie for free networks, Aksa Akrilik recently established Working with a closed-circuit broadcasting production area and satisfy their Aksa is aware that sustainability in social example of stakeholder involvement to on April 23rd in the Özdilek Cinetime movie accounts on Twitter and Instagram. Having system, Aksa TV was initially deployed at four curiosity. Surveys conducted development is possible with educated, the business world. The program allows all theater. entered the digital world with corporate different broadcasting points of the plant. after each visit were evaluated equipped, cultured, initiative, environmentally stakeholders to pass on suggestions, requests Facebook and Linkedin accounts last year, Aksa Aksa TV aims to increase broadcasting points in according to Aksa's improvement and collectively enabled generations. With and complaints to Aksa officials, which Aksa Akrilik’s presentation film finds its Akrilik opened its doors to followers on Twitter the coming period, and already boasts a large strategies. this awareness, the Company is tasked enables employees to communicate easily voice by Çetin Tekindor's and Instagram from the world's largest social amount of dynamic content such as weather, with enriching the educational and cultural and clearly with managers. At the same time, Aksa Akrilik's new corporate promotion film networks as of April 2016. sports fixtures, traffic reports, stock exchange opportunities of locals in regions where it Aksa finds opportunity to visit production was published. In the film, titled My Name and exchange rate information. operates. areas and acquire knowledge on the ground. is Acrylic Fiber and dubbed by the master Through these accounts, much interesting DONATIONS AND SOCIAL AIDS IN 2016 (TL) Donations and Social Aids Amount Education 1,696,229 Associations, Foundations and Municipalities 830,367 Total 2,526,596 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4-DMA G4-EC7 G4-EC8 # fiberfortheworld P.35 ORCHESTRA OF THE FUTURE WITH AKSA Aksa Akrilik's Orchestra of the Future with Aksa Corporate Social Responsibility Project, which has been realized for the purpose of creating value in the regions where it operates, was completed. The program was welcome with great interest by Mevlana Elementary School, Taşköprü Secondary School and Aksa Vocational and Technical Anatolian High School. The project was implemented in order to strengthen student relationships with music in elementary school and high school. Students were provided with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with different musical instruments and music from around the world. While Orchestra of the Future with Aksa made it possible for the students to receive training from the best trainers in the field, the concert held at Taşköprü Cultural Center was given as a result of the intense work of the children. Yalova Provincial National Education Director Şerafettin Turan, Taşköprü Mayor Nedret Gülen, Aksa Akrilik officials, students, parents, school administrators and project partners all attended the concert. Performed as a corporate social responsibility project, Orchestra of the Future with Aksa trainings continued in cooperation with the Association of Free Musicians and Producers in order to ensure that schoolchildren meet and discover their musical potential. Students participating in the training were given percussion instruments, brass instruments and juggling lessons. Instruments such as bongos and darbukas were donated to schools for these sessions, and melodicas, tambourines and juggling balls were given as gifts to the children so they could take their experience home with them. While Orchestra of the Future with Aksa made it possible for the students to receive training from the best trainers in the field, the concert held at Taşköprü Cultural Center was given as a result of the intense work of the children. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4-DMA G4-EC7 G4-EC8 # fiberfortheworld P.36 AKSA MET YOUNG ENGINEERS ON AKSA PRESENTATION IN YALOVA WE WERE 11, WE TURNED INTO THE FIELD UNIVERSITY CAREER DAY 145! AKAT AT WORK Aksa Akrilik, the world's largest acrylic fiber Acrylic Fiber Pilot AKAT is spreading the word to all of Aksa producer, an invaluable work place for about being The Best Place for Safe Work . engineers, came together with young engineers Facility Manager Aksa employees from different fields, including at the Vodafone Arena. Aksa Akrilik was the Emrah Eren subcontractors, came together for AKAT training sponsor of the Panoramic Lounge in the Turkey met students to create a safety culture . Aksa employees have Engineering Career Fair TÜMKAF'16. The fair is all contributed as a team to increasing work safety. at Yalova the first and only national career fair organized University Process After every learning experience, preventative data from observations is analyzed to detect specifically for the engineering profession. Engineering measures and precautions are designed and implemented. Accordingly, dangerous and prevent these exposure elements. situation report / run-off / incident / accident The Aksa team will continue to work in the New ideas and developments came to the fore with the title of Talent 4.0 in the On the first day of the fair, Aksa Akrilik Corporate Development Manager Yarem Başak Career Day. In analyses and reports are prioritized and thoroughly constructed. Proactive prevention field, conscious that any preventable element of undesirable situations detected in the Turkey Engineering Career Fair (TÜMKAF), held in Istanbul between 14–15 November Çimen shared her thoughts about the strategic planning process under the title Strategy for the activity held and mitigation efforts are instigated with the goal of progressing past elements that may working environment is a piece broken off from the iceberg . 2016. Qualified engineers and engineering candidates from different universities in Turkey a Sustainable Future , while Human Resources Manager and Ethics Representative Özlem at Raif Dinçkök have resulted in an accident. In this context, all sought career opportunities in the fair from leading firms in sectors such as Aksa Akrilik. Tamer spoke about the Ethics of Compassion . Berna Çetintaş, Manager of Customer Service Cultural Center, Aksa Akrilik's executives, with over ten years of institutional experience in strategic and and Quality Monitoring and Erdinç Kazak, Manager of Budget and Cost Accounting, Eren made a systemic planning, came together with young engineers in an intimate chat environment discussed corporate governance and corporate risk management. presentation on dubbed the Tea & Talk event. Heating-Cooling Needs And Equipments in the Process . AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4-16 G4-DMA G4-EC8 # fiberfortheworld P.37 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS Turkish Chemical Industrialists Ethics and Reputation Association Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Association (TEİD) Istanbul Chamber of Industry Acrylic Based Composite, Turkish Quality Association (KalDer) Yalova Industrialists’ Association IMEAK Chamber of Shipping Advanced Material and Technology Producers’ Turkish Marine Environment Ltd. Eskihisar Gebze Water Yalova Chamber of Commerce Association ProtectionAssociation (Turmepa) Products Cooperative and Industry PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS NGO's LOCAL CHAMBERS INTERNATIONAL DEİK PUBLIC UNION CIRFS European Man-Made DEİK – American Council Undersecretariat of Turkish Textile Employers’ Fibres Association (Mehmet Ali Berkman) Maritime Affairs Association (TTSİS) DEİK European Council Istanbul Textile and Apparel (Ahmet Dördüncü) Exporters’Association (ITKIB) DEİK Foreign Economic Turkish Statistical Institute (TÜİK) Relations Board Turkish Port Operators AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 # fiberfortheworld P.38 METHODS FOR COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS INVESTORS NGOs EDUCATION AND RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS Fiscal Reports Fiscal Reports Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Sustainability Reports Joint CSR Projects SANTEZ Customer Satisfaction Surveys Investor Relations Line Sponsorships TEYDEB Corporate Website Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Research Projects Activities Annual Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Support for Master and Social Media Accounts Investor Presentations Social Media Accounts Doctorate Studies Social Media Accounts Face-to-face Meetings Visits EMPLOYEES Social Media Accounts LOCAL COMMUNITY PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS Sustainability Reports Open Door Practices Open Door Practices Fiscal Reports Sustainability Reports MEDIA E-mail Official Correspondence Face-to-face Meetings Audits CSR Projects Corporate Website Employee Engagement Sustainability Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Press Releases Surveys Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Social Media Accounts Press Conferences Trainings Social Media Accounts Sustainability Reports CSR Projects Surveys Corporate Publication (Aksa News) AKEK and AKSET Organizations Social Media Accounts Representative Committee INDUSTRIAL ASSOCIATIONS Suggestion System OHS Committee LOCAL AUTHORITIES Sectoral Association Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Memberships at Different Levels COMPETITORS Social Media Accounts Fiscal Reports Industrial Meetings Corporate TV Official Correspondence Social Media Accounts Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Sustainability Reports Open Door Applications Fiscal Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Sector Researches SUPPLIERS AKKÖK GROUP OF COMPANIES Social Media Accounts Annual Reports Face-to-face Meetings Surveys Social Media Accounts General Assemblies Auctions, Corporate Website Portakal Portal Corporate Website Periodical Reporting Practices Audits Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Social Media Accounts Social Media Accounts AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 # fiberfortheworld P.39 SECTION III INDICATORS DID YOU KNOW? With the 315,000 tons of acyrlic fiber Aksa produced in 2016, ENOUGH CARPETS TO COVER 4,018 FOOTBALL FIELDS COULD BE PRODUCED AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GOALS # fiberfortheworld P.40 GREEN PORT GREEN BUILDING CSR GPTW PROJECT 2017 2016 Receiving Green Receiving a Green Realizing Orchestra of Completing GPTW Port Certificate for Building Certificate for the Future with Aksa Best Place to Work our Port Facility the Newly Established Corporate Social Project General Directorate Responsibility Project Building in Yalova ACCREDITATION ISO 27001 CDP WATER APC PROJECT Completing the Accreditation Extending ISO 27001 Continuing the Conclusion and Process TS EN ISO 17025 Information Security CDP Water Study Sustainability of General Requirements for the Qualification of Testing and Management and Participating the APC (Accident Calibration Laboratories for System to All in the CDP Climate Prevention Culture) Certain Parts of the Central Company Units Study Project Laboratory GREEN BUILDING GPTW PROJECT NETWORKING BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Receiving a Green Completing GPTW Improving Existing Acquisition of Building Certificate for Best Place to Work Relationships With Business Intelligence GOALS GOALS the Newly Established Project Public Institutions And Applications General Directorate Establishing New Links in Designated Building in Yalova Departments CDP WATER ISO 14046 KOK-AKAT CSR Continuing the Applying ISO Ensuring KOK-AKAT Ensuring Sustainability CDP Water Study 14046 Water Sustainability of Orchestra of the and Participating Footprint Future with Aksa Completing the Standard Corporate Social Preparations in the Responsibility Project CDP Climate Study COMPLETED CONTINUED PLANNED AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS G4-17 # fiberfortheworld P.41 PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 12.31.2013 12.31.2014 12.31.2015 12.31.2016 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 12.31.2013 12.31.2014 12.31.2015 12.31.2016 THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD ASSETS 848,805 861,830 775,236 748,172 LIABILITIES 848,805 861,830 775,236 748,172 Current Assets 401,625 421,358 369,907 394,287 Short-term Liabilities 288,879 324,222 258,325 311,933 Cash and Cash Equivalents 109,267 83,010 117,901 130,229 Financial Liabilities 105,824 121,717 140,423 165,037 Trade Receivables 171,202 207,989 160,898 175,627 Trade Liabilities 159,821 186,056 105,036 138,573 Stocks 86,770 101,931 63,652 61,810 Provision for Period Tax Liabilities 4,890 4,796 5,002 2,106 Other Current Assets 34,386 28,428 27,456 26,621 Other Short-term Liabilities 18,343 11,652 7,864 6,217 Non-current Assets 447,180 440,472 405,329 353,885 Long-term Liabilities 69,140 57,483 87,486 81,130 Trade Receivables 30,376 27,327 29,943 Financial Liabilities 58,387 43,977 73,239 72,054 Investment Property 16,652 13,399 Financial Derivative Instruments 149 323 Financial Investments 1,103 1,016 Provision for Employee Benefits 7,186 9,309 6,956 5,436 Investments Accounted for Using Deferred Tax Liabilities 3,395 4,048 2,485 3,317 114,842 104,613 83,690 60,881 the Equity Method Other Long-term Liabilities 171 4,806 Tangible Fixed Assets 317,908 292,611 247,137 215,060 Shareholders' Equity 490,787 480,125 429,425 355,109 Intangible Fixed Assets 7,460 5,781 28,531 22,257 Other Fixed Assets 5,867 6,075 1,992 12,345 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS G4-10 G4-LA1 G4-LA9 G4-LA12 # fiberfortheworld P.42 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employee Breakdown by Gender Starting Employees by Age Group and Gender Male 798 1,125 1,143 1,121 <30 94 217 71 70 Female 98 123 128 127 30–50 90 237 35 34 TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 1,248 50< 5 17 1 2 Employee Breakdown by Status Male 181 181 122 95 Blue Collar 727 1,047 1,059 1,038 Female 8 290 12 11 White Collar 169 201 212 210 Leaving Employees by Age Group and Gender TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 1,248 <30 27 41 63 36 Employee Breakdown by Age 30–50 35 57 48 88 <30 277 443 406 381 50< 12 10 13 22 30–50 584 766 818 836 Male 62 62 116 114 50< 35 39 47 31 Female 12 50 8 32 Employee Breakdown by Contract Senior Managers Board of Directors 8 12 12 9 Male 20 18 19 8 Permanent Staff 855 1,216 1,226 1,240 Female 1 1 1 0 Permanent Pensioner 13 3 10 8 Mid-level Managers Employee Breakdown by Employment Type Male 34 46 44 44 Full-time 894 1,258 12,69 1,247 Female 7 9 9 10 Part-time 2 2 2 1 <30 0 0 3 4 Employees Subjected to Performance Appraisal by Employee Categories 30–50 27 45 45 46 Blue Collar 712 951 1,054 1,038 50< 12 5 5 4 White Collar 152 162 193 210 Two-year Degree and Below 1 0 0 0 Bachelor's Degree 32 45 42 42 Master's Degree and Above 8 10 11 12 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS G4-EN5 G4-EN6 G4-EN7 G4-EN8 G4-EN22 # fiberfortheworld P.43 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2016 AMOUNTS OF WASTE BY DISPOSAL 2013 2014 2015 2016 METHOD (TON) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) Direct Green-house Gas Emissions 857,737 1,136,312 1,210,750 1,228,077 Total Hazardous Waste 3,199 1,446 2,240 1,249 Recycle 8 120 532 790 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 20,507 22,700 5,815 7,852 Recovery 6 29 0 0 TOTAL 878,224 1,159,012 1,216,565 1,235,929 Incineration (mass burn) 3,185 1,297 1,708 459 Water Consumption (m3) Total Non-hazardous Waste 40,397 47,388 17,792 24,646 Municipal, Sea and Well Water 3.847.412 3.907.162 4.052.386 4.000.200 Recycle 270 789 789 21,696 Waste Water Discharge 2.950.507 2.833.690 2.472.875 2.830.040 Recovery 32,164 40,407 11,606 2,340 ENVIRONMENTAL TRAININGS (PERSON X HOUR) Landfill 1,799 1,255 1,255 300 2014 2015 2016 Incineration (mass burn) 6,184 4,937 4,143 310 1,045 5,693 4,662 * After the opening of the joint treatment plant in 2016, the textile treatment plant was abolished and no dangerous sewage sludge remains there. PROCESS EMISSIONS Total NOx Total SOx Total UOB Other Emission Emission Emission Emissions (PM) 130 kg/hr 100 kg/hr 0,48 kg/hr 2,3 kg/hr AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.44 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-1 Message from the CEO 14 About Report 4 G4-17 Primary Financial Indicators 41 G4-2 Message from the CEO 14 G4-18 Sustainability Management 20-28 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-19 Sustainability Management 20-28 G4-3 Contact 50 About Report 4 G4-20 Generated Economic Value Sustainability Management 20-28 G4-4 18-19 Corporate Website http://www.aksa.com/en/product-selector About Report 4 G4-21 G4-5 Contact 50 Sustainability Management 20-28 About Report 4 About Report; In this report, there are not any restatements of G4-6 G4-22 4 Generated Economic Value 18-19 information provided in previous reports. Aksa 2016 Annual Report About Report 4 G4-7 G4-23 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 Sustainability Management 20-28 G4-8 Generated Economic Value 18-19 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Generated Economic Value 18-19 G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement 21, 26-27, 34, 38 G4-9 41 Primary Financial Indicators G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement 21, 26-27, 34, 38 G4-10 Human Resources Indicators Table 42 Stakeholder Engagement 21, 26-27, 34, 38 G4-11 Human and Employee Rights Management 31-33 G4-26 Sustainability Management 20-28 G4-12 Supply Chain 26-27 Stakeholder Engagement 21, 26-27, 34, 38 Our Customers 26 Corporate Website: http://aksa.com/en/investor-relations/ G4-27 G4-13 Open Door Visits 34 material-disclosures/material-disclosures/i-220 Internal Communication and Employee Engagement 32 Corporate Governance 20 G4-14 Risk Management 28 Strategic Planning 6, 20 Management Systems 28 G4-15 Primary Financial Indicators 41 G4-16 Corporate Memberships 37 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.45 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE REPORT PROFILE MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-28 About Report 4 G4-DMA Not material G4-29 About Report 4 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4-EC5 GRI G4 Content Index (The ratio of standard entry level wage to 44 G4-30 About Report 4 local minimum wage was calculated with respect to employee status) About Report 4 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-31 Contact 50 Value Contributed to Society 34-38 G4-DMA About Report Supply Chain 26-27 4 G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa Sustainability Report 2016 was not subjected to 44 G4-EC7 Value Contributed to Society 34-38 external audit.) GRI G4 Content Index Value Contributed to Society 34-38 G4-33 G4-EC8 (Aksa Sustainability Report 2016 was not subjected to external audit.) Supply Chain GOVERNANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-34 Corporate Governance 20 G4-DMA Sustainable Operations 22 Aksa Annual Report 2016 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 G4-EC9 Supply Chain 26-27 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-56 Ethic Management at Aksa 20 Environmental Management 29-30 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA 29 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4-EN3 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 29 G4-DMA Primary Financial Indicators 41 Environmental Management 29-30 G4-EC1 Primary Financial Indicators 41 G4-EN5 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 29 Environmental Indicators Table 43 Message from the CEO 14 G4-EC2 29 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 29 G4-EN6 Environmental Indicators Table 43 G4-EC3 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 29 Aksa 2016 Annual Report G4-EN7 G4-EC4 14-29 Environmental Indicators Table 43 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.46 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Water Management 29 Environmental Management 29-30 G4-DMA 30 G4-DMA 29 Biodiversity Waste Management Water Management 29 Water Management 29 G4-EN8 G4-EN22 Environmental Indicators Table 43 Environmental Indicators 43 Water Management 29 G4-EN23 Waste Management 29 G4-EN9 Biodiversity 30 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any significant G4-EN10 Water Resources Management 29 G4-EN24 46 spills.) MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY GRI G4 Content Index (There was no body of water significantly affected by G4-EN26 Aksa's water use.) Environmental Management 29 G4-DMA Responsible Production 28 Biodiversity 30 G4-EN27 Water Management 29 G4-EN11 Biodiversity 30 Waste Management 29 G4-EN12 Biodiversity 30 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS GRI G4 Content Index (No significant environmental penalties were received during G4-EN29 46 the reporting period for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.) G4-DMA Emissions Management 24, 29 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN15 Emissions Management 24, 29 G4-DMA Not material G4-EN16 Emissions Management 24, 29 G4-EN32 Supply Chain 26-27 G4-EN21 Emissions Management 24, 29 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4-DMA 31-33 Talent Management G4-LA1 Human Resources Indicators Table 42 G4LA2 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4LA3 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.47 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Not material G4-DMA Ethics Management at Aksa 20 GRI G4 Content Index (For serious operational changes, Aksa complies with the G4-HR2 Ethics Management at Aksa 20 G4LA4 47 minimum period of notice defined by the law.) MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Corporate Governance 20 G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety 32-33 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en G4LA5 Occupational Health and Safety 32-33 GRI G4 Content Index (No incidents of discrimination occurred during the G4-HR3 47 G4LA6 Occupational Health and Safety 32-33 reporting period.) MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Talent Management 31 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 Talent Management 31 G4-HR5 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4-LA9 Human Resources Indicators 42 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4LA10 Talent Management 31 G4LA11 Talent Management 31 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-HR6 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 Value Contributed to Employees MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA 31-33 Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en G4-DMA Not material G4-LA12 Human Resources Indicators Table 42 GRI G4 Content Index (In line with legal regulations, all security personnel receive G4-HR7 47 MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN trainings, which also include aspects of human rights.) G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 G4-LA13 Value Contributed to Employees 31-33 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI G4 CONTENT iÇERiK iNDEKSi INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.48 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLE MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Not material Sustainable Operations 22 G4-DMA 26 Our Customers GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa does not pursue operations with significant negative G4-HR8 48 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period, there was not incident of impacts on local communities.) G4-PR2 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health 48 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle.) Corporate Governance 20 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA 20 Ethics Management G4-DMA Our Customers 26 G4-SO4 Ethics Management 20 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any incident GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there were not any incidents of G4-PR4 of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 48 G4-SO5 48 corruption) and service information and labeling.) MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-PR5 Our Customers 26 G4-DMA Not material MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa does not make directly or indirectly any financial and G4-SO6 48 G4-DMA Not material in-kind political contributions.) GRI G4 Content Index (There was not any incident of non-compliance with MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-PR8 48 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications.) Corporate Governance G4-DMA 20 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Corporate Website : http://www.aksa.com/en GRI G4 Content Index (There was not any legal action taken against Aksa concerning G4-DMA Not material G4-SO7 48 any anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes.) GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period, there were not any MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-HR6 substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 48 customer data.) GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any significant G4-SO8 48 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.) GRI G4 Content Index (There were no significant fines for noncompliance with G4-PR9 48 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP # fiberfortheworld P.49 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN ANTILABOUR ENVIRONMENT RIGHTS CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold The elimination of all Businesses should Undertake initiatives Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association forms of forced and support a precautionary to promote greater against corruption in of internationally and the effective compulsory labour approach to environmental all its forms, including proclaimed human recognition of the environmental responsibility; and extortion and bribery. rights; and right to collective challenges; p. 31-33 bargaining; p. 31-33 p. 31-33 p. 29-30 p. 29-30 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 9 Make sure that they are The effective The elimination of Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally not complicit in human abolition of child discrimination in friendly technologies. rights abuses. labour; and respect of employment and occupation. p. 31-33 p. 31-33 p. 31-33 p. 29-30 p. 20 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTACT G4-XX G4-3 G4-XX G4-5 G4-31 # fiberfortheworld P.50 AKSA AKRILIK KIMYA SANAYII A.Ş. Merkez Mahallesi Yalova-Kocaeli Yolu Caddesi Produced by No:34 PK:114 77602 Taşköprü-Çiftlikköy/Yalova CROSSCOM CORPORATE www.crosscom.biz +90 (212) 225 61 31 Tel: +90 (226) 353 25 45 Fax: +90 (226) 353 33 07 www.aksa.com surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com
