MIDAS AQUAPONICS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 MIDAS AQUAPONICS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 CONTENTS 03 Message from the Managing Partners 04 Purpose and Values 05 About the Company 06 Our History 07 Communication on Progress 08 Human Rights 09 Labour Standards 10 Environmental 11 Anti-Corruption 02 MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING PARTNERS Our objective in this report is to share our progress as it relates to the Ten Principles during the period of [April 2017 through to November 2018. Since its launch, Midas Aquaponics has been setting the standard for sustainable and responsible agriculture across Asia and the Middle East, through our pioneering innovation in Aquaponics and community environmental farming. With the world's population predicted to increase to nine billion people by 2050 – particularly in areas that have high rates of food insecurity — Aquaponics will make a signiﬁcant contribution to global food security and economic stability. We are delighted to present our 2018 Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact. Midas Aquaponics reaﬃrms its unswerving commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, anti-corruption and environmental issues. In our ﬁrst annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the key principles into our daily business practices. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. From supporting the local economy through exciting job creation and hosting educational events, to pioneering sustainable agricultural practices and securing buy-in from socially responsible investors, the last 12 months has been a journey of belief and passion. We have made great progress in moving our vision forward, and in both building and planting seeds for the future. Andrew Fiddament Managing Partner Midas Aquaponics MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM 03 OUR PURPOSE To Create A Sustainable, Responsible Solution for the Future of Food Aquaponics, the system of farming Values plants and ﬁsh together in a mutually beneﬁcial single system, is 95% more We seek out and identify lucrative eﬃcient than traditional agricultural investment opportunities that are methods. It represents a critical tool for rooted in sustainable agriculture and global food sustainability, protecting the farming: future of a constantly rising population. ź Sustainable Our pioneering Aquaponics farms ź Honourable combine the science of hydroponics and ź Asset-backed aquaculture to create a beautifully ź Open and transparent balanced agriculture system, protecting ź Clear investor reporting natural resources at the same time as ź Strong operational controls supporting local communities. ź Supports the UNGC and United Nations Global Goals Producing ﬁsh, fruit and vegetables for local and export consumption, our farms feed the future of food security and seed local economic growth. 04 MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM ABOUT THE COMPANY Headquartered in Chang Mai, Thailand, Midas Aquaponics is setting the standard for “If we promote sustainable sustainable and responsible agriculture across Asia and the Middle East, through our agriculture with modern pioneering innovation in aquaponics and technologies and fair community environmental farming. distribution systems, we With operational oﬃces in Dubai and can sustain the whole Bangkok, our team has decades of global world's population and agriculture industry experience, and expertise make sure that nobody in the innovating sector of sustainable farming. will ever suﬀer from hunger again.” We oﬀer investment opportunities that are rooted in environmental agriculture and Global Goals #2 Zero Hunger farming methods, working with socially responsible investors to create a long-term legacy for the future of food. MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM 05 OUR HISTORY A continuing journey of sustainable and responsible agriculture. Oct 2015 Feb 2016 Jul 2016 Jan 2017 COMPANY LAND GRADED ERECTION FIRST FORMATION DEEP WELLS DRILLED OF R&D GREENHOUSE Mar 2017 Sep 2017 Mar 2018 Sep 2018 FIRST LETTUCE FIRST FISH GAP BANGKOK HARVEST HARVEST ACCREDITATION OFFICE 06 MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Creating A Sustainable, Responsible Solution for the Future of Food MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM 07 Principle Highlights on Progress Human 1. Businesses should Midas Aquaponics is committed to upholding the Rights support and respect the human rights of all involved, both directly and protection of indirectly, in our operations. We respect the human internationally proclaimed rights of individuals and observe domestic and foreign human rights; laws related to human rights and labour in all our 2. And make sure they are business places. not complicit in human Created new Mission statement – “Creating a rights abuses. Sustainable Solution for the Future of Food”, supporting UN Global Goal #1 Zero Hunger. Midas Aquaponics uses the Ten Principles as a guide for partners. We work with suppliers as horizontal partners, sharing visions and goals and pursuing mutual win-win e.g. Agriwize as our operational partner in Thailand. Our produce distribution policy is selective, partnering with UNGC members or companies screened for Human Rights background, such as FamilyMart, Makro, 7Eleven. Midas Aquaponics has developed an integrated management system that includes Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) procedures, which form the minimum requirements that all operations must comply with to ensure that our strict social and environmental policies are carried out. Our EHS procedures are part of the on-boarding program. Achieved G.A.P Certiﬁcation in March 2018. G.A.P. (Good Agricultural Practices) is a farm assurance program, translating consumer requirements into Good Agricultural Practice. The standard was developed using the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) guidelines and, unlike other farm certiﬁcation schemes, it has deﬁnitive rules for growers to follow, and each production unit is assessed by independent third-party auditors. Opened new Sales Oﬃce in Bangkok in November 2018, providing an easily accessible, communication centre for clients, suppliers and employees, increasing transparency and accessibility. Labour 3. Businesses should Partnered with Agriwize to manage Midas Aquaponics Standards uphold the freedom of Systems in Thailand. An established Thailand-based association and the company that specialises in sustainable farm eﬀective recognition of the management services, Agriwize meets GAP, IFOAM and right to collective Global Nations Global Compact guidelines in all of their bargaining; practices. 4. the elimination of all Achieved G.A.P Certiﬁcation. 08 MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM forms of compulsory G.A.P. (Good Agricultural Practices) is a farm labour; a s s u ra n c e p ro g ra m , t ra n s l a t i n g c o n s u m e r requirements into Good Agricultural Practice. 5. the eﬀective abolition of child labour; Midas Aquaponics has in place EHS procedures, which make labour rights a fundamental part of its 6. and the elimination of operations. All staﬀ receive contracts with their discrimination in respect of rights and responsibilities and their compensation employment and and beneﬁts clearly stated, complying with local occupation. legislation. Managers are required to regularly review health and safety risks. Should an incident occur, they are recorded, reported to the local oﬃce and mitigation measures taken to ensure a similar accident does not happen again. Midas Aquaponics employs human resources through fair procedures in accordance with domestic and international regulations and respects the diversity of employees. We have 26 worldwide. Our employee make-up consists of 40% women. We aim to support local economies, with a policy of 90% local staﬀ, with the remaining specialist percentage made up of expats to provide specialist skills development. Training carried out last year: English language courses, First Aid Training, Health and Safety for Manager, Fire Drill Training. We provide support for work-life balance, by providing travel allowance, free food and allowances and accommodation to staﬀ. Environment 7. Businesses should Created new Mission statement – “Creating a support a precautionary Sustainable Solution for the Future of Food”, approach to environmental supporting UN Global Goals #12 Responsible challenges; Consumption and Production and #13 Climate Action. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Midas Aquaponics has implemented an innovative environmental farming system that is 95% more eﬃcient that responsibility; traditional farming methods: 9. and encourage the ź 2 agriculture products produced from 1 source development and diﬀusion (ﬁsh and crops) of environmentally friendly ź Uses up to 90% less water than traditional technologies farming methods ź Creates little to zero waste ź Low power usage, aiding energy conservation ź Economical production of cash crops ź Clean food zero use of fertilizers, chemicals or growth hormones MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM 09 ź High control of production, eliminating crop failure Midas Aquaponics has commited to growing locally for local customers, with our produce distributed in Thailand, minimizing the impact of transportation generated pollution. Midas Aquaponics opened our new Midas Education & Training Centre on-site at our ﬂag ship farm in Chiang Mai. We used our very ﬁrst completed greenhouse to set up an experiential demonstration space. We actively promote ﬁeld trips for local school, farmers and members of the local community, to learn about environmental protection by using modern day farming techniques. We hosted 100's of people over the last year. Launched new staﬀ on-boarding programme, including farm visit and training at the new Midas Education & Training Centre Launched news area on website, highlighting environmental issues, such as the WWF report detailing that ocean ﬁsh numbers are on the 'brink of collapse'. To enhance its Agtech (Technology in Agriculture) oﬀering, Midas Aquaponics has established partnerships with global experts in the Aquaponics ﬁeld. These partners act as independent consultants, providing impartial guidance on its projects and its mission to generate positive ﬁnancial, environmental and social returns: ź Hydroponic & Greenhouse Consultant – Wim Damsteegt Life-long proponent and educator of sustainable, alternative farming techniques, and his highly successful company is ranked amongst the top 5 companies in the vegetable seed market globally. ź Aquaculture & Systems Consultant – Bo Jakkaphan Aimmak Aquaculture pioneer, with 20 years' experience in developing ﬁsh food pellets, and bio-ﬁlter and rearing systems. He owns four major ﬁsh farms in Thailand, and his expert practical knowledge is an invaluable support to the company's sustainable innovation. Midas Aquaponics has established relationships with key partners that are championing sustainable, socially responsible farming and protection of the environment' World Wildlife Fund, IFOAM, World Aquaculture Society, Department of Fisheries in Thailand, GAP. We are committed to ensuring that our every action is guided by the Ten Principles. 10 MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM Midas Aquaponics is actively marketing to socially responsible investors, to raise awareness of sustainable, environmentally friendly farming and food practices. Midas Aquaponics is committed to recycling in our places of business paper, plastic products, and printer cartridges. We have streamlined production of printed paper to conserve on ink and paper usage, and apply an e-policy for communication and document sharing where possible. Anti10. Businesses should work Midas Aquaponics maintains the highest ethical Corruption against corruption in all of standards in all of its business operations and its forms, including relationships. The ﬁrm seeks vendors that are in extortion and bribery. alignment with our core values ensuring high integrity. In addition, we maintain high levels of transparency in our client relationships, and will not tolerate any level of unethical behaviour at any level. Last year, Midas Aquaponics restructured the top leadership team, from “Managing Director and Commercial Director” to “Managing Partner – Asia and Managing Partner – Middle East”. Each Managing Partner is located in their region to provide hands-on overseeing and increase transparency and adherence. In addition, we recruited a Chief Financial Oﬃcer to the leadership team, to strengthen ﬁnancial controls: ź Chief Financial Oﬃcer – Konidhala Lakshmipathi With over 12 years of experience in audit, ﬁnancial controls, planning and business administration, he specialises in ﬁnancial management for inventory driven companies. Midas Aquaponics has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Midas Aquaponics issues a quarterly newsletter to investors, with open and transparent ﬁnancial information about dividends paid. As part of the buying a Midas Aquaponics System process, there is full disclosure of expected ROI on investment, with tables and data provided. MIDASAQUAPONICS.COM 11 MIDAS AQUAPONICS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Published by Midas Aquaponics. Bangkok Oﬃce: Suite 2934, Level 29 The Oﬃces at Central World, 999/9 Rama Road, Khwaeng Patumwhanket Patumwhan 10330, Bangkok, Thailand Phone Number: +66 22 07 2466
