Refrigeration Refrigeration Water Water Coffee Coffee Beverage Beverage Steam Steam Medical Medical Welding Welding Other-Industrial Other-Industrial Heating Heating Air-conditioning Air-conditioning Management Management 2019 Sustainability Progress Report Sustainability Progress Report 2019 CONTENTS A message to our stakeholders 4 40 years of experience and innovation 5 A great past for a better future 5 Governance 12 Ethical business 13 Our sustainability path 13 Safety at the basis of quality 17 Vertical control 17 Choosing quality materials 22 Valorizing our people 24 Employees at the center 24 Investing in our people 26 Promoting a safe work environment 28 Sustainable production 29 Our carbon footprint 29 Responsible resource management 31 Methodological note 33 GRI Disclosures 36 www.cemegroup.com 2 3 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 A MESSAGE 40 YEARS OF TO OUR EXPERIENCE AND STAKEHOLDERS INNOVATION These are moments of profound change that touch upon a multitude of aspects pertaining to our way of doing A GREAT PAST FOR A BETTER FUTURE CEME HISTORY business. Indeed, in 2018 CEME was pleased to welcome A world leader in the production of industrial The 2000s then witnessed the expansion of CEME’s new shareholders. This is a crucial chance to further solenoid valves and pumps for many years now, CEME presence beyond national and European borders. develop our world-leading position, and also to enter was founded in 1974 by Renzo Miotti. Later in the In 2005 the Group opened a production facility in new sub-sectors and geographies to support the growth 1980s and 1990s, and after the construction of the Zhongshan, China, dedicated to manufacturing semiof the company both organically and through a program Tarquinia (VT, Italy) site, CEME decided to expand finished products for intercompany purposes, and of acquisitions. its business by investing in its production facility. to covering Asian market demand for high-quality, The implementation of a specialized engineering cutting-edge valves. The following year, CEME decided The new course is complemented by a renewed and revived department and of advanced assembly lines allowed to further consolidate its territorial hold by absorbing focus on Environment, Social and Governance topics. it to multiply its application sectors and to extend its the Retorbido (PV)-based ULKA, an undisputed market We are indeed well aware that a sustainable approach product portfolio to the design and development of and technology leader for solenoid piston pumps: the to business is an inescapable goal to strive for – and a fluid control components, such as solenoid pumps, acquisition triggered the Group’s growth by giving necessary one in order to maintain our market leadership. solenoid valves, pressure switches, flow meters and it full access to the Coffee & Steam market, thus I am therefore proud to unveil our first Sustainability complete accessories. boosting sales and customer portfolio. Progress Report, which shall help spread the culture of sustainability throughout the Group by raising awareness on the impacts directly related to our activities and shall help reinforce relationships with our key stakeholders. It is divided into three main chapters, each mirroring Medical Water: sanitary our deeds in the field of product and process quality, our relationships with our people, and the environment. Furthermore, the present document, inspired by the Signed supply agreements with highest principles of sustainability reporting, attests Began Partnership Acquired Water: Automotive Treatment market leaders to our firm commitment to the United Nations Global Acquisition with Coca-Cola Maflex and Dispensing in High-Growth of ULKA for freestyle Engineering Compact initiative, which we adhered to in April 2020. Established Dispenser Pumps Plastic End-Markets Achievements market leadership (suppliers) Entered new growing Although the Report focuses on 2019, we cannot but in coffee & stream Beginning of end-markets 2018 mention the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic at the relationship with Nespresso beginning of 2020 and the ensuing health crisis all over the world: in Italy, it hit hardest in the Northern region of Lombardy where CEME is headquartered, and in China, 2017 Acquisition in the Guangdong province where the Zhongshan plant 2002 2005 2007 2010 2012 2015 by is located. Thanks to the great work of our people and 2006 2008 2013 2016 Investindustrial Key initiatives the flexibility and know-how we can draw from, we are combating this emergency by guaranteeing business 2002 2005 2008 NEW HQ and continuity and collaborators’ safety as key priorities. Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition finalisation of by LBO Italia Hired new production by Barclays by Investcorp senior managemnet consolidation Private Equity International team in TRIVOLZIO Roberto Zecchi, CEO (reduced Opened factory Double size of Opened a distribution manufacturing and sales office in chinese facory center in Cleveland, footprint from 4 Zhongshan, China to 8000m2 US and an office in to 2 italian sites) Hong-Kong, China Recruited dedicated NPD team China 4 5 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 In ever-ascending evolution, the 2007-2012 period plant’s capacity to face region-specific market demands The Trivolzio site, near the city of Pavia, hosts the Group’s administrative saw the birth of important partnerships with new and covering the complete process of bringing a new headquarters and the Company’s largest manufacturing facility, equipped key accounts, the doubling of Chinese plant size product to life, from conception to mass production. with high levels of cutting-edge automation. Since the plant deals mainly to 8,000 m2 and the acquisition of two important CEME’s territorial presence further expanded with the with assembly, it does not host intensive production activities, whereas suppliers (Maflex and Engineering Plastics). This latter opening of two new locations, essential to enhance its the Tarquinia (Viterbo) site does. Furthermore, the central Italy plant element allowed CEME to develop resilience and gain foothold in strategic markets: a distribution center in focuses mainly on producing semi-finished products and components for independence from external factors by consolidating Cleveland, US and an office in Hong Kong, China. the intercompany flow, while the northern Italy site primarily deals with one particular strategy that makes up for the Group’s national and international clients. The two sites combined employed 469 unique approach and success: the internalization of The finalization in 2017 of production consolidation in people in 2019. as many components of its chain of value as possible. Trivolzio (PV) by unifying manufacturing processes in Carugate (MI, Italy) and Brugherio (MB, Italy) – and thus The Zhongshan plant is the reference production center for the Asian The 2010s marked a real watershed for the Group: reducing the number of CEME plants on Italian soil to market, covering its main client base. Thus, the Chinese site, which the complete rebuild of the Senior Management two – was the prelude to a new chapter in the Group’s employed as many as 388 people in 2019, deals with both intercompany Team and the unification in Trivolzio (PV, Italy) of the history. Indeed, in 2018 the Company was indirectly semi-finished products and components, and final valves and pumps sold two production sites in Retorbido and Mozzate (VA, acquired by a fund managed by Investindustrial, a in the regional territory. Italy) was accompanied in 2015 by the important leading European group of independently management decision to enter new growing end-markets, such as investment, holding and advisory companies. Finally, as a strategic location to support CEME’s growth in North and South America, the recently opened medical, sanitary water, water treatment/dispensing This new path of success, which allowed the Company distribution center in Cleveland, Ohio (US) employed 5 people, while the Hong Kong sales office – the hub of and automotive. Furthermore, CEME strengthened its to consolidate its market dominance while constantly the Company’s commercial relationships with the Far East market – employed 2 people in 2019. Asian market leadership by building on Zhongshan’s increasing its economic performance, was enriched in competences: a dedicated New Product Development 2019 by the decision to draft CEME’s first Sustainability (NPD) team was recruited, aimed at increasing the Progress Report. CEME TODAY CEME SITE-SPECIFIC COMPETENCES With registered revenues of EUR 156.5 million and the Group’s three production, operating plants and 120 million products produced per year, CEME offices, headquartered in Italy and China, while the • Administrative and operational HQs employed as many as 857 people as of December remainder are located in the US and in a small office • Research and Development laboratory 31st 2019. The vast majority of them are located in in Hong Kong. TRIVOLZIO Italy • Valves and pumps coil winding and encapsulation • Solenoid valves and solenoid pumps assembling and testing • Internal automation Trivolzio, Italy • Mechanical machining and transfer processing • CNC and traditional mechanical processing Tarquinia, Italy TARQUINIA Italy • Basic components assembly • Laser welding • Solenoid valves and solenoid pumps assembly and testing Cleveland, USA Zhongshan, China ZHONGSHAN China • Valves and pumps coil winding and encapsulation Honk Kong • Plastic components molding www.cemegroup.com 6 7 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 MARKET PRESENCE CEME has always been a pivotal actor in and quality for their products. Temperature and pressure Global presence and continuous expansion are a distinctive continents, showing a unique global platform scale. the world of ironing and steam cleaning. make steam a critical element, especially when the system trait of CEME’s success. The constant diversification of the As regards market segments hold, seven areas stand out The most important brands in the sector concerns common and daily use appliances. For this Group’s product portfolio over the years has allowed it as essential for the Group’s business. It is important to rely on the Group for solenoid valves, reason, the Company performs frequent and rigorous to reach an all-time record expansion – both in territorial point out that the success CEME can count on derives pumps, pressure switches and safety tests on its components. and applications terms. With key accounts at some of from an operating model that puts clients’ needs and valves to guarantee maximum efficiency the most renowned and solid companies all around the requests at the center, offering hyper-customized, tailorworld, CEME products are sold in 70 Countries across five made solutions that embrace innovation and quality. The search for innovative and reliable products, combined dentists and others. The range of plastic with high quality standards derived from fully automated and steel solenoid valves is completed For years, CEME has been an undisputed reference in the to the most complex needs. The Group production, allowed CEME to enter the medical field as by a series of total separation pinch world of coffee. Thanks to the ULKA pumps line, mounted not only addresses the consumer side of well. The Group produces solenoid valves and pumps solenoid valves, specifically developed on the best coffee machines for domestic use, and to the coffee machines, but professional and that find application in various medical systems such as for this market. family of solenoid valves in food-grade technopolymer HORECA as well: CEME’s technical team sterilizers, autoclaves, oxygen concentrators, solutions for and steel, CEME is able to supply a complete kit of engineers’ tailor-made solutions that components necessary for the control and management of satisfy the most demanding requests CEME is one of the leaders in the supply development of innovative and customized solutions. fluids. The technical team collaborates with world leaders from industrial clients. of solenoid valves and pumps for welding CEME produces a wide range of solenoid valves for inert in the sector and develops innovative solutions dedicated systems. The Group’s excellence in the gases, peripheral and vibrating pumps for cooling circuits sector has led to the forging of solid and pressure switches for system control and safety. CEME manufactures solenoid valves and for dealing with syrups, concentrates and alcoholic liquids. relationships with the most renowned pumps for multiple applications in the The Group’s product portfolio for the beverage market brands on the market thanks to the beverage world and a wide range of can also count on patented plastic valves and control products for drinking water applications, and safety components (pressure switches, transducers, CEME offers a wide choice of solenoid valves for water water treatment, the Group has recently in compliance with worldwide reference safety valves) that allow clients to have a complete set flow control in all conditions. The catalog includes solenoid added a new series of bi-stable solenoid standards. In this sector, in addition to of components available for the design of new, fully valves with hydraulic connections, different types of seals valves (latching valves), ideal for specific equipment for the control of the principal refrigerant automated drink distributors. and gaskets and a series of coils for all types of electrical sanitary systems, such as automatic taps fluids, CEME has developed a family of vibration pumps voltage. Used for thermo-hydraulic systems, washing and timed showers. systems, sanitation, cooling systems, irrigation, and We offer a wide range of solenoid valves designed peripheral pumps ideal for recirculation specifically for refrigeration systems and applications in functions. Furthermore, CEME is the the refrigeration and air conditioning industry. absolute reference for condensate The following graph shows that out of the seven main in Steam translates into 14% of the Company’s total These include directly operated and servo-controlled discharge systems for air conditioning market segments, Coffee alone represents almost one revenue, while distributors and Beverage combined make valves, made up of coils with different voltages, solenoid machines. third of the Group’s revenues and stands out as the up 11%. valves for water and water-glycol used on chiller units, and fundamental revenue source for CEME. Market leadership 8 9 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 14+7+6462 67+21+12 +26+1361 REVENUE BY MARKET SEGMENT SUPPLIERS, BY DISTANCE EXPENDITURE ON SUPPLIERS, BY contracts activated by the Group, depending on clients’ (ZHONGSHAN) DISTANCE (ZHONGSHAN) 14% Coffee requests and production volumes. This element then gives rise to a very stable trend over the years as far as the total <200 km <200 km 12% Steam number of suppliers involved is concerned. Secondly, a 7% relationship based on reliability and flexibility allows CEME 1000< x <10000 26% 1000< x <10000 Distributors to boost its credibility with clients by guaranteeing fast 6% production and quick delivery times with unmatched 21% >10000 km >10000 km HVAC levels of quality. Lastly, a short supply chain demonstrates 62% 4% 61% attention to the broader community as well, since the vast Beverage majority of suppliers are located around the three Italian 67% 7% 13% regions of Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto. Others In its manufacturing process, CEME uses semi-finished items produced both externally (with more than 100 A FOCUS ON SUPPLY CHAIN suppliers of raw materials and components) and internally Since CEME’s business model and reputation are dependent latter category signifies the Group’s hold on the quality of (Trivolzio and Tarquinia, Italy). The assembly of the finished on product quality and therefore client satisfaction, its products and components, it does, on the other hand CEME’s success is a mix of innovation and the automation products can be carried out both internally in the Trivolzio quality assessment is pivotal in supply chain management. constitute an element of attention towards its suppliers, of its processes, attention to clients’ needs and, in the and Zhongshan, China, plants, and externally by selected Suppliers are constantly monitored and controlled by the entailing the transfer of the Company’s expertise and upstream side of the Group’s value chain, the quality of subcontractors. Group: they are required to deliver the materials in a timely know-how in order to help C-graded suppliers to identify the materials procured by suppliers. Transformation and manner, in compliance with technical standards. The points of improvement and work to mitigate flaws. production processes are structured in a way that takes As shown, almost two thirds of CEME’s suppliers are less Group’s Quality Department makes an assessment, from advantage of the Company’s 40+ years of expertise and than 100 km away from the Group’s Italian headquarters, which point the suppliers are either accepted according The following graphs show the share of and expenditure mastery, and are thus carried out almost entirely internally, while 29% are located between 100 and 500 kilometers to CEME’s stringent quality and financial standards or on suppliers by quality level for the Italian plants of from R&D to product delivery. As a consequence, CEME away and only 9% are more than 500 km away. rejected. In particular, suppliers are assigned to three Trivolzio and Tarquinia. A-grade and B-grade suppliers relies on a group of trusted suppliers from the steel sector This latter statistic is mirrored by the Company’s expenditure categories: A-grade, where the supplier does not need to represent 82% of the total (respectively, 69% and 13%), that deal mainly with feeding production with materials on suppliers (11%), while the remainder 89% is split into be further audited; B-grade, where corrective measures while C-grade suppliers represent 6%. As for expenditure, essential for the crafting of valves and pumps. A crucial two almost identical shares for suppliers within 100 km are requested; and C-grade, where the supplier is not A-graders get half of the budget, while B-grade and element is proximity – a pivotal and strategic component. (43%) and those between 100 and 500 km (46%). By eligible and needs to undertake important changes in C-grade suppliers account for 19% and 26% respectively. Primarily, a short supply chain allows the development of grouping the distance ranges into two separate clusters subsequent years in order to be upgraded. Although this + 69 + 13 12 6 50 + + 26 5 19 a long-lasting relationship based on trust, and entails a and fixing the cut-off point at 300 kilometers, it is possible profound knowledge of one another’s specific dynamics: CEME and its suppliers are tied together by framework to observe an almost perfect alignment between the share by distance (84%-16%) and the expenditure share (79%SUPPLIERS, BY QUALITY EXPENDITURE ON SUPPLIERS, contracts, which can be regarded as open, on-call 21%).1 LEVEL (ITALY) BY QUALITY LEVEL (ITALY) 62+29+9 +46+4311 A-grade 5% A-grade SUPPLIERS, BY DISTANCE EXPENDITURE ON SUPPLIERS, 12% B-grade B-grade (ITALY) BY DISTANCE (ITALY) 6% 26% C-grade C-grade 9% <100 km 11% <100 km 13% 50% N/D N/D 100< x <500 100< x <500 69% >500 km >500 km 29% 62% 43% 19% 46% As for the Zhongshan plant, both suppliers and expenditure composition of suppliers has not varied substantially in on suppliers are decisively oriented towards A-graded the last few years. entities, mirroring the regional hub’s dedication to guaranteeing the highest levels of quality for its products They are internally audited on a yearly basis under the ISO starting from the procurement phase. 9001:2015 Quality Management System, ISO 14001:2015 By contrast, Zhongshan has a completely different supply 10,000 km away. Expenditure on suppliers shows an Indeed, the A-grade represents as much as 93% of all Environmental Management System and Food Contact chain structure, mainly due to regional characteristics and upside-down trend with respect to distance: 61% goes to CEME Zhongshan’s suppliers, while the remaining 7% is Materials (FCM) standards checklists. Furthermore, they its tight relationship with the Italian HQs. As a consequence, suppliers more than 10,000 kilometers away, while 26% split between 5% of B-graded and 2% of C-graded firms. must adhere to CEME’s Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption 67% of suppliers are less than 200 kilometers away from and 13% goes respectively to suppliers between 1,000 This pattern is even more marked as regards expenditure Policy, as required by law. For the time being, the Group the regional hub, while 12% are more than 10,000 km and 10,000 km away and less than 200 km away.2 on suppliers: in fact, A-graded get almost all the budget does not screen its suppliers through a sustainability away and the remaining 21% are between 1,000 and (99.6%), while B-grade and C-grade suppliers receive assessment, but it is expected to be implemented within half of the remaining 0.4% each. The structure and the next two years. Distances are calculated taking into consideration CEME Italian HQs and the suppliers’ HQs. www.cemegroup.com 1 2 Distances are calculated taking into consideration CEME Zhongshan HQs and the suppliers’ HQs. 10 11 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 93+5+2 +98+1 SUPPLIERS, BY QUALITY LEVEL (ZHONGSHAN) EXPENDITURE ON SUPPLIERS, BY QUALITY LEVEL (ZHONGSHAN) ETHICAL 5% 2% A-grade 0,2% 0,2% A-grade BUSINESS CEME organizes its activity to comply with the laws and implementation and corporate compliance with the B-grade B-grade regulations in force, as well as with the principles and model, as well as its updating process. The Supervisory rules of conduct expressed in its Code of Ethics. These Board comprises one external member, who fulfills C-grade C-grade principles, with specific reference to the Company’s “antithe regulatory requirements in terms of autonomy, corruption” policy, are calibrated also against the UK independence and continuity, and an internal secretary. Bribery Act, issued in 2010. The Code of Ethics represents an enunciation of corporate values, as well as the rights, The implementation of the Code of Ethics and of Model duties and responsibilities of CEME with respect to all its 231, together with CEME’s certified ISO 9001:2015 and stakeholders. The document contains general principles 14001:2015 Quality and Environmental Management 93% 99,6% and the rules of conduct that inform the Group’s daily System, represents the framework to ensure compliance activities and represent its standard of reference. CEME with national and international applicable laws and strongly believes that business ethics are an inescapable regulations. precondition for the success of the Company. Thus, the Group pursues its mission by operating legally and fairly, As a direct result, no incidents of corruption, significant creating added value for its shareholders and fostering the fines or sanctions, activities under human rights safeguard GOVERNANCE growth of the Company, its employees and collaborators. As provided by Model 231, pursuant to Italian Legislative scrutiny were recorded in the reporting perimeter. Furthermore, neither legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopolistic practices, nor nonIn 2018 CEME implemented a control and governance ensure the ordinary and extraordinary management Decree no. 231/2001, and all applicable legislation, compliance with norms and laws concerning social and system based on a Board of Directors that comprises 6 of the Company. The following table reports the BoD CEME has appointed a Supervisory Body (Organismo di environmental topics, nor privacy and personal data members3 and which is entrusted with the powers to composition. Vigilanza) entrusted with the task of controlling internal mismanagement complaints were recorded. CEME BOARD MEMBERS Cesare Piovene Porto Godi Chair of the Board – Company’s representative OUR SUSTAINABILITY Roberto Zecchi Chief Executive Officer – Company’s representative PATH In order to strengthen its relationship with its key and environmental sustainability matters relate to its daily Alessandro Luongo Board member stakeholders, CEME is unveiling its first Sustainability activities. As regards the external sphere, the present Progress Report to start on an important sustainability document will give insights on the impacts resulting from path. As a direct consequence of this commitment, the the Company’s way of doing business. Federico Andrea Fasciolo Board member Group aims to increase its understanding of how social Chiara Palmieri Board member CEME’S KEY STAKEHOLDERS At the beginning of its path towards sustainability, CEME identification and prioritization. Furthermore, for each mapped its key stakeholders, that is, the stakeholders stakeholder cluster, a description of existing engagement Salvatore Catapano Board member most subject to the Company’s influence or sway: the activities is provided. following table shows the outcome of this process of 3 In 2019, the Board membership consisted of one female and five males. As regards age composition, there are no members under 30 years of age, 4 members over 50 years of age and the remainder in the middle-age group. No changes were noted either in gender or age composition between 2018 and 2019. www.cemegroup.com 12 13 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 STAKEHOLDER CLUSTERS AND ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS A further step in the definition of the Sustainability CEME’s management discussion highlighted the Continuous dialogue between the HR department and employees; Collaborators Progress Report content is a materiality analysis, which importance, for the Group, of the topics “Suppliers specific initiatives has been carried out in order to map the relevant topics environmental assessment” and “Relationship with local that reflect CEME’s economic, environmental and social communities”. However, these were not among the most Suppliers Continuous dialogue impacts and that may influence the decisions of the key relevant topics for the stakeholders, as the context analysis stakeholders identified. revealed. Commercial partners Continuous dialogue; periodic meetings A benchmarking analysis on the Group’s reference sector and on best practices in sustainability reporting has been Furthermore, in defining the material issues, the following Continuous dialogue; formal meetings and collaborations; specific carried out. In addition, a Company management meeting aspects are considered to be operating preconditions and Local communities was scheduled with the aim of evaluating the results of are thus excluded from the materiality matrix: initiatives the materiality analysis and of weighting possible changes • Respect for human rights; and updates in terms of topics’ relevance and priority. • Fight against corruption; Competitors None This phase was performed taking into account different • Regulatory compliance; sources of information: • Customer privacy. Continuous dialogue; periodic meetings; cooperation on R&D of Clients • The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards; new products; fairs • Actual or potential requests from clients; • Results of a sector-specific media analysis, which included Investors Formal meetings; periodic management reports news about CEME; • The Regulatory framework. Regulatory and certification bodies Formal meetings; continuous dialogue Unions Continuous dialogue between the HR department and the Unions Public administration Formal, continuous dialogue The impact CEME has on its stakeholders largely depends economic impact that CEME has on its key stakeholders on the Group’s financial performance and economic through the distribution of the value generated directly by results. The following table shows the direct and indirect its daily activities.4 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED UoM 2018 2019 Direct economic value generated € thousands 159,107 156,492 Direct economic value distributed € thousands 167,520 139,316 Operating costs € thousands 142,977 117,454 Employee’s wages and benefits € thousands 14,036 14,483 Payments to providers of capital € thousands 9,253 6,070 Payments to government € thousands 1,254 1,309 Economic value retained € thousands -8,413 17,176 4 In 2018 and 2019, no community investment was recorded. www.cemegroup.com 14 15 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 SAFETY AT THE BASIS OF UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments to QUALITY implement universal sustainability principles and to undertake partnerships in support of UN goals. The ten principles address the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. In April 2020, CEME adhered to the UNGC with signatory engagement tier. With over 40 years of experience, CEME is able to meet the different needs and expectations of its clients. We constantly work to deliver top quality, innovative fluid control solutions, fostering continuous technological improvement in our processes. At present, CEME’s 2019 Sustainability Report does not concrete action and be an active supporter of the 17 Simone Calvi, Quality & HSE Director directly address the UNGC issues and principles related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 to Human Rights, since the majority of the Group’s direct Agenda for Sustainable Development — adopted by activities and suppliers are located in Europe, where world leaders in September 2015. Human Rights are regulated by law. The SDGs aim to end poverty and other deprivations, As for Zhongshan, the Group’s Code of Ethics directly develop strategies that improve health and education, applies to the Chinese plant practices as well. In addition, some of the most important human rights issues related reduce inequality and spur economic growth, while tackling climate change and working to preserve oceans VERTICAL CONTROL to the Group’s activity, such as occupational health and and forests. Starting with its first Sustainability Progress CEME’s ability to stand out in the solenoid pumps and commitment towards sustainability: it aims to establish safety, are already included among the “Labor” principles Report, CEME has identified four SDGs which it commits valves market is principally due to the combination of the long-lasting relationships with clients, inspired by mutual and issues the Company is reporting on. to contribute to through its activities and initiatives. The Group’s technical and engineering know-how, top-quality trust and collaboration, and to manage the production An integral part of the UNGC commitment is to take Group’s selected SDGs are highlighted in the figure below. materials carefully procured from certified suppliers and process in a responsible way. CEME pursues its objectives flexibility in developing innovative solutions for national by combining the utmost attention to client safety and and international clients. dedication to continuous technological improvement in its Attention to product quality is a key aspect of CEME processes. CEME PRODUCTS Year after year, CEME has diversified its range of products 50 product series, divided into six main categories suitable and their possible applications, thereby enriching its for different uses and client needs: portfolio of solutions. In 2019, CEME produced more than CEME valves are suitable for managing Safety valves have been engineered different elements such as water, steam, mainly for home ironing and professional air, refrigerants and oils. Solenoid valves ironing systems. They are suitable for are used to open and close paths, water, steam and air. CEME diaphragm thanks to the combination of a twofold, safety valves have been designed in essential system: an electromagnet and order to integrate a special device into a valve body that offers several ways to regulate flow. common safety valves to prevent potentially dangerous failures when the pressure grows. CEME pumps are composed of different materials and have different dimensions, Transducers generate a signal that is providing compact solutions for high directly proportional to the pressure flow rate and low-pressure applications. applied and thus can be used in various Solenoid pumps are used mainly in applications, such as beverage and household devices, such as steam irons heating. and coffee machines. Nonetheless, they are also suitable for dealing with both water and highly viscous fluids for many different applications in medical and refrigeration systems. Pressure switches are used mainly for Solenoid pumps include high pressure and vibration pumps. boilers, flatirons, small home appliances, air conditioners and cooling systems. Peripheral pumps are principally used They are compatible with several types in cooling and re-circulation systems. of gaseous or liquid elements with a They are suitable for use with water and maximum temperature of 155°C. chemically non-abrasive fluids. Some CEME models falling within this category are fully compatible with drinking water and are ideal for usage in reverse osmosis depuration systems and in espresso coffee machines, as well as for industrial purposes, with the capacity to reach high flow rates with relatively small engines. www.cemegroup.com 16 17 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 QUALITY AND SAFETY SOLENOID PUMPS SOLENOID VALVES The continuous quest for quality is one of CEME’s gold emerging as a potentially independent facility as far standards. Indeed, ensuring top product quality is an as satisfaction of market demands is concerned. Thus, INCOMING INCOMING MATERIALS MATERIALS indispensable criterion for maintaining market dominance. production verticalization allows the Group to control Over the years, the Group has developed complete and product quality and safety in every phase of the process. meticulous quality control procedures that allow the checking of all the production phases and delivery of the All production steps are automatically controlled with the C C best product quality to its clients. use of statistical software and data archives that enable the operators to seamlessly monitor processes. Products CEME products are designed, engineered and realized are also checked by CEME Quality Department internal SPOOL ASSEMBLY WILDING almost completely within the Group’s perimeter. The audits. Quality is an intrinsic feature of CEME project machining of raw materials (such as steel and brass) is development systems, which can be summarized as a C C concentrated in the Tarquinia plant while assembly takes circle made up of four distinctive steps: define, design, place in Trivolzio. The Zhongshan site, on the other hand, develop and enhance. deals with both production and assembly activities, thus WILDING MOLDING C C DEFINE MOLDING BODY ASSEMBLY C C Understand clients’ FUSE & BODY VALVE ASSEMBLY needs and market ASSEMBLY legal requirement C C SHIPMENT PUMP ASSEMBLY Conceive ideas, Production engineer models ENHANCE planning, final and select the DESIGN C product testing best materials Periodical quality check SHIPMENT Regular quality checks Regular safety checks Prototype, test and perfect production engineering Additionally, in 2019 CEME developed a system that occur during the installation of CEME products in final allows the testing of the control devices themselves along goods destined for the market. the production process in order to guarantee top quality They include electric shock, moving parts and sharp parts, standards not only for products, but for internal control and their use in combination with flammable gases or in systems as well. The company has in fact introduced high-pressure conditions. certified sample products that are tested on a daily basis. CEME products are also suitable for the control of drinking Finally, the CEME Quality Department carries out safety water and beverages: for this reason, CEME evaluates DEVELOP controls on product electrical features and performs the possible risks connected to end customer health and several other inspections before shipping, including visual safety, in compliance with food contact materials (FCM) controls, maximum flow, maximum pressure, as well as protocols. Out of the six product categories in CEME’s labelling and packaging conformity checks. portfolio, four are evaluated for possible impacts on The CEME set of tests includes a variety of visual, safety and quality controls; and periodical quality checks, client and customer safety: they include solenoid valves, dimensional, mechanical, chemical, physical and functional whose frequency depends on clients’ needs and normative A natural consequence of the Group’s attention to quality solenoid pumps, peripheral pumps and safety valves checks that can be divided in two main groups: regular compliance, along with CEME’s 40+ years’ experience. matters is safety. CEME products are carefully evaluated and are assessed in terms of electrical security and food checks carried out on 100% of production, including for possible impact on clients’ safety. The highest risks contact safety. www.cemegroup.com 18 19 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 FOOD CONTACT MATERIALS (FCM) As has already been noted, the production of topquality valves, pumps and pressure switches is directed at and international standards. In addition to internal tests and assessments on product quality and safety, regular satisfying demand from clients all around the world and controls are also carried out by several external certification CEME strongly believes that product safety is key to In accordance with clients’ needs and based on its 40+ it is thus subject to a multitude of different requirements bodies, which contributes to guaranteeing compliance client satisfaction, as it constitutes a fundamental years of experience, every two years CEME performs and laws. For this reason, CEME products are engineered with international quality standards. element in the delivery of top-quality solutions. CEME overall and specific migration tests, in order to quantify and built in compliance with the most important national products are conceived to control and manage any the transfer of chemical substances from FCM to food. type of fluid, including beverages and drinking water. Extraordinary tests are performed when new materials In particular, the ULKA division’s solenoid pumps or suppliers are introduced or if an update in landmark and valves are designed for use with the best coffee legislation enters into force. Finally, CEME releases RELATIONS WITH CERTIFICATION BODIES CERTIFIED PRODUCTS machines and, together with a wide range of products a declaration of food contact conformity for each of such as pressure switches and flow meters, they are also its products falling within FCM requirements. The VDE Solenoid pumps suitable for vending machines and the beverage sector. declaration includes the product registration number, Product electrical conformity and safety in Europe Solenoid valves As a result, CEME is required to abide by specific security the supplier’s registration number and the general and protocols in order to guarantee Food Contact Materials specific regulations the item complies with. UL Solenoid pumps (FCMs) compliance under national and international Electrical component safety in USA and Canada Solenoid valves laws while ensuring product safety for final users. CEME has also drafted a Good Manufacturing Practice manual (GMP) in order to ensure that products are CSA CEME relies on external quality consultants who help produced and controlled according to food contact Solenoid valves Product conformity for flammable gas use in USA the Group evaluate and implement new compliance material quality standards. The document covers all obligations that impact on product characteristics aspects of production, from materials procurement CE GAS and materials procurement. Attention is given to the to staff training on production practices and personal Solenoid valves Product conformity for flammable gas use in Europe selection of the materials used in the production of food hygiene. The manual identifies the production phases contact elements. To this end, CEME asks its suppliers where FCM requirements apply and analyzes the IMQ Solenoid pumps to issue an FCM conformity declaration. Furthermore, possible related risks. Specific areas of the Group’s plants Product electrical conformity and safety in Europe Pressure switches the Company relies on external laboratories that check have been assigned to FCM product manufacturing: the material composition and assess material specific in these zones, specific rules and protocols have been migration rates whenever the supplier’s declaration is put in place in order to guarantee compliance with all NSF Solenoid pumps Product conformity for food and drinking water contact in USA Solenoid valves not available. applicable requirements and ensure the highest product safety. ACS Solenoid valves Product conformity for drinking water contact in France Testing pumps In 2019, CEME achieved ISO 9001:2015 Quality audits, which require continuous improvement and the Management System certification, which is validated by conservation of top-quality standards. Thanks to this independent third parties and covers the engineering engagement, CEME can count on stable and long-lasting and production processes in all the Group’s operational relationships with some of the world’s largest brands across plants. Full implementation of the Quality Management all the reference market segments. The effectiveness of the System is the key to meeting all regulatory requirements Group’s Quality Management System led to the absence and standards. CEME’s commitment to product quality of non-compliance issues with regulations concerning and safety is attested by the positive results of client health and safety impacts in 2018 and 2019. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CEME Research and Development department is constantly working to find innovative and hyper-customized solutions for fluid control systems. In particular, the Group’s R&D Department is divided into two principal areas: Advanced R&D, involved in the continuous improvement of the CEME product portfolio, develops new solutions to respond to new market demands; the second area is dedicated to the satisfaction of clients’ needs, working in close connection with them to define tailor-made specifics and production processes. www.cemegroup.com 20 21 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 CHOOSING QUALITY MATERIALS The selection of the best quality materials is the first fundamental step towards guaranteeing the highest performances for our products and standing out in the solenoid pumps and valves market. Pierluigi Zampese, Sales and Marketing Director In order to always guarantee the best product quality, structure and magnetic characteristics. In addition to steel, UoM 2018 2019 CEME carefully selects the materials and semi-finished copper and brass respectively accounted for 23% and 5% products needed in the production process. of production materials in 2019. Steel, copper and brass Packaging purchased by CEME are almost always derived from the In 2018 and 2019, the materials purchased included mainly recycling of previous production scrap. Paper and cardboard ton 1,494 1,535 steel, copper and brass, representing more than 50% of the total purchased weight combined. In particular, steel Besides raw materials, CEME buys accessory components, is the primary material used by the Company (26% of the made up of the same main materials, but which are used Wood ton 417 472 total weight): it is purchased in bars that are processed in less frequently or occasionally or cannot be produced the Tarquinia plant. internally, such as steel spring (3% of the total of Plastic ton 49 32 CEME makes use of two different kinds of steel, ferritic steel purchased steel), or specific electric components like (97% of total steel weight in 2019) and austenitic steel: diodes. Chemical products represent 0.4% of production Total packaging materials ton 1,960 2,039 these are able to satisfy different technical requirements materials only and mainly include lubricant grease and of CEME products thanks to differences in crystalline oils, used for machinery maintenance. PRODUCTION AND PACKAGING MATERIALS CEME’s packaging materials use showed quite a stable reusable packaging with a higher number of clients in the UoM 2018 2019 pattern in 2018 and 2019, consisting mainly of cardboard next years. boxes: cardboard and paper represented 75% of the Production total packaging material weight in 2019, while wood and CEME attention to the sustainable use of resources led to plastic amounted respectively to 23% and 2%. the choice of purchasing paper and cardboard packaging Copper ton 3,918 4,589 with FSC5 Mix and FSC Recycled certifications, in full Steel ton 5,722 5,291 CEME uses reusable packaging, such as plastic trays, for compliance with food industry requirements. FSC Mix products internal movement or for semi-finished products certification attests that products are made with wood of which semi-finished components ton 157 153 that are delivered to third-party for the final assembly. from certified forests, meaning forests managed in a way Recently, the Group started to use reusable packaging for that preserves biological diversity and benefits the lives of Brass ton 733 986 the product delivery to a selected client. The long-lasting local people and workers. Similarly, the FSC Recycled label of which semi-finished components ton 113 115 relationships that CEME tends to develop with its clients certifies that all the wood or paper in the products comes and suppliers will be a key point for the introduction of from reclaimed or re-used materials. Plastic ton 2,513 2,852 of which semi-finished components ton 873 883 Iron components ton 4,073 4,350 Electrical components ton 22 21 Chemicals (lubricant oils) ton 81 85 Total production materials ton 17,062 18,174 5 The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an international Non-Governmental Organization. The certification aims at ensure correct forest management and the traceability of related products. For further details, please visit https://fsc.org/en/fsc-labels. www.cemegroup.com 22 23 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 VALORIZING the Group is committed to creating an inclusive working trend with respect to 2018: permanent contract in facts environment in which its employees are treated the same increased by 14% annually, reaching a share of 62% of all way, regardless of gender or other individual differences. contracts at Group level (55% in 2018). On the contrary, OUR In more detail, CEME largely prefers Full-Time over Parttemporary contracts decreased by 15% on a yearly basis. As for gender, in 2019 female employment showed a PEOPLE Time contracts, with a division of 99% to 1% in 2019 – a pattern that shows considerable stability from one year to the other. The majority of the Company’s personnel greater increase in new permanent contracts (15%) and a bigger decrease in temporary contracts (-18%) than male hires (respectively 14% and -6%) with respect to 2018. is permanently employed, acknowledging a growing CEME is deeply convinced that its people represent one of the most valuable assets the Group can count on. Indeed, collaborators are the core of the Company’s essence, and a pivotal element for its EMPLOYEES (CONTRACT TYPE, FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME, success – both in terms of client satisfaction and market dominance. CATEGORY, AGE AND GENDER) Marino Forchin, HR Director UoM 2018 2019 Contract type Permanent n. 464 531 Male n. 289 330 EMPLOYEES AT THE CENTER Female n. 175 201 At the end of 2019, CEME had a workforce of 857 people previous year-end mainly due to the discontinuation of Temporary n. 383 326 considering the three Italian and Chinese plants, including agency workers. This latter figure stems from the coherent both employees and agency workers.6 choice made by the Group management to rely on internal Male n. 102 96 The figure recorded a 13% decrease with respect to the staff and competences to carry out daily activities. Female n. 281 230 Full-Time and Part-Time CEME WORKFORCE Full-Time % 99% 99% Part-Time % 1% 1% WORKFORCE (EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER) Category UoM 2018 2019 Executives % 1% 1% Employees n. 847 857 Managers % 2% 3% Male n. 391 426 White collars % 16% 16% Female n. 456 431 Blue collars % 81% 80% Agency workers n. 140 0 Age Male n. 86 0 <30 years % 22% 19% Female n. 54 0 30 ≤ x ≤ 50 years % 66% 66% Total n. 987 857 > 50 years % 12% 15% Male n. 477 426 Female n. 510 431 The vast majority of the CEME population falls into the internalization of competences in all the manufacturing blue-collar cluster, followed by office workers, managers phases. To conclude, the Group’s personnel is relatively As the table shows, employee numbers underwent a slight 99% of the Group’s overall labor force at consolidated and executives – a pyramidal structure that traditionally young, with over 8 out of 10 people under 50 years of annual increase and in 2019 perfectly coincided with the level.7 Furthermore, the Company’s personnel is split witnesses stability from one year to the other. This aspect age (19% under 30 and 66% between 30 and 50) and absolute totality of the CEME workforce. They are located into two almost identical parts, with a slight majority of is mainly due to the labor intensiveness of the production only 15% over 50. The trend does not show noteworthy mainly in the three operating plants of Trivolzio (Italy), women over men. Diversity and equal opportunities have of the Group’s renowned electro-pumps and electrodifferences from 2018 to 2019. Tarquinia (Italy) and Zhongshan (China) and make up always been among CEME’s priorities: as a consequence, valves, together with the high level of integration and 6 No interns were recorded in 2018 and 2019. 7 CEME additionally employed 2 people in its Hong Kong office, and 5 people in its Cleveland, US warehouse. www.cemegroup.com 24 25 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 HIRING AND TURNOVER RATES their English, from starters to advanced learners. Although no contract clauses concerning human rights are currently employees attended courses in 2018 concerning human rights safeguards, for a total of 218 training hours. foreseen and no activities were assessed on this topic, 68 As for hires and terminations, the table shows a decisive to 2018 – with peaks concerning women (-51%) and downward trend for both the former and the latter. In workers under 30 years of age (-48%) – while terminations TRAINING particular, total hires decreased by 43% with respect decreased by 25%. UoM 2018 2019 Training hours hours 4,237 3,485 HIRES AND TERMINATIONS Male hours 2,603 2,549 UoM 2018 2019 Female hours 1,634 936 Hires n. 349 200 Training on Health & Safety topics hours 1,307 1,125 Male n. 138 97 Average training hours Female n. 211 103 Male hours 6,7 6,0 <30 years n. 169 87 Female hours 3,6 2,2 30 ≤ x ≤ 50 years n. 166 99 Executives hours 12,8 0,8 > 50 years n. 14 14 Managers hours 26,3 11,2 Employee hiring rate % 36% 23% White collars hours 15,6 6,3 Terminations n. 254 190 Blue collars hours 2,1 3,3 Male n. 73 62 A decrease in terms of both training hours provided and CEME has been working on for the last few years is the Female n. 181 128 average training hours per employee category and gender development and implementation of a management – calculated as the ratio between the number of training system that leverages Talentia software: the aim is to map <30 years n. 116 91 hours provided per category and gender, and the total the Company’s know-how and competences through an 30 ≤ x ≤ 50 years n. 124 91 number of employees per category and gender group – annual evaluation process. By doing so, CEME aims to foster is acknowledged from 2018 to 2019. For the coming the highest levels of quality and commitment through the > 50 years n. 14 8 years, CEME is considering expanding the offer of training identification of strong points and improvement areas. opportunities for its people in order to increase its ability The project is in the finalization phase and could be Employee turnover rate % 26% 22% to meet its employees’ professional and personal needs inaugurated between 2020 and 2021. in a dynamic and complete manner. One of the projects Accordingly, the hiring rate, calculated as the ratio Furthermore, and to confirm its territorial weight, around WELFARE between the total number of hires and the total number of 70% of the plant’s employees reside in Tarquinia. Thus, employees at the end of the reporting period, followed a the high hiring and turnover rates emerging from Corporate welfare is one of the means with which CEME pursues the aim of downward annual trend, standing at 23% in 2019 against the table are mainly due to the Northern Italian and building a positive workplace environment where its people can fulfil their 36% in 2018. The turnover rate – the ratio between the Chinese plants. In particular, a natural renewal of CEME’s potential. CEME intends to focus attention on its employees in order to valorize number of terminations and the overall employees – employee population is taking place in Trivolzio, driven by their activities, fully aware that a positive balance between work and workers’ decreased to 22% in 2019 against 26% in 2018. the migration towards plant consolidation in Trivolzio – a personal needs is essential to unleash the full expression of their skills. Therefore, process that was formally concluded in 2017 but whose the Company undertook a process of identification and promotion of innovative CEME’s personnel turnover shows quite a stable pattern consequences are still incomplete. A further effect can be designed to increase the purchasing power of individuals’ and family’s income. in Tarquinia, since it is one of the biggest production traced to the outcomes of the ongoing transition towards Stemming from the Group’s awareness and aiming to help its people reconcile plants in the center of Italy, and the most important in the cutting-edge technology and automation processes in their private and working lives, in 2018 CEME introduced a web platform-based Viterbo province as far as labor attraction is concerned. Trivolzio. welfare plan for all employees in Trivolzio and Tarquinia. The scheme makes goods and services available in the form of flexible benefits. As a way to engage its people at all levels, the welfare value in Trivolzio is provided as a performance bonus: thus, it is tied to corporate revenue targets. In Tarquinia, INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE however, the welfare amount is fixed and is given once a year as a Christmas gift. EMPLOYEE TRAINING The Italian welfare plan is integrated by additional benefit measures, such as those required by national law, and specific ones that target all permanent employees, CEME believes that training represents one of the best by law and are delivered by CEME teachers – a choice that with differences depending on contract levels: life insurance, healthcare assets to guarantee legislative compliance and to ensure takes advantage of and draws directly from the Group’s assistance, disability and invalidity insurance, meal vouchers, canteen services and the highest levels of quality and safety along the production human capital, thus valorizing internal skills and expertise. fiscal assistance in agreement with an external provider. Moreover, the Company process. In this sense, training programs are structured in The Trivolzio site has a dedicated training room featuring offers facilitated access to healthcare services through the Metasalute web portal. Things differ for the Zhongshan plant, a way to give all the employees the most suitable level of all the components of CEME products that are used as where the State’s public social insurance covers all the areas mentioned for the Italian sites: the benefits are delivered to all knowledge required by their role and competences. Thus, samples during training classes. Furthermore, language employees – both permanent and temporary – with the exception of Part-Time workers who are entitled to disability and almost all courses deal with technical matters as required classes give the Company’s people the chance to improve invalidity cover only. www.cemegroup.com 26 27 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 PROMOTING A SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT For CEME, the health and safety of its people is paramount. A doctor for each Italian plant is there as an integral part of SUSTAINABLE H&S matters are dealt with at Regional level: both Italian and Chinese plants can count on established practices, policies all H&S procedures, as required by law. PRODUCTION and management systems that guarantee full compliance The Zhongshan plant relies on a legally certified third party to with local legislative requirements. take care of occupational assessments concerning H&S risks. As provided by law, in the Trivolzio and Tarquinia sites health On an annual basis, consultants release a risk assessment and safety topics are subject to the direct and structured report: this is fundamentally important for the identification CEME is aware of the impact of its operations and the importance of acting responsibly toward the involvement of different functions at all levels of the of potentially dangerous situations, and the consequent planet’s natural resources. Indeed, the Company is engaged in a new sustainable path aimed at the Company’s organizational chart: specific competences and drafting of mitigation and prevention measures. Together progressive improvement of its environmental performance. responsibilities over the application of safety procedures are with daily monitoring of employees’ health and safety and attributed to them and updated through regular training the presence of a doctor onsite, CEME China provides Sandro Messina, Chief Operations Officer sessions. Risk assessment is the core of H&S management: in important on-the-job H&S training to its people. full compliance with local laws, health and safety managers, or equivalent, hold inspections and consult employees in The main risk factors identified will differ according to the order to anticipate risks, assess them and propose all the nature of the activities carried out. As regards the plants in necessary prevention efforts. Tarquinia and Zhongshan, they include, among others, cuts, The same procedure has been implemented as far as workbruises, crushing, and lifting and handling of heavy weights. related injuries are concerned. As regards health and safety In the more automated, assembly-focused Trivolzio site, load CEME is conscious of the effect that its activities have on From an environmental perspective, the Company strives issues, employees can also count on their representative, handling and repeated movements are the main risks. society and the environment, and of the importance of to guarantee full compliance with all applicable laws and one for each of the Italian sites, who attends regular internal implementing solutions to reduce its footprint. Therefore, regulations in its three production plants: no incidents of meetings with management. Furthermore, integration For the coming years, CEME is considering developing the Company is committed to a better understanding environmental non-compliance have been recorded in the with the unions on this issue actively helps prevent any and implementing a no-smoking campaign, along with a of how environmental sustainability relates to its daily last two years.10 whistleblowing-related repercussions on health and safety healthy eating promotion effort through the substitution of activities and to the development of ad hoc management In this regard, CEME has implemented an ISO 14001:2015 matters. junk food with healthy options from snack machines. strategies able to deliver concrete results. This approach certified Environmental Management System that covers is tightly intertwined with the Group’s practice towards the Trivolzio, Tarquinia and Zhongshan sites: the standard modernization and efficiency enhancement in its plants, sets out the requirements for managing environmental EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY8 carried out with progressive, carefully selected actions. aspects within the Company. UoM 2018 2019 Total number of worked hours hours 1,943,562 2,004,109 OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Total number of recordable work-related injuries n. 13 5 CEME is engaged in the progressive improvement of its concerning energy consumption, Greenhouse Gas environmental performance, raising awareness on the emissions, water consumption and waste management. Work-related injury rate9 1.34 0.50 impact of its activities, including along its value chain. The monitoring of these key performance indicators The new path that led to the first Sustainability Progress will allow the Company to identify opportunities for During 2019, CEME recorded five injuries, all of which trend. During the 2018-2019 biennium, neither highReport starts from the continuous collection of data improvement. occurred in the Italian plants and caused more than 7 consequence work-related injuries, nor fatalities as a result days of incapacitation each (finger crushing, eye injury of work-related injuries were recorded. and slipping), showing a sharply decreasing annual ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy consumption is one of the most important consumption: much of it is absorbed by production priorities for CEME: in compliance with Italian national processes, such as the use of machines, in the Tarquinia THE RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC requirements, the Group carried out an energy audit in the production site (accounting for 58% of CEME total Trivolzio and Tarquinia plants in order to raise awareness electricity consumption). The outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic in the first half of 2020 has indirectly affected CEME’s on energy consumption patterns and with the objective of Other relevant energy vectors are natural gas (8% of business. This said, the plants of Trivolzio and Tarquinia did not fall within the scope of economic identifying saving opportunities. overall energy consumption in 2019), diesel and gasoline activities suspended by the Italian Government in the first week of March 2020, since the Group belongs As a result, the Company in recent years started to used by the car fleet (6%), diesel used by emergency to a selection of specific supply chain branches whose continued operation was directly requested. rationalize its consumption through specific initiatives generators (less than 1%) and LPG (2% of overall energy For its part, the Zhongshan plant remained closed from January 18th until February 17th, 2020. aimed at enhancing energy efficiency. In particular, in consumption in 2019). In particular, the primary source 2019 conventional lamps in Trivolzio production areas of thermal energy in the Tarquinia plant is LPG, whose The Group implemented advanced security measures, such as thermoscanners and PPE from the outset – were replaced with LEDs. Furthermore, CEME constantly consumption increased by 57% annually due mainly to even before the Italian Government made them obligatory – in order to give prior and due protection to invests in production machinery renewal in order to the installation, at the beginning of 2019, of a second fuel its people. Along with this and the fostering of smart working for white collars, managers and executives, optimize manufacturing processes, thus guaranteeing the tank to power the heating generator for new production a COVID-19 specific healthcare insurance scheme was offered to all employees for the whole duration best product quality while increasing energy efficiency. lines. In Trivolzio and Zhongshan, the primary thermal of 2020. With the aim of sustaining its employees in moments of need, CEME introduced threefold source is natural gas. Additionally, the heat from the air coverage in the event of contagion: hospitalization compensation, convalescence compensation and Total energy consumption remained broadly constant compressor systems in the new Trivolzio HQ production post-hospitalization assistance. over 2018 and 2019. Electricity represents 85% of overall lines is recycled and used in the plant’s offices. CEME’s prompt response with the introduction of security measures enabled the Company to face the emergency by protecting the health of employees and ensuring business continuity. 10 In 2019, CEME identified a groundwater contamination issue in the neighboring areas of the Tarquinia plant, caused by a site’s solvent spillage in the past. Therefore, CEME is implementing a remediation plan: the installation of Pump and Treat wells in 2019 and a bioremediation treatment process to be carried out in the next 4 years are the main actions for the recovery of the contaminated area. 8 The reported data refers to the three operational plants of Trivolzio, Tarquinia and Zhongshan. 9 Calculated as the total number of injuries multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the overall number of hours worked in the reporting period. www.cemegroup.com 28 29 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 ENERGY CONSUMPTION UoM 2018 2019 RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE Electricity GJ 57,872 60,025 MANAGEMENT Natural gas for heating purposes GJ 5,950 5,311 WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING Diesel for car fleet GJ 3,988 3,567 LPG for heating purposes GJ 671 1,053 CEME manages waste production and disposal in full compliance with all national applicable requirements Gasoline for car fleet GJ 667 761 and with ISO 14001:2015 standards. In the Zhongshan Diesel for emergency generators GJ 2 2 plant, waste is entirely handled by a certified third-party collector that deals with waste separation, recycling and Total energy consumption GJ 69,150 70,719 disposal. The Company’s waste production derives mainly from production processes, as they include both hazardous GHG EMISSIONS and non-hazardous waste, the vast majority of which belongs to the latter cluster (95% in 2019). Recycled In line with its new sustainability commitment, CEME Scope 1 (which includes emissions from refrigerant gas waste witnessed a broadly stable trend between 2018 discloses the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from its refills and fuel consumption for heating, car fleet and and 2019, amounting to 34% out of the total waste activities. In accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate emergency generators) and Scope 2 emissions (locationweight in 2019. In the Trivolzio HQs, waste production Accounting and Reporting Standard, the Company reports based method) slightly increased from 2018 to 2019 and, is mainly from valve and pump assembly processes and all the relevant direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect mirroring the energy consumption trend, rose from a total packaging materials: the recycled waste share peaked at emissions from electricity purchased from the national of 7,565 to 7,919 tons of CO2eq combined (+5%). 64% in 2019. grid (Scope 2) and a first selection of indirect emissions Scope 3 emissions (including emissions from business occurring outside the Company (Scope 3). travel by air, train and short-term leased cars, and from CEME is engaged in progressively reducing the volume of a reduction of trash volumes. Finally, in compliance with outbound truck, air and ship logistics) decreased by 21% waste and in increasing the percentage of recycled waste national law requirements, the Company is engaged GHG Scope 2 emissions have been calculated both with annually, mainly as a result of a reduction in outbound air over total weight disposed. To this end, the company with certified third parties for the recovery and the reuse the location-based and market-based methods. The first logistics. The overall trend of GHG emissions is broadly has installed two waste compactors for cardboard and of production metal scraps (including steel, copper and one reflects the average emission intensity of grids, while constant over the reporting period, recording a slight mixed packaging in the Trivolzio plant, thus leading to brass) in the turnery process. the second reflects emissions from the electricity source decrease of 1%. the Group has purposefully chosen. WASTE (DISPOSAL METHOD) GHG EMISSIONS UoM 2018 2019 UoM 2018 2019 Hazardous waste ton 186 156 Direct emissions (Scope 1) tCO2eq 948 975 Recycled ton 14 0,2 Natural gas for heating purposes tCO2eq 345 306 Landfilled or incinerated ton 172 156 Diesel for car fleet tCO2eq 298 266 Non-Hazardous waste ton 3,034 3,064 Refrigerant gas refills for air-conditioning systems tCO2eq 215 282 Recycled ton 1,205 1,103 LPG for heating purposes tCO2eq 43 67 Landfilled or incinerated ton 1,829 1,961 Gasoline for car fleet tCO2eq 47 54 Total ton 3,220 3,220 Diesel for emergency generators tCO2eq 0,1 0,1 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Location based method tCO2 6,617 6,943 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Market based method tCO2eq 8,137 8,580 WATER CONSUMPTION Other indirect Emissions (Scope 3) tCO2eq 2,179 1,715 Apart from civil use in office buildings and in sanitization plants amounted to 6,100 cubic meters. The water used procedures, CEME water consumption is mainly by the Company is drawn mainly from municipal utilities. Transportation of sold goods tCO2eq 2,054 1,625 attributable to manufacturing processes in the Tarquinia However, at the end of 2018 CEME acquired a well in Business travel (by air, train and car) tCO2eq 125 91 plant and, to a lesser extent, to the hydraulic performance Tarquinia and started to progressively replace municipal testing of finished products in Trivolzio and Zhongshan. water for production processes with ground water (it still Total (Scope 1 + 2 + 3) – Location based method tCO2eq 9,744 9,634 In 2019, the total water consumed by CEME Italian constitutes 33% of the overall water consumed). www.cemegroup.com 30 31 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 WATER WITHDRAWAL11 UoM 2018 2019 METHODOLOGICAL Ground water m3 120 2,019 NOTE Third-party water (Municipality) m3 7,641 4,081 CEME’s first Sustainability Progress Report has been Sustainability Progress Report, fulfills its commitment prepared with reference to the GRI Sustainability to produce a Communication on Progress – a public Total m3 7,761 6,100 Reporting Standards. The content of the report reflects disclosure outlining its progress in implementing the the results of the materiality analysis as described in detail principles of the UNGC. in the paragraph “Materiality analysis” (see Introduction). The UNGC Principles are clearly mapped against the GRI As has already been mentioned, CEME makes use of water CEME has two internal water treatment plants, located As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact indicators in the GRI Content Index. drawn from municipal aqueducts to test its pumps and in Trivolzio and Zhongshan: in particular, the Trivolzio (UNGC) Initiative since April 2020, CEME, through this valves. However, in order to guarantee the best testing conditions and to comply with FCM best practices, the water treatment plant is entirely made of plastic and stainless steel in order to prevent any possible product SCOPE OF REPORTING water is treated through a process of reverse osmosis.12 contamination by ferric oxide.13 This document includes a description of initiatives and Covid-19 pandemic, a significant event that flared up activities carried out from January 1st to December 31st at the beginning of 2020 and has affected the Group’s 2019 as well as the related key performance indicators, usual business activity. presented for the 2018-2019 period, where available. WATER MANAGEMENT VALVES The information refers to CEME S.p.A and includes the Company’s Headquarters in Trivolzio (Pavia, Italy), and The plants falling within the reporting scope are located in: the production sites in Tarquinia (Viterbo, Italy) and • Trivolzio, Viale dell’Industria 6, 27020 Pavia, Italy; CEME products are designed to manage several types of fluids, especially water. The company pays the Zhongshan (Guangdong, China). Exceptions to this • Tarquinia, Via R. Sanzio 34, 01016 Viterbo, Italy; utmost attention to its products’ environmental efficiency, in terms of both energy and water saving. scope are explicitly reported in the text. Furthermore, the  Zhongshan, Industrial Road 38, 528415 Guangdong In particular, the CEME Research and Development department works to develop new product series present Progress Report includes a brief note about the • Province, China. that allow the efficient management of water and the fulfilment of new market and customer needs. For instance, CEME has engineered a series of innovative valves aimed at the sanitary market and TOPIC BOUNDARY suitable for electronically controlled sanitary fittings (such as flush toilette systems or public faucets). The following table provides the link between CEME and information on the external perimeter are duly material aspects and the corresponding GRI Standards specified. In the coming years, CEME is committed to topics. The scope and any eventual limitation concerning gradually extending the scope of data collection and the reporting boundary due to the unavailability of data reporting for each material topic. GRI Standards Limitations of reporting Material aspects Aspect boundary topics on boundary Within the Outside the Within the Outside the organization organization organization organization Collaborators Employment CEME welfare and benefits Customer health Customer health Reporting scope not CEME Clients and safety and safety extended to clients Diversity and Diversity and equal CEME equal opportunities opportunity Employee health Occupational health Reporting scope not CEME Suppliers and safety and safety extended to suppliers Energy Reporting scope Energy and GHG CEME Suppliers not extended to emissions Emissions suppliers Job creation Employment CEME Reporting scope not Materials Materials CEME Suppliers extended to suppliers People training Training and CEME and development education Reporting scope not Waste management Effluents and waste CEME Suppliers extended to suppliers 11 I Water withdrawal data refer to CEME Italian plants (Trivolzio and Tarquinia). Reporting scope not 12 Reverse osmosis is a desalinization mechanism based on physical separation of water-dissolved minerals. Water management Water and effluents CEME Suppliers 13 The water treatment comprises several progressive phases, including chemical filtration with hypochlorite addition, activated carbon filtering, physical filtering with two-dimensional net (25 µm and 50 µm), extended to suppliers reverse osmosis to reduce water hardness and final treatment with UV lamp. www.cemegroup.com 32 33 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 QUALITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES In detail, CEME’s GHG Emissions have been calculated as follows: CEME’s first Sustainability Progress Report is drafted in to ensure comparability over the years and the correct GHG EMISSIONS, SCOPE 1 accordance with the principles of balance, comparability, interpretation of information by the key stakeholders Global Warming accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability, as defined interested in CEME’s performance evolution. Furthermore, Source Activity data Emission factor Potential (GWP) by the GRI Standards. The document highlights both and as far as the precautionary principle is concerned, a Natural gas for heating UK Department of strengths and weaknesses, as well as potential areas of risk-opportunity approach for the management system is Environment, improvement for the Group. applied. The present Sustainability Progress Report is not LPG for heating Food & Rural Affairs The data collection and reporting process are structured subject to external assurance. Fuel CO2 equivalent emissions (DEFRA), consumption were considered Diesel and gasoline for car fleet Conversion factors Full set, 2018, 2019 Diesel for emergency generators CALCULATION METHODOLOGIES Global Warming Refill of refrigerant gases Potentials (GWPs) are Methodologies and assumptions used to calculate in the underestimation of CEME’s environmental Leakages of air-conditioning taken from IPCC Fifth performance indicators included in this report are performance. Assessment Report (AR5) reported below: • The total recycled waste of the Italian plants has been • All data related to injuries refer to CEME employees, thus determined based on disposal methods and waste excluding contractors. First-aid cases and commuting weights as reported in the Environmental Declaration injuries for which transportation has not been Form (Modello Unico di Dichiarazione Ambientale). GHG EMISSIONS, SCOPE 2 organized by the Company are not included. • The energy consumption of the Company’s owned and Global Warming • Where environmental data has not been available, long-term leased vehicles has been calculated starting Source Activity data Emission factor Potential (GWP) conservative estimates have been used, resulting from available fuel consumption data. Location-based method The following table shows the conversion factors that have been used: Electricity purchased from the Terna, Confronti Only CO2 emissions were Electricity consumption national grid internazionali, 2017, 2018 considered Diesel and Gasoline UK Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion Market-based method Fuel density (liter/ton) factors Full set, 2018, 2019 Italian Ministry for Environment, Tabella parametri Europe AIB, European CO2 equivalent emissions Calorific Value (GJ/ton) standard nazionali, 2018, 2019. Electricity purchased from the Residual Mixes, 2017, 2018 were considered Electricity consumption national grid Terna, Confronti Only CO2 emissions were internazionali, 2017, 2018 considered • The energy consumption of the Company’s heating system has been calculated starting from natural gas and LPG available consumption data. The following table shows the conversion factors that have been used: Natural gas Italian Ministry for Environment, Tabella parametri standard nazionali, GHG EMISSIONS, SCOPE 3 Calorific Value (GJ/1000 Stm3) 2018, 2019. Global Warming Source Activity data Emission factor Potential (GWP) LPG UK Department of UK Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion CO2equivalent Calorific Value (GJ/ton) Environment, Food & Rural factors Full set, 2018, 2019 Business travel by car and air Kilometers travelled emissions were Density (l/ton) Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion considered factors Full set, 2018, 2019 • Greenhouse Gas emissions calculations are carried out mix coefficient. Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, CO2 equivalent based on the principles outlined in the GHG Protocol Scope 3 emissions estimates include indirect emissions Business travel by train Kilometers travelled Rapporto di Sostenibilità , emissions have been Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. resulting from outbound logistics and business travels 2017, 2018 considered Scope 2 emissions resulting from the consumption by car, air and train. Outbound logistics distances have of electricity purchased from the national grid are been calculated by considering all the shipments of UK Department of Kilometers covered by air, CO2 equivalent calculated according to two different methodologies: sold products from Trivolzio and Zhongshan sites to Environment, Food & Rural Outbound logistics truck or ship multiplied by emissions were Affairs (DEFRA), Conversion the location-based method reflects the average clients. The calculation does not take into account shipped weight (ton) considered factors Full set, 2018, 2019 emissions intensity of grids where the energy intercompany and spare parts shipments. consumption occurs; the market-based approach As regards 2018 business travel by air, the unavailability reflects the emissions from the electricity source of data related to the last quarter of the year means that the Company has purposefully chosen. For the that the calculations include an estimate based on the Zhongshan plant, Scope 2 market-based emissions travel in the same period of 2019. have been calculated using the location-based energy www.cemegroup.com 34 35 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 GRI GRI Standard Economic performance Disclosure DISCLOSURES GRI 201 – Economic performance (2016) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The material of the present Sustainability Progress Report specified, the Disclosures applied have been used in full. Procurement practices references the following GRI Disclosures. If not otherwise 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 – Management GRI Standard Disclosure Notes approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-1 Name of the organization GRI 204 – Procurement practices (2016) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Anti-corruption 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI 205 – Anti-corruption (2016) 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 102-4 Location of operations Materials 102-5 Ownership and legal form 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 102-7 Scale of the organization GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI 301 – Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 102-9 Supply chain Energy No significant changes to the organization’s 102-10 Significant changes to the size, structure, or supply chain were recorded 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary organization and its supply chain in the reporting period. GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-12 External initiatives GRI 302 – Energy (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 102-14 Statement from senior Water and effluents decision-maker No committee responsible for decision103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 102 General 102-18 Governance structure making on economic, environmental, and GRI 103 – Management Disclosures (2016) social topics is foreseen to date. approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI 303 Water and effluents (2018) 303-3 Water withdrawal 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Emissions 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 102-47 List of material topics 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the 102-48 Restatements of information Company’s first document of its kind. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the GRI 305 – Emissions (2016) 102-49 Changes in reporting Company’s first document of its kind. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 102-50 Reporting period Effluents and waste The 2019 Sustainability Progress Report is the 102-51 Date of most recent report Company’s first document of its kind. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The data collection process and the report 102-52 Reporting cycle publication activities are structured on an GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components annual basis. 102-53 Contact point for questions 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method regarding the report 102-56 External assurance GRI 306 – Effluents and waste (2016) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method www.cemegroup.com 36 37 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 Sustainability Progress Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure Environmental compliance Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 418 – Customer Privacy (2016) customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 307 – Environmental compliance (2016) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulation Socioeconomic Compliance Employment GRI 419 – Socioeconomic Compliance (2016) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover GRI 401 – Employment (2016) 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 403-1 Occupational Health and safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety (2018) occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 404 – Training and education (2016) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact GRI 412 – Human Rights Assessment (2016) assessments Customer health and safety For further information about this Sustainability Report, please contact: CEME S.p.A. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Viale dell’Industria, 5 GRI 103 – Management approach (2016) 27020 Trivolzio (PV), Italy 103-2 The management approach and its components HSE Manager: Annalucia Colapaoli GRI 416 – Customer health and safety (2016) 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of Tel. +39.0382.1805.277 products and services e-mail: a.colapaoli@cemegroup.com www.cemegroup.com 38 39 CEME SPA CEME CHINA CEME USA CEME HONG KONG HQ Uffici e Stabilimento Industrial Road, nr.38 38227 Western Parkway Suite 915B, 9F Ocean Centre, Viale dell’Industria, 5 528415 Xiaolan Town, Zhongshan City, Willoughby OH 44094 Harbour City, 27020 Trivolzio (PV) Guangdong Province, P.R. China USA KOWLOON HONG KONG Tel. +39 0382 18 051 Ph. +86 760 22288986 Ph. +1 440 2263200 Fax +39 0382 18 058 01 Fax +86 760 2288987 info@cemegroup.com www.cemegroup.com
