Global RESPONSIBILITY 2020 Table of contents 1 Introduction 10 Food 23 Planet 1 Letter to stakeholders 11 Nutrition 25 Climate change 2 Company overview 14 Diverse consumer needs 31 Water stewardship 3 Highlights in 2019 17 Food safety 33 Regenerative agriculture 4 Materiality 19 Consumer education and marketing 39 Sustainable sourcing 6 Stakeholder engagement 21 Transparency 46 Responsible sourcing 8 Public policy 49 People 63 Community 75 Appendix 50 Human rights 65 Increasing food security 75 Environmental data summary 51 Workplace safety 70 Advancing regenerative agriculture 77 Global Reporting Initiative index 53 Ethics and compliance 71 Strengthening hometown communities 82 United Nations Global Compact Principles 54 Global inclusion 83 Sustainability Accounting Standards 59 Employee engagement and development Board reference table ©2020 General Mills. INTRODUCTION To our stakeholders General Mills celebrated its 90-year anniversary launch of a new global inclusion strategy in In our 50th year of reporting our social and as a publicly traded company this past fiscal fiscal 2019, we are focused on cultivating a true environmental performance to stakeholders, year. Of the 800 companies traded on the New sense of belonging for our employees. A highly we remain committed to disclosing our York Stock Exchange when we first listed in engaged, inclusive workforce is ever essential progress, as well as our challenges. We 1928, only 44 remain today. That’s right, only to achieving our objectives and will make continue to support key global efforts to 44. What a nod to our resiliency, adaptability the difference between winning and losing. advance the sustainability agenda, including and our ability to change. As we continue the United Nations Global Compact, which As a global food company, our business our transformation journey and enter a new we have endorsed since 2008. While we’re depends on the earth and its resources. decade, our track record of leadership will proud of our progress, we have more work Jeffrey L. Harmening Threats to land, water and climate harm our help us meet the needs of our consumers to do and are motivated by the opportunities Chairman, Chief business and compromise our ability to feed Executive Officer and tackle pressing environmental and social to unleash our scale in the years ahead. a growing population. It is no longer enough General Mills challenges. As General Mills moves ahead to sustain our planet. We must regenerate As always, we welcome your by leading to grow, we are transforming the the natural systems upon which we all questions and comments. company to be bolder, faster and stronger. depend. To that end, in 2019 we announced Sincerely, Our refreshed purpose – making food the a goal to advance regenerative agriculture world loves – and company culture matter practices on one million acres of farmland more now than ever before. During my time by 2030. We’re committed to continuing to as CEO, we’ve built upon what has always push ourselves — and our partners — to do been a strength of General Mills: developing what’s right, always. To lead with our actions. Jeff skilled and dedicated employees. With the To deliver strong and stable shareholder returns, our natural and organic products have also employees and supports the communities we must successfully serve all our stakeholders – achieved more than $1 billion in net sales. in which we do business. our consumers, customers, employees and n S ustainably sourcing ingredients, protecting We also work to incorporate guidance communities. This requires understanding at-risk watersheds and advancing from frameworks such as the Sustainability their needs and expectations and creating regenerative agriculture help to protect Accounting Standards Board and the Task value broadly. In addition to financial results, input availability and ensure we can make Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Thursday, October 31, 2019 8:54 PM we also prioritize environmental and social the food people love far into the future. to better address stakeholder needs. performance, where we can unleash our global n R  educing natural resource usage saves We’ve been driving returns for more than scale for great social and environmental impact. money while decreasing our environmental 150 years and we believe continuing to Kofi Bruce Chief Financial Officer This report describes initiatives that footprint. Over the last 10 years, General create value in the future will depend General Mills drive value in multifaceted ways: Mills has saved more than $400 million on our ability to increase our financial, through proactive sustainability initiatives, environmental and social sustainability. n D  elivering products that meet diverse including energy savings, packaging consumer needs creates market Sincerely, reductions and transportation efficiency. opportunities. In fiscal 2019, we achieved more than $1.4 billion in net sales from our n B  uilding a more sustainable business Blue Buffalo Pet Products business and helps attract and retain the best GRI 102-12, 14 Kofi GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 Company overview Our purpose At General Mills, we make food the world loves. And by being a bolder General Mills, we will make consumers’ lives better – and return our company to growth. But we have never believed in growth for growth’s sake. We will also boldly help heal the Earth through responsible farming practices and solve big problems to have a positive impact on the world. Key metrics Net sales by segment, fiscal 2019* Carbon footprint, fiscal 2019 Total giving, fiscal 2019 (percentage of total) (percentage of total) (dollars in millions) n Agriculture and transformation 52% n North America Retail 59% n Packaging supply chain 8% n F ood donations US$42 n C onvenience Stores and n Producing 8% Foodservice 12% n C orporate contributions US$35 n Shipping 10% n E urope and Australia 11% n Foundation giving US$16 n Selling 5% Total: US$93 million nA  sia and Latin America 10% n Consuming 17% n Pet 8% Total: 15.3 million metric tons CO2e Total: US$16.9 billion *Does not include US$1.0 billion of net sales from joint ventures. Our brands General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. NEW COLOUR LOGO ™ GRI 102-2 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Highlights in 2019 At General Mills, we work to create holistic value throughout our supply chain, from agriculture and operations to our consumers and communities. Below are some highlights of our progress in fiscal 2019. Food Planet People Community 100% 1 million 80% $93 million of facilities We will advance Our overall employee We gave US$93 worldwide audited regenerative engagement score million to charitable and/or certified agriculture practices reached 80%, a 5% causes in fiscal 2019, for food safety by on 1 million acres of increase from 2018. including General Mills independent third parties. farmland by 2030. Foundation grants, corporate contributions and food donations. 45% 91% 50% 83% of General Mills of our 10 priority of professional of our employees global volume met ingredients positions and 35% worldwide volunteered the company’s sustainably sourced.* of company officer in their communities. criteria as Nutritionpositions are held Forward Foods. by women globally. 2nd 14% 0.89 28 million General Mills is the Our greenhouse gas Our global total injury Our product donations second-largest emissions footprint rate was 0.89 injuries to food banks branded natural decreased 14% in per 100 employees enabled 28 million and organic food 2019 compared in fiscal 2019, meals in 2019. producer in the U.S. to 2010. significantly below food-industry averages. *See the definitions of sustainably sourced for our 10 priority ingredients on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING PRODUCING CONSUMING PACKAGING Materiality* SHIPPING SELLING This table summarizes the issues that are most material to our global responsibility strategy, based on a materiality assessment conducted in 2018. It includes several priority issues ranked highest by our stakeholders. We describe information about our approach to and progress on these issues throughout this report and in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index. GRI 102-46, 47 CIRCLES NOTE VALUE CHAIN PHASES FOR EACH RELEVANT ISSUE Climate change Advance programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and help mitigate the effects of climate change throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: adaptation and resilience; climate policy advocacy; mitigation Commodity availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs. Sub-issues: political disruption; severe weather; water-stressed areas Corporate governance Operate with integrity and the highest standards of oversight, ethics and compliance. Sub-issues: anti-corruption; ethics and compliance; PRIORITY MATERIAL ISSUES and ethics grievance processes; privacy and data protection Diverse consumer needs Diversify our product offerings and meet changing consumer preferences. Sub-issues: dietary needs; preferred agricultural practices; preferred ingredients Food safety Set and maintain the highest standards for food safety and quality. Sub-issues: audits; certification; recalls; training Health and nutrition Improve the variety and nutritional profile of our products and engage in public discussions on nutritious lifestyles. Sub-issues: increasing beneficial nutrients and food groups; decreasing nutrients of concern; nutrient-dense foods Human rights Protect and respect human rights throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: child labor; discrimination; fair compensation; forced labor; freedom of association and collective bargaining; gender equality; human trafficking; land rights; safe and healthy working conditions; working hours Responsible sourcing Improve social, environmental and economic impacts of raw material sourcing. Sub-issues: integrated pest management; organic/regenerative farming; risk assessments and audits; soil health; supplier diversity; supplier responsibility; traceability Water stewardship Reduce water use and ensure appropriate water management throughout the value chain, especially in water-stressed areas. Sub-issues: water use in agriculture; water use in packaging Animal welfare Ensure the humane treatment of animals throughout the supply chain. Sub-issues: animal testing; antibiotic use; the “five freedoms” Biodiversity Conserve a variety of plant and animal species through sustainable sourcing practices. Sub-issues: agricultural practices; forestry practices; vulnerable species Biotechnology Ensure responsible use of biotechnology tools and techniques in agricultural practices and food production. Sub-issues: consumer transparency; disclosure requirements; technologies (CRISPR, gene editing, genetically modified organisms) Deforestation Advance strategies to reduce tree clearing and associated environmental impacts. Sub-issues: biodiversity; climate change; endangered species; high-risk supply chains (cocoa, fiber, palm oil) Diversity and inclusion Foster a diverse and inclusive workplace. Sub-issues: board of directors diversity; equal opportunity/nondiscrimination; gender equality; workforce diversity (beliefs, cultural values, gender, perspectives, race, sexual orientation) Employee health, Maintain a safe workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors, and help employees lead healthier lives. Sub-issues: accident, injury and OTHER MATERIAL ISSUES safety and well-being illness prevention; physical and emotional wellness; work/life balance Employee recruitment Provide competitive pay and benefits, and invest in training and development opportunities. Sub-issues: compensation and benefits; employee and development engagement; employee recruitment and retention; training and development Energy use Reduce energy use and costs throughout the value chain. Sub-issues: energy efficiency; renewable energy use; total energy use Farmer livelihoods Support farmers’ capabilities and capacity to maintain viable operations. Sub-issues: economic empowerment for smallholder and women farmers; farm worker safety Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population. Sub-issues: donations; food access and equity; food banks; food deserts; school meal programs Food waste Reduce food waste and loss from field to fork and beyond. Sub-issues: food rescue/recovery; packaging design to reduce food waste; product labeling Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging. Sub-issues: amount of materials used; lower-impact materials; materials selection (fiber, glass, metal, plastic); ocean plastic; packaging fees/bans; recyclability Public policy and Engage with policymakers to advance the interests of General Mills and its stakeholders, maintain the company’s license to operate, and engagement drive social and environmental improvement. Sub-issues: lobbying; policy advocacy; political contributions Responsible marketing Maintain the highest standards for marketing and advertising, including through adherence to internal and industry guidelines. Sub-issues: commitments and policies; marketing to children; nutrition and ingredient labeling Transparency Communicate openly with stakeholders about our products and business practices. Sub-issues: employment practices; ingredients; labeling; online access to information; supplier relationships/accountability GRI 102-46, 47 *In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility strategy. We are not using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Priority material issues: Goals and performance Progress Issue Commitment/Goal 2017 2018 2019 Food safety Ensure all facilities worldwide are audited and/or certified by independent third parties using globally recognized food safety 100% 100% 100% criteria (% of facilities) Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative certification of all General Mills owned facilities by 2020 (% of facilities) 82% 84% 91% Health and nutrition Global volume meeting criteria as “Nutrition-Forward Foods” (% of global volume) N/A N/A 45% FOOD Comply with global industry front-of-pack calorie labeling Ongoing (see page 19) Diverse consumer needs Continue to expand product offerings to meet consumer needs and preferences n New product launches in the U.S. (number of SKUs) 310 265 340 n Gluten-free retail products in North America (number of products) 920 900 1,000 Reach US$1 billion in net sales from natural and organic products in the U.S. by 2019 (US$, in millions)* $1,073 $1,119 $1,116 Climate change Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28% by 2025 and 41-72% by 2050 (% change compared to 2010) -11% -13% -14% Achieve 100% of packaging recyclable by design by 2030 (U.S. data reported, by weight)** 88% 89% 88% Reduce energy use by 2% annually (% change)*** 3% -1% 0% Reduce production solid waste generation by 3% annually (% change)*** 5% 44% -5% Achieve zero waste to landfill at 30% of our owned production facilities by 2020 and 100% by 2025 (% of production facilities)**** 14% 20% 24% Water stewardship Champion the activation of water stewardship plans for the company’s most material and at-risk watersheds in its global value Ongoing (see pages 31-32) chain by 2025 Reduce water withdrawal by 1% annually (% change)*** -5% -5% -7% Regenerative agriculture Advance regenerative agriculture practices on 1 million acres of farmland by 2030 Measurement in progress (see page 33) PLANET Sustainable sourcing Sustainably source 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020 (%) 76% 85% 91% Cocoa (%) 59% 90% 93% Vanilla (%) 22% 32% 75% Oats (%) 61% 90% 97% U.S. wheat (%) 61% 74% 86% U.S. sugar beets (%) 81% 81% 89% U.S. corn (dry milled) (%) 67% 82% 91% U.S dairy (raw fluid milk) (%) 83% 91% 98% Fiber packaging (%) 99% 99.5% 99.5% Sugarcane (%) 58% 70% 86% Palm oil (%) 100% 100% 100% *Data in this row reflect planned 2020 foreign exchange rates. **“Recyclable by design” means that all components of a package have been shown to be recyclable at scale in the geographies where sold. ***Applies to all General Mills owned production facilities. Normalized to production. ****These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of each fiscal year. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 Oversight The General Mills leadership team The Chief Executive Officer also SUSTAINABILITY has ultimate accountability for the convenes the Sustainability Governance GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ CEO, CHAIRMAN PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD company’s global responsibility Committee three times per year. The OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE programs and performance. The team role of the Committee is to approve CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN AND GLOBAL BUSINESS includes Jeff Harmening, Chairman and monitor strategy, policy and key SOLUTIONS OFFICER CHIEF INNOVATION, and Chief Executive Officer; John investments related to sustainability. TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY OFFICER Church, Chief Supply Chain and CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN CHIEF INNOVATION, CHIEF HUMAN Additional details about leadership CHIEF MARKETING AND GLOBAL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCES OFFICER Global Business Solutions Officer; Jodi SOLUTIONS OFFICER QUALITY OFFICER OFFICER and governance related to specific Benson, Chief Innovation, Technology global responsibility issues are included and Quality Officer; and Jacqueline in relevant sections of this report. Williams-Roll, Chief Human Resources GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL GENERAL MILLS HEALTH AND WORKPLACE FOCUS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION NUTRITION Officer. The team meets regularly See Corporate Governance to learn and receives input from internal and more about the company’s broader r This graphic outlines governance and management of corporate governance structures global responsibility focus areas at General Mills. external experts. The Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility Committee and processes, including its Public provides oversight and receives regular Responsibility Committee. updates from the operating teams. GRI 102-19, 20, 26, 32 rs Cust plie om ers Sup Stakeholder engagement n A  nimal  uman n H welfare n I ndustry partnerships rights At General Mills, we engage with We engage on issues that are material Ind n R  egenerative  roduct n P innovation ust agriculture n S  ustainability stakeholders to accelerate progress to our global responsibility strategy ry  ustainable n S collaboration ers as so sourcing um on social and environmental initiatives. and where we can have a substantial cia ns Co tio n F  ood safety n C  onsumer feedback/ Our approach includes open dialogue, positive impact. When engaging with n Pns  ublic policy concerns n E  ducation and collaboration and transparent stakeholders, we assess potential n R  egenerative agriculture responsible marketing n S  ustainable sourcing disclosure. This strengthens our ability alignment on objectives, organizational n P  roduct needs and preferences to balance business and societal expertise, capacity, influence and interests; build robust relationships willingness to collaborate. n P  ollinators and n D  iversity and inclusion globally across sectors; and ultimately, biodiversity n E  mployee satisfaction For example, to improve packaging n S  oil health E  mployee well-being identify innovative solutions that n Emp recycling effectiveness and availability, n W  ater stewardship T  raining and NGOs n loyees create shared, sustainable value. development we collaborate with industry and We are working to address shared issues – community organizations such such as health and nutrition, climate as the Recycling Partnership, the n D  isaster relief n F  inancial performance change and water stewardship – so Consumer Goods Forum and the  mployee n E volunteerism n G  overnance F  ood security n R  eporting collaboration is essential to achieving Sustainable Packaging Coalition. n n R  egenerative n B  iotechnology long-term, enduring progress. We work agriculture To drive progress in regenerative n C  limate change with other companies and organizations o m n F  ood waste agriculture, we work with a broad network C m P  ackaging rs This graphic n un to to shape standards across the consumer it i n R  esponsible ves of farmers, researchers, NGOs and others illustrates the es marketing In packaged goods industry, which to develop capabilities and connect range of issues on elevates overall sector performance. which we engage best practices to measured outcomes. Regulators and public policymakers with stakeholders. r GRI 102-40, 42, 43, 44 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) develops voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for companies to provide information to stakeholders. General Mills supports this initiative and is committed to providing our stakeholders with relevant information on climate-related issues. Our approach is summarized below. See the Climate change section of this report and our CDP disclosure for additional information. Governance: The General Mills Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility GOVERNANCE Committee provides oversight of the company’s sustainability work – including our climate program – and regularly reviews the company’s sustainability objectives, strategies and performance. STRATEGY Strategy: As more than 85% of our overall greenhouse gas (GHG) In addition, our Chairman and CEO convenes the Sustainability emissions occur outside of General Mills operations, our climate strategy Governance Committee three times each year to review and approve focuses on driving transformation and reducing emissions across RISK climate-related strategies, programs and key investments. MANAGEMENT our entire value chain. This requires leadership and collaboration with suppliers, farmers, packaging producers, product transport providers, retailers and consumers. Our General Mills Policy on Climate, which Risk management: Changes in climate affect global food security and focuses on mitigation, adaptation, disclosure and advocacy, establishes a impact our ability to deliver quality products to consumers and value to METRICS framework to track and reduce GHG emissions across our value chain. shareholders. Risks associated with climate change include physical risks AND such as severe weather events that distress human life and threaten entire TARGETS Metrics and targets: General Mills has a science-based target to reduce ecosystems, reduction in crop yields and increased stress on water availability. absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28% by 2025 Other risks include policy risks, such as carbon pricing, and reputational risks (compared to 2010). By 2050, our goal is to reduce GHG emissions in line associated with the transition to a low-carbon economy. We plan to engage with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2050 emission in further climate-related risk assessments and scenario analysis during 2020. reduction guidance of 41-72% between 2010 and 2050. Through fiscal 2019, we have reduced GHG emissions by 14% compared to 2010. During 2020, we plan to launch our effort to align our goal with the latest guidance from the IPCC. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals General Mills supports the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of 17 broad goals and 169 more specific targets to drive the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development globally. We focus on the goals that most closely align with the company’s priority issues and areas of long-standing commitment, investment and progress. Also refer to our GRI index for a mapping to SDGs. MATERIAL ISSUES n Food security n Diverse consumer needs n Diversity and inclusion n Water stewardship n Climate change n Climate change n Biodiversity n Food waste n Food safety n Farmer livelihoods Learn more. n Food waste n Commodity availability n Deforestation n Health and nutrition n Health and nutrition n Responsible sourcing Learn more. n Energy use n Sustainable sourcing Learn more. Learn more. Learn more. n Packaging footprint Learn more. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public promote and protect the integrity n E  nsuring safe food: We actively in the formation of Greater MSP – policy issues that are important to of the standards and advance engage in public policy discussions to the Minneapolis St. Paul Regional our company and stakeholders. their continuous improvement. ensure safe food. We strongly support Economic Development Partnership. Learn about our support for the Food Safety Modernization Act We are committed to conducting n I nforming consumers and increasing the National Organic Standards (FSMA) – the largest revamp of these activities in an accountable and awareness: We actively support Board (NOSB) and the Organic U.S. food safety laws in decades – transparent manner. We articulate our public policy efforts to inform Agriculture Research and and its goal of raising food safety approach and priorities in the Public our consumers and increase their Extension Initiative (OREI). standards across the food value Engagement for the Greater Good area awareness about our products. For chain. We supported the originating of our website. This extensive site details w Advancing water stewardship example, we are active members of legislation for FSMA and the our public policy engagement and – We engage policymakers to several organizations that provided regulations for its implementation, highlights our focus in five key areas: drive more sustainable water comments to the U.S. Department of and have consistently called on practices in key watersheds, Agriculture (USDA) requesting that n P  rotecting and preserving our Congress to continue adequate like California. Learn more. more information about bioengineered planet: We actively engage in funding for FSMA implementation. ingredients be made available public policy discussions to advance w Addressing packaging and food n I ncreasing food security and to consumers, not less. (See one environmental priorities, including: waste – General Mills promotes strengthening communities: example here.) Learn more about policies to effectively and efficiently w Leading on regenerative and We actively engage in public initiatives to increase transparency increase packaging recycling sustainable agriculture – General policy discussions in this area, in the Food section of this report. rates and reduce waste. In the Mills is a leading voice on including the following actions: United States, we are a leader in Compliance: We comply with all regenerative agriculture. We encourage collaboration and AMERIPEN – the American Institute w Increasing food security – At the lobbying regulations where applicable. for Packaging and the Environment – federal level, we are a longtime General Mills is registered as a lobbying investment by governments and the and are actively engaged in supporter of The Congressional entity at the federal level for the U.S. private sector, such as our support multiple multisector and industry Hunger Center. We also work House of Representatives and U.S. for the Regional Conservation coalitions aimed at reducing and with several initiatives to advance Senate and in the states of Minnesota Partnership Program (RCPP). ending food waste and loss. public policy at the state level that and California. We file regular reports on w Combating climate change – We would increase food security. our lobbying activity (see links above). n D  elivering nutrition: We actively support a comprehensive, national climate policy; have publicly called engage in public policy discussions to w Protecting people – We advocate Political contributions for the U.S. to remain in the Paris advance nutrition priorities consistent for inclusive public policies and memberships with our focus on providing nutrientand add our voice to help lead Climate Accord; support the U.S. dense products that meet our criteria change, including for inclusive U.S. Our civic policy describes our Environmental Protection Agency’s as Nutrition-Forward Foods, including immigration and LGBTQ+ policies. approval process for corporate (EPA) Clean Power Plan; and are support for strong Dietary Guidelines political contributions. The Public members of Business for Innovative w Strengthening our communities – In Responsibility Committee of the Board for Americans, the U.S. Food and Climate and Energy Policy (BICEP). addition to our philanthropic support Drug Administration’s efforts to reflect of Directors oversees the company’s See a list of our public actions here. for our hometown communities, we the newest scientific information on political activities, including our policy, also develop important community w Supporting stronger organic the definition of “healthy,” strong U.S. disclosure of corporate political partnerships that drive economic standards – We’re proud of our school nutrition standards, and the contributions, membership in major growth and increase connections. long history of engagement in Supplemental Nutrition Program for trade associations and independent For example, in our headquarters developing strong U.S. organic Women, Infants and Children (WIC). political expenditures (although the community, we played a catalyst role standards, and have fought to company has not made any). During GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 2019, we made US$500 in direct costs. Information regarding G-PAC Manufacturers Association and the organizations in the United States that political contributions. For more details transactions is available on the Federal American Bakers Association. write and endorse model legislation. and historical information, see our Election Commission’s website. n S  tate or provincial agencies, local Accountability: In 2019, the Center for 2005-2019 civic involvement reports. General Mills also advances its mission chambers of commerce and Political Accountability rated General The General Mills Political Action by partnering with trade associations manufacturing organizations, Mills as one of the top “Trendsetters” Committee (G-PAC) is run by and other independent organizations such as the Minnesota Chamber in its CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate employees and uses employee funds that share our goals, including: of Commerce and the Ohio Political Disclosure and Accountability. to make political contributions to Manufacturers Association. This ranking, which includes all n I nternational organizations, such federal and, in limited cases, state companies in the Standard & Poor’s as EuroGlaces and the Brazilian We report additional details about candidates. No corporate treasury 500 Index, maintained our leading Association of Food Industries. our largest U.S. trade association funds are used for federal candidate performance from past years. memberships annually in our civic n U  .S. public-policy-focused contributions, but as allowed by law, the GRI 415-1 involvement reports. We do not belong company pays G-PAC administration organizations, such as the Grocery to, or make payments to, any tax-exempt About this report The General Mills Global Responsibility n W  e are working to integrate Blue investors, environmental organizations  eneral n G Mills endorsed the principles Report describes our commitments, Buffalo Pet Products, Inc. into our global and other public interest groups working of the UN Global Compact in goals, programs and performance responsibility strategies and programs, with companies to advance their 2008. This report serves as the across a broad range of issues. The following the acquisition which was environmental and social performance company’s annual Communication company’s Global Sustainability completed in April 2018. Greenhouse and disclosure – to provide input on our on Progress. See the UN Global team has responsibility for the gas emissions, energy usage and water annual Global Responsibility Report. Compact Principles table for details. development of the report. Ultimate withdrawal data for 2019 included in This year, nine stakeholders, including accountability lies with the General this report reflect Blue Buffalo. GHG Feedback investors, NGO representatives, Mills leadership team (see page 6). emissions data for Blue Buffalo for We welcome your comments about corporate practitioners and industry 2010 and 2018 were estimated. this report. Please send any feedback The report is structured to explicitly experts, provided feedback on a to Corporate.Response@genmills.com. align with the company’s material n D  ata for 2019 Scope 1, 2 and 3 detailed report outline. We value this global responsibility issues. GHG emissions have been verified input and have incorporated much GRI 102-49, 50, 53, 54, 56 by Bureau Veritas. For details, see of their feedback into the report. The Global Responsibility Report is the Environmental data summary an important part of a broader set of and Greenhouse gas emissions Reporting standards disclosures that provide stakeholders sections in the Appendix. n T  his report references the GRI 2016 a multifaceted description of General n U  nless otherwise noted, data in this Sustainability Reporting Standards, Mills performance, including the report is not externally verified and as well as the Food Processing Sector company’s annual report, SEC filings may occasionally be restated due Supplement. See the GRI index and annual proxy statement. to improvements in data collection for details. Report scope methodology and/or accuracy. n T  his report references the Sustainability n T he report covers the company’s Accounting Standards Board (SASB) global operations in fiscal 2019 Stakeholder input Processed Foods Standard. See the (52 weeks ended May 26, 2019), For the last several years, General Mills SASB reference table for details. except where noted otherwise. has engaged Ceres – a coalition of GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 Food At General Mills, our purpose is to serve the world by making food people love. IN THIS SECTION Diverse Consumer education Nutrition Food safety Transparency consumer needs and marketing 45% 100% 2nd In fiscal 2019, 100% of our facilities General Mills is the 45% of General Mills worldwide are audited second-largest global volume met the and/or certified by branded natural company’s criteria as independent third parties and organic food Nutrition-Forward Foods. using globally recognized producer in the U.S. food safety criteria. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 Food Planet People Community Nutrition u Material issue | GRI 416-1, FP4, 6, 7 Our approach Nutrition is the company’s global source CEO, CHAIRMAN for scientific health and nutrition expertise OF THE BOARD Our goal: Our goal is to provide a diverse that creates value and growth for General portfolio of products that contribute to Mills. The Bell Institute influences General the well-being of consumers and meet Mills product development through: CHIEF INNOVATION, a variety of needs. We are committed to CHIEF TECHNOLOGY AND HEALTH AND WELLNESS MARKETING OFFICER ADVISORY COUNCIL making food with passion and putting n N utrition science research QUALITY OFFICER people first by improving the variety n I nsights on regulatory matters and nutrient density of our products. n H ealth communications to customers, PRODUCT FOOD BELL INSTITUTE Our aspiration: We recognize the nutrition communities and consumers MARKETING AND SAFETY AND RESEARCH AND OF HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATIONS QUALITY NUTRITION importance of sustainable food systems n N utrition recommendations for to feed a growing global population product innovation and reformulation with nutritious food. Thus, we aspire to Wellness Advisory Council, a group of grains and dairy, and beneficial nutrients produce nutrient-dense foods made Learn more on the Bell Institute website. leading external health and nutrition like vitamins, minerals, protein and/or with ingredients that are grown using experts who provide perspectives from fiber, while balancing nutrients to limit, regenerative agriculture practices. academia and research institutes. The such as sodium, sugar and saturated fat. Learn more about our leadership council meets regularly and challenges Focusing on nutrient density helps tell in regenerative agriculture and our us to continually advance health and the whole story about the nutritional sustainable sourcing practices in Leadership and governance: wellness strategies and practices. value of a food – beyond what the Planet section of this report. Operationally, responsibility for product nutrients have been increased or Investment in research: We invest in development and marketing lies within Nutrient-dense foods reduced – to help support consumers research and development (R&D) to the R&D and marketing organizations. At General Mills, we provide a diverse in adopting healthy dietary patterns. continuously improve the nutrient density The Chief Innovation, Technology and portfolio of products, including Quality Officer is responsible for the Cheerios, Fiber One and Kix are of our products and help us better many nutrient-dense foods, which areas of product nutrition, food safety examples of cereals that provide understand the impact of food on health can help consumers meet dietary and labeling. Responsibility for marketing beneficial nutrients, such as key and wellness. We believe in cross-sector recommendations and help build communications is held by the Chief vitamins and minerals, whole grain dialogue and diverse partnerships to healthy eating patterns. While we have Marketing Officer. The Bell Institute of and fiber. Low-fat and nonfat yogurts, advance nutrition research in support of traditionally reported our progress as Health and Nutrition reports directly to like Yoplait Original, Yoplait Light and public health. We collaborate with a range increasing certain beneficial nutrients the Chief Innovation, Technology and Go-GURT, are important sources of of scientists, universities, consortiums and and reducing others, we also recognize Quality Officer and provides updates essential nutrients, such as protein, organizations across the globe to advance that few foods are composed of a single to the Public Responsibility Committee calcium, and often vitamins A and D. nutrition science and help answer nutrient. Consumption of nutrient-dense multifaceted nutrition problems. We are of the Board of Directors on the foods, like fortified cereals, low-fat and dedicated to discussing our policies and company’s health and wellness strategy. nonfat yogurts and granola bars, plays an practices openly and transparently. Health and Wellness Advisory Council: important role in healthy diets. They are Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition: The Since 1989, we have benefited from important contributors to consumption General Mills Bell Institute of Health and the guidance of our global Health and of key food groups, including whole GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Food Planet People Community Our nutrition journey As we continue to evolve, innovate groups – informs our internal criteria and renovate, we are transitioning how for “Nutrition-Forward Foods.” Our Over the years, we have tracked our we report our renovated portfolio of expansive and diverse portfolio reflects journey to improve the nutrition of nutrient-dense, convenient food options. these beliefs, as we offer a delicious our products through our U.S. Health Our updated health reporting system variety of nutrient-dense products Metric* reporting system. This system leverages established, transparent from every food group to help support measured our progress in increasing nutrition criteria grounded in regulations consumers in building healthy eating positive nutrients, decreasing nutrients and dietary guidance and now patterns. We are proud to report that in to limit, qualifying for a nutrient or measures across our global portfolio. fiscal 2019, 45% of General Mills global health benefit claim, or meeting specific volume met the company’s internal internal nutrition requirements. We The philosophy for the next phase of criteria as Nutrition-Forward Foods. are proud to report that from fiscal our nutrition journey – incorporating r Examples of General Mills Nutrition2005-2018, 81% of U.S. Retail sales our core beliefs about nutrient density Forward Foods. volume met Health Metric criteria. and the nourishing power of food From U.S. Health Metric To Global Nutrition Reporting U.S. Retail Health Metric* achievement General Mills products meeting Nutrition-Forward** criteria FY05-FY18 FY19 More than 1,500 products included in FY05-FY18 79% 80% 81% 76% 77% 73% 68% NutritionIn fiscal 2019, 45% of 64% 60% Forward General Mills global volume 40% 45% 45% met the company’s criteria as 33% “Nutrition-Forward Foods.”** 21% 16% FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 *U.S. Health Metric – foods must meet at least one of the following criteria: **Nutrition-Forward Foods must meet the following criteria: n Reduce  calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by 5% or more per serving. n Provide  at least 8 grams of whole grain or 1/2 serving of fruit, vegetable, low fat or nonfat n I ncrease beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10% or more dairy, or nuts/seeds per labeled serving (22% met this criteria). per serving. or n F ormulate/reformulate products to include 8 grams of whole grain or at least a halfn Meet  U.S. FDA Healthy criteria per serving: 21 Code of Federal Regulations 101.65 (23% of serving of fruit, vegetables, or low fat or nonfat dairy. products met this criteria). n F ormulate/reformulate products to meet specific internal requirements, including limiting calories, and health or nutrition claim criteria as defined by the U.S. FDA. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 Food Planet People Community Our diverse portfolio carrier for lean meat, low-fat dairy and vegetables and can help bring everyone In addition to our Nutrition-Forward together for a family meal after a busy Foods, we offer a diverse portfolio of day. Häagen-Dazs ice cream and Betty No added sugar foods that help to create remarkable In September 2019, the popular kids’ Crocker cakes help consumers celebrate experiences for numerous occasions. yogurt brand, Yoplait Petit Filous, a birthday or special occasion, while These foods can be part of a welllaunched small pots of its first our Häagen-Dazs mini stick bars and balanced diet and a healthy eating no-added-sugar fromage frais in the Betty Crocker Mug Treats allow for a U.K. Each serving is sweetened with fruit. pattern. For example, an Old El Paso portion-controlled, individual treat. Taco Dinner Kit acts as a convenient Examples of General Mills Nutrition-Forward Foods from key product categories PRODUCT CATEGORY Whole grain Low fat or Snack Soups Fruits and vegetables cereals nonfat yogurts bars Nature Valley Crunchy Bars, Big G cereals like Cheerios Yoplait yogurts like Yoplait Progresso soups like Reduced FEATURED Fiber One Chewy Bars Oats and A variety of Cascadian Farm Original, Kix, Fiber One, Chex Original, Light, Greek 100 Sodium Hearty Minestrone and PRODUCTS Chocolate, and Annie’s Chewy frozen fruits and vegetables and Wheaties and Go-GURT Light Vegetable & Noodle Soup Granola Bars Oatmeal Raisin NUTRITIONProvides at least 8 grams Provides at least 1/2 serving Provides at least 8 grams Provides at least 1/2 serving Meets U.S. FDA FORWARD of whole grain per of low fat or nonfat dairy of whole grain per of vegetables/fruit per Healthy criteria. CRITERIA labeled serving. per labeled serving. labeled serving. labeled serving. Sodium reduction initiative General Mills supports voluntary sodium n I n November 2019, we achieved a reduction initiatives. We have committed 20% reduction in the remaining three to sodium reduction efforts over time product categories: Mexican Dinners, and are proud to announce an update Ready-to-Eat Soups and Cereals. We have to our sodium reduction initiative: now achieved or exceeded our goal of a 20% sodium reduction in all 10 categories – n I n 2010, we publicly committed to a significant accomplishment. achieving a 20% sodium reduction in 10 key U.S. Retail product categories by 2015. n A dditionally, we made significant sodium reductions in many other product n I n December 2015, we announced our categories that were not officially part of results against this significant effort – our external commitment, including our seven of 10 categories met or exceeded frozen breakfast products, dessert mixes, our robust 20% reduction goal. grain snacks and frozen appetizers. r A few of the General Mills products containing less sodium. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Food Planet People Community Cereal Partners Worldwide Progress: Since 2003, CPW has increased per 30-gram serving, and 91% of CPW the use of whole grains by 50%. In 2019, cereals have less than 450 milligrams Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) 99.5% of CPW breakfast cereals met the of sodium per 100 grams. Along with joint venture with Nestlé makes and Codex* requirement of at least 3 grams international health organizations, markets cereals globally outside North of whole grain per 100-gram serving for industry peers and other partners, America. CPW is committed to making being a source of fiber. More than 95% CPW is participating in the Whole Grain breakfast better by providing nutritious, of CPW ready-to-eat breakfast cereals Initiative to increase consumer awareness tasty and convenient breakfast cereals. for children and teenagers have whole of the importance of whole grains For more than a decade, CPW has been grain as the main ingredient, and 94% and promote greater consumption. reformulating its global product portfolio are made with a minimum of 8 grams *Codex Alimentarius standards, United to increase ingredients and nutrients that Nations Food and Agriculture Organization of whole grain per serving. More are important to a balanced diet – such as and World Health Organization. than 75% of CPW cereals have two whole grain and fiber – and continuously teaspoons (7.5 grams) or less of sugar reduce ingredients like sugar and sodium. Diverse consumer needs u Material issue Our approach: At General Mills, diverse example, our award-winning Pillsbury Fiber One bars popular with consumers and evolving consumer needs are at Made at homeTM campaign celebrated seeking weight-loss solutions. the center of our business. We include the shared belief that what matters the voice of our consumers in every most is made at home. The campaign Values decision we make by understanding featured baking traditions that make our People are being more mindful about r The Pillsbury Made at homeTM ad campaign their needs, motivations, values and products part of long-lasting memories. the decisions they’re making. Two global inspired families to rekindle baking traditions. behaviors. We consistently monitor key values driving meaningful change are food trends and macro forces that can Well-being inclusivity and sustainability. Inclusivity v Wheaties box featuring the U.S. drive change in the way people eat and As access to information grows, people is about a desire for people and brands Women’s National interact with our brands. Key consumerSoccer Team. are taking a more proactive and holistic to build community, embrace what driven macro trends that are influencing approach to health and wellness. makes them unique and accept them important initiatives at General Mills Wellness incorporates everything from for who they are. Sustainability is about include joy, well-being, values and a physical health to whole body health, increasing mindfulness of the food shifting demographic landscape. including mental health. This connection system’s impact on people and the between mind and body incorporates planet as well as personal action about Joy both physical and mental well-being. what we consume. For example: To many of our consumers, life can sometimes feel stressful. We recognize Our brands help increase consumers’ ability to control how they feel and n W heaties featured the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team on a 300+ that in today’s world, consumers need how they function, both physically and commemorative, limited-edition box In fiscal 2019, we so much more from the brands they mentally. For example, Lärabar sponsored that sold for $23 each, celebrating the introduced more than buy. Joy is about the evolution of selfan event to inspire positive change care through small acts of personal about the food choices people make, 23 World Cup players. Proceeds from 300 new products in all sales were donated to organizations indulgence and prioritizing memorywhile Fiber One reduced the amount the U.S. to meet diverse supporting girls in soccer. making activities over objects. For of calories, sugar and carbohydrates in consumer needs. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 Food Planet People Community 4th largest n T he Cascadian Farm “Deeply raised awareness of the climatemulticultural or 55+ years old. Baby Rooted for Good” fundraising beneficial ingredient Kernza® through boomers, who are becoming empty campaign, launched in April 2019, the limited release of its Honey nesters and moving into retirement, Toasted Kernza Cereal. All proceeds increasingly are looking for products General Mills is the fourthv Cascadian went to support further Kernza that fit their varied lives. For example, largest producer of glutenFarm Honey Toasted Kernza research by The Land Institute. approximately 50% of adults aged 55-64 free products in the U.S.* Cereal with have high cholesterol, so Cheerios has One in five of our North “Deeply Rooted Changing demographic responded with heart health advertising for Good” American products is packaging. landscape communications and actions that have spurred share growth for the brand. labeled as gluten-free. In Shifts in population demographics and 2019, we offered more than consumer attitudes result in changing preferences and needs. For example, 1,000 gluten-free product half of General Mills consumers are SKUs in North America. *Nielsen xAOC; 52 weeks ending Dec. 28, 2019. Plant-based foods As consumers learn more about the Rhythm Superfoods and Kite Hill, maker impact of livestock on global greenhouse of almond-based non-dairy foods. gas (GHG) emissions, there is growing We offer a wide variety of food interest in plant-based foods. Globally, products, including both animaland dietary guidance and experts increasingly plant-based foods that can support recommend a shift to plant-based diets. a nutrient-dense and balanced diet, Trend researchers also are seeing a rise in “flexitarian” dietary patterns that do and are working to build sustainability Vegan products and regenerative agriculture into our not entirely eliminate meat and dairy, Within our portfolio of plant-based foods, General supply chains. For example, working but do substitute plant-based foods Mills offers many vegan products. Our vegan options with White Oak Pastures, our EPIC for meat and dairy on a regular basis. include most Lärabar products, Annie’s fruit snacks, business has demonstrated that grassAnnie’s Organic Vegan Mac and some dressings. Most of the foods General Mills produces fed cattle raised in a regenerative grazing are plant-based, including breakfast system can help sequester carbon. cereals, snacks and bars, vegetableLearn more about our responsible based soups, frozen fruit and vegetables, sourcing efforts in the Planet section. canned beans and flour. Our list of plantbased offerings continues to grow. For example, in 2019, our Yoplait business in France introduced Panier de Yoplait Végétal au lait coco (containing coconut r Examples of General Mills vegan products. milk) and au lait almond (with almond milk). In the U.S., we debuted dairy-free OuiTM by Yoplait in December 2019. The General Mills business development and venture capital unit, 301 INC, has invested r Panier de Yoplait Végétal au lait coco in plant-forward food companies, such as contains coconut milk instead of dairy. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Food Planet People Community Investing in food innovations Our approach: Today’s fast-changing Our progress: We continue to food industry requires rapid innovation grow our portfolio and support for and a steady stream of new ideas. In entrepreneurial brands. In fiscal 2019, we: 301 INC partners 2015, General Mills began to invest in n R einvested in dairy-free yogurt maker As of October 2019, we have eight partners. small food start-ups through 301 INC, Kite Hill to help meet consumer the company’s business development demand for more plant-based options and venture capital unit. The 301 INC n R einvested in Good Culture, team helps expand the vision of entrepreneurs with promising early-stage which makes high-quality, simplebrands and also helps make their food ingredient cottage cheese products accessible to more people. n S old our stake in Beyond Meat By combining the vision and passion of as the company went public these entrepreneurs with General Mills n E xited Tio Gazpacho from our portfolio extensive capabilities in areas such as as it was acquired by a strategic product development, supply chain, fit for the brand – an importer and marketing, operations and channel marketer of Mexican foods in the U.S. development, we believe we can meet consumer needs faster than ever. Natural and organic brands Since 2000, we have steadily expanded made with organic ingredients; our natural and organic business, more than 680 organic product Our natural and organic brands including through brand acquisitions, to SKUs are available throughout meet growing consumer demand. We the U.S. and Canada. offer a mix of certified organic cereals, n G rowth – Our natural and organic yogurt, vegetables, fruit products, food business reached more than snacks, meals and baking products. US$1.1 billion in net sales in 2019. Our progress: Sustainable supply: We are also ® n S  cale – General Mills is the secondtaking steps across our supply chain to largest branded natural and organic ensure a long-term supply of organic food producer in the U.S.* ingredients. Learn more about how ® we are building our organic capacity n P  roducts – One out of every six in the Planet section of this report. products in our North American portfolio is certified organic or *Based on SPINS 52 weeks ending October 6, 2019, MULO, N/O and Specialty Gourmet Channels. (Does not capture Whole Foods or retailer brands.) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Food Planet People Community Natural pet food #1 In April 2018, we acquired Blue Buffalo, Blue Buffalo dog and cat foods are a mission-driven natural pet food made using antioxidant-rich, natural business targeting the needs of our ingredients and come in a variety of consumers’ furry family members. These recipes to meet specific pet needs and Blue Buffalo is consumers want their pets to eat food consumer preferences, including highthe number one with the highest quality ingredients protein and limited-ingredient formulas. natural pet food to help them live happy, healthy lives. brand in America.* *Nielsen, Profitero, 1010Data and internal modeling. r Blue Buffalo dry and canned food “Love them like family, feed them like family” for furry family members. Food safety u Material issue | GRI 416-1, 2, FP5 Our approach n P  rocesses – Food safety is suppliers’ systems to ensure they integrated into all our processes, meet our traceability requirements. Safety is a priority for our company and central to our culture. Leading beginning with R&D and extending Training: We provide food safety Food safety across our supply chain. with safety – both in the workplace training through our global centers excellence award and the food we make – is one n R  isk mitigation – We conduct of excellence and online training In 2019, General Mills received of the key operating principles internal risk-based surveillance and academy. In fiscal 2019: the prestigious International that guides our work. food safety testing at all General n O  ur General Mills food safety Association for Food Protection Mills facilities to identify and (IAFP) Black Pearl Award for Investment: We invested US$10.1 million team included more than 400 prioritize specific areas of risk. Food Safety Excellence. into food safety in fiscal 2019; equal to trained quality professionals. 7.3% of our total supply chain essential n A  udits – Our Global Internal Audit n W  e provided food safety training to capital investment for the year. team periodically audits the more than 3,400 professionals across effectiveness and efficiency of design skills of food industry Collaboration: Food safety leadership the supply chain globally, and our food safety controls and operating equipment manufacturers. is a differentiator for General Mills, but food safety training videos received procedures. Results are reported to not an area of competition. We freely more than 2,400 views, building Governance: the company’s Global Governance share our best practices and emerging participants’ capabilities at their Council and Board of Directors. n D  etailed policies – Governance areas of concern, as well as collaborate own pace, time and point of need. of General Mills food safety and with industry peers and regulators to n T  raceability – Our inventory control n W  e focused on intense food safety regulatory matters begins with a help raise standards industry-wide. and supplier management systems coaching targeted to our internal corporate Food Safety and Regulatory include the ability to trace the sources Systems: Our global food safety quality professionals globally as Policy signed by our Chief Executive of our ingredients, which is key to systems focus on prevention, well as externally through our work Officer. This corporate policy is isolating risks in the event of food intervention and response: with Partners in Food Solutions and supported by 18 detailed policies with safety concerns. We evaluate our by helping to build the sanitary accompanying standards procedures. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Food Planet People Community These global policies cover a broad Recalls: When we learn about illnesses  upplier n S training – We bring together n 1 ,100+ supplier representatives range of food safety areas, including that may be linked to our products, our suppliers around the world participated in training sessions regulatory compliance, trace and recall, we take quick action. We collaborate to share food safety knowledge in Australia, Brazil, China, labeling, claims, physical, chemical with health officials to investigate the and communicate food safety India, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand and biological hazards, transportation, situation, communicate with consumers expectations. We conduct supplier and the U.S. since 2011. and good manufacturing and issue voluntary product recalls training in classroom settings tailored practices and sanitation. to remove affected products from to the needs of each market. The store shelves, when appropriate. We seminars address topics such as n L eadership – The Vice President of conducted three voluntary product biological and physical hazard Food Safety and Quality has direct recalls globally in fiscal 2019 (compared controls, allergen management and responsibility for food safety. The to five in fiscal 2018), including production facility sanitization. Global Internal Audit team periodically recalls of cereal, spices and flour. verifies that our food safety processes Our progress: and controls are operating effectively. Suppliers n 8  33 supplier audits were conducted The company’s Global Governance Council conducts a quarterly review of risk, which includes food safety. Our approach: n A udits – To help ensure the safety of in 2019, including 225 package audits and 608 ingredient audits. 100% n 7  5 co-producer audits were 100% of our facilities Public policy: We actively engage the raw materials (ingredients and conducted in 2019. worldwide are audited in public policy discussions to packaging) we use in our products, we continue to expand the number n 8  9% of our global co-production and/or certified by ensure safe food. Learn more in the Introduction section of this report. of supplier and co-producer audits sites are GFSI certified. independent third parties. we conduct globally. We perform n 7  8% of our global ingredient Performance direct audits and also encourage suppliers and 97.5% of our North third-party audits and/or certification, American ingredient vendor Our goals: such as through GFSI, as an additional sites are GFSI certified. n 1 00% of General Mills facilities thirdpreventive control measure. party audited and/or certified. n 1 00% Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification of all General Mills owned facilities by 2020. Our progress: External verification and Pet food certification of our facilities includes: In addition to General Mills products for undergo feeding studies, including human consumption, we also have high digestibility and nutrient analyses. Blue n 1 00% of our facilities worldwide standards for the pet food we make Buffalo products meet commercial pet are audited and/or certified by since acquiring Blue Buffalo in April food criteria outlined by the Global independent third parties using globally 2018. All Blue Buffalo products undergo Nutrition Committee of the World recognized food safety criteria. a robust formulation, manufacturing and Small Animal Veterinary Association, testing process to ensure their safety, an organization that represents 105 n 9 1% of our company-owned efficacy and compliance with nutrient member associations of more than production facilities are GFSI certified, requirements. All Blue Buffalo formulas 200,000 individual veterinarians. indicating they meet global standards for food safety management recognized in more than 150 countries. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 Food Planet People Community Consumer education and marketing Consumer education GRI 417-1, FP4, 8 Our approach: General Mills provides initiative was implemented globally during n B  razil – All General Mills package In the U.S., General Mills supports useful, fact-based information on 2014-2016 to inform consumers about information complies with local product labeling changes to help packages to help consumers make specific product nutrition attributes. regulations and includes the energy reduce food waste through clearer informed dietary choices. Our icon on the front of packaging. guidance for consumers about food Our progress: Around the world, product packages display accurate shelf life. As of December 2019, we our product labeling meets local n C  anada – All General Mills package nutrition labeling as prescribed by have updated more than 95% of our regulatory requirements while remaining information complies with Health regulations in the country of sale. product packaging to comply with consistent with our global approach. Canada and Canadian Food Inspection this voluntary date-labeling initiative Our commitment: As a member of Examples of our compliance with local Agency labeling requirements. that uses standard nomenclature to the International Food and Beverage and regional guidelines include: n E  urope – All General Mills reduce consumer confusion. Learn Alliance (IFBA), General Mills has made a n A ustralia – 100% of our products package information complies more about General Mills food waste commitment to adopt a common global display nutrition intake information with European Food Information reduction efforts in the Planet and approach to nutrition information on on front-of-pack labeling, consistent to Consumers Regulation. Community sections of this report. packaging that includes, at minimum, the with the Australian Daily Intake n U  .S. – The majority of our U.S. products labeling of calories on front-of-pack. This Guide and IFBA requirements. feature front-of-package labeling. Responsible marketing u Material issue | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: Whether marketing lower-calorie, nutrient-dense products guidelines – that in many cases are more Director General of the UN’s World to children or adults, we present and respects three key steps to healthier demanding than local regulations – in Health Organization in September 2014 the qualities and advantages of our living: balance, moderation and physical producing and reviewing ads to ensure communicating a set of enhanced global products truthfully, responsibly and activity. We take particular care around they are appropriate for the intended commitments that included responsible with appropriate taste. We take special the content and nature of advertising audience. Beyond complying with marketing and advertising initiatives. care with respect to child audiences. directed to children – including applicable law, we ensure that our ads The enhanced commitments included We believe that children should be prescreening of our ads by the Better are consistent with our core values. an expansion of IFBA’s global marketing encouraged to consume lower-calorie, Business Bureau’s Children’s Advertising When possible, our advertising aims to policy, in place since 2009, which nutrient-dense foods that support their Review Unit in the United States. reflect the diversity of society. And our specified that members would only growth and activity. Learn more about advertising reflects generally accepted advertise products that meet better-forGeneral Mills marketing policies are our commitment to maintain the highest standards of social behavior, avoids you criteria or refrain from all product reviewed and updated regularly by standards for responsible marketing. stereotyping people and does not insult marketing to children under 12 years old. our company’s Responsible Marketing or demean any demographic groups. The 2014 commitments strengthened Policies: General Mills marketing Council and reviewed with the that policy by ensuring that all forms of policies ensure that our commitment company’s Chief Executive Officer Global commitment: As charter child-directed advertising were covered. to responsible marketing underlies all and other senior leaders of our U.S. members of IFBA, we joined other of our marketing activities. Our childand international operating units. We leading food and nonalcoholic beverage To bolster our global commitment directed advertising promotes only adhere to strict internal and industry companies in a public letter to the to comply with the IFBA pledge, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Food Planet People Community General Mills follows the Children’s n S  ingapore – Singapore Food and our Responsible Marketing Council packaging). For example, we do not Food and Beverage Advertising Beverage Industry Responsible would be to address such issues and depict or display food brands, products Initiative (CFBAI) nutrition standards Advertising to Children Initiative determine appropriate corrective action. or logos on posters, signs, scoreboards in markets where other regulatory or school equipment, nor do we market n U  .S. – CFBAI requirements Beyond our commitments under or self-regulatory standards do not foods by distributing product samples or the programs described above, we exist. In other words, we comply In the U.S., CFBAI has updated some branded merchandise in schools. There have made additional responsible with strict nutrition standards for of its criteria focused on nutrition and are no exceptions to this commitment. marketing commitments that exceed advertising to children under age 12 child advertising effective January 1, In the U.S., we operate the Box Tops for industry norms. For example, we have in all markets in which we operate, 2020. To comply with strengthened Education school fundraising program TM adopted industry-leading standards either the locally applicable standards CFBAI nutrition criteria, General Mills has which, through sales of our products regarding the responsible use of (if we are subject to a self-regulatory reformulated several of our products. and those of many other companies social media platforms. We do not, or regulatory program in that We also are updating our advertising (primarily nonfood companies), in the context of any child-directed market) or the CFBAI standards (if programs to comply with CFBAI’s has provided close to US$1 billion communication, encourage children nothing else is otherwise applicable change in the definition of “child to schools since the program’s to visit any social media service for in that market). Locally applicable advertising” to include media where 35% inception in 1996. Though schools are which they are too young (according programs include the following: or more of the audience is children, up the beneficiaries of this program, we to the terms of those services), nor from the previous definition of 30%. refrain from marketing the program n A ustralia – Responsible Child do we use our own presence on We fully comply with all requirements to school children (whether inside or Marketing Initiative of the Australian these social media platforms to direct of these programs. CFBAI, in particular, outside the school environment). Food and Grocery Council any communications to children. publishes a report annually that In September 2018, General Mills joined n B razil – Enhanced Commitment We have also long committed to refrain addresses the compliance of all of its other food and beverage companies to Responsible Advertising from marketing food to children in participants. We are not aware of any in signing a letter to the UN Secretary to Children pledge schools or at school events – and this instance of noncompliance by General General highlighting commitments and commitment applies to all schools, n C anada – Canadian Children’s Mills in the past several years, and achievements to reduce the burden of even middle schools and high schools. Food and Beverage Advertising CFBAI has confirmed this in its reports. noncommunicable diseases in support of This commitment covers all forms of Initiative requirements UN Sustainable Development Goal 3.4. In the unlikely event of any instance marketing (beyond the identification of n E urope – EU Pledge requirements of noncompliance, a core function of the brand and product on menus and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 Food Planet People Community Data privacy to otherwise improve our product Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which use of personal data. We also maintain and service offerings. We are deeply went into effect in January 2020. safeguards to control against the loss We collect and use consumer personal sensitive to the privacy concerns of our of personal data or the unauthorized data for a variety of purposes, including In addition to meeting changing legal consumers and are fully committed to access, use, disclosure, destruction or to provide recipe-related publications requirements in this area, General Mills complying with regulations, including modification of personal data. Learn to consumers who subscribe for these, is committed to acting responsibly and the EU General Data Protection more in our updated data privacy policy.* to run sweepstakes and contests, transparently to continue to earn and Regulation (GDPR), which became to ensure that our advertising is maintain the trust of our consumers with effective in May 2018, and the California directed to relevant audiences, and respect to our collection, retention and *Links to main U.S. policy as an example. General Mills has additional privacy policies specific to other parts of our business globally. Transparency u Material Issues: Transparency, biotechnology, pesticide use | GRI 417-1, FP8 Our approach: At General Mills, we are our brands’ social media channels and committed to increasing transparency on third-party sites, such as e-commerce about our food. We recognize that and transparency platforms. consumers, regulators, investors and Our progress: Some examples of our other stakeholders seek information current transparency initiatives are about our products and processes. outlined here. Consumers want to know what’s in n To provide transparency about the their food, where it comes from and how it is prepared. They also want ingredients we use and the way they assurance that food has been grown are grown, we are updating our Food and harvested in a responsible and Should Taste Good packaging on sustainable manner that respects tortilla chips made with flax, sunflower people, animals and the environment. and quinoa seeds. Learn more. n A nnie’s regularly shares stories about As we continue our journey to increase transparency, our focus is on providing its contributions to a better food information to key stakeholders when system through its website (including and where they need it. For example, to its Making Our Food, Regenerative help consumers learn more about what Agriculture, Why Organic and Our is in their food, we provide information Projects pages) and social channels. in multiple ways – on packages, through n W e provide consumers with answers our company and brand websites, on to questions about our food at w Food Should Taste Good packaging features “Good Stuff, from the Ground Up” details showing how food can do more than taste good – it can do good things for the earth when grown using farming practices that positively impact seeds and soil health. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Food Planet People Community askgeneralmills.com, including Biotechnology: Safety is our highest frequently asked questions, videos, priority, and we find broad global blogs and other content. The site consensus among food and safety Non-GMO Project includes more than 470 topics regulatory bodies that approved GMOs ranging from food ingredients to are safe. We agree with the UN’s World We respect consumers’ Non-GMO Project, a varying views on the use nonprofit organization gluten-free products and use of Health Organization (WHO) that the of biotechnology. We that provides information genetically modified organisms development of GMOs offers the potential have enrolled more than to consumers and third(GMOs). More than 93,100 users for increased agricultural productivity 360 of our products – party verification for nonvisited the site during fiscal 2019. and improved nutritional value that can especially our organic GMO food and products. enhance human health and development. products – in the U.S. n I n the U.S., we provide product details through SmartLabel™, an We are committed to transparency and industry initiative that seeks to share have been disclosing the presence of digital product information with bioengineered ingredients on our U.S. We recognize that some consumers example, we are active members of consumers. As of June 2019, we packages since 2016. Learn more. and stakeholders have concerns about several organizations that provided have over 300 products listed on the use of pesticides. General Mills comments to the U.S. Department of Pesticide use: At General Mills, our smartlabel.org. This information also maintains a comprehensive system of Agriculture (USDA) requesting that business relies on the availability of can be accessed by downloading controls and processes to ensure the more information about bioengineered safe, high-quality ingredients and the the SmartLabel app and scanning a highest level of product quality and ingredients be made available to sustainability of the agriculture supply participating UPC or SmartLabel QR safety. We also work to reduce the need consumers, not less. Learn more in the chain that provides them. That’s why code (if available on packaging). for synthetic pesticides in agriculture. Introduction section of this report. we focus on responsible sourcing that We detail our work in this area on our Sustainable sourcing: Details aims to improve the environmental, comprehensive Pesticide, Food Safety about our ingredients, how they social and economic impacts of our and Ecosystems Health webpage. are sourced and how we engage raw materials. This approach is closely with farmers are included in the aligned with our core values and helps Public policy: We actively support sustainable sourcing content in the us meet our consumers’ growing desire public policy efforts to inform Planet section of this report. to understand the link between the consumers and increase their food they purchase and its origin. awareness about our products. For GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Planet We are treating the world with care by helping to regenerate the planet’s natural resources. IN THIS SECTION Climate Water Regenerative Sustainable Responsible change stewardship agriculture sourcing sourcing 14% 1 million 91% Our greenhouse We will advance In 2019, we gas emissions regenerative sustainably footprint decreased agriculture practices sourced* 91% 14% in 2019 on 1 million acres of of our 10 priority compared to 2010. farmland by 2030. ingredients. *See the definitions of sustainably sourced for our 10 priority ingredients on page 40. This photo is taken at a farm in Meridian, California, that uses regenerative agriculture practices and has supplied tomatoes to our Muir Glen brand for more than five years. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Food Planet People Community Overview At General Mills, our business is operations. This includes Our commitments and progress rooted in the earth and has the more than 85% of overall GHG power to help restore it. Threats emissions and 99% of water 2020 to natural resources impact our use. That’s why we collaborate Sustainably source* 100% of our 10 priority ingredients business and our ability to feed to drive change by promoting PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: 91% achieved an expanding population. To drive regenerative practices across growth and increase resilience, our entire value chain, from 2021 we need to move beyond just farm to fork and beyond. Protect and establish 100,000 acres of pollinator habitat sustaining our planet, and toward This section illustrates our focus PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: 207,000 acres restored or protected regenerating it. on regeneration—and a path 2025 The largest environmental to provide promising solutions Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value impacts related to our business for the planet, its resources chain by 28%, compared to 2010 occur outside General Mills and its people. PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: 14% reduction OUR PILLARS Champion the activation of water stewardship plans for the company’s 8 priority watersheds PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: 3 of 8 watersheds have active water Stable climate stewardship plans in place Achieve zero waste to landfill at 100% of our owned production facilities PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: 24% achieved Healthy watersheds 2030 Achieve 100% of packaging recyclable by design** PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: Approximately 88% of our packaging in the Strong ecosystems U.S. (by weight) met this criteria Advance regenerative agriculture practices on 1 million acres of farmland PROGRESS THROUGH 2019: Measurement in progress Better lives for farmers *See the definitions of sustainably sourced for our 10 priority ingredients on page 40. **“Recyclable by design” means that all components of a package have been shown to be recyclable at scale in the geographies where sold. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 Food Planet People Community Leadership and governance: At the company’s sustainability objectives, initiatives include an online Greenhouse General Mills, our Chairman and Chief strategies and performance. Gas 101 training module to illustrate how Executive Officer has ultimate accountdifferent functions can impact emissions General Mills is The company’s Chief Sustainability & Social ability for sustainability, which is included in their jobs, interactive soil health recognized as a global Impact Officer stewards the company’s in his annual performance objectives and sustainability work, reporting to the demonstrations, Lunch & Learn sessions leader in sustainability impacts his compensation. The Chairman on regenerative agriculture, a screening Chief Supply Chain Officer, and working and CEO convenes the Sustainability for a film about food waste, and visits closely with the Vice President of Global Governance Committee three times each by our brand teams to a regenerative Sourcing and other key business leaders to year to review and approve strategies, farm. These efforts support our broader develop, coordinate and execute programs programs and key investments. goal to embed sustainability throughout to achieve company-wide targets. our business, at all levels and functions. Oversight of the company’s sustainability Employee engagement: To increase our work is provided by the General Mills Public policy: We advocate for policies positive impact, we engage and educate Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility that advance our efforts in sustainability. our employees on sustainability and Committee, which regularly reviews Learn more in the Introduction section how they can help drive change. Recent of this report. Acquisitions: In April 2018, General SUSTAINABILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ Mills completed the acquisition of Blue GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE Buffalo Pet Products, Inc. We have been CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD actively working to integrate Blue Buffalo CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN into General Mills global sustainability AND GLOBAL BUSINESS SOLUTIONS OFFICER CHIEF SUPPLY CHAIN strategy and long-term commitments. CHIEF INNOVATION, AND GLOBAL BUSINESS Key work streams include establishing TECHNOLOGY AND SOLUTIONS OFFICER QUALITY OFFICER the greenhouse gas baseline for the pet CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER products value chain, developing a road map for packaging recyclability, and VP, CHIEF exploring how to engage in regenerative Recognitions as of December 31, 2019. VP, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY & SOURCING VPs, SUPPLY CHAIN agriculture and zero waste to landfill. SOCIAL IMPACT OFFICER GRI 102-9, 26 Climate change u Material issues: Climate change; energy use; food waste; packaging footprint | GRI 301 2-3, 302 1-4, 305 1-5, 306-2 Climate change presents risks to Risks: We support the recommendations minimize these types of disruptions. Collaboration: We directly control our environment and our livelihoods. of the Task Force on Climate-related Reputational risks could arise from only a small portion of our value chain, Changes in climate affect global food Financial Disclosures and we are not addressing the emissions in our so driving transformation across the security and impact our ability to deliver identifying the risks associated supply chain. Through our aggressive entire system requires leadership and quality products to our consumers with climate change. Physical risks science-based target, we are doing collaboration with suppliers, farmers, and value to our shareholders. include supply chain disruption due our part to reduce GHG emissions packaging producers, product transport to severe weather impacting a facility, and positively influence the broader providers, retailers and consumers. Our General Mills Policy on Climate, or commodity disruption for specific value chain. While regulatory changes We drive progress through partnerships which focuses on mitigation, adaptation, geographically concentrated ingredients present potential risks, we expect that and key initiatives, such as our work disclosure and advocacy, establishes such as cocoa from West Africa or these changes would impact all food with The Land Institute and The Nature a framework to track and reduce GHG almonds from California. We have active companies in a similar manner without Conservancy (TNC) to advance emissions across our value chain. mitigation plans in place to address and significant competitive disadvantage. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Food Planet People Community regenerative agriculture and soil health, n S  cience Based Targets initiative (SBTi) the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), growing our business, we must more as well as with Field to Market: The n B  usiness for Innovative Climate & in 2015. During the coming year, we plan effectively embed our corporate ambitions Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. Energy Policy (BICEP) coalition to launch our effort to align our goal into operating unit accountability and See Agriculture and transformation n W  e Mean Business with the latest guidance from the IPCC. business decision making processes. We for more details. must also tackle the inherent challenges to n N  ew York Declaration on Forests Performance: In fiscal 2019, our GHG reducing emissions across the value chain, Combating climate change also requires n U  N Caring for Climate Declaration emissions footprint decreased 14% which requires pioneering innovation with collective action across industries and compared to our fiscal 2010 baseline, Science-based goal: Reduce absolute suppliers, farmers, NGOs, and others. our broader society. We are a founding while net sales rose 13%.* This reflects a GHG emissions across our full value member of the Climate Collaborative shift toward less GHG-emissions-intensive See the Appendix for details on our GHG chain (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) by 28% by 2025 and have made public commitments to ingredients as well as improved efficiency emissions calculation methodology. For (compared to 2010). By 2050, General tackle climate change in seven areas: in manufacturing and reduced emissions information on the risks and opportunities Mills will reduce its GHG emissions in agriculture, food waste, transportation, associated with consumer product General Mills faces due to climate change, line with the Intergovernmental Panel on energy efficiency, short-lived climate preparation, storage and disposal. Our see our CDP submission online. Climate Change (IPCC) 2050 emission pollutants, forests and packaging. GHG emissions fell 1% versus 2018. reduction guidance of 41-72% between Value chain: The sections on the We also participate in the 2010 and 2050. We were the first We plan to accelerate recent progress to following pages break down our footprint following initiatives: company to publish a goal approved by reach our emissions reduction goals. To by value chain phase and describe our continue to decrease our footprint while efforts to improve performance. *Fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2019 GHG emissions and net sales data include Blue Buffalo. The path to 2050* 2025 goal** Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full 20 value chain by 28% 17.9 28% 2050 goal** Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full 15.5 Million metric tons CO2e 15.3 value chain to sustainable levels 15 in line with scientific consensus 12.9 4172% 10 7.8 Consuming 5 Selling Shipping Producing Packaging supply chain Agriculture and transformation 0 2010 2018 2019 2025 2050 * General Mills worked with Quantis, a sustainability and life-cycle assessment (LCA) consulting firm, to calculate our company’s GHG emissions footprint. The calculation methodologies align with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Differences compared to the data reported last year are due to enhancements in calculation methodologies and accuracy. Greenhouse gas emissions data for all years in this graph and throughout this section reflect the acquisition of Blue Buffalo Pet Products, Inc., completed in April 2018. (Blue Buffalo data for 2010 and 2018 are estimated.) Data also reflect improved calculations of consumer food waste (which increased GHG emissions) and consumer trips to the store (which decreased GHG emissions). ** Compared to 2010. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 Food Planet People Community Agriculture and transformation (52% of total value chain GHG emissions) 8.98 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) 7.97 Growing and transporting 7.93 6.32 crops and turning them into food ingredients * Wheat, dry corn, oats ROW CROPS* DAIRY MEAT OTHER** ** Cocoa, soybean oil and 2010 2018 2019 2025 30% 21% 15% 34% GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: sugarcane represent about MEDIUM EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) one-third of this amount Agriculture and transformation Regenerative agriculture: Farming We engage in similar ways with oat processing, transport of raw milk represents the largest source of GHG practices such as diverse crop growers through the Canadian Field and other factors. emissions across our value chain, so rotations and cover cropping can Print Initiative. We then hold workshops Addressing deforestation: Healthy it is central to our reduction efforts. sequester carbon in the soil and and collaborate with local, trusted forests play a critical role in storing Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions reduce GHG levels in the atmosphere. agronomists to identify and implement carbon, so we are working to address in this category decreased 11% in Supplier engagement: In the U.S., continuous improvement practices. deforestation in our fiber, cocoa 2019 compared to our 2010 baseline. we partner with Field to Market and We also collaborate to improve and palm oil supply chains. This was primarily due to reduced our suppliers to help growers of dairy management, which contributes See Regenerative agriculture purchases of GHG-emissions-intensive corn, sugar beets and wheat gather to GHG emissions due to feed and Sustainable sourcing ingredients, such as dairy products. data on the impact of their farming production, methane emissions for more information. Emissions rose by 1% from 2018 to 2019. practices, including GHG emissions. from digestive processes, manure, Packaging supply chain (8% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) Producing and transporting 1.36 1.21 1.18 1.17 packaging materials FIBER PLASTIC METAL OTHER 2010 2018 2019 2025 GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 43% 29% 27% 2% We continually innovate to reduce the enSourcing: General Mills has a target to recycled content represented about for the innovative materials and creative vironmental impact of packaging through source 100% of our fiber packaging by 47% of General Mills product packaging educational graphics on how to recycle. better design – by decreasing materials 2020 from recycled material or from weight in the U.S. Approximately External collaboration: We partner with use, switching to lower impact materials virgin wood fiber regions that do not 88% of our packaging in the U.S. (by industry and community organizations (including renewable and recyclable) and contribute to deforestation, and we weight) was recyclable** and met our such as The Recycling Partnership, improving truckload packing efficiencies. achieved 99.5% in 2019. criteria for recyclable by design. the Consumer Goods Forum and the Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions Packaging commitment: In early 2019, In April 2019, Annie’s became the first Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC) in this category decreased 11% in 2019 we announced our ambition that 100% of major brand in the U.S. to commercialize to improve recycling effectiveness and compared to our 2010 baseline. This our packaging be recyclable by design* recycled content in a cereal liner, availability. To promote recycling and was due to design improvements and a by 2030. See our packaging ambition. using at least 35% postconsumer educate consumers, as of April 2019 shift toward products with lower impact recycled plastic. The package was more than two-thirds (over 1,800) of our Recycled and recyclable materials: We packaging. A 3% increase from 2018 to the winner of this year’s Sustainable products in the U.S. included How2Recycle continue to increase our use of recycled 2019 was largely due to business growth. Packaging Coalition Innovator Award labels, developed by the SPC. and recyclable materials. In fiscal 2019, *“Recyclable by design” means that all components of a package have been shown to be recyclable at scale in the geographies where sold. **According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2019. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60% or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Food Planet People Community Producing (8% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) Making our products 1.54 1.37 1.19 (mixing and cooking) 0.73 ELECTRICITY FUEL OTHER 2010 2018 2019 2025 GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 52% 34% 14% The amount and type of energy General Mills manufacturing facilities, (which captures and uses methane General Mills rose to No. 32 on the Top we use are the key drivers of GHG by focusing improvement efforts on to generate electricity), and burning 100 list of the Environmental Protection emissions from our operations. common systems such as compressed oat hulls and other biomass. In June Agency’s Green Power Partnership. air, lighting and steam/hot water. 2017, General Mills signed a 15-year Performance: Greenhouse gas In April 2019, we announced a virtual virtual power purchase agreement with emissions in this category decreased In fiscal 2019, we completed more than 10 15-year power purchase agreement Renewable Energy Systems (RES) for 23% in 2019 compared to our 2010 energy efficiency and reduction projects with Roaring Fork Wind, LLC, a 100 megawatts of the Cactus Flats wind baseline, primarily due to our across the company. In total, these joint venture partnership between project in Concho County, Texas. In ongoing progress in energy efficiency, projects saved over 10 million kWh of RES (Renewable Energy Systems) fiscal 2019, this project generated RECs consolidation of operations and electricity and avoided more than 3,300 and Steelhead Americas, for 200 equivalent to approximately 1,019,000 GJ application of renewable energy metric tons CO₂e of GHG emissions. megawatts of its Maverick Creek wind of electricity for General Mills, about onecertificates (RECs) from our wind power project. The wind project, located in Renewable energy: We have third of electricity usage at our owned agreement (see below). Emissions central Texas, will produce RECs for implemented numerous renewable manufacturing locations in the U.S. This decreased 13% compared to 2018. General Mills that, together with the energy initiatives at facilities worldwide decreased our GHG emissions footprint Energy use: In addition to our GHG Cactus Flats wind power agreement, that meet financial guidelines and by 185,185 metric tons CO₂e, contributing are calculated to equal 100% of emissions reduction goal, each General support our environmental objectives. 1% of reduction toward our 2025 full the electricity used annually at the Mills production facility has a target Examples include anaerobic digestion value chain goal. Through these efforts, to reduce energy use by 2% annually, normalized to production. During fiscal 2019, the rate remained flat compared to Renewable energy, fiscal 2019* the prior year. Efficiency improvements Generated and Generated and Location RECs (GJ) Type were partially offset by the addition of used (GJ) sold (GJ) energy data associated with Blue Buffalo. Brazil (Cambara, Carolina, 291,859 0 N/A Wood / heat Pouso Alegre) Absolute energy use increased by 3%. France (Arras) 1,974 2,273 N/A Biogas (food waste) / electricity and heat We identify and implement improvements through our Five-Step Energy United States (Fridley, MN) 50,596 0 N/A Biomass (oat hulls) / heat Reduction Process, by working with our United States (Murfreesboro, TN) 1,567 (electricity), 0 N/A Biogas (food waste) / electricity and heat 963 (steam) manufacturing plants to establish energy programs, conduct energy analyses, United States (Cactus Flats, N/A N/A 1,019,000 Wind / Electricity (RECs) Concho County, TX) develop and execute improvement plans, and validate results. This process Total 369,639 2,273 1,019,000 historically focused on facilities with % of total energy usage ** 3.98% significant spending on energy. We * The company’s facility in San Adrian, Spain, rented its roof to a solar company, which generated 5,800 GJ at that location in fiscal 2019. That amount is not included in this table. have recently evolved it to include all ** Wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Food Planet People Community company’s owned U.S. facilities. During waste-intensive changes in operations and meet our target to achieve zero waste to Production waste the peak of construction, the project overall decreases in production. During landfill at 30% of our owned production 350,000 is anticipated to create approximately the year, 64% of our total production solid facilities by 2020 and 100% by 2025. 175 jobs in the clean energy workforce. waste globally was recycled, 28% was 300,000 To view additional data about GHG processed for energy recovery and 8% was Waste reduction: We also work to emissions, energy usage in our 250,000 Metric tons disposed.* In fiscal 2019, 4% of our total decrease waste, which saves money and directly controlled operations, and production volume was food waste, and 200,000 materials and decreases our overall GHG water and solid waste, see the Disposal* only 1% of that (0.04% of total production emissions. Each General Mills production Environmental data summary. 150,000 Energy recovery volume) went to landfill. Learn more. Recycling facility has a target to reduce production solid waste generation by 3% annually, Worldwide, at the end of fiscal 2019, 100,000 *Disposal includes landfill and normalized to production. In fiscal 2019, 12 General Mills production facilities (24% 50,000 incineration without this rate decreased by 5%, while absolute of the global total) met our zero-waste-toenergy recovery. waste fell by 6%. Main factors included landfill criteria.** We continue working to 2017 2018 2019 *Disposal includes landfill and incineration without energy recovery. **These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Shipping (10% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) Transporting ingredients 1.55 1.54 1.54 to our facilities and our 1.30 products to stores TRUCK OTHER MODES WAREHOUSE 2010 2018 2019 2025 GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 72% 26% 2% We work with our suppliers, co-packers, Strategies: transportation spend is with transportation providers and customers n O  ptimizing transportation modes, SmartWay certified carriers.* to reduce the environmental impact of including moving loads to modes with n I mproving logistics planning, shipping our products around the world. less impact, such as from truck to rail. filling trucks more completely and Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions n C  ollaborating with suppliers using load optimization software. in this category decreased 1% in 2019 and customers to increase n O  ptimizing our customer service compared to our 2010 baseline. Shifts capacity utilization and providing facility and inventory footprint to to more efficient transport modes and customers incentives to use our decrease outside storage, which improvements in truck fuel efficiency Direct Plant Ship program. requires additional handling. have enabled us to keep GHG emissions n P  rioritizing shippers with strong roughly flat despite business growth environmental credentials. In and increased shipping distances. North America, 88% of our *Twelve months ending November 2019. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Food Planet People Community Selling (5% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) Making food available for purchase and daily 0.91 0.75 0.76 0.74 operations of our business STORAGE AT RETAIL EMPLOYEE COMMUTE BUSINESS TRAVEL OTHER 2010 2018 2019 2025 69% 12% 4% 15% GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) We support the efforts of our customers due to a decrease in the volume of Corporate offices: Efforts to decrease From 2015 through 2019, we saved who are working to reduce energy use products that require cold storage. waste and energy use at our corporate US$989,000 through energy use and associated GHG emissions related offices include expanding recycling and reductions, decreasing GHG emissions Sales fleet: We continue to reduce to storing and refrigerating our products. composting streams, reducing printing, by more than 7,480 metric tons CO₂e. impacts in this area through upgrades This category also includes General optimizing building energy controls and to more efficient fleet vehicles. From Through fiscal 2019, to support healthy Mills activities that support sales and improving lighting energy efficiency. fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2019, we ecosystems, we have also converted marketing, such as commuting, business reduced the GHG emissions intensity In fiscal 2019, at our Minneapolis more than eight acres of land at travel and our corporate offices. of our U.S. and Canada sales fleet headquarters, we reduced overall waste our headquarters to pollinator or Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions by 29% per mile driven, decreasing by 10% and waste to landfill by 30%, prairie habitat. in this category decreased 16% in 2019 annual GHG emissions per vehicle by while increasing composting collection by compared to our 2010 baseline, largely more than 0.6 metric tons CO₂e. more than 70%, compared to fiscal 2017. Consuming (17% of total value chain GHG emissions) 3.54 KEY DRIVERS (% OF PHASE IN FY19) Enjoying food (shopping, 2.70 2.64 2.64 preparing and eating) and disposing END OF LIFE HOME COOKING CONSUMER TRIPS HOME STORAGE TO STORE 2010 2018 2019 2025 GENERAL MILLS LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION METRIC TONS CO2E) 32% 30% 26% 13% Product end-of-life (food waste and Performance: Greenhouse gas lower levels of food waste as well Food waste: We support several packaging) represents the largest part emissions in this category decreased as increases in our portfolio of initiatives to combat food waste. General of emissions in this phase, followed 25% in 2019 compared to our 2010 products that do not require cooking Mills food donations enabled 28 million by consumer meal preparation baseline, reflecting a shift in overall or refrigeration by the consumer. meals globally in 2019. Learn more. and transportation to the store. sales to regions with relatively GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Food Planet People Community Water stewardship u Material issue | GRI 303-1, 2, 3 Water is essential for life – for drinking Policy: The General Mills Water Policy and sanitation, and to grow food, provides a framework for engaging generate power, support commerce with stakeholders and improving the Feeding Ourselves Thirsty and nurture ecosystems. On average, health of watersheds that are critical In the 2019 update of its Feeding how companies are responding to water agriculture accounts for 70% of global to our business. Improving watershed Ourselves Thirsty analysis, Ceres ranked risks in governance and management, General Mills No. 3 of 18 packaged food direct operations, the manufacturing freshwater withdrawals,* and the food health requires extensive collaboration companies (and No. 3 of 40 food sector supply chain and the agricultural sector faces increasing risks related to protect the water quality and companies overall). The study assessed supply chain. to water quality and availability. This supply that benefit our growers, underscores the leadership role that communities and the environment. General Mills and other food companies targeted geographies. We follow our and irrigation intensity data from Our goal: Champion the activation of must take to address water stewardship four-phase approach to develop and the University of Minnesota. We are water stewardship plans for the comissues. We focus on water use from implement watershed health strategies currently conducting an updated and pany’s most material and at-risk waterwatershed to production, identify in eight priority watersheds across expanded assessment, and plan to sheds in its global value chain by 2025. opportunities to increase efficiency and our worldwide supply chain. (See the share the results in our next report. conservation, and continually improve Risk-based approach: Water issues are watersheds map on the next page.) Water use in operations: Although performance and enhance resiliency. local, so we take a risk-based approach One of those watersheds is in phase 2 this category only represents about 1% to address the specific challenges facing (analysis and action planning), four are of our water footprint, every General in phase 3 (collaboration) and three have Mills production facility has a target advanced to phase 4 (transformation). General Mills water footprint * to decrease water withdrawal by 1% To prioritize geographies, in 2016 we annually, normalized to production. In Packaging supply chain (14%) updated a risk assessment of the fiscal 2019, the rate decreased by 7%, due Reducing materials use and using watersheds that support our business to process efficiencies and the addition lower impact materials (such as globally. We assessed 15 key ingredients of production volumes associated with recycled content) are the main in 36 sourcing regions and 66 facilities Blue Buffalo. Absolute water withdrawal strategies that positively impact Agriculture and water use related to packaging. (including 17 supplier partners), related to our manufacturing processes transformation See the Packaging supply chain covering 41 watersheds globally. This equaled 13.1 million cubic meters, 4% (85%) section for more information. process, which updated the analysis we less than in fiscal 2018. Main factors We focus on conducted with TNC in 2013, included included reductions in the number the highest-risk Producing (1%) factors such as water quantity, water of facilities and overall production. watersheds that we Although this represents a small impact globally. See part of our footprint, we control this quality and baseline water stress. We To view additional data about the map for details. phase directly and are committed used the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) water withdrawal in our directly to continual improvement. See the Water Risk Filter and the World Business controlled operations, including Producing section for details. Council for Sustainable Development withdrawal by source, see the *Water consumption data is from 2012. Data in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was (WBCSD) Global Water Tool, as well Environmental data summary. considered to be immaterial. as facility water consumption data *FAO. 2011. The state of the world’s land and water resources for food and agriculture (SOLAW): managing systems at risk. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome and Earthscan, London. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Food Planet People Community Four-phase approach to sustainable supply chain water use PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and Collaboration Transformation A study of key operation and growing action planning Establish multi-stakeholder water Implement water stewardship program region watersheds, using external stewardship plan to implement identified with public education and advocacy, Deep-dive analysis of at-risk growing areas, standards and building on work completed improvements funding, and monitoring and reporting in conjunction with external experts with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) General Mills priority watersheds Snake Yongding He IDAHO, U.S. HEBEI/SANHE (BEIJING), CHINA Growing region (wheat, potatoes) Growing region (dairy), facility RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH PHASE 4 PHASE 3 General Mills is tracking the Eastern Snake We are in the process of implementing River Plain Aquifer Comprehensive Aquifer the Alliance for Water Stewardship Management Plan to drive progress toward standard at our facility and the watershed sustainability. We support surrounding catchment. TNC to help farmers implement water management and soil health practices Huang He (Yellow) that reduce groundwater withdrawals SHANGDONG, CHINA and address declining water levels and watershed health in this area. In 2017, the Growing region (dairy) Natural Resources Conservation Service RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH (NRCS) allocated $5.2 million to promote PHASE 2 and implement irrigation and water saving This watershed is in the analysis phase. projects through its Regional Conservation Partnership Program. TNC also received a Yangtze (Chang Jiang) grant from the NRCS to help develop the business case for farmers to reduce water Rio Grande/ SHANGHAI, CHINA use. Also see Southern Idaho Fieldprint Project and the TNC soil health roadmap. Rio Bravo Facilities NEW MEXICO, U.S. RISK LEVEL: HIGH PHASE 3 San Joaquin Facility We are in the process of implementing CALIFORNIA, U.S. RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH the Alliance for Water Stewardship PHASE 4 standard at our facilities and the Growing region (dairy, nuts, We contribute to the Rio Grande Water surrounding catchments. fruits and vegetables), facility Fund’s work to help advance water RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH conservation and education efforts in the PHASE 3 Albuquerque community, including restoring Ganges General Mills has supported TNC and forests to reduce catastrophic wildfires that MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA Sustainable Conservation to develop threaten the area’s water supply. Over the resources such as the groundwater past three summers, our Albuquerque cereal South Florida Basins Growing region (wheat) FLORIDA, U.S. RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH dependent ecosystem tool and the and snack plant partnered with TNC to PHASE 3 groundwater recharge assessment tool to collect rain water, Saving Every Drop. Growing region (sugarcane) In 2018, General Mills and TNC assist development of groundwater Additionally, we are tracking the RISK LEVEL: HIGH completed a detailed assessment of sustainability plans. Through the California Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water PHASE 4 the watershed, farming practices and Water Action Collaborative, we share Utility's 100-year long-range water supply General Mills is tracking The Central Everglades improvement opportunities. We are resources and information with other food plan for the metropolitan area, Water 2120: Planning Project (CEPP) that is currently being collaborating with another food and beverage companies, suppliers and Securing our Water Future. As a founding implemented according to the Integrated company to develop a water fund conservation organizations to improve water member of the Alliance for Water Delivery Schedule, a collaboration created with and to pursue other opportunities for security in the San Joaquin watershed. In Stewardship (AWS), we have completed and multi-stakeholder input. the region. To better understand the 2018, we supported development of the self-certified to the AWS Standard at our challenges and possible solutions in this Groundwater Exchange, a resource and cereal and snack facility in Albuquerque and area, in 2018 we met with numerous collaboration portal that helps water its surrounding catchment. The AWS local farmers and summarized the managers, water users and community Standard facilitates the documentation of meetings in a blog. members implement the Sustainable shared water risks in the catchment and Groundwater Management Act. efforts to abate them. An interactive version of this map, which is updated periodically, is also available online. Risk levels are based on the WWF Water Risk Filter, customized to General Mills. We refresh our water risk assessment every three years, and that process was underway during the development of this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 Some of the priority watersheds noted in this map will change, for example in China due to recent structural changes in our business. We plan to publish the updated version in 2021. Food Planet People Community Regenerative agriculture u Material issues | GRI 102-12, 13, 201-1, 304-2, 3 Globally, up to one-third of greenhouse To achieve these benefits at scale, acres of farmland by 2030. We are to measured outcomes across three gas (GHG) emissions stems from the we believe all types of agriculture – developing measurement and tracking key areas: farmer economic resilience, food system, an estimated 80% of which organic and conventional – can for this goal and plan to report soil health and biodiversity. comes from agriculture.* To positively adopt regenerative principles. progress in the next fiscal year. impact our planet, it’s imperative that we Our goal: Advance regenerative Our approach: We aim to connect best adapt our approach to farming, natural agriculture practices on 1 million practices in regenerative agriculture resource management and energy usage. We believe that the most promising solutions start with healthy soil. Three key aspects to our approach We are on a journey to make a meaningful difference through regenerative agriculture, which we define as agriculture that protects FARMER ECONOMIC RESILIENCE SOIL HEALTH BIODIVERSITY and intentionally enhances natural resources and farming communities. By fostering natural nutrient cycling, Soil is a complex ecosystem that forms Diversity in crop varieties, grazing regenerative agriculture practices can the base of the food chain for humans animals, wildlife and pollinators helps to Regenerative agriculture works with build farm fertility and resilience over and all land animals. Soil also plays an build farm ecosystems that are resilient nature to pull carbon from the air and time. This supports healthy yields and essential role in balancing the earth’s against disease, pests and extreme store it in the soil, where it nourishes reduces the resources needed to combat ecosystem and our climate. Healthier soil weather events. Plant health, function a network of life. This approach is a system stressors like pests, natural can hold more water, increase resilience and biomass can improve and increase powerful lever for change across the disasters and diseases. to floods and droughts, maintain nutrients with diversity. and purify water. agricultural supply chain. It not only sustains the natural resources and Measurement protocols farming communities we depend on Field operations: Cash and cover Soil health: Soil structure, microbial Plant diversity: Plant species, canopy but can renew, restore and regenerate crop varieties, time of planting, seed diversity and abundance, soil cover, erosion control effectiveness them for generations to come. treatments, seed and planting cost, penetration resistance, nutrient Insects inventory: Soil, foliar, and livestock operations and tillage practices availability, and active carbon airborne invertebrate bio-inventories Inputs: Name and amount of fertilizer, Soil functions: Water infiltration assessed during cash crop flowering herbicide, fungicide, pesticide rate, water holding capacity, and cover crop growth and biological amendments used, microbial respiration Breeding bird survey: Species, method of application and type of Soil carbon sequestration: Meterlocation, and behavior of common pest or disease being controlled deep soil organic carbon stocks and rare birds Economic data: Cost of inputs and operations, crop yield and livestock revenue *Vermuelen, S., Campbell, B. & Ingram, J. (2012). Climate Change and Food Systems. Annual Review of Environment and Resources, 37, 195-222. https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev-environ-020411-130608 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Food Planet People Community Measuring impact: During fiscal 2018, between their agricultural practices and Regenerative practices that put carbon underground General Mills developed a Regenerative the principles of regenerative agriculture. Agriculture Measurement Protocol, which Life-cycle assessment: In 2018, General outlines how we determine the impact Mills worked with Quantis, White Oak Absorption of CO2 of agricultural management on soil Pastures and Michigan State University to by plants through photosynthesis health throughout General Mills network conduct a life-cycle assessment of White Multi-species grazing of regenerative farmers and ranchers Oak Pastures, which produces beef for (see graphic on prior page.) Through our EPIC brand and uses regenerative Conversion of annual cropland to December 2019, we have collected and grazing to restore degraded cropland perennial pasture analyzed data from 45 pilot farms — both Compost and convert it to permanent pasture. conventional and organic — in the U.S. We The study concludes that White Oak also launched Version 2.0 of the General Pastures is offsetting at least 100% of the Mills Regenerative Agriculture Selffarm’s grassfed beef carbon emissions Increasing organic Grass and healthy soil matter and microbiology sequester carbon Assessment, a user-friendly open-source and as much as 85% of the farm’s total tool for farmers to understand alignment carbon emissions. See the final report. Regenerative farming principles Minimize soil disturbance – Soil Maximize crop diversity – Many Keep the soil covered – Keeping Maintain living roots year-round – Integrate livestock – Integrating a is very porous, like a sponge, and problems that farmers have to the soil covered protects it from Green living plants are the high density of grazing livestock on tilling soil weakens its structure. deal with – such as pests, diseases wind, sun and other natural foundation of the soil ecosystem. crop land, with frequent movement, It collapses on itself, hardens and and poor nutrient cycling – can elements that can damage or Regenerative agriculture works benefits plants in numerous ways. over time can’t absorb water, which be traced to a lack of diversity erode it, while protecting the to convert as much sunlight as Natural pruning inspires new plant keeps roots from penetrating in the agricultural system. underground ecosystem. This possible into plants, throughout growth, natural fertilizer invites through it. Reducing or eliminating Including a broader range of decreases water evaportation and the year. Roots act as straws taking helpful insects to aerate the soil and tillage can reverse this process. plants in the system decreases carbon oxidation, while supporting carbon from the air and storing spread organic matter, and livestock pest and disease pressure and important microorganisms. it in the soil where it nourishes a movement works the land and the increases soil nutrients, while network of life. soil in a less invasive way, reseeding supporting carbon sequestration. from the plants themselves. Engaging farmers through Northern Plains Regenerative Oats Pilot In March 2019, General Mills launched three-year period. To support this effort, to assess the outcomes of the program. its Northern Plains Regenerative Oats regenerative agriculture expert organizations Enrolled farmers also provide management Pilot in a key oat sourcing region that Understanding Ag and Soil Health Academy data for the study field so we can also spans parts of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, are providing extensive farmer coaching assess changes in profitability over the Canada, and North Dakota. Through the and training. course of the project. The analysis includes program, 45 farms representing 170,000 six control farms to compare performance Each participating farm picked a study field acres (50,000 of which are actively without these practices. Although the for soil health, biodiversity and profitability engaged in the pilot) are working directly project is still in the data collection phase, baseline measurements, which occurred from r Doug Turnbull, from Grip-Fast Farms in with coaches to develop and implement we plan to share results in the future. May-August 2019. We are collaborating with Binscarth, Manitoba, is one of 45 oat farmers regenerative management plans over a leading soil scientists and wildlife biologists Learn more. in our regenerative agriculture pilot program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Food Planet People Community Soil health More than 99% of food comes from in initiatives to advance soil health soil health, carbon sequestration, the land,* so keeping soil healthy is on U.S. agricultural lands. water infiltration and biodiversity. critical to meeting demands on food, We have a three-pronged approach n S upplier and grower partnerships: Since fuel and fiber as our global population to supporting soil health: 2010, General Mills has collaborated grows. But 33% of the Earth’s soils with supply chain partners to advance n R esearch investments: We collaborate are already degraded and over 90% progress toward our 2020 sustainable could become degraded by 2050.** with research institutions to help ensure sourcing commitment. Additionally, Soil conservation practices, including that scientists have the resources and we have supported on-farm soil health planting cover crops, rotating diverse perspectives they need to pioneer practice experimentation with financial crops and reducing tillage, can improve long-term solutions that work for and in-kind contributions since 2017. r As part of its #DeeplyRooted campaign, soil health. We are investing to help farmers and the food industry. Cascadian Farm released a limited-edition farmers adopt regenerative principles See our video, Healthy Soil, Healthy Planet. cereal made with Kernza. Proceeds benefit n P erennial crop investments: The Land Institute to advance further to rebuild and regenerate soil. Through strategic partnerships, *Pimentel, David. “Soil Erosion: A Food and research on the crop. Through 2019, General Mills has we’re working to develop crops like Environmental Threat.” 2006 **FAO and ITPS, 2015; IPBES, 2018 invested more than US$5.5 million Kernza with the potential to increase We have invested more than $5.5 million to In partnership with The Nature Conservancy, Soil Health Academy we developed reThink Soil: A Roadmap to advance soil health U.S. Soil Health In 2019, General Mills funded and hosted a pair of two-day Soil $2 million+ in soil health research and adoption Health Academy workshops in $1 million to support through The Nature Conservancy, Soil Health Canada, one in Manitoba and one in regenerative agriculture Partnership and Soil Health Institute training, tools and Saskatchewan. These events provided research through $1 million+ with National Wheat Growers farmers with in-depth training on Kiss the Ground Foundation and National Corn Growers regenerative agriculture principles Research Foundation and the associated benefits to natural r Farmers attending a Soil Health investments resource conservation, profitability Academy workshop in Brandon, and total farm resiliency. Leading Manitoba. regenerative farmers and advisors agriculture pilot, fielded questions, Perennial crops shared case studies and conducted and encouraged interested growers investments demonstrations illustrating how farms to opt in for consideration. Seventyshould be treated as ecosystems that five of the attending farm operations Supplier and grower can be restored by mimicking nature’s applied for the pilot program, and partnerships principles. Over 130 participants joined we were able to increase funding $1 million in University of from more than 100 farm operations. to support 50% more growers than Supporting farmers’ Minnesota’s Forever Green originally planned. We plan to report During the meetings, General Mills ongoing efforts to build initiative to develop crops progress in the coming years. outlined expectations and targeted healthy soil, including like Kernza outcomes for the regenerative through education, pilot programs and fellowship opportunities GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Food Planet People Community Organic farming Today, less than 1% of the farmland in Triple Bottom Line Operating Unit: n I ndustry collaboration – Collaborating n S upporting young farmers and the U.S. is certified organic. General Mills In 2018, Annie’s, Cascadian Farm, EPIC with other organizations to amplify sustainable food leaders – Ensuring that is dedicated to increasing the longProvisions, and Muir Glen joined together meaningful change farming and food provide exciting career term capacity of our organic supply as a new operating unit within General opportunities for the next generation n P ublic policy engagement – chain and expanding organic acreage. Mills, leading on innovative, regenerative Supporting development, promotion For details, see our report, Triple Bottom These efforts align with our growth practices including organic farming. The and ongoing improvement of Line Operating Unit Sustainability objectives, consumer demand and our Triple Bottom Line Operating Unit is strong U.S. organic standards Highlights FY2019. commitment to regenerative agriculture. committed to driving positive outcomes n R esearch and farm-based support – Since 2000, General Mills has steadily for the planet, people and profit. While grown our organic business with new each brand has unique product offerings Encouraging widespread adoption products, such as Progresso Organic and core consumers, all four strive of organic farming practices through Soup, and brand acquisitions, including to accelerate work in regenerative research, advocacy and education Cascadian Farm, Muir Glen and Annie’s. agriculture and to advance leading65,000+ edge sustainability ideas that can be leveraged throughout General Mills. #2 We work to advance organic farming practices in the following ways: Together the Triple Bottom Line General Mills is the Operating Unit’s brands accounted n A dvancing organic supply second-largest branded chains Prioritizing the purchase for more than 65,000 acres of natural and organic food of certified organic ingredients organic acreage in fiscal 2019. producer in the U.S. for our product portfolio Case study: Large-scale organic land conversion In fiscal 2018, General Mills and Gunsmoke As part of this agreement, General Mills contracting is unprecedented for General spring wheat to harvest as organic grain Farms LLC signed an agreement to convert has partnered with Midwestern BioAg to Mills and the industry. This agreement for Annie’s in 2020. To support the 34,000 acres of conventional farmland provide on-the-ground mentorship for provides farmers and landowners a high development of more climate-beneficial to certified organic acreage by 2020. the farm operators to advance leading level of security, which supports them in crops, we have also planted 65 acres of Located west of Pierre, South Dakota, the regenerative soil management practices. In making a transition of this magnitude. the perennial grain Kernza. The entire farm farm will grow certified organic wheat addition, nearly 3,000 acres of pollinator is on track to achieve our commitment Through September 2019, we planted and other organic crops as part of a habitat will be planted throughout the to certified organic by Summer 2020. 200 acres of test plots showing average diverse rotation. General Mills will use the farm in partnership with the Xerces Society or better yields for winter and spring wheat to make Annie’s pasta products, for Invertebrate Conservation (Xerces wheat, and will plant 10,000 acres of including its signature Macaroni & Cheese. Society). This type of long-term, direct GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Food Planet People Community Pollinators Thirty-five percent of crop production worldwide relies on pollinators such as General Mills investment in pollinators bees, birds and butterflies.* Diverse native FUNDING TIMEFRAME COMMITMENT PROGRESS (THROUGH OCTOBER 2019) populations of bees and other insects PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS are a sign of healthy and productive ecosystems. Many of our products contain Expansion of the Xerces Society’s Provided technical support or Pollinator Conservation Program by honey, fruits, nuts, vegetables and other General Mills corporate $1,250,000 conservation planning assistance to contributions adding eight full-time field biologists in key ingredients that require pollination, so more than 560 farms regions of the U.S. healthy and abundant bee populations are a priority for General Mills. We work with FY17 FY21 Restoration of habitat or protection our suppliers and leading conservationists $750,000 of pollinators on over 207,000 acres Protect and establish 100,000 acres to conserve and expand bee habitats, of pollinator habitat by 2021 We have met our goal and plan to keep and we fund research to better support driving improvement through policy $2,000,000 and farmer support. the health and recovery of honey bees. Since 2014, General Mills, our Foundation BRAND COMMITMENTS and our brands have invested more than 5 miles of hedgerow and wildflower strips $400,000 FY14 Completed US$6 million to support pollinator habitat on supplier’s 2,500-acre almond ranch and research efforts. This includes our 20 acres of habitat on 500 acres of land public-private partnership with the Xerces $15,000 FY17 Completed owned by two organic dairy suppliers Society and the USDA, brand investments on supplier farmland, and other charitable 3,300 acres of pollinator habitat planted $1,650,000 FY17 FY21 1,800 acres of habitat planted contributions to advance pollinator by 2020 research and health. See chart for details. 50+ acres of pollinator habitat *“Insects and Pollinators,” NRCS, USDA, planted, including: https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/main/ Pollinator habitat support on n 8,000 flowering shrub transplants $1,185,000 FY17 FY25 national/plantsanimals/pollinate. supplier farmland n 5  2 million flowering annual and perennial wildflower seeds n 9  + miles of hedgerow habitat OTHER GENERAL MILLS CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS Applied research on bee health in Europe; $515,000 FY15 FY19 beekeeper training; pollinator habitat 500 acres of habitat planted expansion, including Yoplait sourcing regions Advanced research on honey bee Honey bee cell culture research; knowledge viruses and nutritional supplements r Cheerios and Nature Valley celebrated $700,000 FY14 FY19 sharing and collaboration among pollinator for bee health; promoted best Earth Day 2019 by partnering to support researchers worldwide initiatives that help bees and trees. beekeeping practices “The General Mills and Xerces work is bringing pollinator and wildlife habitat back to some lands where it has not existed for more than half a century. There’s still enormous work to be done, but no other partnership is tackling pollinator and biodiversity conservation on farms at this scale.” –E  ric Lee-Mӓder, Pollinator Program Co-Director, the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Food Planet People Community Habitat work in the West Muir Glen and Cascadian Farm partner with the Xerces Society to plant pollinator habitat on our supplier farms in California, Oregon and Washington. This partnership has resulted in 34 largescale project sites to date (see map). By establishing pollinator habitat around farmland for high-value ingredients, farmers are able to use insects as partners to create a healthy farm ecosystem. Beneficial insects can also help control pests, reducing reliance on synthetic pesticides. w Muir Glen and Cascadian Farm Cascadian Farm supplier farm locations with pollinator Muir Glen r Before and after the pollinator work at Grimmway Farms in the Central Valley engagements. of California. Synthetic pesticide use reduction Our approach: We recognize that intervention and response – into all our some consumers and stakeholders processes to manage potential issues have concerns about the use of with pesticide residue in ingredients, and We work with nature to reduce the need for pesticides. General Mills maintains a we work across our supply chain and synthetic pesticide use through four key strategies comprehensive system of controls with global regulatory agencies to ensure and processes to ensure the highest safety in pesticide use. Learn more. level of product quality and safety. ORGANIC Reducing synthetic pesticide use: IPM POLLINATOR REGENERATIVE We also work to reduce the need for ACREAGE In addition to our strict regulatory PRACTICES HABITAT EXPANSION AGRICULTURE synthetic pesticides in agriculture. compliance and food safety standards, Food safety: Food safety is the top we are committed to protecting and priority for General Mills. In today’s global regenerating the land from which our agriculture system, where plant pests ingredients are grown. Recognizing that and diseases are responsible for losses synthetic pesticides may harm beneficial to reduce synthetic pesticide use, and pest management (IPM), organic of 20 to 40% of all food production, insects, including pollinators, or drift we work with trusted agronomists and acreage expansion and pollinators not farmers rely on pesticides, fertilizers beyond a farmer’s field and affect nearby other experts to implement continuous only support healthy ecosystems and and other tools to protect crops and fields and ecosystems, we are actively improvement practices throughout soil health, but also directly reduce grow ingredients for the foods we eat. working across our value chain to limit our supply chain. Our commitments farmer reliance on pesticides and We integrate a systematic approach these unintended and potentially harmful to regenerative agriculture, integrated other agrochemicals. Learn more. to safety – focusing on prevention, impacts. We have strategies in place GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 Food Planet People Community Sustainable sourcing u Material issues: Commodity availability; farmer livelihoods; human rights; responsible sourcing | GRI 102-12, 13, 203-1, 2, 204-1, FP4 Approach: We focus on improving the systems more efficiently is essential Looking ahead: As we approach restore landscapes connected to our environmental, social and economic to feeding a growing population. 2020 and look toward 2030, we’ll business. We’re excited to build upon impacts of raw material sourcing. This Progress: We continue to make progress continue current efforts to improve the our sustainable sourcing efforts to aligns with our core values and helps toward our goal to sustainably source sustainability of our priority ingredients, bring a regenerative focus to relevant ensure availability of the ingredients we 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by selectively deepen investments, and priority ingredients and beyond. need to make our products, while driving 2020. In fiscal 2019, we achieved 91%, up sharpen the focus of our work. To progress toward our 2025 goal to reduce ensure we positively impact people from 85% the prior year. We continue to In fiscal 2019, absolute GHG emissions across our full move our supply chain toward sustainable and planet, while increasing supply we sustainably 91% value chain by 28% (compared to 2010). sourcing through origin-direct investment, chain resiliency for our businesses, It also helps us meet our consumers’ we need to find ways to move past sourced* 91% continuous improvement and verification growing desire to understand the link efforts with farmers and supplier partners, simply sustaining natural resources and of our 10 priority between the food they purchase and its connected data partners and NGOs. farming communities. We must work ingredients. origin. Using finite resources and natural to also more intentionally protect and Deforestation Forests play a critical role in ecosystems. investment aligned with our sustainable and commitments to ensure that we are Additional details on our strategy and They act as carbon sinks, filter and store sourcing goals, and to drive sustainability effectively combating deforestation given progress can be found on our water, and provide a home for countless requirements to our upstream supply the critical need to drive more improvement. deforestation webpage. plant and animal species. While General base. Learn more about our approach for Mills has minimal sourcing exposure to each of these in the subsequent pages. deforestation risks, we are committed We are signatories to the 2014 New York to eliminating deforestation and the Declaration on Forests, and in March 2017 we resulting impacts on biodiversity, signed on to the World Cocoa Foundation’s endangered species and climate change. Cocoa & Forests Initiative (CFI) to combat Deforestation is a major contributor deforestation in key cocoa growing regions. to climate change, accounting for an estimated 15% of GHG emissions globally. For other commodities often associated with deforestation such as soy, meat and We regularly review our global sourcing dairy, our exposure to regions at high risk of footprint and have focused efforts on deforestation is minimal. While we operate those commodities at high risk of driving businesses around the globe, most of our deforestation and where we can make a ingredients support our North American meaningful impact: cocoa, fiber packaging and European operations where we work and palm oil. In these categories, we with local suppliers, farmers and ranchers. work with suppliers and other partners to improve traceability and encourage As we look beyond 2020, we will consider r In fiscal 2019, we sourced 99.5% of our fiber packaging from recycled material or from certification and/or origin-direct how to further strengthen our approach virgin wood fiber regions that do not contribute to deforestation. *See the definitions of sustainably sourced for our 10 priority ingredients on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 Food Planet People Community Performance dashboard: Sustainable sourcing* Commitment: Sustainably source 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, Progress: 91% of these raw materials 91% representing 40% of our annual raw material purchases sustainably sourced in fiscal 2019 Primary focus** Strategy Sustainability definition Raw material/ingredient FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Environmental Social Cocoa 28% 46% 59% 90% 93% Direct investment at origin to improve smallholder farmer livelihoods and ingredient quality Vanilla 45% 22% 22% 32% 75% Origin-direct investment Driving toward continuous improvement using Oats 40% 50% 61% 90% 97% industry-based environmental metrics with at least 25% of acres under measurement U.S. wheat 24% 36% 61% 74% 86% Driving toward continuous improvement using U.S. sugar beets 47% 68% 81% 81% 89% Field to Market framework or comparable metrics with at least 25% of acres under measurement Continuous improvement U.S. corn 26% 33% 67% 82% 91% (dry milled) Driving toward continuous improvement U.S. dairy 20% 38% 83% 91% 98% as outlined in the ICUSD’s Stewardship and (raw fluid milk) Sustainability Framework for U.S. Dairy*** Recycled material or virgin wood fiber from Fiber packaging 99% 99% 99% 99.5% 99.5% regions not contributing to deforestation Sourced from independently verified lowSugarcane 59% 67% 58% 70% 86% risk regions, or compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards in high-risk regions Verification Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Palm oil**** 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% mass balanced, segregated sustainable palm or PalmTrace Credits *Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. All numbers calculated based on volume except fiber packaging, which is based on percent of spend sustainably sourced. Aggregate percentage is based on the percentages sustainably sourced for each ingredient, weighted by spend. Data reported for oats, U.S. wheat, U.S. sugar beets and U.S. corn represent percentage progress calculated based on acres under measurement and number of years of data. **Our efforts are focused on areas of significant challenge at the point of origin where we can have the greatest impact. ***Measured using the National Milk Producers Federation’s Farmers Assuring Responsible Management (FARM) Environmental Stewardship module (formerly called FarmSmart). ****Palm oil target 100% by fiscal 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 Food Planet People Community Origin-direct investment We rely on farmers and farming communities for our ingredients. When farmers can earn a good living and take care of the local environment, their lives are better and their communities are more stable. We invest in smallholder farmers and their communities to improve livelihoods, environmental resources and ingredient quality. More than 90% of the cocoa we purchase is grown in West Africa. Cocoa Status: 93% of the cocoa General In Ghana, we are working with cocoa supplier Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 was In Côte d’Ivoire, we partner with Cargill and CARE in 20 communities to form village cocoa suppliers Barry Callebaut cooperatives and provide technical assistance sustainably sourced.* and Cargill to help smallholder and educational support to more than 2,300 farmers. Our support of the Cargill smallholder farmers. Cocoa Promise program with the Challenges: humanitarian NGO CARE in Côte d’Ivoire benefits 10 communities. n E conomic viability – the ability of Our support of Barry Callebaut’s smallholder farmers to earn enough In Nigeria, participating farmer communities are Cocoa Horizons program helps provided with a comprehensive support package from the crop to support their families farmers in 65 cocoa cooperatives reflecting our vision and the Olam Livelihood improve productivity through n D eforestation – due to the expansion Charter principles of finance, improved yields, labor training, support and financing.* practices, market access, quality, traceability, social of cocoa plantations and gathering Learn more about the impact of our NGO partnerships in Community. investment and reduced environmental impact. of firewood in some areas n L ow productivity – low yields, *Impact from General Mills funding and donations from other companies are combined for maximum impact in the Cocoa Horizons program. crop loss due to pests or disease, During fiscal 2019, we worked to transition child labor. In addition, we are a member social and community engagement. We and degraded soil fertility more of our global chocolate purchases of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), collaborated with those organizations n C hild labor – helping families to sustainable volumes. The General which works with the food industry to aggregate and integrate information keep children in school Mills Foundation provided funding to address social and environmental to develop a draft General Mills action Progress: In 2019, we continued to for a West Africa forest protection issues in the cocoa supply chain. plan with intended investment and expand our work with key suppliers and restoration initiative as part of forecasted impact through 2022 for both Since signing on to WCF’s Cocoa & to provide direct support to cocoaour Cocoa & Forests Commitment. Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. In early 2019, Forests Initiative in March 2017, we have growing communities in West Africa. we completed and published our final Collaboration: We work directly with our worked closely with suppliers, NGOs and company action plans. This initiative will Since January 2017, 100% of our powdered suppliers to address systemic challenges Proforest to identify strategic actions also drive progress toward our 2025 GHG cocoa has been sustainably sourced. and enforce our Supplier Code of to protect and restore forests, increase emissions reduction goal. Learn more. Conduct, which prohibits forced and sustainable production and promote Challenges: We continue developing innovative opporCollaboration: In addition to our work Vanilla n E conomic viability – the ability of tunities in Madagascar to produce enough with key partners Virginia Dare and smallholder farmers to earn enough sustainable volume to achieve our comPositive Planet, we’ve invested in and Status: 75% of the vanilla General Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 was from the crop to support their families. mitment. During the year, we expanded supported the Sustainable Vanilla sustainably sourced.** our village savings and loan program with Initiative as a platform for leveraging Progress: During fiscal 2019, we more Positive Planet and continued support for broader industry collaboration. than doubled sustainable vanilla smallholder farmer co-op development purchases despite ongoing market with our key supplier partner Virgina Dare. volatility and geopolitical instability. *Cocoa includes chocolate as well as cocoa powder, converted into cocoa bean equivalents. See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. **See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Food Planet People Community Continuous improvement Row crops and dairy are among the most resource intensive of our 10 priority ingredients. To source these raw materials sustainably, we measure year-on-year progress in field-level resource efficiency and drive continuous improvement over time with farmers in our supply chain. Strategy: We partner with farmers in our key sourcing regions using frameworks Progress update on continuous improvement ingredients developed by Field to Market (FTM), 2018 crop year acres Years of data Performance Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy and the Ingredient Engagement regions under measurement (average) trend** Canadian Field Print Initiative. For U.S. Oats Eastern Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Northern North Dakota 72,000 5 Improvement row crops, we collaborate with third parties such as Agrible and Syngenta, U.S. wheat Southeastern Idaho, Northern Plains, Southern Plains, 381,000 3 Mixed Indiana, Missouri, Ohio which integrate Field to Market’s sustainability metrics into their farm Red River Valley, Southeastern Idaho, Southern Minnesota, U.S. sugar beets 56,000 6 Improvement management software platforms to Central Michigan, Mountain West streamline data collection. For U.S. raw U.S. corn (dry milled) Eastern Illinois, Central Wisconsin, Kansas, Nebraska 21,000 3 Mixed fluid milk, our dairy partners deploy the U.S. dairy (raw fluid milk) Central Michigan N/A, 100% of volume 3 Improvement National Milk Producers Federation's Farmers Assuring Responsible *This combines performance across multiple regions and metrics such as land use efficiency, energy use and GHG emissions per ton of ingredient, and fertilizer use efficiency. “Improvement” refers to improvement in most metrics in a majority of regions. “Mixed” refers to improvement in a minority of metrics and regions. Lack of improvement is often Management (FARM) Environmental due to poor weather during the growing season. Stewardship module (formerly called FarmSmart) to measure and track farm U.S. corn, and U.S. dairy that are We see several reasons for this: but also increase environmental sustainability. The data is evaluated sustainably sourced based on acres n T  he metrics we have been using impact and cost in the process. against key environmental indicators to and volumes that are measured and are based on productivity (yield) so establish a natural resource efficiency We now recognize that improved driving toward continuous improvement, lower yields drive poorer metrics baseline for each grower. We then soil health as the cornerstone to a this doesn’t necessarily translate hold workshops and collaborate with n W  hile farmers work diligently regenerative agriculture strategy is universally to positive performance in local, trusted agronomists and other to protect yield, factors outside a more effective driver of change. all sustainability-related metrics in all experts to identify and implement of their control such as weather We’ve committed to advance regions. See the next section for detail. continuous improvement practices. can undermine these efforts regenerative agriculture practices on Key learnings: We’ve learned a great 1 million acres of farmland by 2030. Progress: During fiscal 2019, we n W  eather anomaly years greatly deal over more than five years of continued to elevate sustainability as skew trends for engagements Looking ahead: As we look beyond working to advance the sustainability of central to our global sourcing strategy. with fewer years of data 2020, we are evolving our sourcing these ingredients. We set out to collect We launched engagements in new programs to incorporate regenerative and analyze farm data to model resource As a result, these metrics don’t give regions and brought on new supplier agriculture strategies. In addition to efficiency against key environmental us the full picture of continuous partners to advance progress. tracking natural resource efficiency indicators, and we’re now able to look improvement. Additionally, we with modeled outcomes, we will Since 2010, we have worked with more at trends over time. We had hoped have learned that continually measure actual outcomes through than 275 growers to collect data on a to see general improvement against improving output per acre doesn’t pilots that include soil health sampling, cumulative total of over 1,795,000 acres. industry metrics, but results have been necessarily increase economic or biodiversity assessments and farm Although we report the percentage mixed across crops and regions. environmental sustainability. For economic analyses, and have started of oats, U.S. wheat, U.S. sugar beets, example, farmers may raise yield GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Food Planet People Community capturing 2019 baselines in those time as well as improvements in on activities most within the farmers’ are working not only to protect, areas in key sourcing regions of North ecosystem health and productivity. control and will complement the but also to intentionally enhance America. This blended approach outcomes-based metrics we gather. and restore resources such as We will also monitor farmer will measure both farmer economic soil, biodiversity and water. management practices and continuous Overall, this revised approach will resilience and profitability over improvement in that area. This focuses show how farmers in our programs n O  at supply – decreased oat production We continued to expand on-then W e continued collaboration with key Oats Grower engagements: ground sustainability programs to supplier partner Paterson to advance measure natural resource efficiency research and enroll growers in our Status: 97% of the oats General n P  aterson Grain in Manitoba Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 were against key environmental indicators. regenerative agriculture pilot. and North Dakota sustainably sourced.* n D uring the last five years, we have seen n I n Saskatchewan, we expanded soil n E  xceed Grain Marketing, improvement in all metrics measured. health research with local agronomic Richardson, Shark Ag Consulting, In fiscal 2019: advisor Shark Ag Consulting. We Challenges: and Viterra in Saskatchewan funded technical support and Progress: n I n collaboration with our suppliers and n C limate change – reduce GHG provided cost sharing for farmers data partners, we brought together emissions across the supply chain n T  hrough fiscal 2019, we have to test new practices such as more than 100 farmers to review n S oil quality – improve soil health collected data on a cumulative total intercropping and cover cropping. environmental footprints and identify of over 189,000 acres in Manitoba, n W ater quality – address water continuous improvement opportunities. Saskatchewan, and North Dakota. quality issues related to agriculture Grower engagements: n I n Idaho, we have seen improvement engagement with Cenex Harvest in all metrics over the course of nine States (CHS) in Northern Minnesota. Wheat n Thresher Artisan Wheat in the Snake River region years. The Northern and Southern n I n the Snake River region, 77% of Status: 86% of the U.S. wheat Plains would have shown improvement surveyed growers reported using General Mills purchased in fiscal n ADM in the Northern Plains, Southern 2019 was sustainably sourced.* in fiveand three-year trends, if not for three or more conservation practices Plains and Eastern Corn Belt regions droughts in 2017 and 2018, respectively. to manage erosion, improve water n CHS in the Northern Plains In fiscal 2019: quality or preserve soil moisture. Challenges: Progress: n I n collaboration with our suppliers and n I n the Southern Plains Region, the n C limate change – reduce GHG n T  hrough fiscal 2019, we have collected data partners, we brought together General Mills Foundation provided emissions across the supply chain data on a cumulative total of over 215 farmers to review environmental funding to enroll two farms in the Soil n S oil quality – improve soil health 1,213,000 acres using on-the-ground footprints and identify continuous Health Partnership demonstration sustainability programs to measure n W ater quality – address water improvement opportunities. farm program in collaboration with natural resource efficiency against quality and quantity issues n W e hosted an inaugural spring meeting the National Wheat Foundation. key environmental indicators. related to agriculture and captured baseline data for a new *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. This refers to the percentage of target acres measured and driving toward continuous improvement, and not necessarily to performance in sustainability-related metrics. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 Food Planet People Community n W  ater quality – address water quality Progress: 85 farmers to review environmental Sugar beets and quantity issues related to agriculture n Through fiscal 2019, we have collected footprints and identify continuous Grower engagements: data on a cumulative total of over improvement opportunities. Status: 89% of the U.S. beet sugar General Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 n Amalgamated Sugar in the 307,000 acres using on-the-ground n W e continued data collection and was sustainably sourced.* Snake River Valley region sustainability programs to measure continuous improvement discussions natural resource efficiency against with all co-op suppliers. n American Crystal Sugar in the key environmental indicators. n I n the Red River Valley region, Red River Valley region Challenges: n Performance metrics have improved 92% of growers surveyed reported n Michigan Sugar in Michigan n C limate change – reduce GHG in some regions and not in others. using five or more practices to emissions across the supply chain n Western Sugar in the Mountain West In fiscal 2019: manage erosion, improve water n S oil quality – improve soil health n Southern Minnesota Beet Sugar quality or preserve soil moisture. n In collaboration with our suppliers and Cooperative in southwest Minnesota data partners, we brought together Grower engagements: n P erformance metrics have improved n 8  0% of the fields in the East Central Corn n Didion in South Central Wisconsin in some regions and not in others. Illinois engagement used conventional Status: 91% of the U.S. dry milled corn n Bunge in Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska In fiscal 2019: tillage, representing an opportunity General Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 n I n collaboration with our suppliers and for tillage reduction moving forward. n ADM in East Central Illinois was sustainably sourced.* n S  ince 2017, we’ve invested in the Soil Progress: data partners, we brought together 23 farmers to review environmental Health Partnership, a national project to n T  hrough fiscal 2019, we have collected Challenges: footprints and identify continuous conduct on-farm assessments of the soil data on a cumulative total of over n C  limate change – reduce GHG improvement opportunities. health impacts of cover crops, reduced 87,000 acres using on-the-ground emissions across the supply chain n 4 2% of fields in the Wisconsin tillage and fertilizer optimization. sustainability programs to measure n S  oil quality – improve soil health natural resource efficiency against engagement used conservation tillage n W  ater quality – address water key environmental indicators. practices to manage soil erosion. quality issues related to agriculture n A nimal welfare – address animal facility of all directly sourced raw manure management. We also Dairy care issues, such as dehorning fluid milk for our Reed City facility. explored opportunities to improve soil Status: 98% of the raw fluid milk Producer engagements: n E nergy usage and GHG emissions health on fields used for dairy feed. General Mills purchased in the U.S. in n S upply from Foremost Farms USA have both improved over three years.  eneral n G Mills, Foremost Farms USA, fiscal 2019 was sustainably sourced.* and Trierweiler Dairy Inc. to our In fiscal 2019: and 16 participating dairy producers Reed City, Michigan, yogurt facility n I n collaboration with our suppliers were recognized with a U.S. Dairy Challenges: Progress: and participating dairies, we Sustainability Award for Outstanding reviewed environmental footprints Supply Chain Collaboration in May n C  limate change – reduce GHG n T hrough fiscal 2019, U.S. milk producers and best practices, and discussed 2019. Dairies in our engagement emissions across the supply chain have used the FARM Environmental advancing continuous improvement drove an 11% reduction in GHG n W  ater quality – address water quality Stewardship module to collect data opportunities related to feed emissions from 2015-2018. issues related to agriculture and calculate the sustainability impact from farm to production production, milk production and *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. This refers to the percentage of target acres (for sugar beets and corn) and target volume (for dairy) measured and driving toward continuous improvement, and not necessarily to performance in sustainability-related metrics. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Food Planet People Community Verification We continue to increase the sustainability of fiber packaging, sugarcane and palm oil by working across the industry to Ninety percent of the fiber we use in improve practices, and we validate progress by using verification in high-risk regions. our packaging comes from the United States and Canada – areas at low risk Strategy: Ninety-nine percent of our Progress: In fiscal 2019, we reassessed for deforestation. Fiber packaging fiber packaging supply is considered our purchases in Asia to better at low risk for contributing to global understand risk and available 2 Status: 99.5% of the fiber packaging General Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 deforestation because the packaging certifications. We plan to convert all 1 was sustainably sourced.* uses either recycled materials or virgin remaining, high-risk region volume fiber that is sourced from regions where to Forest Stewardship Council deforestation is not occurring. The (FSC) mix or better in 2020. Challenges: remaining 1% is sourced from countries n D eforestation – in some parts considered at high risk, including China. 1 United States of the supply chain caused by We follow pulp, paper and packaging 2 Canada sourcing fiber for packaging sourcing guidelines developed by the Consumer Goods Forum. Strategy: More than half of the During the year, we continued evaluation sugarcane we purchase globally is grown of impact investment opportunities The majority of the sugarcane we Sugarcane in low-risk countries, such as the U.S. through Bonsucro and other purchase comes from the Western Status: 86% of the sugarcane Hemisphere. and Australia. We continue to leverage collaboratives to support sustainable General Mills purchased in fiscal our Bonsucro membership and the practices development in Mexico, Brazil 2019 was sustainably sourced.* organization’s Production Standard, and India. We look to finalize program 1 plus related credits to help farmers and scope and funding in early 2020. 2 Challenges: mills in our supply chain measure and n L abor rights – including child increase productivity while reducing 3 and forced labor, and working key environmental and social impacts. conditions related to worker Progress: In fiscal 2019, 86% of the 1 United States health, safety and hours sugarcane we purchased was sustainably 2 Mexico n V isibility – improve lack of visibility 3 Brazil sourced, up from 70% the prior year. This to origin of purchased sugarcane reflects an increase in Bonsucro credit n W ater quality – address water purchases in regions where certified quality issues related to agriculture sugarcane is not available at volume. *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 Food Planet People Community oil growing regions, we supplement our sustainable sourcing. At the end of Most of the palm oil we purchase Palm oil initial commitment with our statement on 2019, 99% of our palm oil volume was comes from Malaysia and Indonesia. Status: 100% of the palm oil General responsible palm oil sourcing, which was categorized as traceable to the extraction Mills purchased in fiscal 2019 was strengthened significantly in 2018/2019. mill – among the best in our industry. sustainably sourced.* Progress: In fiscal 2015, we met our Click here for a list of our current commitment to source all palm oil global direct palm oil suppliers and through sustainable purchases that the most recent list of mills supplying Challenges: 2 1 meet Roundtable on Sustainable Palm our direct suppliers. This information 3 n D eforestation – palm plantation Oil (RSPO) standards, and we have will be updated periodically. We expansion harms rainforests, maintained that performance through are driving toward increased public biodiversity, endangered species 1 Malaysia fiscal 2019. We have continued to shift transparency regarding upstream supply 2 Indonesia and the environment. toward mass balance and segregated and now expect all of our palm oil 3 Brazil n I ndigenous rights – irresponsible palm oil – accounting for 99% of our suppliers to follow a similar practice. principles of our policy, and if that practices can threaten the rights purchases in 2019 – and away from supplier does not acknowledge and of indigenous peoples. Hurdles remain in the palm oil supply certificates. In cases where certificates are immediately remediate the concern, Strategy: Although General Mills is a chain. If an audit or other highly credible needed, we are aligned with and using the General Mills will suspend or eliminate relatively minor user of palm oil, our source reveals or confirms that a industry standard of PalmTrace. In 2019, palm oil purchases from that vendor. purchasing practices can help move supplier is seriously violating the stated we also implemented a formal logging the industry forward. We are dedicated and tracking process for upstream palm to sourcing palm oil in a socially and oil grievances and developed an annual Purchasing of RSPO certified volumes (metric tons) environmentally responsible manner. supplier scorecard to evaluate supplier CY2016* CY2017 CY2018 CY2019 Our initial commitment in 2010 included performance against No Deforestation, Mass balance volume 56,970 76,000 76,923 84,363 compliance with our Supplier Code No Peat, No Exploitation (NDPE) policies. of Conduct, as well as prevention and Segregated volume 11,550 6,140 902 349 Traceability: In 2019, we continued resolution of social and/or land conflicts RSPO PalmTrace Credits** 6,600 3,740 1,153 1,891 working with Proforest to trace our palm consistent with the principle of free, Total 75,120 85,880 78,978 86,603 oil supply chain, identify sustainability prior and informed consent. As part of risks and ensure responsible and *Calendar year our concern about deforestation in palm **Formerly known as Green Palm Credits *See the definition of sustainably sourced for this ingredient on page 40. Responsible sourcing u Material issues: Animal welfare; commodity availability; human rights; responsible sourcing | GRI 102 12-13, 40, 42-44, FP11-12 Supplier responsibility Our supplier base is large, complex and our expectations. It covers four pillars Owned locations and co-packers: co-packers to the Sedex Members global, with thousands of suppliers in more of responsible sourcing: human rights, Since 2009, third-party firms have Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. than 25 countries. We address responsible health and safety, the environment and conducted independent audits of our This framework is widely recognized sourcing issues through a multifaceted business integrity. We include the Code in owned locations and co-packers, which by companies in the food sector, which approach, including supplier assessments, purchase orders, contracts and ongoing cover human rights, health and safety, enables suppliers to share audit results audits, and direct engagement. interactions with suppliers to drive the environment and business integrity. with customers and improve efficiency. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, the adoption and continual improvement (These are separate from food safety Another benefit is that remediation backbone of our program, outlines throughout our supplier base. audits.) In fiscal 2018, we transitioned of identified noncompliances will be GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 Food Planet People Community managed and independently verified facilities that have inherent risk, based by a third party. By fiscal 2020, our on environmental, social and governance Audit results in fiscal 2019 co-packers will follow the same overall factors. We also assessed suppliers that Locations with Type of location Number of audits % resolved* % in process* audit process as our Tier 1 suppliers. provide raw materials or ingredients noncompliances We require corrective action plans covered by our sustainable sourcing goals, 19 (9 North America, Owned locations 9 89% 11% as well as natural and organic products. 10 international) and resolution for any identified 30 (26 North America, noncompliances. In fiscal 2019, 49 of our We require facilities identified as having Co-packers 13** 77% 23% 4 international) owned locations and co-packers were inherent risk to complete a multistep 5 (2 North America, Tier 1 suppliers 2*** 0% 100% audited, representing about 20% of the process including a technical review and 3 international) total, compared to 67 locations the prior documentation of policies and procedures. *As of October 2019. Represents percentage of locations with all noncompliances resolved (fourth column) and percentage of locations with resolution underway (fifth column). year. Assessment frequency is based on This rigorous process may take suppliers **Of noncompliances identified, 76% related to safety and hygienic conditions, 10% to business integrity, 6% to each site’s performance in past audits. significant time to complete. To mitigate wages and benefits, 4% to regular employment, 2% to working hours, and 2% to management systems. When significant issues arise in audits, a risk, we are enhancing our sourcing ***Of noncompliances identified, 33% related to management systems, 33% to safety and hygienic conditions, 22% to harsh or inhumane treatment, and 11% to working hours. Percentages do not add up to 100% due to rounding. Critical Finding Alert email is issued to key process to mandate compliance and decrease supplier time requirements. to review progress. We also have a n M eet with strategic suppliers General Mills team members, including dedicated responsible sourcing manager twice a year to discuss progress regional leadership, division counsel Depending on the results, some facilities who oversees our work in this area. and provide feedback using a and subject matter experts. This group must undergo an onsite third-party audit, We are integrating supplier performance scorecard, which gathers to review the relationship with the based on the SMETA protocol, covering responsibility into our global sourcing includes responsible sourcing. facility, discuss findings and determine human rights, health and safety, the next steps. Regular progress review environment and business integrity. These standards and processes. As of fiscal To ensure alignment across the function, meetings occur until the issue is resolved. facilities develop corrective action plans 2019, all General Mills buyers all sourcing employees complete to address identified noncompliances. n I nclude a standardized supplier online learning on our Supplier Code of Tier 1 suppliers: During fiscal 2017, we During fiscal 2019, 5 supplier facilities responsibility review in their Conduct. In fiscal 2019, we also trained worked with Bureau Veritas (BV) to underwent third-party audits. category strategies. more than 50 supply chain employees expand and elevate our responsible on our responsible sourcing, supplier sourcing program in our Tier 1 supplier Governance and integration: Our n E valuate the risk of prospective diversity and sustainable sourcing base. After conducting a high-level supply chain and sourcing executive suppliers, using due diligence guidance. programs as part of formal onboarding risk assessment and segmentation of leadership teams have accountability n I nclude language in contracts for all new global sourcing employees. 2,300 Tier 1 direct supplier* facilities for our responsible sourcing programs. related to social and environmental worldwide, we identified about 1,200 These teams meet at least twice a year performance, if appropriate. *Direct suppliers provide ingredients or commodities used in our food products or packaging. Indirect suppliers provide products or services such as office supplies, telecommunications and travel that support our business more generally. Supplier diversity General Mills is committed to establishing The Supplier Diversity Team, Sourcing product category managers We are active members in national and growing relationships with certified which is embedded in our global incorporate diversity into their strategic and regional advocacy organizations, diverse suppliers.* This provides sourcing organization, builds plans to drive progress and share such as the National Minority Supplier opportunity to underrepresented partnerships across the company to results with sourcing leadership. Development Council (NMSDC), North groups, while fostering job creation match diverse suppliers with business Central Minority Supplier Development During fiscal 2019, we continued to and economic development. These needs and opportunities. The team Council (NCMSDC), WEConnect advance our program, conducting efforts also support our company integrates supplier diversity into the International, Women’s Business annual reviews with diverse by delivering innovation, agility, cost standard sourcing process, trains Enterprise National Council (WBENC), suppliers above a certain spend savings and market insights about all sourcing buyers in this area and Women’s Business Development to support their development. our increasingly diverse consumers. provides tools to advance the program. Center (WBDC), and the National *Businesses owned by minorities, women, veterans, and disabled, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 Food Planet People Community LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). reflecting ongoing integration of General Mills spending with diverse suppliers in Through these organizations and the program into the business. other industry groups, we benchmark, North America* (US$ million) Moving forward, we’re working to share best practices and network expand our program globally, with an FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 with prospective diverse suppliers. initial emphasis on women. We’re also Minority-owned businesses $70.0 $56.8 $53.5 Spending with diverse suppliers pushing deeper into our supply chain Women-owned businesses $78.8 $102.7 $118.4 in North America increased 14% and collecting data about our suppliers’ Veteran-owned businesses $10.2 $10.1 $9.2 between fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2019, spending with diverse businesses. LGBTQ+ -owned businesses $0.1 $0.3 $0.3 *Data for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 have been updated to reflect supplier certification according to requirements Total $159.1 $169.9 $181.4 of respective advocacy organizations: NMSDC for minority-owned businesses, WBENC for women-owned businesses and NGLCC for LGBTQ+ -owned businesses. Although some suppliers are certified in multiple Total (% of spending in North 1.8% 2.1% 2.4% categories of diversity, spending with those businesses is included in only one category in this table America with suppliers) (with women-owned businesses as the primary category). Animal welfare The foundation of the General Mills the U.S. to meet a higher standard of animal welfare by 2024. Also by that Animal Welfare Policy is support for year, we will use only breeds accepted Advancing animal welfare standards at EPIC the internationally recognized “five Our EPIC brand is committed to the belief based livestock model, and through our freedoms” for all animals across our by the Global Animal Partnership or that all ruminants should consume diets products, create financial incentives global supply chain. Although we are the Royal Society for the Prevention they were biologically intended to eat and to help change agriculture. Through primarily a plant-forward food company, of Cruelty to Animals and processed roam freely outdoors. As a result, much our sourcing, we support organizations with large businesses such as Cheerios using multistep, controlled atmospheric of our beef, venison, wild boar, lamb and devoted to improving animal welfare and Nature Valley, we use some animalstunning. We will ask suppliers to bison are raised on open pasture just as standards, such as The Savory Institute, demonstrate compliance through nature intended. We continuously strive The Global Animal Partnership, and The derived products and have long worked to convert ranchers to this pastureMarine Stewardship Council. Learn more. to support the humane treatment of certification or third-party auditing. animals in agriculture. We routinely RUMINANTS PORK POULTRY EGGS Cows: General Mills encourages all engage with stakeholders focused on suppliers in our dairy supply chain to animal health and welfare and leverage support industry-wide efforts that promote industry initiatives that advance livestock the humane treatment of cattle, including production. These efforts span global by addressing issues of pain relief due 81% certified by USDA organic, GAP step 4+, Humane Certified, 100% certified by USDA organic, GAP step 1+, or 93% certified by USDA organic, GAP step 3+, or 100% cage-free ingredient purchases for our foods. to dehorning, tail docking and castration. Animal Welfare Approved, or American Grassfed Animal Welfare Approved Animal Welfare Approved Association, or 100% grassfed Chickens: Eggs are an important We support polled genetics breeding ingredient in ice cream, baked goods programs, an approach that has worked and doughs, and we strive to ensure in the beef industry. Until dehorning is dairy cow care, including standards for and implementation of pregnant sow that the hens laying them are treated eliminated, we support best management proper pain relief and disbudding, and housing alternatives, which we recognize humanely. Our commitment is to purchase practices such as procedure timing and a prohibition on the routine use of tail will take the industry time to achieve. In 100% cage-free or free-range eggs for use of analgesics and/or anesthetics. docking. The FARM standards are revised the meantime, we will favor suppliers our operations globally by 2025. In 2019, on a three-year cycle starting with a review that provide plans to create traceability All of the fluid milk we source in the U.S. for 55% of eggs purchased were cage-free by a technical committee composed of and to end use of gestation crates within Yoplait comes from co-ops whose member or free-range. veterinarians and animal care experts. the U.S. pork supply chain. We’re also farms operate in accordance with the working to understand and address General Mills will work to transition standards of the National Milk Producers Pigs: General Mills supports the the issue of pain relief and potential 100% of the broiler chickens we buy in Federation animal care program (FARM). humane treatment of pigs in our supply elimination of castration and tail docking. The program comprehensively addresses chain. This includes the development GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 People Our goal is to foster a safe, inclusive and rewarding workplace where all employees can thrive. IN THIS SECTION Human Workplace Ethics and Global Employee engagement rights safety compliance inclusion and development 0.89 50% 80% Our global total injury 50% of professional Our overall employee rate was 0.89 injuries per positions and 35% engagement score* 100 employees in fiscal of company officer reached 80%, a 5% 2019, significantly below positions are held increase from 2018. food-industry averages. by women globally. *Annual engagement survey of salaried employees, March 2019. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Food Planet People Community Our approach Supply Chain organizations. At an operational level, the Human Resources At General Mills, it’s all about our people. organization leads key employee Awards and recognition We’re proud of our efforts to create a General Mills received numerous awards in 2019.* Listed below is a sampling of the initiatives in partnership with company safe and inclusive workplace whether recognition, illustrating our commitment to being an employer of choice for all employees. business leaders at multiple levels. you’re at a Cheerios plant, a meeting at n 5 0 Best Large Companies n T op Companies for  est Places to Work for n B Reflecting the importance of people headquarters or out in the sales field. to Work For, Comparably Executive Women, LGBTQ Equality, Human to our business, General Mills employs National Association for Rights Campaign And because people are our greatest n 5 0 Best Companies a Director of Diversity and Inclusion Female Executives n G  lobal 2000, World’s Best resource in building our business and for Diversity, Black and a Vice President of Engineering, Enterprise n 1 00 Best Companies, Employers, Forbes upholding our values, we invest in them Global Safety and Environment. At the n 1 00 Best Corporate Working Mother Media n A  merica’s Best Large within and beyond our office walls. board level, the Public Responsibility Citizens (No. 3), n G reat Place to Work Employers, Forbes Governance: Governance for our Committee maintains responsibility Corporate Responsibility (select locations in Asia, n G  old Halo Award Winner labor practices lies primarily within for issues related to labor practices. n B est Companies for Australia and Latin America) n A  merica’s Most our Human Resources, Law and Multicultural Women, n M ilitary Friendly Responsible Companies Working Mother Media Employer, Viqtory (No. 1 in Consumer n 2 50 Top Managed n W orld’s Most Admired Goods), Newsweek Companies, Wall Companies, Fortune Street Journal n Top Employer (China) *Recognition as of Dec. 31, 2019 Human rights u Material issue | GRI 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 We believe that societies, economies Human Rights, the UN Universal n M embership in AIM-PROGRESS, a forum address risks of forced labor in our and businesses thrive when human Declaration of Human Rights, and the of consumer goods manufacturers supply chain, approving a statement rights are protected. Respect for human International Labour Organization’s focused on responsible sourcing which is signed by the CEO and rights is fundamental to our purpose 1998 Declaration on Fundamental shared publicly on our website. n S upport for the Consumer Goods of serving the world by making food Principles and Rights at Work. Forum’s Forced Labour Resolution Operational accountability rests with the people love and to our commitment The following also underpin our and Priority Industry Principles Chief Supply Chain Officer, supported to ethical business conduct. commitment to human rights: by members of the leadership team Governance including the Chief Executive Officer and Our approach n G  eneral Mills Slavery and Human The Public Responsibility Committee heads of Legal and Human Resources. Trafficking Statement, our Workplace Our Policy on Human Rights outlines Standards and Ethical Sourcing Policy, of the General Mills Board of Directors Public policy: We actively engage our approach. We respect and our Employee Code of Conduct and oversees our work in this area. in public policy discussions focused acknowledge internationally recognized our Supplier Code of Conduct This committee meets three times on protecting people and human human rights principles. Within our annually and includes in its key duties rights. For example, we advocate for company and throughout our supply n U  se of the Sedex Members Ethical and responsibilities review of the inclusive public policies and add our chains, we are committed to treating Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol company’s actions to advance its voice to help lead change, including people with dignity and respect. n E  ndorsement of the UN Global Compact corporate social responsibility and for inclusive U.S. immigration and To inform our approach in this n S  ignatory to the UN Women’s sustainability strategies, plans and LGBTQ+ policies. Learn more in the area, we look to the UN Guiding Empowerment Principles objectives. The committee annually Introduction section of this report. Principles on Business and reviews the company’s efforts to GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Food Planet People Community Supporting human rights across our value chain We work within a large, diverse value chain of partners and stakeholders. Each has a duty to respect human rights. General Mills expects our partners to adhere to ethical business conduct consistent with our own standards. Farmers Suppliers Employees Communities We work directly with smallholder farmers Our supplier base is large, complex and We are committed to maintaining a We are committed to providing safe and from whom we source ingredients global. We address human rights through respectful, safe, secure and harassmenthealthy food, and we collaborate to improve to help strengthen their farming a multifaceted approach, including free workplace, demonstrating fair labor food access and security for the world’s practices and their livelihoods, ensure supplier assessments, audits and direct practices and fostering a culture of diversity growing population. See Increasing food safe and healthy working conditions engagement. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and inclusion. See Ethics and compliance security for more detail. and promote economic stability. See is the backbone of our program. See and Global inclusion for more detail. Sustainable sourcing for more detail. Supplier responsibility for more detail. Workplace safety u Material issue: Employee health, safety and well-being | GRI 403-1, 2, 4 Our approach n W e lead with safety. n O ur global total injury rate rose Although results showed a slight n E very incident is preventable. slightly to 0.89 injuries per 100 increase in global total injury rate General Mills is committed to creating a employees in fiscal 2019, up from and lost-time injury frequency rate Zero-loss Culture in all our locations by n W e are all accountable. 0.77 in 2018. Our ultimate goal from the previous year, the fiscal continually mitigating workplace hazards and reducing environmental impacts. Our progress is zero injuries and illnesses. 2019 rates remain significantly below food-industry averages. Increases n O ur global lost-time injury frequency Our goal: Our goal is to provide incidentHistorically, General Mills has a were isolated to a few locations that strong record of safety leadership. rate was 0.40 per 100 employees in free workplaces for our employees, experienced significant process and We continue to improve the fiscal 2019, up from 0.38 in 2018. contractors and visitors. Our actions volume changes during the fiscal year. are guided by three safety principles: safety of our operations:* n I n fiscal 2019, there were zero fatalities. *Global incident data includes all General Mills owned/operated facilities, including Yoki and Yoplait International, Häagen-Dazs shops and global offices. Fiscal 2019 data does not include our Blue Buffalo business (acquired in April 2018); Blue Buffalo will be included in safety data reporting for fiscal 2020. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Food Planet People Community We gathered safety data from 195 Systems tracked locations in fiscal 2019, 54 of which are production facilities and We communicate safety information Focusing on prevention and measure progress using Innovation, Technology and Quality As part of our ongoing focus on office locations and sales facilities. In the following systems: centers. Those 54 locations were the prevention of serious injuries and fiscal 2019, we conducted external main focus of our safety improvement n W  e continue the process of phasing in a fatalities (SIF), we monitor and track benchmarking about SIF prevention to work. Safety highlights from those single, standardized Environmental and information about incidents with SIF help us design our strategy and apply potential within our Global Safety differential effort around prevention of locations in fiscal 2019 include: Safety Management System (ESMS) at Governance Board, production facilities, this category of incidents. our supply chain locations. Our focus n 6 locations operated injury-free. includes applying our Zero-loss Culture n 2 0 locations had a total injury strategy to our foundational health rate (TIR) below 1.0. and safety standards to obtain uniform so coaching can be provided to Safety and Environment, who reports n 1 1 locations reported zero compliance and reduce risk worldwide. help employees work safely. to the Vice President of Engineering, lost-time injuries. Global Safety and Environment. n T  hrough GSTEMS, we track safety data u A dvanced mitigations, which are Our Corporate Safety Council is We continued reinforcing our at all production facilities worldwide, critical to eliminating hazards led by our Chairman and Chief safety systems, training and document necessary actions to and permanently mitigating Executive Officer, who is responsible auditing programs in fiscal 2019: reduce future risks and communicate risks across the company. for General Mills policy and safety progress. Using GSTEMS, we n S tandards – We continued monitor key measures such as: Leadership and culture. The council, which includes development of advanced safety and key members of the company’s u L eading safety indicators, including responsibility environmental standards and have executive leadership team, reviews now initiated a global weekly directioncompliance with internal standards, n O ur Global Safety Governance Board, safety progress and key initiatives. setting process to further operationalize regulatory compliance and our composed of regional operating vice The Council’s focus is on growing key requirements and learnings. safety observation contact rate – presidents, oversees safety leadership, safety culture in both manufacturing the percentage of employees structure, processes and actions. and nonmanufacturing locations. n M easurement – We are now advancing whose safety behaviors are n S enior-level responsibility for workplace our analytics by using our Global n W  orkplace health and safety is the observed in a given time period safety lies with the Director of Global Safety Tracking and Environmental responsibility of line management Management System (GSTEMS) to and each individual employee. leverage leading indicator data in All employees are expected to order to drive incident prevention. work safely by following policies, A new metric category was also procedures and training. Leaders added to track and respond are accountable for understanding differentially to incidents with serious and removing barriers to safe work injury or fatality (SIF) potential. that may be system-related. n T raining – We completed the process of training regional site professionals on the safety aspects of our global work system. n A uditing – We created a structured method for assessment of foundational safety and environment standards under our Zero-loss Culture strategy. r Our goal is to provide incident-free workplaces for our employees, contractors and visitors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Food Planet People Community Ethics and compliance u Material issue | GRI 102-16, 17, 205-1, 2 Our approach 10 languages – and employee policies are More than 15,000 employees worldwide does not accept abusive conduct or available in our employee Policy Center. are enrolled in our online training harassment – a policy made clear from General Mills is committed to conducting courses. In addition, we supplement an employee’s first day of orientation. business in an ethical manner that Our Ethics Line allows employees online training with face-to-face Employees are expected to report upholds best practices, complies to raise questions or concerns anti-corruption training in markets where situations that compromise their ability to with regulations, demonstrates confidentially and anonymously, where there is a higher risk of corruption. do their jobs. Formal channels are available integrity, provides equal opportunity allowed by law. It is accessible globally for employees who seek advice or a and supports fair labor practices. by a toll-free phone call or online at Action: All allegations of employee solution, and our policies strictly prohibit generalmillsethics.ethicspoint.com. misconduct, including bribery and Our comprehensive Code of Conduct retaliation against employees who express corruption, are promptly and thoroughly and Ethics & Compliance program Anti-corruption: We continue to concerns. We manage our business investigated in accordance with our promote ethical behavior in all aspects strengthen our anti-corruption program. operations so that employees feel they ethics and compliance procedures and of our employees’ work. Our Code We assess risks in this evolving area, are being treated fairly and respectfully. corporate policies. The Audit Committee of Conduct describes the principles review program enhancements and apply of our Board of Directors reviews the that govern our business conduct and best practices, including addressing Labor-management investigation and resolution of these points employees to policies and other third-party risks. For example, our allegations. Upon completion of the relations resources to answer their questions. Supplier Code of Conduct (found on investigation, our Ethics & Compliance Globally, General Mills is committed to our General Mills website) outlines our Annually, our company leaders – from group ensures appropriate disciplinary providing workplaces that are among the ethical expectations and is included in managers upward, more than 10,000 actions, including termination of thirdsafest production facilities in the world our contracts with business partners. employees – must attest to compliance party relationships, remediation steps for all our union and nonunion production We also screen higher-risk third parties with our Code of Conduct and business and internal/external reporting. employees. In addition, we work to for corruption risk. Internally, our anticonduct policies. This certification is eviachieve full employee engagement as corruption program includes an antidence of our high expectations for ethical Equal opportunity the foundation of our mutual success; corruption/anti-bribery policy and online conduct in every aspect of our business. We believe every General Mills employee strive to create a culture that champions and live training modules for employees. has the right to be treated fairly and respect and inclusion; offer competitive In addition, we ask detailed questions Program deserves the opportunity to stretch rewards; and implement clear health related to corruption risk during each Ethics and compliance: Our Ethics & and grow throughout their career. and safety practices. We maintain good routine, in-depth business unit audit Compliance program supports our value relationships with our unions, and our conducted by our Global Internal Audit Policy: To provide a comfortable and safe of doing the right thing all the time; labor contracts are typically settled on team. Along with our anti-corruption working environment for all employees, employees are encouraged to speak up time and without work disruption. assessments, we continually assess General Mills prohibits discrimination if something doesn’t seem right or if they regulatory requirements, enforcement based on age, race, color, religion, sex, Measurement: General Mills has estabhave questions about doing the right trends and industry best practices to national origin, marital status, disability, lished key metrics and measurement thing. The program includes extensive update our Ethics & Compliance program. citizenship, sexual orientation, gender approaches to understand our perforonline resources and self-directed courses. identity or expression, military service mance as it relates to labor relations and Training: Using both in-person and online Our courses and communications or other characteristics protected by a decent work environment. Examples program modules, we train employees illustrate how our Code of Conduct and law. This equal employment opportunity include a refined performance manageextensively on corruption risks and other employee policies apply to our employees’ policy applies to all employment practices ment process, annual employee surveys business concerns, including conflicts day-to-day responsibilities. Our Ethics & and procedures, including compensation. and a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. of interest, competition law, protecting Compliance website provides access confidential information, preventing fraud Practices: Everyone has the right to work to program resources – available in and maintaining a respectful workplace. without fear or intimidation. General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Food Planet People Community Global inclusion u Material issue | GRI 405-1 Our approach General Mills global inclusion framework Our goal: Our goal is to foster a culture of inclusion and belonging that allows all our employees to thrive. Ensuring SOCIETAL INCLUSION: Ensure our external WORKFORCE INCLUSION: Ensure we recruit, diversity of input and perspectives impact is inclusive of diverse communities Societal Workforce retain, develop and advance a workforce that is core to our business strategy. in our markets around the world through Inclusion Inclusion reflects the diversity of the consumers we philanthropy, volunteerism and social good. serve in our markets around the world at all We actively cultivate a culture that levels of the organization. acknowledges, respects and values all dimensions of diversity – including gender, race, sexual orientation, CONSUMER INCLUSION: Ensure our brands CULTURAL INCLUSION: Ensure an inclusive and products consider the needs of an culture that encourages all employees around ability, backgrounds and beliefs. increasingly diverse consumer and customer the world to share their unique perspectives Consumer Cultural base around the world while creating Inclusion Inclusion and ideas in a safe and respectful environment. Leadership: We believe that leadership consumer messages that are respectful of advocacy and support of our inclusion that diversity. efforts are critical to creating the culture we strive to have. Each of our senior leaders is responsible for creating inclusion plans for their respective organizations and ensuring grow as individuals and as a company. have conversations with their teams that their talent pipelines reflect the Our global inclusion framework about the importance of inclusion. diversity of our consumer base. Our focuses on four areas that will drive n O ur global inclusion e-learning module Chief Executive Officer and Chief growth for the company – workforce was launched worldwide. As of Human Resources Officer review inclusion, cultural inclusion, consumer November 2019, 93% of U.S. employees inclusion progress throughout the inclusion and societal inclusion. have completed the training. We year, including during our senior-level continue to expand the training to talent reviews. Our management team Our progress employees globally – as of November also supports our inclusion efforts as In 2019, we continued to reinforce 2019, more than 50% of employees sponsors of our employee networks, our global inclusion strategy to globally have completed the module.* by recruiting and mentoring diverse ensure leaders communicate and employees, and ensuring diverse talent reinforce it consistently across the is represented in our leadership pipeline. organization and all employees 93% of U.S. understand it. Our actions included: employees* 93% Our strategy: We continue to build upon our global inclusion strategy to n L  eaders across the company are have completed r General Mills Chairman and CEO enable greater levels of engagement talking about global inclusion, global inclusion Jeff Harmening publicly affirmed our commitment to global inclusion by signing with our employees around the world such as in employee town hall e-learning training. the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion and drive growth with consumers and meetings, video presentations, etc. pledge to take measurable action in customers. This holistic approach to advancing diversity and inclusion in the n O  ur Manager Dialogue Toolkit, available inclusion in all its forms is a driving workplace. Signing the pledge in 2018 was his in six languages, equips managers to first item of business as Chairman and CEO. force for how we lead, develop and *Includes salaried employees. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Food Planet People Community Encouraging meaningful dialogue DIVERSITY INCLUSION EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT = Differences = What we do with the diversity in our workplace = The result of inclusion and belonging The dimensions that make Employees feel welcome, heard, respected, Employees have a strong each person unique, and the appreciated, valued, connected and ultimately commitment to the company and mixture of those differences. have a strong sense of belonging. contribute at their full potential. r We developed a toolkit to help managers engage in meaninglful dialogue with employees about diversity, inclusion and engagement. Workforce inclusion culture of belonging. These programs bring together colleagues to enhance Workforce diversity* Unconscious bias: In 2019, we continued employee engagement and provide our journey to tackle our unconscious Gender diversity Female opportunities for community building, biases that could negatively impact Total global workforce 46% networking, professional development inclusion and our ability to retain Global professional positions 50% and community outreach. Employee a diverse workforce. We launched networks help us harness the power Total U.S. workforce 43% e-learning training in the U.S. in of diverse thinking, influence our August 2019 focused on addressing Company officer positions 35% business processes and allow for unconscious bias. As of November 2019, Management team** 23% more transparent communication. 85% of employees have completed the Board of Directors 42% training designed to help them better Members of our six employee networks support each other and Racial/ethnic diversity Diverse understand and mitigate unconscious bias within and outside of the workplace. reinforce our culture of inclusion. Total U.S. workforce 20% Our employee networks include: U.S. professional positions 19% Cultural inclusion n W omen’s Leadership Network Management team** 8% In 2019, we continued to advance n A sian Leader Network Board of Directors 33% a number of initiatives to further n B etty’s Family Network (LGBTQ+) *Fiscal 2019 data. develop an inclusive culture that **Includes Chairman and CEO and direct reports (see Management Team page on generalmills.com). n V eterans Network encourages all employees to share have candid discussions in a safe and Mills facilitator. The conversations are n B lack Champions Network their unique perspectives and ideas in supportive setting about important designed to build empathy, productive a safe and respectful environment. n H ispanic Network issues affecting our work and our lives. discourse and employee engagement. Employee networks: General Mills Courageous Conversations: Now in its The conversations begin with a keynote These conversations take place globally has a long history of supporting third year, our Courageous Conversations speaker, followed by small group in a variety of formats and settings, employee networks that help build a initiative brings together employees to dialogues, each led by a trained General from large gatherings to smaller team GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Food Planet People Community interactions. In 2019, we expanded the initiative to production facilities, Role of employee networks in creating a more inclusive culture sales business centers and online conversations. Since 2016, employees ADVOCATE CONNECT RESOURCES have participated in Courageous Serve as a voice for inclusion Create connections and a sense Provide resources for career Conversations on a variety of topics, representing internal and of belonging, improving advice, skill development, including immigration, Islamaphobia, external stakeholders. engagement and retention. mentoring and sponsorship. race, disability in the workplace, #MeToo, fitting in while LGBTQ+, SOLUTIONS THOUGHT LEADERSHIP BUSINESS IMPACT unconscious bias, microaggressions and Indentify challenges Act as proactive Provide perspective becoming an ally. In 2019, participation and develop solutons to change agents. and guidance on product in Courageous Conversations grew organizational barriers. innovation and marketing. to approximately 1,000 employees registered for each event. Inclusion Contacts: We know that small library, currently with more than 100 diversity. In 2019, General Mills was a actions often make a big difference. To topics, we foster discussions in meetings proud signatory to the Association help drive inclusion every day, Inclusion around the company, building empathy of National Advertisers Alliance Contacts are available to all employees. and understanding each and every day. for Inclusive and Multicultural Generally used at the beginning of a Marketing #SeeALL campaign. The meeting, these contacts create space Consumer inclusion #SeeALLcampaign is an industry-wide for team members to share personal Our brands and products consider movement to increase accurate stories, experiences and perspectives, the needs of an increasingly diverse representation of multicultural or may be used to educate and inform consumer and customer base around and inclusive segments in ads and teams about events, celebrations and the world while creating consumer programming. By prioritizing the use holidays. With an ever expanding messages that are respectful of that of cultural insights in the content, brands are better able to connect with consumers at the heart, thus maximizing corporate growth. Being an ally After reading his essay on becoming an ally, we invited National Basketball Association (NBA) star Kyle Korver to join us for a Courageous Conversation about his journey. In August 2019, Korver shared his experiences and how they have shaped his allyship. r In 2019, we invited several speakers to Korver recognizes the privilege he has lead conversations with our employees in being able to walk away from difficult on key topics. In February, professor and conversations because they don’t author Dr. Derald Wing Sue spoke about r Honey Nut Cheerios involves consumers directly impact him – and the fact that through the brand’s Good Rewards “The Macro Impact of Microaggressions” r After the conversation, we presented and in June, Minneapolis TV journalist others in his life with different identity program. Consumers use Snapchat lenses to Korver with his own commemorative Jana Shortal discussed her “Journey traits don’t have that choice. One of his select a charity, such as the Human Rights Wheaties box. to Authenticity.” greatest lessons? Our words matter. Campaign, to receive a donation from General Mills. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Food Planet People Community Societal inclusion We work to ensure our external impact Raising the Pride flag is inclusive of diverse communities in In June 2019, we celebrated Pride Week our markets around the world through in support of our LGBTQ+ community philanthropy, volunteerism and social as part of our commitment to building good. For example, our Hispanic Network a culture of belonging for every organized a General Mills presence at a employee at work and supporting our Fiesta Latina gathering celebrating Hispanic LGBTQ+ employees within the broader community. The week’s activities culture in St. Paul, Minnesota, sponsored by began with the raising of the Pride CLUES (Comunidades Latinas Unidas En flag at General Mills headquarters in Servicio). General Mills volunteers handed Minneapolis, Minnesota, and continued out more than 10,000 product samples with speakers and other activities, r The ceremony raising the Pride flag r Employees assembled hygiene packs and 3,000 swag items. (See separate including a Pride Reception that brought at our headquarters was a partnership for The Bridge for Youth, a local charity story on women’s empowerment.) together corporate leaders, activists and between our Betty’s Family Network and for homeless teens, 40% of whom identify employees from across the community. Veterans Network. as LGBTQ+. Women’s empowerment United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Establish high-level Treat all women and Ensure the health, Promote education, Implement enterprise Promote equality Measure and publicly corporate leadership men fairly at work – safety and welltraining and professional development, supply through community report on progress to for gender equality respect and support being of all women development for women chain and marketing initiatives and advocacy achieve gender equality human rights and and men workers practices that nondiscrimination empower women Five years ago, General Mills made a General Mills is empowering women Fairness and respect: Our Zero-loss Culture strategy PRINCIPLE commitment to advance the United across our business. Listed below are We are committed to (see Workplace safety content for Nations Women’s Empowerment some of the ways we are taking action. 2 fair treatment for all details) encompasses our commitment Principles, part of the UN Global employees. See details to provide incident-free workplaces Leadership: General Compact, to help achieve greater PRINCIPLE in the Ethics and compliance content for our employees, contractors Mills has a strong equality for women in the workplace, marketplace and community. These 1 foundation of women earlier in this section of the report. and visitors. Health and safety is also one of the pillars of our in leadership roles, Health and safety: principles are designed to promote PRINCIPLE responsible sourcing program, as dating back to the early 1900s. We are Our efforts to ensure gender equality and women’s empowerment. We pledged to take committed to developing our women 3 the health, safety and outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct (see Supplier responsibility employees into strong, confident well-being of all workers, action across all seven principles. content for details). leaders who uphold our company regardless of gender, are detailed in values and support each other. our General Mills Code of Conduct. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Food Planet People Community Training and n O ur Yoplait business launched its PRINCIPLE development: We Mom On campaign, standing up for 4 promote women’s moms and helping to disarm the education, training judgment they face for the daily and professional development choices they make as mothers. within our operations and supply Community advocacy: chains. Examples include: PRINCIPLE We work with partners n O  ur Women’s Leadership Network 6 to help increase the has chapters in Brazil, Canada, economic resilience France, Germany, India, Ireland, of female farmers. For example, our r Our You Grow Girl blog series features r Yoplait’s Mom On campaign speaks out in Mexico, Spain, Switzerland, the U.K. support to NGO partners CARE in female farmers. support of mothers. and the U.S. that offer networking Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana and Positive and/or managed by women. Learn more equity. We regularly conduct thorough and development events. Planet in Madagascar helps to empower in the Community section of this report. pay equity reviews, and we consistently female farmers and entrepreneurs n O  ur Women in Leadership organization see from this work that our pay systems in smallholder farming communities. Gender equality: General advocates on behalf of women at all PRINCIPLE and practices are fair and equitable Working with Partners in Food Solutions, Mills values all employees’ levels of the company to purposefully cultivate a pipeline of women leaders our employee volunteers provide input 7 contributions, and we among all employees without regard to gender, race or ethnicity. While we are to food processors and millers in Africa are committed to gender and a culture where women can thrive. proud of these results, we recognize to help them improve food safety and equality in the workplace. One important n E  ach year, we host a global that we can never become complacent. quality and expand their businesses, component of our commitment to gender International Women’s Day with forums We remain committed to continuous more than 30% of which are owned equality is our commitment to pay and events aimed at gender inclusivity. improvement and expansion of this work. n O  n a day-to-day basis, we offer women’s mentoring circles, flexible work hours and 18-to-20-week paid maternity leave benefits. Supply chain and PRINCIPLE marketing diversity: 5 We work to empower women beyond our workplace, including through our supplier relationships and marketing programs. Examples include: n O  ur global supplier diversity program focuses on establishing and growing relationships with certified diverse suppliers, including r General Mills works with partners around the world to empower female farmers, including women-owned businesses. through training in sustainable agricultural practices and support for village savings and loans n O  ur You Grow Girl blog series that encourage entrepreneurship. Nancy Sammy, pictured above, is a cocoa farmer in BremanKewanopado, Ghana. With training provided by our partner, CARE, Nancy and other female amplifies the voices of female farmers in her community have increased their incomes and now are able to send their kids to farmers from around the world. school. Learn more in the Community section of this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Food Planet People Community Employee engagement and development u Material issues: Employee recruitment & development; employee health, safety & well-being | GRI 404-2, 3, FP4 Employee engagement Our approach feedback to improve our processes Proud of my company GOOD 75%+ and strengthen our culture. We know that engaged employees create +4% FAIR 60-74% n E ngagement Council – This crossPOOR <60% value and drive business performance. We 77% are working to build a more agile, engaged functional team helps ensure Key: Numbers collaboration across the company are % favorable. organization by listening to employees, taking action and measuring progress. We to create an engaging workplace. Energized Inspired by my work 78% OVERALL 70% by my leaders Last year survey employees annually to measure five n E xchange social hours – These weekly drivers of employee engagement: proud +5% 80% +1% events onsite at our headquarters 73% of my company, inspired by my leaders, locations provide employees with a +5% connected to my team, supported by my convenient opportunity to strengthen 73% 69% manager and energized by my work. 75% team connections at the end of Supported 84% 89% Connected Examples of our engagement the workday in a casual setting. by my manager to my team initiatives include: n C lubs and groups – More than 20 +4% +2% 80% 87% n L eader and employee development – employee clubs and more than Through our Engaging Leader initiative, 100 active Yammer groups (online r We saw broad employee engagement gains in fiscal 2019. we are helping leaders transform social networks) enable employees to foster relationships, discuss In March, 84% of salaried employees n 9  0% of employees say they are the way they support employees by focusing on key behaviors that drive shared interests and collaborate. participated in our annual Engagement proud to work for General Mills. engagement. We also provide tools Survey that assesses our progress and n W  e improved in each of our core and resources to help all employees Our progress helps us set plans for the coming year. In drivers of employee engagement, lead, regardless of their position. In fiscal 2019, employees provided September and November, we conducted as detailed in the graphic above. (See related story about increased feedback through three different surveys. Pulse Surveys to gain deeper insights engagement on next page for details.) into focus areas for the organization and identify strengths and opportunities 80% of n L istening – Senior leaders host for managers’ personal development. employees monthly lunch sessions to hear from employees at our headquarters facility. We made strong progress in fiscal 2019, with notable improvement 80% said General Mills is a great n A ssessment – General Mills regularly across all employee engagement place to work. WATCH VIDEO surveys our employees to gather areas. Results included: feedback. Our feedback cycle includes n O ur overall employee engagement our annual Employee Engagement r Approximately 150 dogs and 400 humans Survey, which is an in-depth review participated in our fourth annual Puppy Fest score increased 5% overall to 80%. at General Mills headquarters, celebrating a of a wide range of topics, and two common interest – love for our pets. It’s one n 8 0% of employees said General Pulse Surveys. We use employee of the ways we build employee engagement. Mills is a great place to work. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 Food Planet People Community Increased engagement worldwide Increased listening n E xplicit understanding of how to employees and consistently live our values Targeted development impact through Pulse Surveys work – role clarity and decisionto drive performance and engagement. Targeted Engaging Leader training, making effectiveness across teams More than 90% of leaders participated in In 2018, we heard from employees during especially around our three focus areas, n E ncourage productive discourse – Engaging Leader development sessions our annual survey that they felt connected is paying off. We listened to employees, opportunities for leaders to do across 22 countries, then put their to their teams, proud to work at General tracked progress and devoted additional more to seek out different points of learning into practice with their teams. Mills and supported by their managers. The development resources to help leaders survey also revealed that employees felt view and real-time feedback from n E ngaging Leader was expanded in 2018 execute on these behaviors around the less confident in the company’s ability to all levels of the organization to reach all leaders and employees world. There has been a direct impact from execute. As we focused on leveraging our Additionally, a second Pulse Survey with customized, employee-centric these efforts: Where we focused resources, strengths and improving our opportunities, helped managers of people identify tools and interactive, on-demand we saw marked improvements. Gains in it was essential to check progress more their strengths and opportunity areas for training. These resources made it key Engaging Leader behaviors helped to often, so we introduced two Employee Pulse all 12 Engaging Leader behaviors. This possible for every employee to lead drive up employee engagement overall. Surveys to provide additional touchpoints feedback was used as input for their regardless of their role, providing We still have room for improvement. We in our feedback cycle. The first Pulse Survey individual development plan (IDP). ideas for continuous improvement and will keep working to ensure all relevant focused on learning more about three of our helping leaders stay accountable. Engaging Leader expansion voices and perspectives are heard. Engaging Leader behaviors to best help us n In 2019, we added worldwide Engaging We continued to expand our Engaging Leader address our challenge to adapt more quickly: Leader Forums and enhanced resources, initiative to increase participation globally as n A pply appropriate effort – priority tools and training to sustain our momentum. the next step in our Engaging Leader Journey: setting, understanding the level We placed special training focus on manager n L aunched in 2017, Engaging Leader set out coaching – a key skill that accelerates of effort required and shifting to transform the way our leaders support the ability to be an Engaging Leader. resources to the highest priorities Development and training Our approach n G uidance from others, including across the company. (See story feedback from managers, above for more details.) We respect, develop and invest in our mentors and peers people. We have a long history of making n I n 2019, we launched worldwide to employee development a key priority for n R eal-time learning resources for new leaders of people a 12-month the company. In order to attract and retain leaders and all employees learning experience including in-person competitively superior talent, we develop virtual cohort learning, topic-driven n S tructured learning – offered both all employees. General Mills provides a resources, and 360-degree feedback in person and online – including range of development opportunities at all for assessment and development onboarding for new employees, stages of employees’ careers through: professional development for all n I n 2019, employees expanded their and leadership development use of GoLearn, our employee and r We invest in development and training for n N ew employee orientation and all employees. a 12-week onboarding process leader development site. GoLearn that includes weekly interactive Our progress provides a single point of access for all topics. The site provides real-time learning and resources n W e continued to expand our learning and development resources, access to content on key topics in six Engaging Leader initiative in 2019 including employee professional n H ands-on experiences, including languages. During 2019, there were to advance leader learning, development, leader development, challenging work assignments more than 100,000 unique visits development and engagement functional training and company-wide and robust job rotations to the site by 14,000 employees. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Food Planet People Community n W  e introduced differentiated learning to broadening their skills, they management process. The process and inspire, and do the right thing all through the Leadership Accelerator participate in a cohort that learns includes setting priorities, frequent the time – and our Engaging Leader Program for people recognized as together in a highly immersive and check-ins and feedback, and a behaviors. Seventy-eight Champions our most talented leaders with the interactive manner to prepare them formal performance evaluation Award winners were selected in 2019. potential to have the greatest impact. for broader roles in the near-term. process. Employees also create 78 This program helps prepare people for individual development plans as part making the transition from managers Performance of the process, further helping to of teams to strategic operational/ management facilitate and encourage professional business unit roles, or helps senior Each year, approximately 14,000 development and growth. We recognized leaders make the transition from General Mills employees globally 78 employees as operational/business unit roles to Recognition Champions Award participate in our performance strategic enterprise roles. In addition Our Champions Award celebrates winners in 2019. outstanding achievements and leadership by individuals and teams at General Mills. Since the late 1980s, we have been recognizing award recipients who have overcome obstacles to deliver significant results for our business, our employees and our communities. Based on our Takes place in Enhanced through Supported by Champions Award criteria, employees challenging roles on-demand classes managers, peers are recognized when they exemplify and assignments and resources and mentors our core values – play to win, win as a r Learning and development at General Mills. team, act boldly and move quickly, grow Employee benefits and well-being Benefits Employees are automatically leave for new parents. (See story n T  alent referral – Bonuses for referring enrolled in company-paid benefits, on next page for more details.) top talent to join the General Mills team. Our approach: We’re committed to including life insurance, business providing employees with a work Other perks: Learn more. travel accident insurance and environment that encourages innovation, n L  earning, developing and growing – productivity and balance – and that shortand long-term disability. Employee well-being Tools and resources to help helps every employee bring their n F inancial planning – Retirement Our approach: We believe that employees expand and grow as unique self to work every day. benefits, including a 401(k) savings providing wellness opportunities for our professionals. See more details in the program and financial coaching. employees and their families is crucial Benefits: Benefits vary by location. Development and training content. n T ime off – Vacation, holidays, flexible to upholding our company values. For example, in the U.S. we offer:* n G  iving back to the community – work arrangements and leave benefits Our progress: Now in its second n O  verall – Comprehensive medical Volunteer opportunities and donationfor all life stages, including up to two year, our My Well-being program in and dental benefits to nonunion, U.S. match programs. Learn more in the weeks of paid caregiver leave per the U.S. takes a holistic approach to employees and eligible dependents. Community section of this report. year and 12-20 weeks paid parental *Benefits may vary for employees by location and other factors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 Food Planet People Community supporting many aspects of well-being. offer a digital sleep program focused providing them with competitive n S  ocial/community – We help A sampling of our programs includes: on helping those with troubled sleep programs, resources, salaries and connect employees with communityget the resources and care they need. benefits. Learn more. We also have based programs where they can n P  hysical – We encourage good We also are evolving the way we financial wellness tools and resources volunteer, receive support and nutrition, offer employees healthy approach mental health: We’ve started that allow employees and families strengthen connections. In 2019, dining choices and programs at our by adding digital ways to engage with to get on track toward their short83% of our employees worldwide facilities, and provide opportunities counseling, support and resources to and long-term financial goals. volunteered in their communities. to increase physical activity. help reduce barriers and start breaking Learn more about our community n C  areer – We support our employees’ n E  motional – Our LifeWorks Employee the stigma associated with mental engagement programs in the career development with numerous Assistance program helps build health issues. Many locations also Community section of this report. opportunities for personal and profesresilience through counseling, offer stress and resilience programs. sional growth, as well as resources to emotional support and referrals for n F  inancial – We support the financial promote work life balance. Learn more. U.S. employees and their families. We well-being of our employees by Impact of expanded leave policy In August 2018 we announced employees, so we expected our people expanded employee benefits, to use them. What we didn’t anticipate effective Jan. 1, 2019 in the U.S., was the widespread impact this extra for every life stage, including: time with family would have in the n E nhanced maternal leave and lives of our employees. We’ve since parental leave for fathers, expanded leave policies beyond the partners and adoptive parents. U.S. to the U.K. and Australia, and employees in all three countries are n N ew caregiver leave, improved seeing the benefit: Feedback indicates bereavement leave and shortthe additional time off is strengthening term disability benefits. family bonds, allowing for critical n E xpanded benefits eligibility to caregiving activities, reducing the stress include domestic partners. of major life transitions and removing We made the decision to expand financial barriers to taking time off. these benefits based on input from GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 Community Our aim is to support the well-being of people and planet through philanthropy and engagements that build strong and resilient communities. IN THIS SECTION Food security Regenerative Hometown and hunger relief agriculture communities $93 million 28 million 83% We gave US$93 million to Our product donations 83% of our employees charitable causes in fiscal to food banks worldwide volunteered 2019, including General Mills enabled 28 million in their communities. Foundation grants, corporate meals in 2019. contributions and food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 Food Planet People Community Our approach Fiscal 2019 corporate giving 93 million General Mills philanthropy ties IMPACT FRAMEWORK SPOTLIGHT: closely to our company’s purpose, $ Soil and core business and food systems The amount we gave to charitable causes in fiscal 2019 watershed health knowledge. We partner in innovative We develop impact frameworks for each ways with nonprofits to harness Foundation giving of our priority issue areas. Our focus our collective impact in key areas, Food donations $16 million on regenerative agriculture includes $42 million while engaging employees through support for soil and watershed health. volunteerism. In short, we work to Why we invest: We support the harness the power of food for good. adoption of regenerative agriculture Leadership and governance: General Corporate contributions practices to advance the stewardship $35 million of soil and high priority watersheds so Mills philanthropy and community GRI 201-1 that these resources can sustainably engagement programs are led by meet the needs of the natural the Executive Director of the General environment, people, community and Mills Foundation with support from industry for today and tomorrow. program officers. The Foundation Global focus areas: advancing solutions in our priority issue Targeted outcomes include: staff includes experienced specialists areas, we use an outcomes-focused n I ncreased adoption of regenerative who lead and steward the company’s Increasing food security – expanding philanthropic approach. Led by program agriculture principles and philanthropy. In addition, employee food access for families in need, officers on our philanthropy team and practices by farmers. councils located across our key global alleviating hunger in communities. with input from internal and external n I ncreased soil biodiversity and operating communities assist with Advancing regenerative agriculture – subject matter experts, we leverage organic matter, leading to more local grant-making by helping to empowering growers, protecting the evidence base to develop logic resilient soils that can better identify and recommend nonprofits habitat and conserving and withstand climate impacts models and impact frameworks for each to be considered for grants. General regenerating natural resources. and sequester carbon. of our priority issue areas that clearly Mills philanthropy is governed by a define the end outcomes (social and n I ncreased adoption of practices Strengthening hometown communities – Foundation Board of Trustees and a that improve and protect water making meaningful impact environmental) that we are targeting; Corporate Contributions Committee that quality and/or availability by in the communities where the key activities and interventions includes the company’s CEO and leaders industry, municipalities and our employees live and work. that best support those outcomes; from human resources, law, finance, other key water stakeholders. and the key measures we will use to R&D, supply chain and sales functions. Targeted impact: To ensure General n I ncreased knowledge of the long-term assess our impact and progress along Mills giving is well informed and is environmental impacts of regenerative the way. (See the soil-and-watershedmaking a difference by strategically agriculture among key audiences, health impact framework example.) including farmers and suppliers. n I ncreased collaboration of stakeholders from multiple sectors. n I ncreased policy changes for improved soil health practices incorporated into federal and/or state programs. n F armers see economic benefit to their investment in regenerative r Our philanthropy work is strongly aligned with many of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including goals agriculture and watershed protection. 2, 5, 6, 12, 13 and 15. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 Food Planet People Community Increasing food security u Material issues: Food security; food waste | GRI 102-13, 40, 42-44, FP4 Building food-secure communities Our approach: We build foodsecure communities by: What is food n E xpanding food access – Together with our nonprofit partners, we take insecurity? The U.S. Department of Agriculture aim at food deserts and hunger defines food insecurity as a lack of in and around our hometown consistent access to enough food for communities to ensure all members an active, healthy life. In 2018, over of the community have access to a 37 million Americans – including 11 wide range of affordable foods. million children – were considered food-insecure. n S upporting surplus food recovery and redistribution – General Mills supports food banks in more than 30 gives communities resources to identify countries, as well as other nonprofits r Ecosource, one of the community food systems grantees in Mississauga, Ontario, connects their most pressing challenges and residents with a network of 10 community gardens tailored to local needs. in our key markets globally. inventory and assess community assets Our goals: in three General Mills hometown headquarters. This new program supports available to increase food security. In 2019, communities – Minneapolis, Minnesota, six local non-profit organizations that our partners at the Alliance to End Hunger n L everage philanthropic partnerships Buffalo, New York, and Mississauga, will connect Mississauga residents living released a Self-Assessment Workbook to help enable 30 billion meals Ontario – to increase affordable food in poverty with nutritious, culturally for the Hunger-Free Communities for hungry people by 2030. access in underserved neighborhoods. appropriate and affordable food. Network with General Mills support. n I ncrease reliable food access for 10 n F ood banks in more than 30 countries We’re focused on helping communities We also support the Congressional Hunger million people who are struggling were supported and strengthened identify and address their own unique Center and its Emerson Hunger Fellowship with food insecurity by 2030. by General Mills grants in partnership needs and assets and use local knowProgram, which trains and inspires new n I nvest to expand the capacity of with Global Foodbanking Network, how to drive lasting solutions to leaders in the movement to end hunger food bank networks across our key Feeding America and European food insecurity. For example, with and poverty in the United States. In 2019, global markets so they can rescue Food Banks Federation. philanthropic support from the General we enabled an Emerson Hunger Fellow and redistribute 10 billion pounds Mills Foundation, in 2019 our partners at to conduct her field placement in our n O ur 2019 grants included support (4.5 million metric tons) of good the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics headquarters community of Minneapolis, for new food bank networks surplus food per year by 2030. Foundation published the Prioritizing Minnesota, where she supported the in China and India. Food Security Solutions toolkit, which Greater Twin Cities United Way. Our progress: Following successful implementation of n O ur philanthropic partners and food community food systems grant programs donations enabled nearly 5.5 billion in Minneapolis and Buffalo, during 2019 Tackling global hunger through food banking meals worldwide in 2019. we partnered with United Way Greater General Mills supports the Global FoodBanking Network’s Zero Hunger Food Bank Toronto to launch a new community food Challenge aimed at strengthening the capacity of food banks to help achieve the UN n C ommunity food systems grant systems grant program in Mississauga, Sustainable Development Goal 2 – eliminating hunger by 2030. Learn more. programs have been implemented Ontario, home of our Canadian business GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 Food Planet People Community Rescuing good food As a global food company, General Mills believes that food loss and waste* are major the industry, to empowering food businesses in surplus food recovery, educating environmental and economic challenges that undermine food security, contribute to consumers on how to save food at home and engaging with communities worldwide. climate change, unnecessarily consume natural resources, like water, and add more The General Mills Food Waste Action Team – composed of employees from global costs to families, communities and businesses alike. We take a broad approach to sustainability, philanthropy, supply chain, government affairs and environmental addressing food rescue, from reducing loss in our operations and collaborating across standards – collaborates to drive progress and identify new opportunities for impact. A multifaceted approach to rescue food Operations Industry Food retailers Consumers Communities We closely monitor and manage We actively participate in industry, General Mills is committed to We educate consumers on General Mills provides our manufacturing processes to nonprofit and government groups increasing surplus food recovery, ways to save food at home: philanthropic support to leading keep surplus food out of the waste focused on food loss and waste especially among consumer-facing nonprofits that makes it possible n General Mills promotes stream. Surplus food from our reduction as well as surplus food food businesses – grocery stores, for food manufacturers, grocers, Save the Food, a U.S.-based operations is first offered to food recovery, including AMERIPEN, the restaurants and other food outlets. restaurants, distributors, trucking campaign from the Natural bank partners to feed hungry peoFood Waste Reduction Alliance, These organizations collectively companies and other organizations Resources Defense Council ple; the remainder is repurposed the Foundation for Food and account for 40% of all food to donate surplus food so it can and the Ad Council that for animal feed or anaerobic digesAgriculture Research, the Grocery waste, roughly 50 billion pounds be distributed to people in need. provides tips on how to tion. In fiscal 2019, 4% of our total Manufacturers Association, the (more than 20 million metric store, cook and save food. n Our product donations to production was food waste, and International Food Waste Coalition, tons) per year in the U.S. alone. food banks enabled 28 million only 1% of that went to landfills. In ReFED (Rethink Food Waste n Since more than 40% of food During the past three years, meals to nourish people addition, 12 facilities (24% of the Through Economics and Data) and waste happens at home, General our global investments in food across the world in 2019.** global total) met our zero-wastethe U.S. Food Waste Challenge. Mills developed and launched recovery technology have to-landfill criteria in fiscal 2019. the #tastenotwaste initiative n Our investments to scale the We are part of an industry-wide empowered more than 30,000 on bettycrocker.com in 2018 MealConnect platform helped We also work to reduce food effort to standardize food product retail and foodservice locations and a follow-up #pantryraid recover more than 1.6 billion waste in our office buildings. At date labels to improve clarity about to participate in systematic challenge in 2019. These pounds of surplus food. our headquarters, we increased quality and safety and reduce food rescue. campaigns provided consumers compost collection by 70% in fiscal the amount of good food that’s See next page for more details. with information on food 2019 compared to fiscal 2017 and thrown away. As of November 2019, waste and tips on how to reduced landfill waste by 30%. we have updated approximately reduce waste at home. 80% of our U.S. packages. See details in the Producing section. External engagement and recognition We collaborate with other General Mills supports the General Mills was named General Mills received organizations to drive progress Consumer Goods Forum's by the U.S. Department the 2018 Citizens Award toward UN SDG Target 12.3 resolution on food waste. of Agriculture (USDA) as from The Corporate to halve per capita global food waste at the retail a 2030 Food Waste & Loss Champion. Citizenship Center for our leadership and consumer levels and reduce food losses in food waste reduction. along production and supply chains by 2030. *General Mills defines food waste and loss within our operations as any food products that were intended for human consumption and are no longer able to be consumed by humans, including those waste streams that are instead diverted to animal feed. We also recognize the following distinction, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO): Food loss occurs along the food supply chain from harvest up to, but not including, the retail level; food waste occurs at the retail and consumption levels. **In addition to the 28 million meals enabled by General Mills food donations to nourish people, the company also donated nearly 2 million pounds of pet food to charitable partners. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Food Planet People Community Leading on surplus three years have empowered more nonprofit and think-and-do tank that Feeding America, the European Food than 30,000 retailers and food service works across sectors, regularly convening Banks Federation (FEBA) and the Global food recovery operators worldwide to participate in and connecting businesses, government Foodbanking Network. For example: Our approach: To ensure no good systematic food rescue (exceeding our leaders, environmental organizations, n I n the U.S., we partner with Feeding food goes to waste and that the 2020 goal of 25,000 food retailers). community nonprofits, researchers, America, and we continue to invest to world’s surplus food is used to investors and others committed to n T he MealConnect food recovery scale the MealConnect food recovery nourish people, we are leveraging reducing food waste by sharing insights, platform created by Feeding America technology platform, which gives food our philanthropy and food system aligning investments and actions, and and funded by General Mills has donors like grocery stores, restaurants expertise to catalyze a new era of collaborating to scale solutions. been adopted by more than 50 and cafeterias a streamlined way to surplus food recovery enablement. food transport companies and has transform their surplus into nourishing Our efforts have resulted in grocery enabled more than 1.6 billion pounds meals for food-insecure neighbors. stores, restaurants and other food outlets of good, surplus food to be recovered around the globe gaining systematic and charitably redistributed, equal food recovery solutions, so that their to more than 1.3 billion meals. We believe food banking is an effective good surplus food can now be used solution that serves as a nexus between n D onations of General Mills surplus to nourish hungry people, not end up sectors to address food insecurity while food enabled 28 million meals in landfills. We take a collective impact also reducing food loss and waste at the across the world in 2019. approach to food waste reduction and community level. Food banks alleviate WATCH VIDEO food recovery, working with cross-sector n T wenty nonprofit innovators expanded hunger while significantly reducing food coalitions and nonprofit organizations their food recovery activities and waste in the communities they serve by r One component of the MealConnect around the globe with a focus on scaling impact in 2019 using grants from recovering perfectly edible, nutritious food rescue platform is the connection with innovative new capabilities in surplus General Mills (exceeding our goal of foods – such as surplus dairy, fruits, K-12 schools to redirect surplus food from recovery and redistribution to charities. supporting 10 community nonprofits to cafeterias. In this video, see how Roseville vegetables, cereals and lean proteins – Area Schools in Minnesota are using expand their food recovery capacity). and redirecting that food to people MealConnect to fight food waste and share Our goals: Our partners: Since food waste is an in need. To advance and expand food extra food to make an impact on families n I nvest in food recovery networks facing hunger in their own backyard. issue that affects the entire farm-tobanking worldwide, General Mills invests and platforms to empower fork” continuum – impacting growers, time, food and philanthropy year-round 50,000 food retailers in surplus n I n the U.K., General Mills provides families, communities, the environment in leading food bank networks, including food rescue by 2030.* philanthropic support to FareShare, and businesses – we engage with a which pioneered a retail food n D onate General Mills surplus food wide variety of partners to advance our rescue technology platform called to enable 250 million meals for impact goals. Our partnerships include FareShareGO that has recovered 46 food-insecure people by 2030.* organizations that are centered on: million pounds of surplus food to date n E nable 25 communities across North strengthening the capacity, safety and and empowered thousands of retail America to expand their surplus efficiency of food banks worldwide; locations in the U.K. with systematic WATCH VIDEO food recovery capacity through identifying and catalyzing innovative food recovery capabilities, including innovative approaches by 2021. new food recovery solutions; and Tesco, Asda and Waitrose stores. expanding the global knowledge base r Across Europe and Australia, General Our progress: In 2019, we Mills and our employees support the Global and insights about scalable, high-impact achieved – and in some cases far Foodbanking Network, Food Bank Australia solutions to food waste and loss. and the European Food Banks Federation exceeded – our 2020 goals: and their members. Watch this video to hear To accelerate systems change, General n O ur global investments in food how we are helping feed people who are Mills supports the work of ReFED, a facing hunger. recovery technology over the past *From 2020 baseline. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 Food Planet People Community Advancing innovative food recovery models Beyond food banks, General Mills is also serving their communities through novel n O  neOC/Waste Not OC (Santa Ana, CA) helping to pilot and scale innovative methods of surplus food recovery: n O  ne Percent to End Hunger/Chefs to approaches to expand surplus food n 412 Food Rescue (Pittsburgh, PA) End Hunger (Santa Fe Springs, CA) Food Recovery recovery by supporting nonprofits that are n A  delante Development Center, n  e-Plate (Berkeley, CA) R Champions targeted R  escuing Leftover Cuisine, Inc. (New York, NY) developing alternative operating models outcomes n Inc. (Albuquerque, NM) for food rescue and redistribution. n R  otary First Harvest (Seattle, WA) n Arkansas Hunger Relief Alliance (Little Rock, AR) n T  he SF Market (San Francisco, CA) n I ncrease quantity of surplus food In 2019 we announced the winners of n Boston Area Gleaners (Waltham, MA) n S  eaShare (Bainbridge Island, WA) recovered and redistributed our Food Recovery Champions program, n C  harities Aid Foundation Moisson Montreal (Saint-Laurent, Quebec Canada) n S  econd Servings of Houston (Bellaire, TX) n I ncrease number of people which awarded US$1 million in grants to nonprofits in Canada and the U.S. that are n  harities Aid Foundation Second Harvest C n  t. Francis Center (Los Angeles, CA) S served / benefiting Canada (Toronto, Ontario – Canada) n I ncrease efficiency of food recovery n D  aily Table/Urban Food Initiative (Dorchester, MA) n I ncrease reliability of food distribution n F  ood Finders, Inc. (Lakewood, CA) to community feeding agencies n F  ood Forward (North Hollywood, CA) n F  ood Rescue US Inc. (Norwalk, CT) n K  itchens for Good (San Diego, CA) Reducing childhood hunger via school meals Our approach: Knowing that schools Our progress: Our philanthropy is n C anada: Breakfast Club of Canada Programme (WFP) to support can be one of the most powerful connecting more children than ever is the leading provider of school preschool meals pilot programs in levers for increasing food and nutrition before with school meals, ensuring breakfast to Canadian children in China. These programs will identify security among children, we work they are nourished and ready to need. Since 2012, our partnership best practices for ensuring daily to improve and expand access to learn. Our support has enabled more with Breakfast Club of Canada has access to nourishing meals that school meal programs around the than 674,000 children worldwide enabled over 14,000 children to gain deliver critical nutrition for earlyworld. School meals not only reduce to access a nourishing school daily access to a nourishing meal childhood development, with childhood hunger and malnutrition, meal daily, resulting in 140 million at school. General Mills employees potential for scaling up in the future. they also are shown to improve meals a year. Examples include: also volunteer their time to serve n I ndia: Since 2017, our partnership children’s academic performance, meals with Breakfast Club of Canada n B razil: Our support for Instituto with WFP is enabling school and reduce chronic absenteeism and (see page 72 for more details). Our Melhores Dias in Brazil enables government officials in the Indian improve social and health outcomes. support enables Breakfast Club nourishing school meals and holistic states of Uttar Pradesh and Odisha Our nonprofit partners support school of Canada to continue to provide school-based programs. Our support to nutritionally fortify school meals meals programs in Brazil, Canada, nourishing school meals to children enables Instituto Melhores Dias to served to 420,000 students daily China, India, the U.K. and the U.S. at clubs in nearly every province reach 124,000 children at 300 schools. with essential nutrients, like iron and territory, and raise awareness Our goal: Enable or improve 100 General Mills employees also volunteer and vitamin A, that students need about child hunger in Canada. million school meals for youth their time with Instituto Melhores to grow and thrive. At the same at risk of hunger by 2020. Dias (see page 72 for details). n C hina: In 2019, we expanded our time, our partnership with the partnership with the World Food Global Child Nutrition Foundation is GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 Food Planet People Community helping to grow and scale effective across the U.K. Since our partnership breakfast start-up grants and enabled nearly 30,000 students school meals programs in India by launched in 2017, we’ve enabled nearly technical assistance to schools at 174 schools to gain daily access sharing best practices and enabling 5,000 students to gain daily access serving children from lowto a nourishing school breakfast. peer-to-peer learning between to a nourishing school breakfast. income households in and near u W  e’ve engaged with No Kid Hungry leaders and stakeholders. General Mills communities to for a multiyear hunger-relief initiative add or expand school breakfast focused on expanding school programs. As of October 2019, breakfast programs in the states and our partnership with FRAC has school districts with the greatest need and opportunity to increase breakfast participation among children at risk of hunger. In the 2018-2019 school year, our support for No Kid Hungry gave over 79,000 children daily access to a nourishing school breakfast, r U.K. students enjoying school breakfast resulting in 13 million meals a year. supported by Greggs Foundation. r WFP is fortifying school meals in India. n U  nited States: n U  nited Kingdom: Our partnership with u I n the U.S., through our partnership Greggs Foundation supports school with the Food Research & Action breakfast clubs in high-poverty schools r General Mills supports expansion of No Center (FRAC), we provide school Kid Hungry school meal programs in the U.S. What is the Breakfast Gap? The “Breakfast Gap” refers to the difference between the number of children in the U.S. who could be accessing a free or reduced-price breakfast at school but are not – whether because their school doesn’t offer breakfast, or the way breakfast is offered makes it difficult for kids to take advantage of breakfast programs. Nearly 3 million children nationwide are considered to be part of the Breakfast Gap, meaning they are not currently accessing a nourishing school breakfast. Fortunately, making breakfast part of the school day through Breakfast after the Bell programs is a proven approach for closing the Breakfast Gap and ensuring that every child at risk of hunger has daily access to a school breakfast. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 Food Planet People Community Advancing regenerative agriculture u Material issues: Farmer livelihoods; biodiversity; water stewardship / GRI 203-1, 2, FP4 Our approach: We leverage philanthropy such as no-till farming and the use of ingredient suppliers described in Nature Conservancy to examine and to advance regenerative agriculture cover crops, to improve soil health. the Planet section of this report. advance watershed health solutions practices and support the conservation in regions such as the Ganges River in n I nvest in water stewardship funds n S  oil health – Working with farmers, of natural resources around the world. the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, and coalitions to protect and scientists and conservationists – Aligned with our company’s broader the Rio Grande river valley in New restore at-risk watersheds. including the Soil Health Academy, sustainability goals and commitments, Mexico and across California. Soil Health Partnership, Soil Health n S upport the engagement of farmers in we invest in NGO-led programs and Institute and The Nature Conservancy – n P  ollinators: initiatives that increase farmers’ programs to expand pollinator habitats we have supported the scaling up of and advance cutting-edge research to u T hrough a multiyear initiative with economic resilience, improve soil and effective measurements to assess soil water health and increase biodiversity protect and restore pollinator health. the Xerces Society for Invertebrate health and its environmental impact. through improved pollinator health Conservation, we are supporting Our progress: Together, we have established more and habitat. We believe these actions field biologist teams who partn S mallholders – We provided support than 120 research sites across North have a vital and sustaining benefit to ner with farmers to establish and to NGO partners CARE in Côte d’Ivoire America to evaluate the relationship society and the environment, while expand pollinator habitats across and Ghana and Positive Planet in between soil health and changes helping to ensure food producers will key agricultural regions in the U.S. Madagascar to support smallholder in farm yield, farmer economics, be able to sustainably feed a growing These philanthropically funded farming communities to improve their water quality and GHG emissions. world for generations to come. efforts complement the commitlivelihoods and farming practices, ments made by our brands to Our work to advance regenerative empower female farmers, establish support pollinator habitat – learn agriculture complements the efforts of farmer cooperatives, increase food more in the Planet section. our company’s supply chain and business and nutrition security, support youth u W e support the University of teams to improve water stewardship, education and prevent child labor. the health of ecosystems – including soil Minnesota Bee Lab and its These efforts collectively reach more health, pollinators and biodiversity – and WATCH VIDEO globally leading research to than 22,000 smallholder farmers sustainable sourcing of ingredients. Learn advance understanding of factors and their family members. These more in the Planet section of this report. and risks impacting pollinator efforts complement the collaborative r In this video, hear how farmers and The We also actively engage in public policy health and to share research work of our business teams and Nature Conservancy are working to expand discussions to advance sustainability use of sustainable practices to ensure findings in order to improve bee healthy soil. population health everywhere. priorities – see related details in the report’s Introduction section. u I n France, we support the work n W  ater stewardship – During 2019, Our goals: our contributions supported water of Observatoire Français stewardship collaborations in four d’Apidologie (OFA), including n I mprove the well-being of 30,000 out of eight priority watershed bee research, advancement of people (farmers and their families) WATCH VIDEO regions. (See more details in the pollinator habitat plantings and by 2030 in smallholder farming Planet section.) We work with support for beekeeper education communities from which General r See how support from General Mills Sustainable Conservation to advance and training through their Mills sources cocoa and vanilla. and Positive Planet is helping vanilla farmers water conservation practices on U.S. European Beekeepers Network. in Madagascar grow their businesses, n S upport widespread adoption of diversify their diets and invest in their dairy and feed farms and with The regenerative agriculture best practices, children’s education. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 Food Planet People Community Strengthening hometown communities GRI 413-1, FP4 Our approach: Just as we care about the communities where our ingredients are grown, we also care about the Protecting bees communities our employees call in Spain home. Around the world, we make a In Spain, through our hometown grants meaningful impact in our hometown program, we support the work of communities through employee Ecocolmena, a nonprofit organization volunteerism and community giving. that raises awareness about pollinator Our employees are General Mills health, the responsibility to protect greatest asset. Supporting local causes bees and how to support small beekeepers in the rural ecosystem. Our they are passionate about invigorates employees in Madrid regularly volunteer our employees and communities. to help maintain Ecocolmena’s Our goal is to strengthen hometown “Pollinator Island” habitat. communities by: n M aintaining an employee volunteerism r In fiscal 2019, we provided US$125,000 in grants to 25 food banks through our Hometown Hunger Heroes program, engaging nearly 200 employees. rate of 80% worldwide. n E xceeding US$2.5 billion in cumulative n I n fiscal 2019, we contributed corporate charitable giving by more than US$93 million in 2020 to strengthen communities. charitable giving worldwide. n I nvesting in General Mills hometown n G eneral Mills and our Foundation communities globally to help have provided more than US$2.4 our local communities around billion in cumulative giving to WATCH VIDEO the world grow and thrive. strengthen communities since our Our progress: n W orldwide, 83% of our employees n W Foundation was established in 1954.*  e invested in over 50 global r Across Asia, Africa and Latin America, General Mills and our employees are making 50 report volunteering in their hometown communities with a difference – helping to ensure that our communities and the environment we We supported communities, sharing their time local grants during fiscal 2019. depend upon can flourish for generations 50 communities and talent in ways that serve to come. Watch this video to see examples of what we’re doing in Brazil, China, Hong through local grants both people and the planet. Kong, India, Madagascar, Mexico, Singapore in 2019. and West Africa. *Since 1954, General Mills, Inc. and the General Mills Foundation have contributed more than US$2.4 billion. This figure includes Foundation grants, Box Tops for Education™ giving, corporate contributions and the company’s global food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 Food Planet People Community Employee volunteerism Our approach: Empower our employees to apply their skills, expertise and passion to help their community. Our progress: General Mills employees volunteer their time and talents in more ways than ever: n G  lobal Volunteer Week – From planting mangrove trees in Thailand to preparing meals for those in need r Employees built pollinator hotels to provide nesting areas for bees. in Australia, over 3,937 employees at 46 different locations in 17 which are a nesting area for countries raised their hand during pollinators such as Mason Bees our annual Global Volunteer Week and other small solitary bees. to help strengthen our hometown u I n Brazil, our employees worked in communities around the world, giving partnership with Instituto Melhores a total of 6,637 volunteer hours. Dias and the NGO SOS Abelhas r In Thailand, employees collected rubbish and planted trees at a mangrove forest. Sem Ferrão to establish beehives at schools in the communities of n N  ourishing students in Canada – u G eneral Mills employees across Cambará and Ribeirão Claro to Employees in Ontario prepare and our marketing and consumer rescue and provide shelter for four serve breakfast to approximately insights functions engage in native stingless bee species, the 100 students every day of the school skills-based volunteerism through main pollinators of Brazilian wildlife. WATCH VIDEO year at a public school in Mississauga. our GoodWorks program. These The beehives are used to study More than 40 employees participate – employees give back to the bee behavior and educate children each person volunteers one hour community by leveraging their skills r See how employees around the world about the importance of bees for made a difference during our 2019 Global every three weeks in groups of to help nonprofit organizations with the maintenance of all life on earth. Volunteer Week. two or three people. In 2019 they marketing challenges. Since the served more than 16,400 breakfasts program’s inception in 2009, more to hungry students, providing a than 254 volunteers have completed nutritious start to the school day. 56 pro bono projects through GoodWorks with rave reviews n S  kills-based volunteerism: from the nonprofit organizations u P artners in Food Solutions – benefiting from their work. More than 500 General Mills n P  ollinator habitat – Employee employees have served as volunteers at 12 locations, including volunteers for this international Brazil, Spain, Canada and the U.S., NGO, founded by General Mills a created pollinator habitat. For example: r In Brazil, employees helped students decade ago, that is strengthening establish beehives. r Employees sorted potatoes for food security across Africa. u 4 87 employees in North America distribution at a local food bank. (See story on page 74.) created “pollinator hotels,” GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 Food Planet People Community Disaster relief Our approach: When disaster strikes donations, we help to ensure that our included nearly US$500,000 in NGO partners are ready to help in the communities where we operate, disaster relief partners are resourced financial and in-kind donations to affected communities. Food banks are General Mills is ready to contribute and equipped to help communities the American Red Cross, Feeding lifelines for communities recovering in ways that provide relief and help during their most urgent times of need. America and Good Rescue. General from disaster, providing immediate these communities recover. Through Mills cash and food donations during food access and extended support. Our progress: During fiscal 2019, our financial grants and General Mills food these times help to ensure that our philanthropy in the wake of disasters Blue Buffalo provides food for pets displaced by Hurricane Dorian After Hurricane Dorian struck the Bahamas causing catastrophic damage, O more than 70,000 people and their P pets were left homeless. Hundreds of pets were evacuated until they could be F reunited with their owners. Blue Buffalo donated a truckload of food (38,000 pounds) to a Feeding America member food bank in Fort Pierce, Florida to feed displaced pets being cared for by local pet rescue organizations. r Employees at our World Headquarters in Minneapolis, Minnesota packed emergency relief kits for Feeding America’s Disaster Preparedness program so they're ready to help those affected by future natural disasters. Employee giving At General Mills, we serve the world In addition to giving financially, Box Tops for Education by making food people love, but that’s employees globally are encouraged to Our approach: Box Tops for Education™ n U S$31 million not the only way. We also serve by share their time and talent by taking is a fully digital program operated by earned by U.S. harnessing the power of food for good. part in activities that will help people General Mills that provides funds for schools during and pets in need in their community. participating U.S. schools, which can be the 2018-2019 Employees in North America and used for supplies and other priorities. school year. India participate in the General Mills Our progress: n 2 5 million households participating. Foundation’s gift matching program, n U S$913 million provided through n 7 0,000 U.S. schools benefiting which offers a US$1,000 match when Box Tops for Education since from the program. they give to their favorite charities. the program began in 1996. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 73 Food Planet People Community Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) and of employees whose expertise and wisdom its partner companies are committed to can help advance the African food landscape. improving food security, nutrition and PFS also works with other notable economic development in Africa. Founded organizations like TechnoServe, funded by General Mills in 2008 and now an by USAID and the Bill & Melinda Gates independent nonprofit organization, Foundation, and impact investors such as PFS links the technical and business WATCH VIDEO Root Capital and Grassroots Business Fund to expertise of volunteer employees from support African food processors and mills. General Mills and other food companies with high-potential food processors and Impact: PFS results since 2008 include: r Learn more about how General Mills is r Madison Barre, who works in food safety working with Partners in Food Solutions to millers across 11 African countries. n M ore than 1,500 early-stage food for General Mills, traveled to Malawi to improve food security and nutrition Partners: The work of PFS is supported by six companies received support and help improve quality management at Valid in Africa. corporate partners: General Mills, Cargill, DSM, training to help improve food safety and Nutrition, a maker of ready-to-eat foods for Bühler, The Hershey Company and Ardent Mills. quality and improve their businesses. treating malnutrition. Collectively, these companies have nearly 700 n S erving food processors and millers years of food know-how and tens of thousands in 11 countries: Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. European team supports Ugandan company n 3 1% of PFS client businesses are A team of General Mills employees from calls and WhatsApp discussions, the owned and/or managed by women. France, Spain, Switzerland and the U.K. European team helped Golden Bees spent six months volunteering to support improve inventory management, n 1 00,000 hours were contributed PFS client Golden Bees Ltd. in Uganda. develop a quality management system by 1,100 volunteers from the six Golden Bees provides a wide range of and a mini lab, and improve use of a supporting companies. beekeeping products and services, such computerized accounting system. We as packaging and processing honey recognized this team with a General sourced from more than 2,000 local Mills Global Volunteer Award in 2019. r PFS volunteers work with clients on a beekeepers. Through regular project variety of projects – everything from process engineering to package design to accounting. General Mills receives Halo Award for work with PFS General Mills was named Halo Awards, presented the 2019 Gold Halo Award by Engage for Good, are winner in the category North America’s highest of Best Employee honor for corporate Engagement-Skilled social initiatives and Volunteering Initiative for cause marketing; they its founding partnership showcase successful and continued impact consumer engagement to support African food and employee r These employees from Golden Bees Ltd. in Uganda received support from a companies with PFS. The engagement efforts. General Mills team in Europe. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 APPENDIX Environmental data summary (wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally)* In thousands, except rate data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy usage rate (GJ/metric ton of product) GRI 302-3 1.92 1.92 1.90 1.89 1.88 1.87 1.86 1.91 1.89 1.89 Energy usage (GJ) GRI 302-1 9,565 9,367 8,875 10,537 10,526 10,358 10,124 9,787 9,051 9,287 Direct energy usage by primary source (GJ) 5,435 5,265 4,892 5,910 5,979 5,889 5,672 5,629 5,056 5,273 Fuel oil (GJ) 85 79 81 84 52 32 35 67 51 40 Natural gas (GJ) 4,979 4,863 4,560 4,988 5,083 5,072 4,947 4,848 4,474 4,765 LP gas (GJ) 62 15 10 105 98 53 85 95 97 99 Solar panels (GJ) 0 0.30 0.44 0.43 0.44 0.42 0.47 .052 0 0 Cogeneration electric (GJ) 98 91 64 64 73 59 65 18 5 2 Cogeneration steam (GJ) 204 188 110 142 161 162 117 91 6 3 Biomass (GJ) 8 29 67 527 513 511 423 458 404 343 Purchased steam (GJ) 15 15 Biogas (GJ) 3 6 Indirect energy usage (electricity) (GJ) 4,129 4,102 3,983 4,627 4,547 4,469 4,452 4,205 3,994 4,014 International (GJ) 498 506 540 1,177 1,100 1,057 1,052 931 891 554 North America (GJ) 3,631 3,596 3,444 3,450 3,447 3,412 3,399 3,274 3,103 3,130 Energy usage, by region International (GJ) 945 966 1,022 2,587 2,498 2,407 2,382 2,202 2,075 1,991 North America (GJ) 8,620 8,401 7,852 7,945 8,015 7,952 7,742 7,585 6,976 7,296 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/metric tons of product) GRI 305-4 0.204 0.206 0.206 0.181 0.173 0.171 0.162 0.165 0.16 0.16 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)** (metric tons CO2e) 1,017 1,006 961 1,013 965 945 882 831 778 785 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-1 285 273 251 281 284 277 265 254 267 274 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 5 5 5 5 4 2 2 4 4 3 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 277 267 246 270 274 271 258 245 223 236 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 4 1 1 6 6 3 5 5 5 6 Purchased steam (metric tons CO2e) 2 2 CO₂ for processing (metric tons CO2e) 33 27 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) GRI 305-2 732 733 710 732 681 668 616 576 511 511*** GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) 0 1 3 44 48 48 40 43 38 32 GHG emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 87 91 95 143 132 127 124 117 115 98 North America (metric tons CO2e) 930 915 866 870 833 818 757 714 663 687 Water withdrawal rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.19 2.11 2.14 2.90 2.79 2.86 3.16 2.99 2.85 2.66 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) GRI 303-1 10,800 10,300 10,000 16,200 15,800 15,800 17,400 15,100 13,604 12,950 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA 2,000 1,800 7,800 7,100 7,200 6,400 6,400 5,772 5,381 Municipal (cubic meters) NA 8,300 8,200 8,400 8,700 8,600 11,000 8,700 7,832 7,570 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/metric ton of product) 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.034 0.033 0.035 0.043 0.045 0.065 0.062 Solid waste (metric tons) 183 178 159 190 186 193 233 228 309 292 Percentage of owned production facilities that achieved zero waste N/A N/A N/A 12% 16% 17% 12% 14% 20% 24% to landfill**** (%) *Data in this table is reported on a June May basis (through May of the year noted). Energy usage, GHG emissions, water withdrawal, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and reflect our footprint in that fiscal year. Past fiscal years have not been adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures. Solid waste data in this table is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as nonproduction activities such as new product trials. Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodologies. Beginning in 2013, data reflects the acquisition of Yoplait and Yoki. Yoplait solid waste data for 2013 and 2014 and all Yoki data for 2013 and 2014 were estimated. Beginning in 2017, data reflects the acquisition of Carolina. Beginning in 2019, GHG emissions, energy usage, and water withdrawal data reflects the acquisition of Blue Buffalo Pet Products, Inc., completed in April 2018. **Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions data were calculated using the location-based method. These data were externally verified for 2010 and 2015-2019, by Bureau Veritas. ***Using market-based calculations, Scope 2 GHG emissions for 2019 equaled 337,000 metric tons CO₂e. Market-based calculations include the application of RECs and European Residual Mix Factors. ****These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of the relevant fiscal year. For years prior to 2013, General Mills did not report this data. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 75 Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-1, 2, 3 Methodology: We work with Quantis to calculate our global GHG emissions across the value chain by scope* (metric tons CO2e) GHG emissions footprint each fiscal year, following the 2019 guidelines of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Value chain phase Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total 2010 total Reporting Standard. This footprint covers our complete value Agriculture and transformation 0 0 7,970,000 7,970,000 8,980,000 chain, from the farms that grow our ingredients to consumers who use our products. Packaging supply chain 0 0 1,210,000 1,210,000 1,360,000 Producing** 274,000 337,000*** 579,000 1,190,000 1,540,000 We work to continually update our methodology, visibility and Shipping 3,530 0 1,530,000 1,540,000 1,550,000 accuracy, and update results as appropriate each year. Data reported for 2010, 2018 and 2019 reflect the acquisition of Blue Selling 23,000 75,000 660,000 756,000 907,000 Buffalo Pet Products, Inc., completed in April 2018 (Blue Buffalo Consuming 0 0 2,640,000 2,640,000 3,540,000 data for 2010 and 2018 are estimated). Data for 2010, 2018 and Total 301,000 413,000 14,600,000 15,300,000 17,900,000 2019 also reflect improved calculations of consumer food waste *Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. (which increased GHG emissions) and consumer trips to the **Data in the Environmental data summary are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. The data in this table include those locations store (which decreased GHG emissions). Scope 1, 2 and 3 data as well as other wholly owned or controlled facilities globally (such as offices and Häagen-Dazs shops) as well as fleet vehicles. for 2019 in this table were externally verified by Bureau Veritas. ***This data is calculated using the market-based method. Workforce and governance data summary GRI 102-8, 405-1 Workforce by region and gender* Workforce by employment type and gender* Board of Directors diversity (% of total)* Female Total Female Total Male 58% Africa 0 1 Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Female 42% Asia 7,072 12,533 Apprentice 66 31 131 60 Black 17% Australasia 137 261 Casual 2 1,483 3 1,921 Asian 0% Europe 1,575 4,054 Intern 37 4 63 6 Hispanic 17% North America 7,417 16,792 Regular 11,725 3,970 29,611 5,989 Native American/American Indian 0% South America 1,538 5,029 Seasonal 60 5 155 16 Age 50+ 100% Total 17,739 38,670 Temporary 234 122 516 199 *Represents board composition as of May 26, 2019. *Data as of May 31, 2019. Total 12,239 5,615 30,479 8,191 *Data as of May 31, 2019. Workforce benefits GRI 401-2 Highlights of the benefits offered by General Mills* Pay Employees earn a competitive salary and annual bonus when they meet our ambitious goals. Salaries are reviewed each year, with increases based on performance and the market value of the position. Annual cash bonuses are based on performance (individual, company and, in some cases, business unit). Health benefits General Mills offers employees and eligible dependents medical, dental and vision plans starting on the first day of employment. Retirement and savings plans General Mills offers tools and resources to manage current and future savings goals. Eligibility for General Mills’ 401(k) Plan starts on the first day of employment. Employees can access free, confidential education on managing money, college and tax savings, and more. Stock options and ownership Company stock is available in the 401(k) Plan. Our voluntary stock purchase program allows another ownership opportunity. Annual stock option grants are available to some management-level employees. Insurance Life, long-term care, legal, and auto and homeowners insurance is available, plus company-paid shortand long-term disability insurance. Education assistance Loans and scholarship opportunities are available for employees and family members, plus reimbursement for job-related courses. Employees may be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence to further their education. Flexible work We offer telecommuting, flextime and part-time arrangements where business conditions allow. Parenting benefits General Mills offers maternity leave benefits to birth mothers and also offers parental leave benefits for fathers, partners and adoptive parents. Credit Union Employees and their families are eligible for complete banking and financial services from the General Mills Federal Credit Union, established in 1935. *Benefits may vary for employees by location and other factors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 76 Global Reporting Initiative index* UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures (cont.) Organizational profile Governance (cont.) 102-1 Name of the organization 2019 10-K 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 environmental, and social topics 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Introduction, 2019 10-K 102-22 Composition of the highest governance GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 102-3 Location of headquarters 2019 10-K body and its committees 102-4 Location of operations GeneralMills.com/ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 Company/Countries 102-24 Nominating and selecting the GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 10-K highest governance body 102-6 Markets served GeneralMills.com/ 102-25 Conflicts of interest GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 Company/Countries 102-26 Role of highest governance body in Introduction, Planet 102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 Annual Report setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-8 Information on employees Appendix 8 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's GeneralMills.com/Investors and other workers performance 102-9 Supply chain Introduction, Planet 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, GeneralMills.com/ 16 102-10 Significant changes to the 2019 Annual Report environmental, and social impacts Investors, Introduction organization and its supply chain 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes GeneralMills.com/ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Planet Investors, Introduction 102-12 External initiatives Introduction, Planet, 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/ Community and social topics Investors, Introduction 102-13 Membership of associations Introduction, Planet, 102-32 Highest governance body's role Introduction Community in sustainability reporting Strategy 102-33 Communicating critical concerns GeneralMills.com/Investors 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO letter, 2019 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2019 Proxy Statement Annual Report 102-35 Remuneration policies 2019 Proxy Statement 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2019 10-K 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement Ethics and integrity 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Introduction, People 16 and norms of behavior Stakeholder engagement 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and People 16 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Introduction, Planet, concerns about ethics Community Governance 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 34% of U.S. 8 production employees 102-18 Governance structure GeneralMills.com/Investors are covered by CBAs. 102-19 Delegating authority Introduction 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Introduction, Planet, 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Introduction Community environmental, and social topics *Using GRI 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards. Reporting disclosures may not be applied fully for all Standards. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 Global Reporting Initiative index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 102: General Disclosures (cont.) GRI 200 Economic Standards Series (cont.) Stakeholder engagement (cont.) GRI 201: Economic Performance (cont.) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Introduction, Planet, Community 201-2 Financial implications and Planet, CDP Climate 13 engagement other risks and opportunities Change Disclosure due to climate change 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Introduction, Food, Planet, Community 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 2019 10-K and other retirement plans Reporting practice GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 102-45 Entities included in the 2019 Annual Report consolidated financial 203-1 Infrastructure investments Planet, Community 2, 5, 7, statements and services supported 9, 11 102-46 Defining report content Materiality section of Introduction 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Planet, Community 1, 2, 3, 8, and topic boundaries 10, 17 102-47 List of material topics Materiality section of Introduction GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending Planet 12 102-48 Restatements of information Appendix Environmental on local suppliers data summary GRI 205: Anti-corruption 102-49 Changes in reporting Introduction 205-1 Operations assessed for risks People 16 related to corruption 102-50 Reporting period Introduction 205-2 Communication and training People 16 102-51 Date of most recent report Apr-19 about anti-corruption policies and procedures 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 301: Materials 102-53 Contact point for questions Introduction regarding the report 301-2 Recycled input materials used Planet 102-54 Claims of reporting in Introduction, Appendix GRI Index 301-3 Reclaimed products and Planet accordance with the their packaging materials GRI Standards GRI 302: Energy 102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative index 302-1 Energy consumption within Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 102-56 External assurance Introduction the organization Environmental data summary 13 GRI 200 Economic Standards Series 302-2 Energy consumption outside CDP Climate Change 7, 8, 12, of the organization Disclosure 13 GRI 201: Economic Performance 302-3 Energy intensity Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 201-1 Direct economic value Community, Planet, 2019 Annual 2, 5, 7, Environmental data summary 13 generated and distributed Report, 2019 Proxy Statement 8, 9 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Planet 7, 8, 12, 13 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 78 Global Reporting Initiative index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (cont.) GRI 303: Water GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Planet, Appendix 6 306-1 Water discharge by We do not discharge untreated 3, 6, 12, Environmental data summary quality and destination sanitary wastewater to land or 14 surface waters at any of our 303-2 Water sources significantly Planet 6 locations. Wastewater discharges affected by withdrawal of water primarily consist of organic 303-3 Water recycled and reused Planet 6, 8, 12 matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities GRI 304: Biodiversity are governed by applicable 304-2 Significant impacts of Planet 6, 14, 15 regulations as well as our activities, products, and compliance management program. services on biodiversity 306-2 Waste by type and Planet 3, 6, 12 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Planet 6, 14, 15 disposal method GRI 305: Emissions 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills 3, 6, 12, at our manufacturing locations 14, 15 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, during the reporting period. Environmental data summary 14, 15 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste The quantity of hazardous 3, 12 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, waste produced and shipped 2) GHG emissions Environmental data summary 14, 15 is insignificant relative to the 305-3 Other indirect (Scope Planet, CDP Climate 3, 12, 13, amount of solid waste generated 3) GHG emissions Change Disclosure 14, 15 at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Planet, Appendix 13, 14, 15 by government regulations. Environmental data summary 306-5 Water bodies affected by No water bodies are significantly 6, 14, 15 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Planet 13, 14, 15 water discharges and/or runoff affected by company discharges. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Ozone-depleting substances 3, 20 Our production facilities are substances (ODS) (ODS) are most commonly used governed by applicable regulations in small quantities for closedas well as our compliance loop refrigeration systems management program. and occasional fumigation GRI 307: Environmental Compliance activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. 307-1 Noncompliance with General Mills incurred 5 Notices 16 environmental laws of Violations (NOVs) and 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Air emissions primarily include 3, 12, 14, and regulations no significant fines during oxides (SOX), and other particulate matter and organic 15 the reporting period. significant air emissions compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment well as emissions associated with 308-1 New suppliers that Supplier Code of Conduct fuel combustion. Our production were screened using facilities are governed by applicable environmental criteria regulations as well as our compliance management program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 79 Global Reporting Initiative index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 400 Social Standards Series (cont.) GRI 401: Employment GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Appendix 8 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Planet 8 employees that are not provided to significant risk for incidents of temporary or part-time employees forced or compulsory labor GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 403-1 Workers representation in formal People 8 412-1 Operations that have been Planet joint management-worker subject to human rights reviews health and safety committees or impact assessments 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, People 3, 8 412-3 Significant investment agreements Planet, Supplier Code 16 occupational diseases, lost days and contracts that include human of Conduct and absenteeism, and number rights clauses or that underwent of work-related fatalities human rights screening 403-4 Health and safety topics People 8 GRI 413: Local Communities covered in formal agreements 413-1 Operations with local community Planet, Community with trade unions engagement, impact assessments, GRI 404: Training and Education and development programs 404-2 Programs for upgrading People 8 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment employee skills and transition assistance programs 414-1 New suppliers that were Supplier Code of Conduct 5, 8, 16 screened using social criteria 404-3 Percentage of employees People 5, 8 receiving regular performance 414-2 Negative social impacts in the Planet 5, 8, 16 and career development reviews supply chain and actions taken GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 415: Public Policy 405-1 Diversity of governance People, Appendix, GeneralMills. 5, 8 415-1 Political contributions Civic Involvement, 16 bodies and employees com/Investors Introduction GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 416-1 Assessment of the health and Food, People 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Planet 8 safety impacts of product which the right to freedom and service categories of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 416-2 Incidents of noncompliance Food 16 concerning the health and safety GRI 408: Child Labor impacts of products and services 408-1 Operations and suppliers Planet 8, 16 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling at significant risk for incidents of child labor 417-1 Requirements for product and Food 12 service information and labeling GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 80 Global Reporting Initiative index (cont.) UN UN Disclosure Location/comments Disclosure Location/comments SDGs SDGs Food Processing Sector Supplement Food Processing Sector Supplement (cont.) Across All Aspects of Sourcing Product and Service Labeling (cont.) FP1 Percentage of purchased volume Planet, Supplier FP9 Percentage and total of animals General Mills does not 2, 15 from suppliers compliant with Code of Conduct raised and/or processed, by raise or process animals in company’s sourcing policy. species and breed type. its production operations. Meat that is used in our FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which Planet 2, 12, 14, products is processed by our is verified as being in accordance with 15 suppliers. For information credible, internationally recognized on our approach to animal responsible production standards, welfare, see our policy. broken down by standard. Animal Husbandry Healthy and Affordable Food FP10 Policies and practices, by General Mills does not FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any Food, Planet, 2, 3 species and breed type, related physically alter animals or use programs and practices that promote Community to physical alterations and anaesthetics. For information access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention the use of anaesthetic. on our approach to animal of chronic disease; access to healthy, welfare, see our policy. nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. FP11 Percentage and total of animals Planet raised and/or processed, by species General Mills does not Customer Health and Safety and breed type, per housing type. raise or process animals. FP5 Percentage of production volume Food 2 For information on our manufactured in sites certified by an approach to animal independent third party according to welfare, see our policy. internationally recognized food safety FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, Planet 2 management system standards. anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/ Animal welfare policy FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of Food 2 or growth promotion treatments, consumer products, by product category, by species and breed type. that are lowered in saturated fat, trans Transportation, Handling, and Slaughter fats, sodium and added sugars. FP13 Total number of incidents of General Mills does not FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of Food 2 noncompliance with laws and transport, handle or slaughter consumer products, by product category, regulations, and adherence with live or aquatic animals. that contain increased nutritious voluntary standards related to ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, transportation, handling, and phytochemicals or functional food additives. slaughter practices for live Product and Service Labeling terrestrial and aquatic animals. FP8 Policies and practices on communication to Food 2 consumers about ingredients and nutritional AskGeneralMills.com information beyond legal requirements. SmartLabel.org GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ethics and compliance Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and compliance Human rights Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Human rights collective bargaining; Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Ethics and compliance Global inclusion Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Climate change approach Sourcing approach Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Climate change performance Responsible sourcing Producing Water stewardship Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 82 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board reference table The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, standards-setting organization that promotes disclosure of material sustainability information to meet investor needs. This table references the Standard for the Processed Foods industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS) and identifies where General Mills addresses each topic. Note that some responses may not be fully aligned with SASB’s definition, but represent the content most closely aligned with that indicator. Topic SASB accounting metric Category Location or response Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable Quantitative Appendix Environmental data summary, Planet Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions Quantitative CDP Water with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Number of incidents of noncompliance associated with water quantity and/or Quantitative GRI Index quality permits, standards, and regulations Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices Discussion and Analysis Water stewardship, CDP Water to mitigate those risks Food Safety Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) audit (1) nonconformance rate and Quantitative Zero critical nonconformances in FY19 (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) major and (b) minor nonconformances Percentage of ingredients sourced from Tier 1 supplier facilities certified to a Quantitative Food safety Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) recognized food safety certification program (1) Total number of notices of food safety violation received, Quantitative No food safety violations were (2) percentage corrected received in FY19 (1) Number of recalls issued and (2) total amount of food product recalled Quantitative Food safety Health & Nutrition Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and Quantitative Nutrition nutrition attributes Discussion of the process to identify and manage products and ingredients related Discussion and Analysis Nutrition to nutritional and health concerns among consumers Product Labeling & Marketing Revenue from products labeled as (1) containing genetically modified organisms Quantitative We label all of our FDA regulated products (GMOs) and (2) non-GMO as either “Produced with” or “Partially Produced with Genetic Engineering” if they contain more than 0.9% GMO ingredients. Number of incidents of noncompliance with industry or regulatory labeling Quantitative Responsible marketing and/or marketing codes Packaging Lifecycle (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled and/or renewable Quantitative Climate change packaging Management materials, and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging Discussion and Analysis Climate change packaging throughout its lifecycle Environmental & Social Percentage of food ingredients sourced that are certified to third-party Quantitative Sustainable sourcing Impacts of Ingredient environmental and/or social standards, by certification scheme Supply Chain Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility audit (1) nonconformance Quantitative Supplier responsibility rate and (2) associated corrective action rate for (a) major and (b) minor nonconformances Ingredient Sourcing Percentage of food ingredients sourced from regions with High or Extremely High Quantitative CDP Water Baseline Water Stress List of priority food ingredients and discussion of sourcing risks due to Discussion and Analysis Sustainable sourcing environmental and social considerations GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 83
