COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) APRIL 2020 MYANMAR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PTE. LTD Contents Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact ............................................................. 2 Human Rights Principles ....................................................................................................................... 3 Labour Principles ...................................................................................................................................... 5 Environmental Principles ..................................................................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption Principles.................................................................................................................. 10 Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact Dear stakeholders, I am pleased and honored to confirm that Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We also commit to sharing this information with all our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Your Sincerely, Dr. Tun Thura Thet Founder and CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte. Ltd Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT believes that upholding these two primary principles of Human Rights plays an important role of not only achieving its vision and mission but also widening its window and scope of corporate sustainability and business opportunity. It follows that our policy and goals would be: • To instill in over our 400 employees together with our partners, suppliers and customers not only the recognition of the importance of these principles for our company’s sustainable corporate growth but also integrate and implement them, in all our business dealings and practices. • To adhere to the substance and significance of these principles in our business strategy and day-to-day operations. • To protect Human Rights and offer equal and fair opportunities to all employees. • To refrain from aiding, abetting or acting as an accessory to any kind of Human Rights violations or abuses. Implementation • In order to achieve the desired aims of Human Rights, MIT has published its Human Rights policy which forms the backbone of our company’s employee orientation and training. • MIT strongly encourages our stakeholders i.e., partners, suppliers and customers to adapt to our Human Rights policy while sharing with them the best corporate practices and behaviors. Page 3 of 11 • MIT focuses on monitoring human rights abuses or violations and has put in place grievances mechanism to handle workplace harassment --physical, verbal, sexual or psychological. • MIT makes sure that safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities are installed and managed in the workplace. • MIT also makes sure that all our employees abide by the rules, regulations and policies set forth in our Staff Handbook and ensure that employees do not get complicit in any forms of human rights abuses. • MIT provides all our employees with fair and equitable pay scheme, access to basic healthcare, education and accommodation. • MIT takes great effort to guarantee freedom of association and non-discrimination, as well as elimination of forced/ child labor in our workforce. • Last but not least, MIT lays great emphasis on Corporate Social Responsibility whereby the company conducts such humanitarian undertakings as follows: o Providing stipends to needy but outstanding students in rural areas wherever possible. o Providing access to not only knowledge and skills in computing but also hardware and accessories to rural students in Kayin and Mon States. o Providing necessary help and assistance in kind to those victims afflicted by natural disasters and helping the disabled and under-privileged whenever possible. o Providing annual financial assistance to outstanding colleage/ university students, especially students specializing in computer sciences. o Facilitate the logistics to attend the international workshop for two government officials from Ministry of Education. o Contributing financial support to the children of drivers and ancillary workers for their education. Page 4 of 11 o Finally, in 2019 when the World Robot Game was held in Bangkok, MIT provided not only financial support but also technical guidance to Myanmar participants. Ever since becoming a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2012, MIT has strived to the best of its ability to honor and respect the Human Rights principles and has done all within its power to implement them according to good business governance and practices. Measurement of outcomes Due to its sound and diligent management policies and programs, MIT has been able to curtail Human Rights violations in all its forms and shapes within its workplaces as well as in dealings with its suppliers, partners and customers. Cooperation and collaboration by multiple stakeholders has gone a long way to enable MIT to achieve its business sustainable growth and development. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle.5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT encourages diversity of labor and countenances zero tolerance in regards to any form of discriminatory behavior due to difference of religion, race, gender or political affiliation or ideology. These principles reinforce the universal idea that all human being is created equal. MIT believes that freedom of association and collective bargaining are fair and are universally accepted. Page 5 of 11 One of our cherished assets is the human resources. We consider all our employees as a family member and as a consequence, ever strive to create a relaxed and rewarding environment for all. Our aim is to form a hassle-free workplace, and governed by international labor standards and local labor laws. Implementation We would like to present how we implement the labor context under the following subheadings: (i) Human Resources (ii) Labor Laws: Rules and Regulations (iii) Worksites: safe, hygienic and well-equipped (iv) Social Welfare and Social Activities (i) Human Resources As part of human resources development, MIT has conducted annual internal as well as external training courses, workshops, orientation sessions etc., consolidated with weekly, monthly and annual meetings, along with attending of seminars, conferences, exhibitions and product training tours. Allowance of exams leave for those staff attending college or university classes has been made available to help staff further their education in the context of human resource development. We prohibit all kinds of discrimination, abuse of position and power, cherish and encourage equal employment opportunity, and lastly, we forbid forced or child labor in all our worksites. (ii) Labor laws, rules and regulations MIT always strives to observe all the relevant international and local laws and have closely integrated rules and regulations and has published a Staff Handbook where rights and responsibility, employment agreement’s terms and conditions, leave types and entitlement, as well as fair remunerations, compensations and benefits etc., are expressly stated. MIT has always upheld freedom of association and has always recognized the right to collective bargaining. We never allow employment of children or labor without consent. Discrimination of gender, race, religion and beliefs are totally banned in our worksites. Page 6 of 11 (iii) Worksites: safe, hygienic and well-equipped Our workplaces are always kept clean, tidy and safe from hazards. Workplace safety measures such as fires, earthquakes or any other emergency cases are set in place. Our worksites are fitted with efficient lightings, ventilation and air-conditionings. Offices are well equipped with necessary furniture and fittings and are appropriately partitioned to allow for free, convenient movement for staff during office hours. (iv) Social Welfare and Social Activities • Provision of Healthcare services supplied by the government Social Security Board. • Provision of support to staff who needs health care during office hour by means of sending clinic/hospital, taking care until discharge and provide required support: that also applied to staff who resides in staff hostel in emergency situation. • Establishment of Credit Committee to offer credit to staff in financial need. • In the event of bereavement and welfare, financial support are provided to staff. • Birthdays are celebrated for each month born, and organize the presents. • Organizing holidays and vacation trips, annual staff party, get togethers and sporting and/or gaming events such as yoga, taking part in running events like Pocari Sweat Run Myanmar as a second time; undertaking activities such as celebrating religious worships and traditional ceremonies like the Warso and Tazaungdaing festivals and holding entertainment events such as the Movie Day. • Provision of housing or accommodation for employees coming to work from distant towns or even from remote areas; staff ferry as well as taxi services are also provided. • Fresh drinking water is provided daily: fresh seasonal fruits are supplied whenever available. Healthy and hygienic foods are available in staff canteen. • During COVID-19 emergency period, MIT supported community and staff family members in the below areas: o Issue the available working arrangement options (flexible working hours, tele-working (working from home), and staff-alternating per set group, and Page 7 of 11 apply during emergency period; o Issue the COVID-19 related guideline (preparedness and response); o Donate medical supplies (167 set of PPE, 9,615 masks) to emergency department, Yangon General Hospital; o Staff undertake the Data visualization and Analytics for COVID-19 project as volunteer MIT has always kept in touch with its suppliers, partners and customers to inform them of our practices and measures taken in regards to our implementation of the labor standard principles. Monitoring and preventive steps on labor rights issues are constantly overseen by the Management Board. MIT actively led in the country initiatives (for e.g. launching of Unicode), and contributed financial and human resources during country’s emergency response. Measurement of outcomes No known violations or breaches of any kind of labour violations has been recorded. We affirm that the employers and employees at MIT, including all our stakeholders, are fully aware of the important role played by the UN Global Compact’s labor principles and have been effective in our business operations. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals As MIT is an office-based customer service provider, carbon footprint and industrywise impact on the environment is relatively minimal. Nevertheless, MIT is doubly Page 8 of 11 aware of the responsibility of reducing whatever our indirect effect has on environmental challenges. To that effect, we strongly support and promote environmental approaches in our day-to-day operations while at the same time, educating and encouraging our suppliers and customers to adopt and adapt to green technologies. We see to it that wasteful use of natural resources and raw materials in production process be curtailed or minimized. Consequently, we have come up with a very robust environmental friendly regime: • To strictly monitor and thence, reduce the use of electricity and water to a minimum. • To streamline our work processes in order to reduce not only the use of paper but also plastics. • To promote, educate and encourage our suppliers, customers and our workforce to use emailing system as well as any other available electronic systems for communications, instead of using paper to reduce environmental impact. Implementation • Establishment of environment related rules and regulations. • Monitor the regulatory practices, asses and manage regulatory non-observance at worksites. • Reduce electric lights consumption by turning off lights and air-conditioning when not in use; requiring the last-to-leave employee to double check switching off all non-essential power at the end of the working day while limiting the use of power to a minimum during working hours. • Taken steps in installing online connecting and communicating systems such as the HCM Connect, in place of paperwork. • MIT performs continuously to reduce the use of plastic in our work environment. The steps taken at ground level are: o Using shopping bags made of any other materials except plastic to shopping centres or market places. o Choosing to use only metal cutlery instead of plastic cutlery. Page 9 of 11 o Using water glasses in place of water plastic bottles at meetings, workshops and seminars. o Encouraging the limited use of plastic bottles even though they can be refilled and used. o Participation in this initiative within our worksites as starting points will inspire others to emulate and leading to a widespread discard of plastics in order to protect the environment. Measurement of outcomes Being an office-based customer service provider, MIT doesn’t impact the environment as much as most manufacturing enterprises do. However, some aspects of the environment degradation processes at MIT, such as the use of electricity, paper and plastic, call for efforts to curb the amount of their usage at our worksites. Hence, we closely monitor usage of fuel, electricity, paper, plastic and water. We keep practiced our environmental friendly approach in day-day operations. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including· extortion and bribery. Assessment. Policy and Goals MIT acknowledges a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. In this context, MIT advocates transparency and accountability in our business practices and holds zero tolerance when it comes to bribery and corrupt practices. We will closely monitor all and every business transactions for the expressed purpose of no corruption at all levels. MIT keeps its customers, suppliers, buyers and sellers etc., informed of our position on such matters. Implementation • Fully comply with all the existing applicable Myanmar anti-corruption Laws. Page 10 of 11 • MIT has been closely monitoring all expenses claims to prevent misuse of fund and discourage any exchange of gifts. • Internal audit team has been set in place to regularly examine all business transactions. • Strict policies for consultants, third-party suppliers and even customers to avoid unfair and inappropriate dealings are adopted. • MIT also adopts a comprehensive policy and norms in tender bidding. MIT sets the well-established procedures in awarding Purchase Order or Service Contracts. • Strong and seasoned audit team has been formed to review and accept deliverables according to the terms and conditions stipulated in the contracts. • A recruitment and hiring procedure have been set up to get objective, fair and impartial test and assessment. Likewise, a standard performance review procedure has also been adopted so that all employees obtain fair, impartial and objective reviews. • MIT makes sure that our internal business procedures, and code of conduct support MIT’s anti-corruption commitment. Measurement of outcomes MIT Management Team as well as the internal audit teams ensure that all stakeholders involved follow the rules, regulations and guidelines in the fight against corruption. As a result, no complaints or cases of corrupt dealings have ever been reported in our organization. Page 11 of 11
