Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Adding value beyond the box Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2019 Table of Content Statement of continued support by the CEO 07 About this report 09 Corporate Social Responsibility statement 11 Boxon Group 16 Human Rights 31 Labor & Social conditions 35 Environment 41 Anti-Corruption 59 GRI Index 62 Imprint 64 Facing the challenge with innovation and responsibility Declaration of the CEO To our stakeholders As a global company, we are aware of that in times of climate change and high industrial utilization, the ecological footprint has reached a level, where the need for action is no more a question but a common task, shared by companies and organisations around the globe. In the context of reflecting our way of living and moving towards new sustainable solutions in order to reach global goals, all industries must acknowledge their responsibilities. This is without doubt a global challenge, but also an opportunity. At Boxon we face this challenge with innovation and responsibility. In our CSR statement, we set clear goals that we aim to achieve by 2025. We integrate environmental aspects at all critical stages in our supply chain. We help our customers to optimize their own supply chains and packaging flows in such a way that CO2 can be reduced effectively. By doing so, we always consider the big picture: With our specific Life Cycle approach, all possibilities are explored to create sustainable packaging concepts from production to end of life or recycling. And, most of all, we focus on the people who make this possible their safety, health and well-being are our first priority. This way of working derives from our vision “To develop the world's most intelligent, sustainable valuecreating packaging concept”. Anders Yllfors 8 9 About this Report This report represents the Communication on Progress of Boxon Group AB with reference to the past year 2019. The report relates to the activities of Boxon Group AB. All subsidiaries' activities and figures taken into account in the scope of the present document. The report is subject to an external auditor's examination. The corresponding certificate is appended to the end of this document. tor's review. The corresponding certificate is appended to the end of this document. Reporting frequency: annual Publication of previous report: March 2019 Report content and topic boundaries In 2019, we set the starting point for a strategic CSR strategy within Boxon Group. The goal was to develop a statement valid for all entities and to formulate internal sustainability goals with regard to 2025, in order to drive and implement the strategy with concrete actions. Boxon has implemented sustainable and innovative solutions for many years. Bringing these initiatives, projects and products from different areas of the group together on a common level was an important task in defining a common Sustainability strategy. Boxon’s role and responsibility within the scope of its business activities was subject of a detailed reflection, which included the evaluation of various stakeholder groups and their different interests. In this context, the impact of Boxon’s business activities and different options for action were examined. As a result a CSR statement was elaborated, summarizing Boxon’s convictions, commitments and goals in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. In this way, a framework was set for the implementation and further development of the strategy at group level, involving the contribution of all departments in 2020. The 2018 Sustainability Report was created with the intention of communicating our different CSR guidelines, visions and missions and highlighting certain key areas. For 2019, we decided to follow the appropriate selected GRI standards in our reporting. A selected group of stakeholders has participated in creating the knowledge base for this Sustainability report. Due to the fact, that Boxon is only at the beginning of implementing a systematic CSR strategy, the reporting scope is limited in some of the GRI areas. Figures and other data that were not measured in the past or are not available in a representative format, will however be considered during the implementation of the CSR Strategy in 2020. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility statement Corporate Social Responsibility refers to the social responsibility of companies in the sense of sustainable economic activity related to their core business. Companies are responsible for the people and the environment in the direct and indirect sphere of their activities, including social, environmental and economic aspects.​ Stakeholders have a legitimate interest, especially when it comes to international production, transports and the use of resources. Boxon Group is a Packaging Company with presence in Europe and Asia with the aim to expand our business globally. As global Packaging Company, we are aware of our important role and impact of our business for the development of a more sustainable future. ​ Boxon Group has signed and commits to UN Global Compacts 10 principles. We invite all our stakeholders in this mission – our employees, suppliers, partners and customers. ​ 12 13 Our Objectives Life cycle product solutions The goals below refer to the year 2025 and are to be achieved through the systematic implementation of Increased efficiency is a key driver to reach common sustainability goals. Our model is a life cycle apthe Company CSR Strategy and the associated implementation of appropriate measures. proach including innovation, development and optimization of sustainable products and solutions for our customers. Environmental requirements DECREASE our total carbon footprint as a company by 30% Packaging solution design Procurement Renewable / disposal Supplier / Production INCREASE Identify aspects at 30% the share of packaging solutions each stage of based on recycled material by life cycle Transport & Delivery End user STAY innovative by introducing new Climate packaging solutions with a neutral Customer footprint Provide information on potential significant environmental impact Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 14 15 The four E's As way to set a frame for our work, we have defined our work into four key areas. Ethics Environment Boxon is committed to run our busiOur business is based on a sustainable ness in all aspects based on the hiapproach to environmental challenges ghest levels of ethics. The key areas we face with an increasing responsiinclude Human rights, the abolition of bility to develop new environmentally child labor, elimination of any type difriendly solutions and techniques. scrimination. Employment Efficiency The area Employment includes both Increased efficiency is a key driver to an internal and external perspective reach common sustainability goals. on employment whereby Boxon recoOur model is a Life cycle approach gnise the freedom of association and including innovation, development and right to collective barging as well as optimization of sustainable products elimination of all forms of compulsory and solutions for our customers. labor. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 16 17 The Boxon Group Boxon Group is privately held company which includes eleven operative operational entities in seven different countries (see above). All legal entities have the legal structure as “limited liability companies”. Operational legal entities are as follows: Boxon Group was founded in 1932 and is today located in 7 countries with more than 280 employees. The company's headquarter is in Helsingborg, Sweden. The formal name is Boxon Group AB which is the parent company for all activities. • Boxon Group AB Boxon Group is represented in seven countries with legal entities which includes Sweden, Germany (Boxon • Boxon AB GmbH), France (Boxon SARL), Denmark (Boxon A/S), Norway (Boxon AS), Finland (Boxon OY) and China • Boxon A/S (Boxon China). The Group operates 9 distribution centres with a total warehouse space of 31 000 square • Boxon AS meters with a permanent stock of 3 500 articles for 10 000 customers. • Boxon Oy Boxon serves the seven markets with legal entities but also other markets such as central Europe, Benelux, • Båfi pac AB the US and Japan. The total group turnover in 2019 was 121 Million Euros. • Boxon GmbH • Boxon SARL The main assortment range offered are corrugated packaging, plastic packaging, wood packaging, labelling • Boxon Production AB and machines for packaging and printing. The company also provides a wide range of services including • Boxon Shanghai Packaging Ltd., China warehouse services, technical services, software solutions and printing solutions. • Boxon Tech AB Furthermore, the group also includes a number of dormant legal entities with no business activity. Boxon AB, Helsingborg, Sweden • Boxon Bulk AB • Boxon Bulk Nordics AB Boxon AS, Boxon A/S, Drammen, Norway Farum, Denmark • Boxon Systems Nordics AB • Boxon Development AB Boxon OY, • Boxon Development Oy Helsinki, Finland • Boxon Sp Zoo • Boxon Ltd. • Boxon Mark AB Boxon SARL Bordeaux, France Boxon China Shanghai, China Boxon GmbH Bremen and Krefeld, Germany Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 18 19 Management structure Innovation and product management During 2019, the Boxon Group has made significant changes in its operative structure. Boxon Innovation Team has many years of combined knowledge and experience in the field of packaging, Up to 2018, the company was organised in clearly defined business areas, based on product areas, with its labelling and customized solutions. own responsibilities and management structures. From 2019 and going forward, the new operative organisation is organised in markets, Nordics, EMEA and In our Innovation Team, we create drawings and animations, as well as design and labels samples, protoAsia. Each market has full responsibility for market and selling of the complete offer. The management is types and specially manufactured injection moulded trays, system integrated solutions and cloud-based organised into one management group for the total operation whereby each function has a global responoutsourcing. With our overall competence, we take the solution one step further, independently, if we are sibility except for Sales that are organised per market. in the Nordic region, Germany or China. The Boxon Innovation Team is our way of driving the development forward, with the best interests of the end customer and with sustainability as a key aspect when doing so. Board of Directors (BoD) Group Management Team (GMT) Production • Financial follow up • Leading the Boxon group • Strategy execution and follow up One part of Boxon's intelligent packaging concept is our label production, located in Borås. Here we help • Decision about the Strategy and follow up • Decisions about investments, acquisitions • Operations our customers with labels for different products and different uses. • Major organisational changes • Organisational questions and changes Our manufacturing includes all types of labels and labelling solutions, from qualified brand profiling labels, • Preparing for Board of Directors decisions to unprinted logistics labels. At Boxon, our customers get a faster flow, with opportunities for uniquely de• Follow up of Management • Follow ups signed labels and a production optimized for their different needs. Our label printing site is equipped with modern printing presses, both digital and analogue flexo presses. The production possibilities are flexible, we can produce larger series but also smaller ones. Colourful labels, Cardboard and Hang tag labels, or labels with variable data, the possibilities are enormous, and our production is efficient. We strive to minimize the overall impact on the environment by using our printing presses more efficiently. Reducing waste and energy in production is therefore a permanent focus, which is why we systematically Global Counsel Teams (GCT) Group Coordination Team Nordics (GCT) monitor our material consumption. One long term goal is to replace all our synthetic materials with fossil free materials. • Global synchronising • Resource allocations • Utilizing global strength • Semi-weekly co-ordination of plans for Group • Lead the function functions • Ways of working between market areas and within function • Clarity about dotted lines Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 20 21 Our values Core values Ideology is an important foundation stone for creating a sustainable culture internally and externally at Boxon's core values are central to the entire Group. They're about what we believe in and stand for. The Boxon. We are passionate by nature and have a culture that is about winning together, taking responsibility, core values tell us who we are, where we are going and ensure that we navigate in the right direction so we understanding and helping. A basic prerequisite for us is to describe why we exist, what we believe in and can both further develop our culture and communicate with continuity: how we can offer a higher value to our customers and the society at large. Our Pyramid consists of four parts and illustrates our ideology. • Win Together • Simplicity • Transparency • Responsibility Promise Our Mission ”Adding value Our mission gives us a common understanding of why we exist and what our targets are. beyond the box” Vision Our Vision ”To develop the world’s Our vision reminds us about where we are heading and our long-term ambitions and targets. It helps us to most intelligent, sustainable and value creating packaging concept” get an overall perspective, see the big picture as well as the day-to-day details. Mission Our Promise ”We are an innovative business partner who turns the packaging concept into a Our promise is the core of everything we do and how we would like to be perceived. strategic value creator” Something we must keep at all costs! Our promise also communicates the essence of what we do – we add and deliver values to our customers. Core values Win together + Simplicity + Transparency + Responsibility Vinna tillsammans + Enkelhet + Tydlighet + Ansvar = V.E.T.A. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 22 23 External initiatives and memberships Civil engagements of the company PACKBRIDGE We have ongoing interactions with different schools and educations be they private, university-based or public educational establishments. This interaction includes that we take on “on the job training” programPackbridge is probably the largest packaging cluster in Europe, established in 2010, and proudly accumulames where students get the opportunity to practice at Boxon for four to twelve weeks depending on the te knowledge from our about 170 members and partners from the entire packaging value chain, stretching education plan. all the way from raw materials to recycling. Packbrige goal is to facilitate innovation and drive long-term Following the internship, an evaluation is elaborated in cooperation with the school or the respective other sustainable development in the packaging industry. Our unique value comes from connecting industry with educational establishment. academia, public sector, and the start-up community. Boxon was one of the founding members back in Boxon is also engaged in local sponsoring by supporting local associations such as sport clubs, especially 2010. those which our employees and their families are engaged in. EFIBCA As a long-standing member, Boxon is committed to the EFIBCA Code of Conduct. The EFIBCA-Q Quality Awards Promise and EFIBCA Code of Conduct have been developed with a special focus on the particularities of the FIBC industry and promote the implementation of ethical principles and the application of an adequate For the second consecutive year, Boxon has been awarded Gold status by Ecovadis for their CSR activities and fair competitive behavior. The German Association of plastic converters acts as the umbrella organisain 2019. The Gold status represents the highest recognition level issued in the assessment. tion of the entire plastics processing industry in Germany. Concerns only Boxon GmbH. In the 2019’s assessment Boxon GmbH could improve its score by 6 points. With a total score of 71 points Nordic Bioplastic Association out of 100 Boxon GmbH ranks among the top 1 % of all companies assessed by Ecovadis in the sector. Being awarded Gold status already in 2018, the results could be further improved in 2019. The most significant Nordic Bioplastic Association's goal is to be a Nordic platform and representative of companies in the Norperformance improvements can be stated in the areas of environment and sustainable procurement. The dic region active in the development of bioplastics. The association will promote and simplify market and table below shows Boxon’s ranking position in relation to all assessed companies, compared to the 2018 technology development for the materials group. results. The improved score is notably due to the means and actions implemented in the last 12 months in the areas of environment and sustainable procurement. The activity covers all parts of the life cycle of bioplastics, from A to Z. The aim is also to inform politicians and authorities through information about the possibilities and merits of materials and to help them create All customers can access the performance scorecard directly via the Ecovadis Platform for more detailed frameworks for the progress of bioplastics in the market. information. Boxon AB is an active member since 2018. Gesamtverband Kunststoffverarbeitende Industrie e.V. Ecovadis Performance The association plays a major role in the public dialogue of the industry with politics and society and takes a proactive position on sustainability topics within the sector in Germany. Ranking area 2019 2018 Overall Score Top 1 % Top 2 % Environment Top 1 % Top 7 % Labor & Human Rights Top 3 % Top 3 % Sustainable Procurement Top 1 % Top 5 % Business Ethics Top 14 % Top 14 % Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 24 25 Stakeholders A total of 307 interviews were conducted during the fall of 2019. Distribution by country is shown below. ​ In our business we come in contact with a number of different stakeholders, where the most important are: 120 China • Owners • Financial institutions 100 France / Belgium • Employees • Transporter • Suppliers • Logistics centre 80 Germany • Customers • Trade unions 60 Denmark Based on the scope of stakeholder involvement in this report, the material topics can be narrowed down to the following areas: Norway 40 • Ensuring human rights and universal labor standards Sweden 20 • Business ethics • Competence and knowledge of the employees • Good place to work 0 • Innovative products The results showed a high level of satisfaction in all markets and in a number of areas, as well as development opportunities in primarily innovation, our digital offering and total product offering. In the context of a systematic stakeholder dialogue in 2020, this list will be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted for the following year. Customer survey In the context of an annual customer survey, we continuously measure our customers' satisfaction and thereby increase knowledge about the customers' perception of quality, innovation, services and other areas. During 2019 the first joint global customer satisfaction survey was carried out on all our markets. As a first step, a questionnaire was worked out in order to identify, measure and develop our most important success factors based on the preliminary study. In a second step, telephone interviews were conducted. The interviews contain partly quantitative and partly qualitative questions. In the quantitative section, the respondent rates the key areas developed in the preliminary study on a scale of 1-5 (1=bad/not at all, 5=very good/totally agree). In the qualitative part, the respondent's spontaneous comments are noted. The respondents are randomly selected customers within the categories Regional, National, International. ​ Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 26 27 Supply Chain Supplier Selection The selection of our partners responds to strict standards described in our supplier selection process. Boxon aims to develop solutions that best meet our customers' needs, regardless of the materials used. Boxon shall interact with suppliers, enabling us to live up to our proposition: This requires access to the best production possibilities and to bring the outcome all the way to the custo• A competitive position on the market mer in the most efficient way at the lowest possible cost, keeping in mind sustainable objectives. • High levels of quality, consistency and reliability. • Continuous improvement with respect to our environmental impact Supplier Structure • Cost efficiency in products and flow • Being creative and innovative in product development, processes and services. To do so we have developed a portfolio of approximatively 250 manufacturers and forwarders mostly located in Scandinavia and rest of Europe, supporting us with our packaging materials offer diversity including This means that: corrugated board, wood and plastic based articles. • We work with suppliers that strengthen our competitiveness • We must have access to the suppliers’ competence and know-how. • We work with suppliers that can improve our common processes and reduce our total cost • We choose suppliers that provide goods and services that meet environmental criteria • We choose suppliers that have efficient management systems when it comes to waste, quality, environment and ethics Share of purchases per material Share of Purchases per region • We adapt the cooperation with the suppliers based on the nature of the goods and services they 10 % supply 15 % 38 % Others Asia • The cooperation with our suppliers is marked by long-term, transparency and trust Wooden EMEA 16 % PP and PE based Risk Management Nordics Corrugated board During the selection process and on a regular basis, suppliers are assessed for possible risks in business. 55 % Based on the importance of the supplier or material, the risk level, and according to the market or produc30 % tion limitations, Boxon will develop back up alternatives within our supplier portfolio. 36 % Approximatively 35% of our sales are generated by our standard items (~1200) allowing an improved production and transport. The other part is generated by customer unique solutions where larger batches and direct deliveries are encouraged as they have a lower impact on the environment. Transport plays a very large role in our business. Therefore, we apply the same demands with regards to sustainability when Back-up alternatives can mean that we have several suppliers capable of producing similar items to the selecting our forwarders. extent of dual sourcing. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 28 29 Low cost vs. Risk Logistic flows We have an important share of low-cost production countries within our sourcing portfolio. Implementation Our manufacturer structure combined with our customer locations trigger a large number of logistics opeof a sourcing flow from low cost countries requires a thorough risk analysis and can only be validated prorations, both inbound and outbound. vided that risks can be excluded and total costs competitive. We want to be close to the customer to shorten lead times, reduce additional transport or environmental The same strict criteria for supplier selection and evaluation are to be met. costs and we utilize therefore to the maximum our options to either produce close to the markets we cover or utilize our hubs (5 in Europe; 4 in Asia) allowing consolidation of inbound orders to and flexible distribution to our customers. Supplier follow up We use mainly 4 types of logistic flows today: All Suppliers are measured on a monthly basis according to fixed KPIs: • Sales development • Purchase development • Delivery performance From manufacturer to stock, TAN • Price discrepancies Stock items Supplier Hub 1 Customer • Sustainability • Claims From manufacturer to customer via warehouse, TAB, Order item, not in stock Supplier Hub 1 Customer In the evaluation parameters such as business flow; supportive cooperation; and reliability are also taken into account. From supplier to customer, TAS Supplier Customer This follow up can lead to requirement of instant corrective actions. Follow-up is also done via regular meStock relocations etings according to an agreed frequency. Frequency is decided according to complexity and importance of Hub 1 Hub 2 the supplier and reflected by the supplier classification. Supplier classification Boxon is implementing a supplier classification allowing us to steer the portfolio development towards a Order optimization more structured plan. This plan will reflect different expectations towards our partners depending on the level of engagement in Inbound we use our competence to improve load optimization and maximal usage of full loads transport. business. When evaluated, the suppliers can be downgraded or promoted to the next level of the classifiWe challenge our forwarders to suggest sustainable alternatives such as rail or biodiesel transports. These cation. factors will be measured in the future as CO2 emissions generated by our forwarders. We have a minimum order value and an active dialogue with our customers to increase average order value and in this way reduce the number of transports in distribution. We are also active with order planning to secure optimal distribution to our customers. We offer possibilities to make order plans and consolidate Supplier classification in purchased volume Supplier classification in quantity deliveries. 10 % 10 % Approved Strategic Preferred Preferred Strategic Approved 30 % 30 % 60 % 60 % Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses F ollowing the first and second principle of the Global Compact is obvious for us as a company. We have a great responsibility as an employer but also within our relations with suppliers, being located around the globe. Through our work we can have a positive impact. We are conducting ongoing dialogue with our suppliers and ensuring that we have a common approach and action on human rights and discrimination. We offer all our employees a safe and responsible working environment and are actively working to increase diversity. Everyone has the same opportunity regardless of nationality, gender, sexual orientation, religion or age. We see it as both a responsibility but also a great advantage to stimulate a culture where everyone is included, and we learn from each other. 32 33 Suppliers Regularly assessed areas 80 In 2019 no complaints regarding human rights were registered, not internally, but also not in the context Labour conditions & Human rights 70 of our supplier relationships. To ensure that all standards relating to human rights are guaranteed on the Production processes supplier side, we rely on a system of various mechanisms. The basis is our Supplier Code of Conduct, in 60 which we clearly state all requirements in line with SA8000, the ILO conventions and the Universal Human 50 Disposal and recycling processes Rights Declaration. This includes: 40 Products • The absolute rejection of child labor and forced labor 30 Others • The strict non-tolerance of discrimination in hiring and employment practices on the grounds of age, 20 Nothing color, national origin, religion, sex, disability or other characteristics protected by applicable law. 10 • The guarantee that no case of inhumane treatment, verbal and physical violence as well as harassment of any kind will be tolerated. 0 These minimum standards can be found in full in our Supplier Code of Conduct. To ensure that these and other requirements are met, we use a supplier agreement, which the supplier confirms by signature. Following this agreement, we conduct an annual supplier questionnaire that serves as a follow-up to these Audits & On-site visits conditions. As part of the questionnaire, the supplier provides information on existing policies, measures and strategies and has the opportunity to explain progress made in these areas in detail. A total of 35 % of Various factors, such as the human rights situation in the country of production, can be reason to on-site suppliers have disclosed information via this process for the year 2019. visits and further verification at the suppliers' production site. External auditors are regularly involved for independent reports that are valid according to international standards. If areas of improvement arise from The vast majority of the suppliers that answered the questionnaire, have a policy on labor practices and an on-site visit or an external audit, the supplier is required to change the situation within an appropriate human rights. Most of them state that they regularly review labor practices and human rights, production period of time. If problems are not resolved, or if other problematic aspects occur that give reason to processes, disposal and recycling processes, products and others as part of their own assessments. believe that human rights and occupational safety are not guaranteed in the concerned company, the business relationship will be immediately terminated. Suppliers with a policy on labor practices and human rights 11,43 % No answer Without Policy on labor & human rights 17.14 % With Policy on labor & human rights 71,43 % Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Labor & social conditions Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. I t has always been a matter of course for Boxon to create a safe working environment for its employees within the framework of international labor law standards and human rights. All locations have a functioning quality management system that is regularly checked and certified according to ISO 9001. At Boxon, equality is a fundamental principle with no room for compromise. Harassment, abuse and discrimination of any kind will not be tolerated. Opposing behavior must be reported immediately in accordance with our regulations. In everyday working life, a familiar atmosphere is cultivated, flat hierarchies allow open cooperation. This corporate culture is a valued commodity, which is defined in our values and consolidated in regular corporate events. 36 37 Principles Employees We share the values based on conventions of the UN and the International Labor Organisation, which are summarized in the international standard SA8000 by Social Accountability International. Continuous professional development and education, both on an individual and functional basis, is expressly encouraged. As part of the annual development talks, every employee is given the opportunity These strict regulations include: to express his or her own wishes in this area and it is considered together, if there is a need for development and / or further training in specific areas. This can affect, for example, certain areas of the IT system, • Health and safety of employees in-depth product knowledge and function-specific areas. In 2020, the Boxon Academy will offer different • Working hours, wages and salaries formats for further training. • The absolute ban on child and forced labor In 2019, Boxon had a total of 241 employees: • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining • Any form of discrimination and discipline • 95 % were permanently employed • The biggest number of employees are based in Sweden, with a total of 67%. • 64% of employees are male, 36% female. • The majority of the employees are younger than 50 years. Work safety Employees by age and gender / country Our overall goal is to offer all Boxon employees a good working environment. For this reason, we follow a strict occupational safety policy, which regulates the absolute avoidance of accidents and the strict prohi80 bition of working under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Our measures in the context of work safety and 70 Age > 50, female occupational health part of our regular quality management review. 60 Age 18-50, female Age > 50, male 50 Age 18-50, male In 2019, 40 30 • no work related accidents and diseases have been recorded. 20 • no injuries, occupational diseases or work-related fatalities have been recorded. 10 0 Equal opportunity Sweden Denmark Norway Germany France China With this as a basis, we strive to offer all employees meaningful and innovative jobs and every employee is encouraged to actively develop own ideas and projects. A basic requirement is therefore to create a safe Employees by age and gender overall space in which every employee can act freely and where harassment and abuse are not tolerated. Every employee is treated equally regardless of their gender, religion or origin. Every employee is given the same opportunities. 36% Female employees Aged > 50 years 32 % In our policy on equality, we state, that positions are to be assigned according to competence and the furMale employees Aged < 50 years ther development must be demand-related and support Boxon's competitiveness. Salaries should be based on the severity and performance of the job. Boxon strives to make it easier for women and men to reconcile work and parenthood. 64 % We define the responsibility of each individual employee in our equality and working safety policy. 68 % Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 38 39 Manager positions by country and gender 100 Female 80 Male 60 40 20 0 Sweden Denmark Norway Germany France China Total Employee survey At least once a year, Boxon conducts an anonymous survey among all employees and managers, in which the following areas are evaluated: • Communication • Structure/goals • Relationships/Culture • Leadership/Employeeship • Competence/Development We work with the result in each function to determine relevant development areas for each group/function. The result provides a basis for the identification of improvement areas and the development of appropriate actions. Each manager is responsible of implementing improvement within their teams. . Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. W e look back on a year, that has brought climate change, it's global impacts and the imperative need for action into focus. Never before has the world discussed the effects of climate change as intensely as in the past year. More than ever, we question habits, structures and materials. At Boxon, we are aware of the responsibility that we have in our role as a globally acting packaging company. Today, climate and environmental protection are an integral part of our daily work. On the one hand, this affects the development of new products based on innovative and sustainable criteria. On the other hand, we also have to question ourselves and our habits. Therefore, in addition to production and procurement, our travel activities, material and energy consumption also play a role when it comes to our footprint as a company. In 2019, we set the framework to track and improve our activities in this area even more systematically and to continue to create innovative, sustainable packaging solutions. According to our CSR statement, we will intensify these activities in the coming years to achieve our goals in this area. 42 43 Principles Suppliers Our environmental management system is ISO14001 certified and regularly assessed. The environmental We have set up specific mechanisms within our supplier relationships to be able to assess the environmental policy is based on Boxon’s Corporate Social Responsibility statement which is decided to be implemented impact of our products. With our Supplier Code of Conduct we set the framework for this and define going forward with significant steps taken in 2020 and with continuous improvements towards 2025. We the standards that we expect our suppliers to fulfill. Regarding environmental impacts, these include: base our activities on the sustainability goals formulated by the United Nations and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact to which we are committed. • The identification of chemical and hazardous materials • The minimization of waste and the implementation of appropriate measures to increase recycling rates Our day-to-day business includes the systematic assessment of the environmental impact of new activities, • The identification and monitoring of emissions of volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, products, technologies and processes prior to introduction, with the aim of saving resources such as raw particulates, ozone-depleting chemicals materials, energy and water. We take the necessary measures to avoid a harmful environmental impact of • The monitoring and documentation of CO2 emissions as well as means to reduce them our activities and products and work proactively to minimize CO2 emissions at our production sites and • Energy management with focus on minimizing the waste of energy office locations. We use raw materials and energy sparingly and reduce environmental pollution and waste to a minimum. In this context, we also take extensive measures to prevent accidents and limit damage. In the event of non-compliance with the qualifying standards at the time of signing a contract with Boxon, Based on the applicable environmental regulations, global standards and the sustainability goals of the all Boxon suppliers are expected to have established targets and action plans to ensure conformity to the United Nations, it is our goal to systematically and continuously improve environmental protection at our qualifying standards as they are described in the Code of Conduct. locations. We promote the environmental knowledge and awareness of our employees through coordinated Furthermore, as a follow-up mechanism, we conduct an annual survey among our suppliers regarding their training and further education and motivate them to act responsibly, even beyond their operational activities. own measures to reduce emissions, energy consumption, policies, sustainability strategies and certifications. The last questionnaire was conducted beginning 2020, with a total of 35 % suppliers participating. Due to temporary restrictions in the context of the corona virus, Chinese suppliers are not part of the this years Employee training and education questionnaire, and it is planned to carry out the survey amoung these suppliers at a later date. The results of this year's questionnaire show, that among the participating suppliers, 84,29 % have an environmental policy, while 47,14 % work with an environmental management system. A total of 38,57 % is certified according to ISO14001. In January 2020, a training session was held with employees from sales on the significance and impacts of climate change on a global and a business related level. Different aspects of CO2 emissions and the resulting consequences were examined more in detail during the training. Part of the training was both, information and education where the participants could deepen their knowledge and ask questions, as well as the exchange of experiences related to everyday business. An important goal of the training was to view the effects of climate change in a global context and above all to consider the effects on personal, political and, in the context of the activities of Boxon Group, economic scale. The corporate responsibility was diSuppliers with environmental policy Suppliers with environmental management system scussed and different ways in which a company can contribute to the sustainable development goals of the 5,71 % UN were considered. As a result, it was stated that companies that operate sustainably have a long-term 8,57 % 10 % No answer No answer competitive advantage in the market through efficiency, risk minimization and innovation. Without environmental policy With environmtl. management system With environmental policy Another topic in focus of the training was the compensation of CO2 emissions at Boxon, which is already Without environmtl. management system offered to customers in the FIBC segment in the context of their purchases, as well as the emissions that are directly related to Boxon's business activities. The participants of the training were able to exchange 44,29 % 47,14 % ideas and internalize the topic. The training was prepared and held in cooperation with MyClimate with 12 84,29 % employees in the office in Bremen. Perspective 2020 As part of the implementation of the CSR statement, workshops will be held across the company in 2020, involving all departments. In addition to environmentally relevant topics, the areas of human rights, labor and social conditions and business ethics will be in focus. The goal is to increase awareness within the group and to create a functioning system to achieve our goals for 2025. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 44 45 A majority of suppliers state having implemented measures to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. These concern: Products and services • The purchase environmentally friendly energy Responsible lifecycle management of plastic packaging • The generation of renewable energies • The reduction of energy consumption through innovative technologies or facilities In 2019 we developed new solutions and services that have a positive impact on the environmental balance • Green IT measures of our customers products. These add up to other environmentally friendly products and materials from our • The monitoring of direct or indirect greenhouse gas emissions existing range. In this way we make a contribution to reduced CO2 emissions and improve the life cycle of packaging. The following products and materials are part of our portfolio in 2019. Suppliers with implemented measures to reduce energy consumption FSC certified label production and greenhouse gas emissions With its new FSC approval, Boxon becomes one of the first label manufacturers in the Nordic region with the certification on its products. The purchase of FSC-certified paper and corrugated cardboard products 24,29 % means supporting the careful use of forest resources. No answer The FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) is a non-profit, non-governmental organisation that is committed Without implemented measures to promoting environmentally friendly and responsible forest management. Based on the FSC certification With implemented measures on our labels and packaging, the customer can see that the raw material used comes from responsibly managed forests. A distinction is made between three labels that indicate whether a product comes from 15,71 % 60 % FSC-certified forestry and whether it was produced from a mixture of several raw materials or exclusively from recycling material. A defined system can be used to check whether the strict requirements of the FSC are met. LDPE LDPE has a low density, which is why it has a certain formability. This makes LDPE ideal for products such as shopping bags, stretch film and coating of milk cartons etc. LDPE is recyclable. More than half of the suppliers can provide documentation on the implemented measures, either by an Green PE internal or external auditor or both. Green PE has the same properties as LDPE and the same appearance. The only difference is that it is made from renewable raw materials. Boxon's Green PE is made from sugar cane. Green PE is recyclable. It is 100% CO2 neutral and can be recycled back into PE or be processed to biofuel. When burning Green Documentation on environmental protection measures PE, no additional CO2 is released into the atmosphere. 8,57 % No answer Compostable materials 14,29 % Documentation by external auditor Compostable materials have similar properties to LDPE and Green PE and are made from renewable raw Both, external and internal materials, such as sugar cane, corn, etc. Since it is not plastic, it cannot be recycled with plastics. Instead of Documentation by internal auditor recycling it, it can be composted. 17,14 % No documentation available BoxCor® 35,71% BoxCor® is an innovative, recyclable corrosion protection with unique properties. Our VCI products combine leading global corrosion protection with natural ingredients and are completely free of amine and 24,29 % nitrite. Environmentally friendly single-use system for frame trays The Frame Tray system is based on a closed material loop. From producer, via a sub-contractor who packs components, to the OEM manufacturer and then shipped to a nearby recycling centre where used packaging material is ground down and immediately returned for the production of new trays. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 46 47 PET Big Bags Boxon is the first European packaging company to offer Big Bags made entirely from used and recycled Big Bags made from used PET bottles PET bottles. This increases FIBC's recycling input to almost 100%. The recycling of the used PET bottles contributes to protecting the oceans from marine litter. With a new product in its portfolio, Boxon contributes to the careful use of resources and the prevention Climate neutral Big Bags of marine pollution: by converting used PET bottles from Indonesia into new big bags, Boxon helps to Since 2018, Boxon customers can purchase Big Bags from Boxon that are 100 % climate neutral. With reduce local plastic waste. After use, the R-Pet Big Bag can be recycled again. the climate compensation the customer supports a climate protection project in Tanzania, in which the equivalent amount of emissions caused by big bag production, is reduced. Pilot project for Big Bag recycling With the new packaging act, that entered into force in Germany in January 2019, a new Boxon service aims to make it easier for manufacturers, retailers and other companies to access the recycling system. The objectives of the law is to increase the recycling quotas of used packaging. Collection of PET Delivery Sorting Cleaning The new service is destined to the users of Big bags, a bulk packaging made of polypropylene. Depending bottles The used PET The bottles are The bottles are dry on the goods they are filled with, Big Bags can often be used more than once if they were manufactured from landfill and bottles are brought separated by color: tumbled and cold for repeated use. But how are big bags properly disposed when they are no longer used? One possibility marine litter in Indoto the local PET blue, transparent washed to remove in accordance with the Packaging Act and the Circular Economy Act is to hand over the Big Bags to a nesia. processing facility. and green. dirt. recycling company, who will then process the packaging in the recycling system. Many large companies, especially in the chemical sector, have their own contracts with recyclers for this purpose. In this case, Big Bag manufacturers print their clients license numbers required for the return on the packaging. Smaller companies are not always aware of this take-back option and the administrative effort related to such contracts can be quite high. To make it easier for Big Bag users, in June 2019 Boxon has started a pilot project with RIGK GmbH. The partnership enables Boxon customers and their end customers to use the take-back services of RIGK GmbH without any administrative effort on their part. Since Boxon provides its own license for their customers, it is not necessary for them to conclude a separate agreement with RIGK GmbH. If the customer wishes to use this service, Boxon prints the licence number on the clients Big Bags, which can then be returned after use to one of the collection points of RIGK GmbH where they will be recycled. Sorting Shredding Cleaning Processing The only requirement is that the Big Bags to be disposed have been purchased from Boxon and that the Caps and bottles are The bottles are The flakes are hot R-PET ribbons are packaging user has previously opted for the take-back service. A complete monitoring system rules out any separated automashred into flakes. washed and procesused to produce misuse of the RIGK Trademark. tically. sed to ribbons. new Big Bags. Boxon does not generate any income through the recycling offer, but reflects the costs incurred for collection and recycling by RIGK as well as the administrative expenses. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 48 49 Caracteristics Greenhouse gas emissions When it comes to quality, the R-PET Big Bags meet the same high quality standards as our FIBC made from polypropylene. Just as for our other products, you benefit from flexible customization options and a At Boxon, CO2 emissions are examined on two levels: on product level and in relation to our business Big Bag that is ideally adapted to your goods. 1 kg of woven rPET is made from 25 bottles of 1,5l. This activities. means, 50 PET bottles are used for the production of an average 2 kg Big Bag. By 2019, these figures were primarily examined in EMEA, but it is planned to extend the analysis to the • High quality Big Bag entire group, particularly in line with our internal objectives. A detailed analysis, in particular of the emissions • Flexible customization possibilities incl. printing caused by our business activities, will help us to identify where we can save CO2 in the long term by • 50 x PET bottles =1rPET Big Bag of 2kg weight taking appropriate measures. The following summary describes the results of Boxon GmbH from 2019, in • 96 % rPET 4 % additives accordance to emissions-related aspects of the business. • No additional UV • rPET processing and Big Bag production from same Greenhouse gas balance 2019 source = 100 % traceable • Suitable for hotfill applications For the second consecutive year, Boxon GmbH had its company carbon footprint (CCF) calculated based on • ISO 9001certified production the emissions generated by the business activities. The data is based on energy consumption, commuting, business trips, paper and printing, waste, meals and drinks and set into relation with the number of employees and the total surface of the energy reference area. The methodology is based on the internationally recognized standard GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting. All relevant greenhouse gases (greenhouse gases carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen dioxide, hydrofluorocarbon, perfluorocarbons and The PET bottles are collected in public buildings and organisations such as schools in Indonesia. By re-using sulfur hexafluoride) are taken into account according to IPCC 2007. The calculation was carried out the material for the Big Bag-production, we prevent marine pollution and keep the carbon footprint low. externally by MyClimate. Overall, we see a 16% increase of the CCF, a consequence of additional positions in sales and purchasing that are associated with increased business travel. As in the previous year, Boxon GmbH compensated for all emissions caused by the CCF. In this context, Environmental benefits Boxon continues to support the Solar energy for education & jobs project in Tanzania. In the project, harmful energy sources such as kerosene are replaced by innovative, easy to access solar cells, which • Prevention of marine pollution result in the creation of new jobs, the permanent supply of small businesses with energy and, in particular, • Effective re-usage of PET bottles significantly contributes to reducing respiratory and eye diseases. The numerous positive impacts, that • Less resource input result from the project, such as diverse socio-economic effects and the savings of almost ten thousand tons • Up to 25 % less CO2 emissions / Bag of CO2 per year, convince us to continue our support as part of our carbon offsetting program. • All steps from sorting and cleaning the bottles to processing and the production of Big Bags take place in the same facility, which means short ways and no re-transport or The compensation for all emissions caused by the Boxon GmbH's CCF makes both of the German offices re-packaging. located in Bremen and Krefeld, climate neutral locations. This has been officially certified by Boxon’s • PET can be recycled and reprocessed multiple times without loss of properties. This independent partner MyClimate. makes it a very circular plastic if discarded correctly. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 50 51 Greenhouse gas balance 2019 35 % [t CO2e] Energy consumption 35 13 % Refrigerants 0 Business travel 171 29 % Commuting 29 Materials and waste 13 69 % Total 248 Product Carbon Footprint – FIBC segment In 2019, Boxon continued its service offer launched in 2018 and actively compensated for CO2 emissions together with committed customers. Based on the externally and independently calculated so-called Product Carbon Footprint (PCF), Boxon customers can compensate for the CO2 emissions caused by the manufacture of their products and in this way purchase completely climate-neutral packaging. As part of the compensation, the customer pays a fee that is calculated from the weight of the packaging and the related emissions. This benefits the climate protection project Solar energy for education & jobs in Tanzania, where the amount of CO2 caused by the production of the packaging is compensated. This service is currently only offered in the FIBC segment. An extension to other products in the Boxon range is subject to further evaluations. In total, Boxon and 35 committed customers compensated for 392 t of CO². Compared to 2018, this represents an increase of 107 % in 2019. The number of participating customers increased overall by 35 %. The present figures and the positive feedback from our customers show that we have taken a good path with this project to achieve our internal goals for reducing CO2. Our goal for 2019 was to involve more customers from larger segments, which we will continue further in 2020. In addition, we aim to enlarge the program to be able to offer it to customers on a more global scale. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 52 53 Energy consumption & Waste Hazardous waste Hazardous Waste Recycled, incl metal scrap The table below shows the energy consumption per location in 2019. The different Boxon R/D Code Description Weight locations fulfill different functions, which together with the surface and the number of R3 Toner cartridges 60 kg employees result in the corresponding consumption figures: While Shanghai, Krefeld, Bremen and Bordeaux are purely office locations, a warehouse is connected to our headquarters in R4 Office Electronics 646 kg Helsingborg. Another warehouse is located in Kjula and we operate our label production in Boras. R4 Batteries for office use 15 kg In our offices in Norway and Denmark, electricity, heating and water consumption are included in the lease, R4 Fluorescent lamp 12 kg which means that for these locations no exact figures can be considered in the present evaluation. The R9 Waste oil 1 346 kg mentioned figures will again be subject of a closer analysis at the beginning of the coming year. The aim is Hazardous Waste with energy recovery to use these comparative figures to make valuable conclusions for improvement in this area. R1 Ink waste 447 kg R1 Absorbents 168 kg R1 Ink-, Varnish-, Glue cans 669 kg R1 Solvent 40 kg Energy consumption and waste per location 2019 Hazardous Waste without energy recovery Location Helsingborg Borås Kjula Krefeld Bremen Bordeaux Shanghai Total D10 Aerosol 15 kg Surface (m²) 17.735 3.356 11.215 248 462 38 400 17.877 TOTAL Electricity (kWh) 564.752 631.709 783.592 4.605 11.682 2.015 22.900 1.456.503 Hazardous Waste 3418 kg Heating 432.130 * incl. in incl. in 39.243 ** 57.917** 5.949 N/A 103.109 1,65 % of total waste electr. electr. Water (liter) 292.000 672.000 own well 36.300 72.600 18.844 199.650 1.084.894 Waste (Recycling) 61 213 27 N/A 241,59 Waste (not recycled) 48 20 9 0,42 0,92 0,25 N/A 78,59 * District heating Materials used in production ** Electricity, conventional *** Natural Gas (kWh) Waste in production Materials in production Type Material Weight Hazardous waste only occurs in our production in Boras. Detailed numbers are shown below. There is no leakage of harmful substances. Associated process materials Lubricants 22 kg Semi-manufactured goods or parts Ink 2 031 kg Waste Recycled, incl metal scrap Paper and synthetic materials 4 556 585 kg R/D Code Description Weight Materials for packaging purposes Cardboard 17 703,8 kg R13 Plastics 690 kg Plastic 3 124,2 kg R3 Paper (waste from production) 8 960 kg R3 Corrugated 3 360 kg R4 Compact metal scrap 45 kg R4 Metal scrap 7 237 kg Waste With energy recovery R1 Combustible Waste Compactor 46 620 kg R1 Combustible Waste 142 860 kg TOTAL Waste 209 772 kg 98,35 % of total waste TOTAL WASTE 213 190 kg Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 54 55 Risk provisions Waste All locations have recycling systems/waste sorting according to local regulations. Hazardous waste is sorted and collected according to separate contracts. Boxon does not carry out any activity that directly causes damage to the environment. There are no emisExternal security sions from our plants, but our production facility in Borås handles hazardous waste (see Waste ) and in the event of an accident special procedures, are to be taken into account. According to our knowledge, our We do not store any explosives in the facilities, and we are well prepared in the event of fire. There products, services and activities have no direct impact on the biodiversity in the areas in which we operate. are fire extinguishers deployed around the premises and fire sight is carried out regularly. There are safety representatives appointed in the workplaces where we are five or more workers. The safety Location representatives carry out protection rounds with responsible managers or HR managers regularly. We are also insured for the event that an accident would occur, and the business may be down for a period while the Our warehouses and our production facility are located in industrial areas and the properties are classified as industrial construction work is ongoing. In the last three years, there have been no incidents which have yielded or could have properties. The residential buildings are at a safe distance from the activities. All our warehouses and production caused negative effects on the environment. The biggest risk of accidents that could cause negative environmental operations are located in areas that according to the detailed plans are intended for industrial activities. impact is fire, especially in our warehouses as there are large amounts of paper and other flammable materials. Ground Working Soil pollution is a major threat to the environment. Leakage of tanks and vessels, accidents in transport and reckless waste management are typical causes of soil pollution and this is under supervision. Our premises are adapted to the business, both warehouse, production and office premises. The company subsidizes the well being of all employees, this to prevent Musculoskeletal disorders and we have been connected to health care Groundwater for many years where we conduct ongoing health surveys. During the last 3 years we have completed training courses in Cardiac Lung Rescue and First Aid as well as practical and theoretical fire protection training. Groundwater is not used. There are no water courses or water sources in the immediate vicinity of the company. Employees who have tasks involving special operations such as forklift driving have driving licences/permits for such work. This also applies to temporary agency staff. Tap water Air emission The properties get their water from the municipal networks. Water is basically used only for ordinary household purposes and cleaning. The air emissions that we provide to the environment through our operations come primarily from transport to and from Boxon. It is deliveries to Boxon and deliveries to the customer as well as the transport of staff to and from the Energy workplace as well as trips carried out in the service. Our energy consumption is mainly used to heat buildings and the operation of our production facility. Transport When it comes to transporting goods to our customers, we continue to concentrate our choice of carriers as far as Chemicals and chemical products/Hazardous products possible. Our largest suppliers of transport services we follow up through regular meetings and ongoing supplier valuations. We use a small amount of chemicals on our own warehouses to clean the premises and trucks. We have reviewed Most of the services are carried out by company car and within the respective sales districts. In addition to the what products we use, and we try as far as possible to use eco-labelled products. We are responsible for cleaning the environmental aspects, the safety aspect and economic aspect weigh heavily in the choice of the company car. warehouse areas, while we have cleaning companies responsible for cleaning offices and other common areas and throughout the production facility. We have informed our cleaning companies about our environmental work. Incidents In our label production, chemicals are used in less quantity partly for cleaning and partly as a component of our Digital Press. In the last three years, there have been no incidents that have yielded or could have caused negative effects on the environment. Noise In the production unit in Borås we have regular noise measurements and other noise that may arise comes exclusively from truck transport to and from the facilities. There are no residential buildings in its immediate vicinity that can be disturbed and there are essentially only transport and loading/unloading between 07.00-16.00 on weekdays. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 56 57 Consulting and product development When it comes to our sales and product development, we carry out constant advice and product development where environmental considerations are taken on an ongoing basis. The sales process provides instructions on how this work is carried out and, in most cases, the environmental aspect follows the economic aspect (the less material consumption the lower the cost) which is a major advantage in sales work. Our ambition is to manage the advice as a natural part of our sales work. We have come a long way along our catalogue and our website where we mark out the alternatives that have less environmental impact and reinforce and clarify the environmental assessments a customer can make from an environmental point of view when choosing packaging. Products for own consumption (excl. chemicals) and office machinery We have the following consumption for our own part in the business; Office and kitchen Warehouses and production facilities • Copy paper and other paper products • Packaging and packaging materials • Disposable products in kitchens • Material for the labelling of goods • Plastic bags/sacks • Paper and labels • Cleaners • Cleaners Office machines Copiers and other equipment are mostly eco-labelled and are selected under the consideration to save energy. Toners are sent to recycling. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 AntiCorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. I n a business area, which is largely characterized by international cooperation, it is important to maintain reliable relations, built on trust and transparency. At Boxon, these values ​​are fundamental to any business relationship. This includes the binding nature of contracts with which we set the framework for our cooperations and partnerships. Our ethical principles apply in this context without exception. Within a business relationship with Boxon, such contracts and agreements, as well as national law cannot not be broken or circumvented. Excluding this possibility is one of our top priorities. 60 Principles & prevention Corruption is a crime and every case of corruption is considered as such at Boxon. It is therefore countered with a strict zero tolerance policy. The abuse of power for commercial or personal gain is not given any chance. Until today, no case of corruption or bribery has been recorded at Boxon. This also applies to 2019 at all of our locations without exception, which we explain by a functioning system of corruption prevention, which we have integrated into our cooperation with suppliers. Since corruption and bribery can occur in very different ways, it is our concern to sensitize our employees in such a way that they recognize corrupt behavior and immediately recognize and report any deviation in the business relationship. Blind spots are to be detected, in order to prevent the occurrence of corruption cases. The greatest responsibility here lies primarily in the areas of purchase, procurement, sales and HR. As part of our supplier agreements, we set a binding framework for compliance with these principles, which we have confirmed individually by signature. In addition, systematic monitoring, external and internal audits and constantly updated supplier databases are part of this system, with which we prevent corruption and bribery. In order to successfully continue our functioning system, we plan to systematically train employees in this area. Should a case of corruption be recorded nevertheless, we will act in accordance with our principles: Any indication of bribery or corruption in the business relationship is examined in detail and leads to the termination of the cooperation in case the suspicion is confirmed, or doubts cannot be resolved. Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 62 63 GRI Content Index GRI 100: General disclosures Indicator Description Page GRI 300: Environmental Indicator Description Page GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 16 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 53 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 16 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 52 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 16 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 52 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 16 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 52 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 16 GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 54 GRI 102-6 Markets served 16 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 49 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 16 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 49 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 36 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 52 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 26 GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 52 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 18 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 54 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 22 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 22 GRI 400: Social Indicator Description Page GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 07 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 54 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 11 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 36 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 18 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 37 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 36 programs GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 38 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 33 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 36 and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 17 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 33 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 09 GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 32 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 24 rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 09 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 32 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 09 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 36 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 09 impacts of products and services GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 09 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 64 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 62 GRI-102-56 External assurance 65 GRI 200: Economic Indicator Description Page GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 23 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 60 and procedures GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 60 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 64 Imprint Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2019 published in March 2020. Editor Boxon Group AB Grustagsgatan 3 250 63 Helsingborg Sweden Tel: +46 42 25 07 00 e-mail: info@boxon.com CEO: Anders Yllfors VAT registration Number: SE55616650001 Contact Pia Jeppsson CFO e-mail: pia.jeppsson@boxon.com Jasmin Westphal Marketing & Communication EMEA e-mail: jasmin.westphal@boxon.com Boxon Group AB Sustainability Report 2019 Auditor's report on the statutory sustainability report To the General Meeting of the shareholders of Boxon Group AB Corporate identity number 556166-5000 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR's auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Helsingborg on March 23, 2020 Mazars SET Revisionsbyrå AB Annika Larsson Authorized Public Accountant
