2 0 2 0 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) August 2019 – August 2020 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1st August 2020 Membership date 9th June 2008 Number of employees 25 Sector Instruments for acoustics UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 3 CONTENT COMPANY DESCRIPTION .................................................................................. 5 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT ....................................... 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY ............................................... 8 HUMAN RIGHTS .................................................................................................. 9 Policy and Processes ...................................................................................... 9 Results ............................................................................................................. 9 LABOUR ............................................................................................................. 10 Policy and Processes .................................................................................... 10 Results ........................................................................................................... 10 ENVIRONMENT ................................................................................................. 13 Policy and Processes .................................................................................... 13 Results ........................................................................................................... 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION .......................................................................................... 20 Policy and Processes .................................................................................... 20 Results ........................................................................................................... 20 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ......................................................... 21 GOAL 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ...... 22 GOAL 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all .............................................................. 23 GOAL 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all ................................ 23 GOAL 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation ............................................................ 23 GOAL 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.............................................................................................. 24 GOAL 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ........... 24 GOAL 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss ................................ 24 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 4 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CESVA is company specialized in the design and manufacture of equipment for noise control and measurement, it was founded in 1969 in Barcelona and has since been working to offer acoustic solutions to end problems related to noise and vibration and help protect the environment and improve the quality of people’s life. Our mission is to help our customers to measure and control both noise & vibration. We do this by designing and manufacturing systems that are extremely easy to use, but which do not compromise on power & functionality. Our activities are centered mainly on the development and manufacture of precision microphones and acoustic instruments and software applications for all of them, which makes them more powerful and competitive in the national and international market. CESVA is certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 for the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of instruments for the measurement and control of noise The concept of quality is fundamental in our business philosophy, since one of our priorities is its continuous search and what creates added value for our customers. We want the future to sound great. We hope to achieve this by offering quality instruments to sound professionals, to enable them to perform measurement & assessment of noise & vibration in the most efficient way possible. We want to help them achieve this whilst meeting & surpassing the technical levels required by the regulations of wherever they are used. We focus on research and development to create new products, improve quality and maintain competitiveness in the market. Currently CESVA has its own R & D that absorbs 70% of company resources. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 5 We like to listen and identify the needs of our customers to create a relationship of mutual trust. We design and manufacture equipment that meet their needs and comply with the requirements of the latest standard in the market. Our ongoing commitment to research and development has enabled us to obtain several patents of acoustic instrumentation and being pioneer in the design of equipment with single measurement range and with simultaneous measurement of all functions, using Bluetooth on sound insulation measures or being the first company in Spain to obtain the pattern approval of a sound level meter. We sit on several committees, both Spanish and International, for the creation and revision of regulations and standards, allowing us to have a global and updated vision of the latest industry requirements. This global reach, together with a foresighted commercial strategy, has led to our range of products becoming a point of reference in the field of precision instrumentation for sound level measurement. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 6 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT This year 2020 is being a very difficult year both humanly, socially and economically, the emergence of the pandemic of the COVID-19 coronavirus disease is leaving many fatalities around the world, affecting us all very closely. Spain is one of the countries in which these effects are being noticed most intensely. Especially those related to economic activity. We have suffered several lockdowns and economic activity has been reduced to a minimum and in some sectors it has completely disappeared. Fortunately at CESVA we have not had to regret any loss, neither of workers nor of their closest relatives. We have also been able to continue our economic activity without having to dismiss any of our workers or carry out any temporary labour force adjustment plan. And we have facilitated, as far as possible, teleworking, the balance of family and work life and the protection of workers belonging to risk groups with respect to COVID-19. Being part of the Global Compact has always allowed us to focus our actions on CSR and this year in particular has helped us define our closest horizon. It is for this reason that we have decided to incorporate in our communication on progress for the period August 2019 August 2020 the evaluation of the Sustainable Development Goals. We believe that this period of commercial inactivity and personal and family reunion that we have experienced is a starting point to replace many aspects of the day to day of our economic activity. And we want this new stage to be marked by the four strategic areas of the Global Compact, however obvious they may seem and the sustainability of our actions. The incorporation of the Sustainable Development Goals (#3 Healthy life, #4 Inclusive education, #8 Sustainable economic growth, #9 Resilient infrastructures, #11 Sustainable cities, #12 Sustainable production and #15 Sustainable manage forests) will focus and guide our actions related with business area: noise pollution. Finally, we commit ourselves to share this information with our stakeholders through our main communication channels. Sincerely Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY # PRINCIPLE IMPLEMENTED PROGRESS 1 SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment ABUSES. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE YES We continue with full commitment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND YES We continue with full commitment COMPULSORY LABOUR. UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE 5 ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR YES We continue with full commitment UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF We have followed the recommendation DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF of the Spanish Government to prioritize 6 EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. YES teleworking during the state of alarm. Especially with workers belonging to risk groups. SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL YES We continue with full commitment CHALLENGES. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO We are sponsors of the International 8 PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. YES Year of Sound 2020 and have eliminated the distribution of software on Compact Disc. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT We have pushed our noise monitoring 9 AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY YES solution for Smart Cities and participated in committees for its TECHNOLOGIES. standardization. WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN 10 ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING YES We continue with full commitment EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 8 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses should HUMAN RIGHTS support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 1: Businesses should rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. support and respect the protection of internationally Policy and Processes proclaimed human rights; and In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with a 2: make sure that they systematically poor human rights record. are not complicit in human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2020 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 9 LABOUR LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of uphold the freedom of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the association and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Policy and Processes 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and ability. compulsory labour; Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the recruitment process. 5: The effective abolition of child In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human Rights, labour; and we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their production processes. 6: The elimination of discrimination in We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We consider any respect of employment of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our and occupation. company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. During the period of incidence of the COVID-19 pandemic, the company has adopted the occupational health and safety measures recommended for this situation; as well as the reorganization and adaptation of our premises and workplace. Results In 2020 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 10 CONCILIATION MEASURES DURING THE STATE OF ALARM DUE TO COVID-19 PANDEMIC During the state of alarm decreed by the Spanish Government in relation to COVID-19, CESVA has adopted the following measures: Prioritize teleworking when possible. Especially with workers belonging to risk groups. Adapt working hours to facilitate balancing family and work life. Especially workers with school-age children that have their educational centres closed. Avoid the stoppage of industrial activity and the adoption of a Temporary Labour Force Adjustment Plans. HYGIENIC MEASURES FOR THE PREVENTION OF COVID-19 CESVA has worked intensively to guarantee maximum day-to-day security for its clients and employees. For this reason, it has adopted the following extraordinary prevention measures recommended by the health authorities in order to continue providing our services normally: Disseminate the protocol given by the health authorities to all our employees, aimed at reinforcing hygiene measures. Recommend hand washing with soap and water or hydroalcoholic gel at our headquarters (office and factory). Provide face masks and latex gloves to all reception staff. Postpone pending workshops and meetings to new dates. Recommend the use of videoconference or telephone calls for meetings between departments and with clients or suppliers. Ask our suppliers to also apply these measures. Separate the fixed workstations so that the distance is greater than 2 meters. Respect the distance of two meters between seats both laterally and frontally in the meetings. Avoid queues in common areas such as the coffee machine or microwave. Close the company canteen and instruct workers to avoid having breakfast or lunch together. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 11 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 12 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental 7: Businesses are challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental asked to support a responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of precautionary environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental At CESVA we assume respect for the environment as a fundamental factor challenges; in the performance of our activities, especially in the field more closely linked to our business: noise pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We operate responsibly in order to respond to the needs of our customers, environmental responsibility; and always trying to minimize negative environmental impacts that may arise from it. 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy and Processes environmentally friendly technologies. At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the factory. We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. We have also devoted much of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the philosophy of smart cities, so that the future of many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 13 Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). We continue to make the environmental management of batteries with ECOPILAS Foundation which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 14 DISPOSAL OF COMPACT DISC AS A PHISICAL SUPPORT FOR SOFTWARE DELIVERY The Compact Disc is a disc made of polycarbonate, a very valuable plastic for the industry. Although it is recyclable, there are few companies dedicated to its collection and recycling. At CESVA we have replaced the CDs with a cardboard card indicating the link and QR code from where the software can be downloaded. inter-noise 2020 E-CONGRESS UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 15 628/5000 Finally, inter • noise 2020, the 49th International Congress and Exhibition on Noise Control Engineering, will be held virtually, due to the current pandemic situation by COVID-19, from August 24 to 26, 2020. CESVA will participate as an exhibitor in the virtual exhibition on solutions, equipment and systems for measurement and control of noise and vibrations In the virtual exhibition CESVA has prepared a corporate video in which we share our commitment to the Global Compact and its 10 principles; as well as the Sustainable Development Goals integrated into our company business model. WORKING GROUP GT7.2 “NOISE POLLUTION CONTROL SYSTEMS” IN THE SC4/CTN178 SMART CITIES. ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT OF AENOR CESVA remains an active part of the working group GT7.2 “Noise Pollution control systems” in the SC4 / CTN 178 Smart Cities. Energy and Environment of AENOR, which is the body legally responsible for the development and dissemination of technical standards in Spain. The objective of this group is to establish the guidelines to standardize the actions conducted by smart UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 16 cities for the diagnosis, monitoring and control of noise pollution and environmental awareness and education. INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF SOUND 2020 The International Year of Sound 2020 (#IYS2020) is a global initiative, supported by UNESCO and led by the International Commission for Acoustics (ICA), to highlight the importance of sound in all aspects of life and promote good practices in the field of sound, in all areas, especially from early childhood. The motto of the IYS2020 is The importance of sound for society and the world . The initiative includes activities organized mainly by ICA, La Semaine du Son and by ICA Member Societies and International Affiliates. The events focus on disseminating, educating, and fostering the understanding of the need to control noise in nature, inside the buildings and in the workplace. CESVA has wanted to support this initiative since its inception as an official sponsor. The sponsorship of CESVA and the Sorbonne University has been valuable in supporting the opening event. The International Year of Sound will contribute to sustainable development and intercultural dialogue through education, science, culture and communication. It will also significantly help the development of UNESCO's missions in building peace and understanding worldwide that the sound environment is a key component in the balance of all human beings, in their relationship with others and with the world. To join this initiative and/or provide support as a sponsor, consult the following link: https://sound2020.org/ UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 17 “COVID-19 NOISE REDUCTION”LINKEDIN GROUP “COVID-19 Noise Reduction” is a group of experts in the professional social network Linkedin. It is currently made up of 187 members from countries around the world: Spain, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, the United States, Argentina, Peru, Chile, etc. The objective of this group is to report noise data from a specific location before, during and after confinement by COVID-19. Many countries have declared a state of alarm that implies confinement and a decrease in industrial and leisure activity. This reduction in activity is something that no one thought would be possible to achieve in our day to day life. This uniqueness is very important because it allows evaluating a lower limit of a possible noise reduction in the future. Nowadays there are many noise monitoring systems, from noise sensors to soundscape applications that operate continuously around the world. The group, led by Marçal Serra (Acoustics manager at CESVA), currently contains more than 60 articles with information on sound levels before, during and after confinement by COVID-19. This initiative can be accessed through the following link: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/13844820/ UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 18 WIKI 4 YEAR OF SOUND 2020 #Wiki4YearOfSound2020 is an initiative that was also born under the auspices of the International Year of Sound and aims to make information related to acoustics, sound, human communication, music, noise, its effects and control, and soundscapes be freely accessible to all. The initiative is to promote the creation and translation, into the maximum number of languages, of articles related to all sub-disciplines of acoustics. These sub-disciplines include aeroacoustics, audio, signal processing, architectural acoustics, bioacoustics, electroacoustics, environmental noise, musical acoustics, noise control, hearing and psychoacoustics, physical acoustics, speech, ultrasound, underwater sound, and vibration. CESVA has completed the #Wiki4YearOfSound2020 home page in Spanish and has translated it entirely into Catalan. This initiative can be accessed through the following link: https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wiki4YearOfSound2020 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states simply ANTI-CORRUPTION that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 20 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABLE CESVA has always had the following sustainable development goals fully DEVELOPMENT integrated into the company's business model: GOALS GOAL 3: Ensure people's health and well-being, through the fight against noise pollution. Noise is one of the complaints that most reduces the quality of life of people. Its relationship with health is undeniable: noise produces insomnia, stress, anxiety, deafness and social isolation. GOAL 4: Ensure quality education, through collaborations with universities and professional colleges we have always carried out training on the use of our equipment applied to different acoustic measurements: Environmental, insulation, noise control in leisure activities, etc. GOAL 8: Promote sustainable economic growth; CESVA has never had the objective of profiting economically through our business activity. We are a medium-sized company with more than 50 years of experience and we are very proud to continue being a small . company. GOAL 9: Foster innovation, innovation is part of CESVA's DNA. We have various invention patents on instruments for noise measurement and control. Most of CESVA's profits are reinvested in the R+D+i department. Our current priorities are directed towards technology sectors related to the Internet of Things and Smart Cities. Our objective is to promote that these cities adopt the noise vector as an indicator of annoyance and to promote noise management practices to improve citizen’s quality of life of. In these sectors we try to move towards achieving the following sustainable development goals: UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 21 GOAL 11: Make cities resilient and sustainable, in all the smart city sensorization projects in which we intervene, we emphasize that the smart city must be sustainable or it will not be. It is useless to build a smart city if after a short period of time there is no budget to maintain the sensor network, which is precisely what provides intelligence to the project. GOAL 12: Ensure sustainable consumption patterns, the sensing of cities cannot be governed by the criteria of the more sensors the better. The sensors must be installed in the places that are really necessary and their return must be valued through the economic savings they generate and the increase in the quality of life of the citizens. Criteria such as the carbon footprint must be taken into account during the sensor purchase process. GOAL 15: Sustainably manage forests and halt biodiversity loss, among the smart city projects that we are most passionate about are those for the declaration of a special zone for the protection of acoustic quality. Open field areas such as natural parks, protected areas or areas of natural interest where their unique soundscape wants to be preserved. The actions carried out by our company to achieve the chosen sustainable development objectives are detailed below: GOAL 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages We have sponsored the initiative “International Year of Sound 2020” whose objective is to spread the importance of sound for society and the world. We have collaborated with the International Commission for Acoustics (ICA), to promote good sound practices in all areas, especially from early childhood. We have created the discussion group “COVID-19 Noise reduction” in the Linkedin professional network on noise reduction during confinement by COVID-19. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 22 GOAL 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all We continue to be collaborators of the Master in Architectural and Environmental Acoustics by La Salle, Ramon Llull University. We have adapted our training workshops to virtual Webinars in order to continue training our clients in the use of our instruments for acoustic measurements. We actively collaborate on the Wiki4YearOfSound2020 initiative to make information related to acoustics, sound, human communication, music, noise and its effects and their control, and soundscapes freely accessible to all. GOAL 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all We have maintained our business activity promoting teleworking when possible. Especially with workers belonging to risk groups. We have avoided by all means making Temporary Labour Force Adjustment Plans. GOAL 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation We have taken full advantage of the decline in commercial activity to focus on developing new products that will be launched during 2021. We have incorporated telematic communication and dissemination platforms for communication with our customers and distributors. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 23 GOAL 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable We have also dedicated a large part of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the philosophy of smart cities, so that the future of many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. We have transmitted the need for planning Smart City projects, including annual maintenance costs in our TA120 sensor offers. GOAL 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns We have collaborated with the UPC School of Civil Engineering, hand in hand with Dr. Eva Vidal and Dr. Águeda García, in the final project of the Master in environmental engineering entitled Study of Environmental Impacts associated with the Implementation and Operation of the Network of Devices that make up the Smart City system”. Its author, Brunela Nardi Ferreras, has studied the life cycle analysis and carbon footprint of our TA120 noise sensor applied to the Smart Terrassa project. GOAL 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss We have communicated through a special website our success stories in Smart projects, including a specific document for QUIET AREAS. The declaration and preservation of quiet areas is a key point to evaluate and manage noise in agglomerations (parks and public gardens, near schools and hospitals) and in the open field (natural parks, beaches and forests). We have included information from the campaign carried out by the Service for the Prevention and Control of UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 24 Acoustic and Light Pollution of the Generalitat de Catalunya during the summer of 2019 in the Vall Ferrera (Pyrenees). UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2020 | page 25 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
