2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shaping the Future of Trade Contents Contents Contents 01 06 Leadership Statement 04 Sustainable City 24 Community 25 Health and Safety 30 02 About this Report 06 07 Operational Excellence 31 03 Governance Economic Performance Customer Excellence 32 32 33 DMCC at a Glance 08 Human Rights and Procurement Practices 33 Free Zone 09 Diversity and Inclusion, Emiratisation, and Gender Equality 34 Gateway To Trade 09 Training and Development 34 Developing Dubai 09 Wellbeing 35 DMCC’s Workforce 09 Highlights 10 08 04 Responsible Business Ecosystem Responsible Sourcing 36 38 Materiality Assessment 12 Digitalisation, Data Protection, and Cybersecurity 39 Materiality Matrix 13 DMCC’s Three Pillars 14 The DMCC Context 14 09 Social Impact 40 05 Strategy 15 Outcomes 16 Stakeholder Relations 16 Strategy Framework 18 Sustainability Scorecard 19 Our Contribution to the SDGs 22 2 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 3 Leadership's Statement Leadership's Statement LEADERSHIP STATEMENT The way we conduct our business today across the community and will enable us to will have an impact on the world we live in maximise our energy and water efficiency to Ahmed Bin Sulayem tomorrow. As a government authority, and reach our desired targets. Executive Chairman the world’s leading free zone, we have long and CEO, DMCC recognised this and placed sustainability Furthermore, we began to implement our at the core of our strategy. We have a Smart & Sustainable District Strategy in responsibility to support the UAE and support of the Smart Dubai strategy, which Dubai’s economic diversification agenda aims to make Dubai the happiest city on while ensuring we conduct our business in earth. Consisting of five pillars – smart a sustainable way for the benefit of all our mobility, smart living, smart infrastructure, stakeholders. smart environment, and smart business – it will contribute to elevating the experience of Over the years, we have dedicated significant everyone interacting with DMCC. From a 5G resources to assess and reflect where DMCC enabled district to environmentally friendly The way we conduct our business today will have an impact on needs to be to create the most positive bike-sharing, the roll out of the strategy the world we live in tomorrow. As a government authority, and the impact for employees, customers, member promises a better quality of life for everyone in world’s leading free zone, we have long recognised this and placed companies, residents and visitors. We are our community, people and businesses alike. sustainability at the core of our strategy. We have a responsibility to constantly looking at ways to improve and this support the UAE and Dubai’s economic diversification agenda while year we enhanced our sustainability strategy, The report also covers our footprint for 2019, ensuring we conduct our business in a sustainable way for the benefit placing stakeholders’ interests at the centre. our growth and projects implemented in the of all our stakeholders. course of the year. We are now proud to be releasing our third sustainability report, which builds on the core Thank you. pillars of the new strategy and demonstrates progress on our commitment to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The report also includes a sustainability scorecard, which sets out measurable targets for the next five years because at DMCC we believe that what is measured, matters. Ahmed Bin Sulayem True to this approach, this year we conducted Executive Chairman and CEO, DMCC an environmental data management analysis of our Jumeirah Lakes Towers district. DMCC strongly felt that the establishment of an Feryal Ahmadi accurate baseline was integral for future COO, DMCC energy management improvement. The assessment has allowed us to have a better Feryal Ahmadi view of the numerous consumption points COO, DMCC 4 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 5 About this Report About this Report ABOUT SCOPE OF REPORT This report serves to inform and INFORMATION COVERED Global Reporting Initiative: MATERIAL TOPICS DMCC conducted its first materiality THIS document DMCC’s environmental and socio-economic performance The report has been developed in accordance assessment in 2017. In this, 13 material topics were identified as the basis of its sustainability REPORT from 1 January to 31 December 2019. We outline initiatives, strategy, and with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option. A list of all disclosed agenda. In 2019, this process was performed once again, but with the implementation performance against our sustainability GRI Standards with their corresponding page of an advanced methodology and broader framework. The report highlights our numbers can be found on DMCC sustainability engagement of stakeholders. The new development, future commitments, webpage. approach resulted in 24 material topics to and targets. The information within the serve as the basis of the new strategy for report was gathered and consolidated Committed to the United Nations Global 2020 and beyond. For more details on the internally to ensure accuracy. No thirdCompact: materiality assessment, please visit the party assurer was consulted. following link. We have been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since August 2017. This report serves REPORTING TOPIC BOUNDARIES as DMCC’s Communication on Progress (CoP) The boundaries are divided into three in terms of following the Ten Principles of the categories: direct control, indirect control, and UN Global Compact and serves as an update both. The topics with direct control include to the actions taken and implemented in 2019. entities and stakeholders which DMCC has Almas Tower, administrative authority over, such as its DMCC HQ in JLT DMCC also supports the 17 United Nations permanent employees, owned and leased Community Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). property, its assets and infrastructure, free DMCC proudly contributes to eight of the zone regulatory oversight, and the Master 17 SDGs and incorporates them into its Community, which includes all of Jemeirah sustainable strategy framework. Lakes Towers District, Uptown District, the Jewellery and Gemplex District and other Committed to the UN Women’s Empowerment areas in line with DMCC Master Community Principles: Declaration and Master Plan. Topics that go beyond DMCC’s direct operations with an We are a signatory of the WEPs and have also indirect control boundry are the activities been taking a leadership role as a member of retailers, developers and residents of the of the UAE WEPs taskforce since 2018. The Master Community. DMCC also oversees the WEPs emphasises that corporate action Dubai Good Delivery (DGD) and Kimberley towards promoting women’s empowerment in Process certification in the UAE. DMCC is in the workplace, marketplace, and community is a position to influence its free zone, member good for business and the world. companies, building managers, suppliers, contractors, and sub-developers. Driven by the Government Roadmap: FEEDBACK AND SUGGESTIONS We use charters such as UAE Vision 2021, We welcome your feedback and suggestions Dubai Plan 2021, and Smart Dubai 2021 to on our sustainability performance, guide our strategy and develop initiatives and commitments, and progress. Please direct your key indicators. comments to sustainability@dmcc.ae. 6 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 7 DMCC About at DMCC a Glance DMCC at a Glance DMCC AT A GLANCE FREE ZONE Our free zone services extend to business owners and non-business owners. Both can procure a licence to operate. Our free zone services are comprehensive and support a Register & License Register & License diverse set of stakeholders, from franchise Companies Companies branch set-up to entrepreneurs who may Packaging Blending require guidance on how to set up their first Storage business. Roasting Registration Transportation Visa handing TRADE Commercial Space Insurance GATEWAY TO TRADE Learning Hub Audit Banking DMCC is made for trade and facilitates trade for both DMCC registered and non-registered DMCC Tradeflow business owners. Customers can interact with Dubai Gold & Commodities Exchange one or more of DMCC’s trade services, such as Shariah Asset Management COMMUNITY tea, coffee, tradeflow, diamonds, and gold. Networking Training DEVELOPING DUBAI Export/import of Kimberley Process Mediation rough diamonds DMCC serves as a catalyst to make Dubai one Compliance Governance Dubai Diamond Regulation of the fastest growing and most modern cities Tender facilities Exchange Help centre in the world. We have partnered with a wide Industry advocacy range of stakeholders, including property Mediation management and development service Gold accreditation standards providers, to allow us to be an effective agent DMCC Vault UAE Gold Bullion Coins in Dubai's progress. Residents and visitors alike enjoy the 600+ retail outlets the Master Community has to offer along with coveted residences located in the Jumeirah Lake Uptown Regulatory framework Events Towers community. One JLT Health & Safety Parks and recreation Jewellery & Gemplex Security Festivals Office solutions Energy, Waste and Water Volunteering Retail Transportation Plots of land Warehouse solutions DMCC’S WORKFORCE Headquartered in Dubai, DMCC is the world's We understand that our ability to influence most interconnected free zone and leads as trade impacts local economies and, therefore, a trade hub for commodities. Located in its puts us in a unique position to safeguard Jumeirah Lakes Towers (JLT) district, DMCC communities and the local environment. provides companies and residents with infrastructure and services fulfilling needs to DMCC provides stakeholders with a multilive, work, and thrive. Made for trade, we are proud to sustain and grow Dubai's position dimensional value proposition. The above synopsis displays this by sharing the journey 313 45 30 12% as the place to be for global trade long into of two critical stakeholders: the business Total Employees Nationalities Candidates for new hires of Turnover the future. owner and the non-business owner. (in 2019) Represented which 33% were under 30 8 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 9 About DMCC Highlights Highlights Smart City Smart HIGHLIGHTS District Mobility Plan and partnership Solution introduced with Etisalat in partnership with Careem #1 1 million+ Free Zone in the world by Financial Man-hours and 180 Uptown parking Times FDi Magazine zero lost time spaces powered by five years in a row injury for Uptown solar energy GIS 3D Model of JLT developed 18 90% 128,419 kg 22 Years of Digitisation of Recyclable material New recycling and launched membership in workstreams collected stations Kimberley Process achieved 313 17,000+ 57% Permanent Member Emirati representation in executive employees from 45 companies in management nationalities our Free Zone 36% 5,734 86% Digitally enabled Female workforce Employee training Employee online training 99% increase in leads 5,909 hours satisfaction generated through 700+ visits Office inspections score directed on digital platforms conducted 10 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 11 About DMCC Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment MATERIALITY The materiality assessment resulted in an importance – 5 high importance). All topics ASSESSMENT increase of six topics in comparison to 2018, scored over 3.2. a total of 24 material topics in 2019. New topics introduced included Data Protection For additional information and a full & Cybersecurity, Green Building, Customer description of the materiality process, please DMCC conducted its second materiality Results from the assessment are synthesised Privacy, Infrastructure, Economic Performance, refer to the Materiality Assessment Report assessment exercise in 2019 with an increase in a matrix below, which highlights the and Emiratisation. here link. in stakeholder engagement through multiple importance of each topic in descending touchpoints that included online surveys, faceorder. The results of the materiality The scores of the top ten topics were all DMCC identified three pillars for its strategy to-face interviews, and interactive workshops. assessment inform our sustainability strategy. between 4 and 5 on a Likert scale (1 low in framework based on its material topics. The process helps to prioritise sustainability We applied a four-step methodology topics that concern our stakeholders the most. process: MATERIALITY MATRIX Score: 185 190 Score: 191 195 Score: 196 200 HIGHLY Economic Performance Responsible Sourcing Community Conducted horizon scanning of 200+ topics selected from GRI, SIGNIFICANT AA1000 Principles Standards, and other best practice standards, Emiratisation Customer Excellence Regulatory Compliance TOPIC LIST including CDP, DJSI, and SASB. All topics were reviewed by DMCC, and the most important ones consolidated. Score: 173 174 Score: 175 178 Score: 179 184 Importance to external stakeholders Gender Equality Procurement Practices Digitalisation A quantitative analysis of both internal and external stakeholders Innovation Infrastructure Training & Development MID STAKEHOLDER conducted. For the survey, a Likert Scale of 1-5 was adopted, where SURVEYS (INTERNAL & respondents rated the 25 topics from a range of 1 (not important) Diversity & Inclusion Customer Privacy Wellbeing SIGNIFICANT EXTERNAL) through to 5 (very important). A diverse set of internal and external stakeholders were engaged in this process. Data protection & Cyber security Occupational Health & Safety Score: 154 159 Score: 160 169 Score: 170 172 STAKEHOLDER In-depth qualitative internal and external interviews conducted DISCUSSIONS Green Buildings Energy Anticorruption to provide additional perspectives. SIGNIFICANT Water Use Governance & Succession Human Rights Planning Waste Management & Reduction After data collection, an analysis of the surveys performed using statistical methods to understand the top ten priority topics for MID HIGHLY RESULTS SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT SIGNIFICANT ANALYSIS DMCC. The qualitative feedback helped to support and add relevant interpretations of DMCC’s most critical topics. Increasing influence to DMCC 12 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 13 Materiality About DMCC Assessment Strategy DMCC’s THREE PILLARS These pillars are a result of a self-evaluation conducted in 2019 to understand what sustainability but the success of the UAE online, and secondly, the the master developer of the means for DMCC and how its spheres of influence and business strategy could best propel good economy and its inhabitants. environmental benefits of community and free zone, for society. reduced paper consumption. we are in a unique position 6. Emiratisation: We to provide meaningful and champion the government’s 8. Training and Development: healthy opportunities that lead SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONAL CITY BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM EXCELLENCE strategy to increase We offer a wide range of to positive emotions. employment for local citizens opportunities for both our OBJECTIVE: OBJECTIVE: OBJECTIVE: in recognition of their role employees and member 10. Procurement Practices: We Track and improve impact Create a resilient foundation Optimise organisational in the country’s long-term companies to upgrade their acknowledge that, through our locally for positive impact policies and procedures economic stability. credentials to excel. procurement decisions, we can influence how responsibly our • Infrastructure • Customer privacy • Procurement practices 7. Digitalisation: We promote 9. Wellbeing: In line with current and potential suppliers • Energy • Data protection & security • Human rights the Smart Dubai 2021 the National Programme for operate. Therefore, in response • Water • Responsible sourcing • Training and development Strategy, acknowledging its Happiness and Wellbeing, we to stakeholder expectations, • Waste management • Innovation • Wellbeing two-folded benefit; firstly, the commit to making Dubai the we will adopt sustainable • Green buildings • Digitalisation • Gender equality enhancement of customer happiest city on earth. Our supply chain principles, • Health & safety • Regulatory compliance • Diversity and Inclusion ease by moving services stakeholders believe that, as processes, and standards. • Community • Emiratisation • Governance • Customer excellence • Economic performance THE DMCC CONTEXT We have developed a DMCC-specific definition for each of our top ten material topics in STRATEGY consideration of our operations, business strengths, and areas of influence. In this way, we can strategically address each to create the maximum positive impact. We embarked on our sustainability journey two years ago. Therefore, this was an opportune 1. Community: As the master compliance is also a priority customers through capacity time to assess gaps, measure progress, and refresh the strategy based on lessons learned. developer of the community, because of DMCC’s influence building and services We took a four-phase approach to the strategy development process: we provide residents, business over free zone member to support the financial owners, and visitors with a companies. sustainability of member safe, eco-friendly, sustainable, companies. If our customer and smart environment to 3. Responsible Sourcing: We thrives, we thrive. 1. An evaluation of DMCC’s pre-existing approach work and live in. facilitate the trade flow of coffee, tea, precious stones, 5. Economic Performance: 2. Regulatory Compliance: and metals industries, and Stakeholders recognise our 2. Peer analysis of organisations in and outside of our universe We take our commitment see it as our responsibility to valuable role not only to our to the UN Global Compact inform, set norms, and build customers and employees seriously. Our compliance capacity for stakeholders. but to the larger Dubai measures are guided by population. We contribute 3. SDG mapping against business strategy, activities, and material topics Principle 10 on anticorruption 4. Customer Excellence: As a to ten percent of the 'businesses should work government entity, customercountry’s GDP. Therefore, against corruption in all centricity is at our core. We our positive growth reflects 4. Identification of shortand long-term targets for a data-driven approach its forms.' Regulatory build our relationships with not only our own success 14 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 15 Strategy About DMCC Strategy OUTCOMES Management Approach: DMCC’s sustainability strategy was developed to align with our business strategy and values. The 5 C’s summarises its value proposition. HOW DMCC Made for Trade Be The #1 Free Zone in the World Grow Dubai ENGAGES Attract, facilitate, and promote As a world-leading free zone and Help SMEs grow their businesses STRATEGY trade to bring economic prosperity a Dubai Government Authority, it in line with Dubai’s entrepreneurial globally. Work with industry peers is incumbent on DMCC to place spirit beyond facilitating NGOs and to ensure all stakeholders are sustainability at the forefront of registration, offering capacity Institutions & Customers Communities Colleagues Suppliers Industry Peers Community protected throughout the trade its growth strategy. building, network and community Policy Makers Partners process. to thrive. Help customers Create a Commit to being Facilitate a Implement MultiMaintain High grow their safe, green, an employer transparent and create stakeholder transparency Committed Boundless Collaborative Clarity business and leisurely of choice by and digital awareness initiatives such through annual Performance by offering family friendly offering diverse procurement for local laws, as the Kimberley reporting and capacity building environment capacity building process, while new and old, Process, OECD open dialogue on Deliver consistent Commit to Seek new Pull together a Stand by initiatives, where residents opportunities, advocating for to encourage governance project progress VALUES high-performance stakeholders, opportunities diverse team and decisions and take financial services, can live and conducting a responsible best practice. group, and with focus on services. employees, through bold and work with members responsibility for infrastructure businesses satisfaction supply chain Engaging Diamond data driven members, partners, visionary ideas. and partners to actions. and networking can operate surveys, and supplemented on special Development stories. and residents. understand each opportunities responsibly. always exploring with capacity committees, Initiative other’s needs. while supporting Continuously new ways for building and maintaining to ensure them in their enhancing more open open dialogue. dialogue and protection sustainability mechanisms communications using the DMCC to the most Convene Connect Communicate Capacity Build Care journey. for feedback and enhanced platform to host vulnerable in and open diversity. events. the value chain communications. reducing the Leverage the free Connect a diverse Disclose Offer trainings, Support projects flow of conflict FUTURE OF zone’s position to set of stakeholders sustainability conferences, and globally in line with diamonds. TRADE catalyse action, to grow their practices through seminars to both specific SDGs, by build capacity, network and share annual reporting, internal and external dedicating 0.5% and advocate best practices. and drive thought stakeholders of the company’s for sustainable leadership in the to build their net profit to social business practices. industry. knowledge around impact. sustainable business practices. STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Stakeholders have been at the centre of the DMCC sustainability strategy. MATERIAL TOPICS THAT MATTER THE MOST NGOs and ENGAGE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Institutions & Customers Communities Colleagues Suppliers Industry Peers Community Policy Makers Partners • Data protection • Green buildings • Governance • Human rights • Anticorruption • Human rights • Social impact & cybersecurity & succession • Energy planning • Procurement • Regulatory • Responsible • Economic NGOs and • Customer practices compliance sourcing performance Institutions & privacy and • Occupational • Diversity & Customers Communities Colleagues Suppliers Industry Peers Community Policy Makers excellence health & safety inclusion • Responsible • Anticorruption Partners sourcing • Digitalisation • Infrastructure • Gender equality • Regulatory DMCC is a DMCC is closely DMCC wants its DMCC suppliers DMCC, a DMMC DMCC continues • Economic compliance customer focused connected with employees to are valued government recognises that to formalise its • Social impact • Wellbeing performance company. its community be ambassadors business partners. authority, plays some topics are social impact Understanding where 100,000 for its activities Stable and long the dual role of best addressed strategy. This • Training & and meeting people live and putting their term relations developing and collectively. will ensure the development the needs of work and 17,000 development at are key to mutual implementing DMCC works relationship their member companies are the forefront. growth. policies. DMCC with industry with NGOs and • Emiratisation companies is at registered. follows UAE peers to community the core of what Vision 2021 and define industry partners become • Economic they do. the Dubai Plan standards more strategic. performance 2021. and common solutions to shared risks. 16 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 17 Strategy About DMCC Strategy STRATEGY FRAMEWORK 5. Convening Authority for Awareness, 6. Transparency: We believe that open The framework reflects DMCC’s 5C management approach to sustainability, divided between Knowledge, and Action: We acknowledge communications and clear reporting three pillars: Sustainable City, Responsible Business Ecosystem, and Operational Excellence. Each that there are areas in which we may not be reinforce integrity. As a committed of these is underpinned by the SDGs. These three pillars umbrella DMCC’s 24 material topics. able to have a direct impact. However, we can member of the UN Global Compact, encourage stakeholders within our ecosystem we apply transparency practices across that do have an influence. For this reason, we our entire organisation. This practice introduce publications and host events as a reflects the trust our partners and part of our thought leadership activities to customers have with us, resulting in engage stakeholders towards positive action. long-lasting relationships. MADE FOR TRADE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD Our data-driven approach guides a cross-functional scorecard with targets that agree Convene Connect Communicate Capacity Build Care with all business units. Sustainable City Responsible Business Ecosystem Operational Excellence IMPACT AREAS MATERIAL TOPIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SOCIAL IMPACT Infrastructure Continuation of #1 free zone in the world Entrepreneurship Gender Equality Community Health & Safety Education of stakeholders UNDERPINNED BY THE SDGS Health and Safety Excellence (Uptown Dubai) HSE Compliance (Community Developments non DMCC) Management of HSE Suppliers 1. Driven by the Government Road Map: 3. Cohesion with the SDGs: We prioritise SDGs Smart City HSE The The UAE Vision 2021 and Dubai Plan based on where we believe we can have the 2021 serve as a blueprint for our actions. most significant impact, given our business Reduction of Community Fire Risk As a government entity, we are guided strengths and influence. The SDGs and their by the 'Dubai Model for Government associated targets have been considered Green Building Reduction of carbon emissions Services.' Furthermore, we propel the in the framework and mapped against our Smart Dubai and Green Growth strategy material issues. Additionally, our social impact Improvement of building operations through through the implementation of initiatives policy centres around them. initiatives within JLT. 4. A Data-driven Approach: We commit to 2. A Greener Community: We commit to measuring what matters so that we can use a green atmosphere and green operations the data to guide actions, develop policies, to meet customer demands and make JLT and communicate accurately. In 2019, we an eco-friendly environment through the adopted technologies to track and monitor Smart and Sustainable District Strategy. progress for further efficiency. 18 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 19 Strategy About DMCC Strategy IMPACT AREAS MATERIAL TOPIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR IMPACT AREAS MATERIAL TOPIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Water Use Improvement of infrastructure Procurement Awareness of suppliers concerning Practices sustainable practices Improvement of data tracking and monitoring Integration of sustainability principles in the supplier selection process Integration of green practices amongst DMCC departments and community Improvement of measurement of suppliers stakeholders who are procured with sustainable practices by ESG Waste Management Facilitation of recycling Human Rights Improvement of human rights across the Improvement of water quality for Master supply chain Community lakes Emiratisation Support Emiratisation national strategy Integration of green practices amongst DMCC departments and community Gender Equality Female representation on DMCC’s newly stakeholders established board Reduction of plastic and paper consumption Recruitment of female led business to free zone Energy Improvement of data tracking and monitoring Mobilisation of commitment to WEPs and other gender focused national priorities Integration of green practices amongst DMCC departments and community Training & Improvement of rate of engagement stakeholders Development Communicate understanding of objective to Governance Implementation of best practices in all stakeholders governance Community Implementation of Smart and Sustainable Diversity & Inclusion Creation of a diverse and productive culture District strategy for everyone to thrive Wellbeing Formalisation of DMMC employee wellbeing approach Measurement of employee wellbeing Customer Adoption of new services to address Excellence customer needs Customer Satisfaction Training and development of members 20 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 21 About DMCC Strategy Strategy IMPACT AREAS MATERIAL TOPIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR DMCC makes an impact through DMCC makes an impact through its commitment to the Women escalating its community, building Digitalisation Implementation support of Dubai’s Smart Empowerment Principles and capacity for member companies identifying gender equality as a and holding suppliers to a higher City strategy primary pillar for its social impact standard program 8.1: Sustain per capita economic growth in 5.1: End all forms of discrimination against accordance with national circumstances Customer Privacy Mitigation of security incidents all women. and, in particular, at least 7 per cent gross domestic product per annum in the least 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective developed countries. participation and equal opportunities for Data protection & Enhancement of digital environment leadership at all levels of decision – making 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic • Gender equality in political, economic and public life. • Economic performance productivity through diversification, cybersecurity • Human rights • Customer excellence technological upgrading and innovation, 5.c: Adopt and strengthen sound policies including through a focus on high – value and enforceable legislation for the promotion added and labour – intensive sectors. of gender equality and the empowerment of Innovation Development of unique solutions to all women and girls at all levels. 8.3: Promote development – oriented policies that support productive activities, commodities trading decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encouraging the formalisation and growth of micro-smalland medium-sized enterprises, including Integration of R&D activities across all pillars through access to financial services. of DMCC DMCC makes an impact by making DMCC makes an impact by reducing its community safer and sustainable waste in the Master Community and with one out of five of its focus areas integrating responsible procurement Regulatory Improvement of and facilitate stakeholder on smart mobility practices. As a part of its commitment Compliance understanding of regulations to the UNGC, it promotes UNGC 11.2: By 2030, provide access to safe membership and associated reporting affordable, accessible and sustainable to its member companies transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public Responsible Engagement with international partners in transport, with special attention to the needs 12.3: By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and of those in vulnerable situations, women, Sourcing Ecosystem supporting responsible and sustainable children, persons with disabilities and older reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post – harvest losses . persons. • Community • Procurement practices 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste • Infrastructure 11.6: By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita • Responsible sourcing generation through prevention, reduction, Anticorruption Zero incidents of fraudulent behaviour • Waste management environmental impact of cities, including by • Waste management recycling and reuse. • Diversity & inclusion paying special attention to air quality and sourcing municipal and other waste management. 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large transnational companies, too adopt sustainable 11.7: By 2030, provide universal access to practices and to integrate sustainability safe, inclusive and accessible, green and information into their reporting cycle. public spaces, in the particular for women and children, older persons and persons with 12.7: Promote public procurement practices For additional information and a full description of the strategy, please visit the following link. disabilities. that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities. DMCC makes an impact by setting DMCC makes an impact by baselines, measuring its footprint, advancing its regulatory reducing energy consumption and compliance and legal functions implementing improvements through with a zero tolerance policy to strategic partnerships corruption 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and national policies, strategies and planning. bribery in all their forms. 13.3: Improve education, awareness – raising 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and OUR CONTRIBUTION and human and institutional capacity on transparent institutions at all levels. climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. 16.7: Ensure responsive, inclusive, • Energy • Regulatory compliance participatory and representative decisionTO THE SDGS • Water • Anti-corruption making at all levels. • Waste management • Governance • Green buildings • Training & development The UN SDGs define priorities to achieve by 2030 to address the world’s most significant DMCC makes an impact by leveraging its convening ability as a government challenges. The UAE was a strong advocate for the formulation of the UN SDG agenda, and its authority, owner of a free zone, and a Master Developer of its Community for good commitment to sustainable development is at the heart of the country’s vision for its future. 17.16: Enhance the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development, complemented by multi – stakeholder partnerships that mobilise and share knowledge, expertise, Therefore, as a government authority and global citizen, we believe we have a responsibility to technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in all help achieve these goals and establish an approach to the SDGs in our sustainability strategy. countries, in particular developing countries. 17.17: Encourage and promote effective public, public-private Our SDG mapping, an integral component of the strategy development process, analysed the and civil society partnerships, building on the experience • Governance and resourcing strategies of partnerships. targets in context to DMCC business strengths and sphere of influence. 22 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 23 Sustainable City COMMUNITY We prioritise the community – which comprises business owners, residents, and visitors – because we know that our actions impact thousands of stakeholders. Our stakeholders also recognise this and, hence, identified it as the most important material topic. They recognise the multi-dimensional scope of influence that the DMCC community encompasses. DMCC’s environmental conservation efforts are directly in line with the Dubai Plan 2021 that prioritises the city’s resources, namely that energy is used sustainably and infrastructure is built in line with green standards to provide residents with a clean and healthy environment. Furthermore, we support the UAE’s national priorities, specifically the national 'Green Growth' strategy, as well as Dubai’s contribution to the happiness agenda. DMCC’s key achievements towards a greener community in 2019 include: • Improved energy and water management and • Driving infrastructure through the Smart tracking systems: DMCC’s 2019 priority was & Sustainable District Strategy: DMCC to ensure that energy and water management established partnerships with Etisalat systems increased in reliability and robustness. and Careem to support countrywide technology and mobility ambitions as well • Enhanced green buildings: Retrofitting One as identify ways to increase the adoption JLT, a U.S. Green building Council building, of renewable energy sources in JLT. to improve the performance even further. A. ENERGY, WATER, AND WASTE A.1 MASTER COMMUNITY structures, lakes, streets, the central park and DMCC has been proactive in creating a others. community atmosphere that is underpinned SUSTAINABLE by green operations to meet customer DMCC contracted an external consultant demands and make it an eco-friendly, smart, to conduct a review of existing energy and and leisurely environment. In 2019, DMCC’s water management systems to identify data CITY achievements included: gaps and provide recommendations. The assessment allowed us to have a better view Master Community Energy Management of the numerous consumption points across In 2019, DMCC spent significant efforts the community and highlighted significant Track and improve local impact to ensure that environmental data was spikes in water consumption, which resulted tracked more cohesively and clearly. We from the obligatory cleaning of community continue monitoring the electricity and water water tanks as per the new Dubai Municipality consumption across the public areas of the regulations. We, thus, strengthened crossMaster Community, such as the parking functional collaboration to the peaks of 24 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 25 Sustainable City Sustainable City consumption and reduce it through and maintenance. The delivery of the A1. MASTER COMMUNITY using new technology and improving the strategy included the installation of digital effeciency of the existing resources. monitoring stations to ensure water levels Master Community Energy, Water, and Waste Performance 2018/2019 and supply can be monitored remotely DMCC also started using the new methods and consistently. Additionally, annual Indicator 2018 CO2 Emissions1 2019 CO2 Emissions and tools to establish a sound baseline of the maintenance of the three lakes was Community’s energy and water consumption. implemented by cleaning, vacuuming, Energy Usage 44,725.5 5,290 tCO2e 45,410 5,371 tCO2e The new digital system automatically tracks removing waste, and exploring non-chemical (GJ) and integrates all data and consumption maintenance regimes. Water Consumption 33,409 5,290 tCO2e 45,410 5,371 tCO2e points across the Master Community and our (m3) owned assets to allow a clear and structured In 2020, DMCC plans to identify the optimal Recycled Materials 123 128.4 view on DMCC's footprint. In previous years, source of water withdrawal for the lakes (tonnes) we lacked the adequate data collection as well as to improve the surrounding lake tools to centralise water, energy, and waste infrastructure. Waste Collected 20,192 27,015 (tonnes)2 measurement, which led to gaps in earlier reports. Waste Management Our role is to facilitate a safe and reliable DMCC’s energy and water reduction efforts method of waste disposal across the Master A2. DMCC TEA AND COFFEE CENTRE contribute to Dubai’s target of energy and Community as well as offer solutions to In 2019, DMCC also initiated environmental tracking improvements to the Tea and Coffee Centres water reduction of 30% by 2030. From reduce the amount of waste going to landfill. by establishing the baseline of consumption with the next step being the establishment of the 2020, we will conduct two energy and water procedures and KPIs aimed and increasing the efficiency of the assets. audits across JLT per year to ensure tracking In late 2019, we secured a new waste and monitoring systems continue to deliver management supplier through a tender DMCC Tea Centre Energy, Water, DMCC Coffee Centre Energy, Water, reliable and high-quality information. We process. Bee’ah was contracted to and Waste Performance 2019 and Waste Performance 2019 plan to collaborate with building owners improve waste data tracking and increase and managers to conduct energy and the accessibility of sorting bins in the Indicator 2019 CO2 Emissions Indicator 2019 CO2 Emissions water audits in 80% of towers in the Master Community. This transition resulted in 22 Community. We will implement technology new recycling stations for four types of Energy Usage 3,679.43 435 tCO2e Energy Usage 5400.9 638 tCO2e systems to coordinate resource management materials – carton, paper, glass, and cans – (GJ) (GJ) and launch awareness campaigns with the which are all diverted from landfills. The new Water 5,565.93 29 tCO2e Water N/A N/A involvement of our own staff to incentivise partnership allows for better data collection, Consumption Consumption behavioural change and raise awareness that helps us to establish the baselines and (m3) (m3)3 on the importance of energy efficiency. We develop KPIs focused on further improving Recycled 37.79 Recycled 2 also plan to engage third-party contractors, our operations. Materials Materials including energy savings and management (tonnes) (tonnes) companies (ESCO), to work collaboratively In 2020, DMCC plans to launch an Waste Collected 289 Waste Collected 84 with building managers to develop energy updated waste management policy and (tonnes)4 (tonnes)4 saving strategies. initiate awareness campaigns on waste management and recycling opportunities in Water Management JLT. We will also engage our employees in We consider our responsibility towards water the campaigns geared to encourage positive 1 CO2 emissions have been calculated using DEWA’s 2018 grid emission factor for Electricity 0.4258 tCO2e/MWh and Water 23.69 tCO2e/MIG 2 DMCC Master Community collects waste data in cubic metres. To ensure reporting consistency with the 2018 Sustainability Report, which stewardship and cleanliness to be important recycling behaviours. used a conversion factor for the average density for different domestic solid waste components as 143.77 kg/m3. The original source: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/261357543_Composition_of_Domestic_Solid_Waste_and_The_Determin ation_of_its_Density_ to community wellbeing. In 2019, DMCC Moisture_Content_A_case_study_for_Tikrit_City_Iraq initiated the DMCC Lake redevelopment 3 The Tea Centre water consumption includes the consumption of the Coffee Centre due to the absence of the sub-meter. DMCC plans to install a sub-meter in Coffee Centre in 2020 to track its environmental footprint accurately. initiative which includes policies related 4 The calculations for the waste figures under the DMCC Tea and Coffee Centre operations were converted from cubic metres to tonnes to ensure consistency and comparability. The conversion factor used was calculated by taking average density for medium-level compacted to water provision, monitoring, cleaning, waste components – paper, dry and wet compacted cardboard, kitchen-type food waste, plastic bags, glass, and concrete as 339.28 kg/ m3.Source: https://www.epa.vic.gov.au/business-and-industry/lower-yourimpact/~/media/Files/bus/EREP/docs/wastematerialsdensitiesdata.pdf 26 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 27 Sustainable City Sustainable City A3. UPTOWN DUBAI which has significantly reduced energy Uptown Dubai is DMCC’s newest mixed-use consumption. B. GREEN BUILDINGS neighbourhood. Construction, following LEED Gold certification principles, began in In 2020, installation of batteries in the hybrid In 2019, to improve our environmental contractor were revisited, which led 2017. In 2019, the site construction offices microgrid to capture additional solar power performance, we retrofitted the USGBCto an increase in recycling and waste were 100% reusable, cabins used 100% LED and reduce generator use will take place, and certified One JLT building. Two electric management efficiencies. In 2020, the lights and had efficient air-conditioning units. we will work towards temporarily connecting car charging stations were added, energy One JLT building will undergo an energy Construction sites have also been running the solar panels to DEWA's grid to feed and water audits were conducted, and retrofit exercise to further increase energy on a hybrid microgrid of solar and diesel, additional power back. the waste management process and efficiency. DMCC Uptown Dubai Energy, Water and Waste Performance 2018/2019 One JLT Energy and Water Performance 2019 Indicator 2018 2019 Indicator 2019 CO2 Emissions Solar Power (GJ)5 N/A 67 Energy Usage (GJ) 10,990 1,343 tCO2e Diesel Consumption (GJ) 569 2,711 Water Consumption (m3) 10,032 52.3 tCO2e Water Consumption (m3) 2,152 15,914 Recycled Materials (tonnes) 2.62 Waste (Reuse & Landfill) (tonnes) 233 3,897 Waste Collected (tonnes) 655 Recycled Waste 0.6 Hazardous (gallons) 60 Non-Hazardous (tonnes) 17.39 Air Quality: In dedication to improve our air to obtain air quality information on the quality, we implemented and installed air quality community, plant trees to increase carbon metres and sensors around the community to sequestration, and coordinate with JLT track and provide critical data to stakeholders. towers to collaborate on the initiation of air CASE STUDY: In 2020, DMCC will work closely with Etisalat quality audits. Uptown Dubai Renewable Energy and Digitalisation DMCC’s Uptown Dubai, in collaboration with partners, leads the way in sustainable construction. C. DRIVING INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGH THE SMART In partnership with Six Construct and Enerwhere, 180 car park spots have been mounted with AND SUSTAINABLE DISTRICT STRATEGY solar panels and are touted as the largest solar car park in the world for a construction site. The use of solar energy reduced the carbon footprint of the construction site by 50% and is Smart Mobility roll out smart devices, services, and platforms to supported by a 500 kWp stand-alone solar-diesel-hybrid microgrid. It is estimated that a total of In 2020, DMCC is planning to launch a number drive efficiencies across public amenities, energy 6,698 tCO2 will be reduced, which results in a 73% reduction of emissions when compared to a of mobility solutions for the Master Community consumption, asset and building management, conventional construction site set-up. using smart technology to deliver the following: which also includes 5G Wi-Fi available across • Smart parking; the entire district. We have also created a virtual Secondly, DMCC’s construction partner BESIX has implemented smart applications, such as • Electric car charging stations; district that includes a geographic information ‘Propergate’, ‘Wakecap’, and ‘Sablono’, which have improved productivity, enhanced efficiency, • Bus service; system (GIS) that better manages spatial data reduced paper use, and significantly improved the health and safety of workers. For example, • Electric buggies. and information sharing with partners. Wakecap’s technology connects to workers’ helmets to track ambient temperature and humidity and detect accidents to accelerate decisions made to prioritise workers’ health and safety. Smart Infrastructure In order to make our operations seamless, A partnership has been launched with Etisalat to we are planning to centralise our Smart & 5 Data for diesel and solar power have been collected in kWh and converted to GJ using a conversion factor of 277.77 28 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 29 Sustainable City Sustainable District Platform with Smart Dubai launched several awareness campaigns to and create guidelines for stakeholders in the highlight the added value of the upcoming Master Community to better align the efforts improvements and the new services that towards the sustainable community. will soon be available in the community to ensure that our stakeholders are updated In addition, we also commissioned a study first-hand on the implementation of the to evaluate the feasibility to install solar Smart & Sustainable District Strategy. panels, to provide shade for parked vehicles as well as offset energy consumption. Smart In order to enhance community engagement lighting has already been implemented in two DMCC is developing a district community clusters in JLT. Furthermore, lighting within the portal and a mobile app that will fully landscaping areas of the community has been support and address the needs of all upgraded with higher-efficiency bulbs. stakeholders. The new platform will further improve the journey of establishing In 2020, there is a number of public realm a company in DMCC, enhance the enhancements in the pipeline that include management process of existing businesses the establishment of fitness stations located and help companies thrive through accessing around the district, a dog park, half-sized new services and interacting with peers. The basketball courts, a cycle track along with residents of JLT will be able to seamlessly other landscape enhancements. engage with DMCC via digital channels, learn about the upcoming community events and Awareness available services and products they require. Community members are central to our strategy and its implementation. We have HEALTH AND SAFETY We support the government of Dubai’s vision and member companies. DMCC’s key and the UN SDG ambitions related to safe, achievements towards health and safety in smart, and sustainable cities. We have a health 2019 include: and safety policy that provides a foundation OPERATIONAL for measures taken to prosper. The Executive • Secured British Safety Council membership. Committee oversees the policy and its associated • 465 inspections conducted in both implementations, which are operationally industrial and retail units. EXCELLENCE managed by the property department. Essential • 1 million man-hours completed in Uptown training to reduce risk and guarantee a safe work with zero lost time injury (LTI). environment is non-negotiable. In 2020, Nebosh training will be offered to DMCC’s health and safety approach covers eight employees from across departments. Optimise organisational policies and procedures the organisation’s permanent employees and extends to the contractors. DMCC’s There was one lost time injury – an employee HSE guidelines support the compliance of of a subcontractor suffered an injury in the sub-developers, the Master Community, DMCC Tea Centre. 30 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 31 Operational Excellence Operational Excellence Internal Audit GOVERNANCE The Internal Audit upholds the highest standards CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE for ethical management. The audit function is Advisory Board independently managed to enhance policies, Customer-centricity is at the core of DMCC’s Added Tax (VAT) updates, UAE employment law, The advisory board comprises six procedures, and organisational value through riskDNA. We believe that the strength of our digital marketing, trade with China, and access to members appointed by the Chairperson based, objective advice, and insight. customer relationships increases their several webinars on free zone services. and is the highest governance body chances of survival and is, therefore, mutually responsible for the supervision of DMCC Sustainability Governance beneficial. DMCC’s key achievements towards economic policies and directions. The ultimate responsibility for sustainability performance and customer excellence in 2019 resides with the Executive Committee. The SDG Amongst our range of customers, we have the include: Executive Committee Steering Committee ensures the collaborative most interaction with our member companies. The Executive Committee comprises implementation of the sustainability strategy, which Of these, the majority are SMEs. Therefore, • Winner of ‘Global Free Zone of the Year’ by the primary decision-makers of the allows us to meet our commitments to the UN DMCC takes the view that supporting SMEs is the Financial Times FDI. organisation. The Committee includes Global Compact, UN WEPs, and the UN SDGs. Chief not only the right thing to do but is also good • 17,000 businesses out of which 72% are SMEs. heads of business units that ensure the Operating Officer Feryal Ahmadi and Executive for business. • DMCC contributes to 10% of Dubai’s GDP. organisation’s strategic directions are Director of Commodities & Financial Services • Launched “A Voice of the Customer” being followed. Sanjeev Dutta lead the DMCC sustainability agenda. A source of pride for DMCC is the work it does programme, which facilitates a closed-loop to support entrepreneurship in the UAE. This process to analyse and report on customer year, SMEs and entrepreneurs were provided feedback. with 38 training hours on cybersecurity, Value ADVISORY BOARD AUDIT HUMAN RIGHTS AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE We approach human rights in line with DMCC is in the process of integrating the UN Global Compact’s principles on sustainable supply chain practices into the human rights and the Universal Declaration tender process. We define local suppliers as of Human Rights. We also respect those entities that have in-country operations SDG STEERING COMMITTEE the International Labour Organisation and conduct transactions in UAE dirham. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work in compliance with UAE DMCC’s key achievements towards human labour laws. rights and procurement practices in 2019 In his capacity as Ruler of Dubai, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice include: President and Prime Minister of the UAE, has issued Law No. 3 of 2020, to be implemented in We understand that our responsibility to 2020, which will require DMCC to establish a Board of Directors. The objective is to enhance the protect these fundamental rights goes • Integrated human rights in the supplier flow of commodities in the UAE through strong governance. beyond our operations and that we must code of conduct. also look at our supply chain. Therefore, • Educated free zone companies and senior this year, the supplier code of conduct was management on the ten principles of the revised to emphasise DMCC’s commitment UN Global Compact. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE to the Ten Principles of the UN Global • Developed a questionnaire and guidelines Compact, the UN SDGs, and the UN WEP’s. for responsible procurement. We are acutely aware that our success directly impacts Dubai’s macroeconomic growth. Suppliers are encouraged to familiarise • Sourced 95% of its procured services and Therefore, we are continuously finding new ways to diversify our revenue streams. DMCC’s free themselves with, and adopt, these materials from local suppliers, a 1% increase zone contributes the highest proportion of overall revenue for the organisation. international standards. on the previous year. 32 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 33 Operational Excellence Operational Excellence We were the first free zone in the country to Launched a partnership with LinkedIn to empower DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION, become a WEPs signatory and have made a employees with eLearning tools with engaging, multimedia EMIRATISATION, AND concerted effort towards a 'top to bottom' content and tailored curricula. GENDER EQUALITY gender balance of our workforce. We recognise that a diverse workforce leads The UAE commits to empower ‘people with to innovation and creativity. Therefore, determination’ through love, employment, and we are proud of our equal opportunity facilities. At DMCC, we champion this mandate. recruitment policy. Additionally, no incidents DMCC’s key data points on diversity and WELLBEING of discrimination were reported during 2019. inclusion in 2019 include: We evaluate three components when we In 2019, we introduced wellbeing into our • Launched eight events and activities assess diversity & inclusion: Emiratisation, • 22% of senior managers are Emirati sustainability agenda after it was identified as focused on wellness and health. gender equality, and ‘people of determination’. nationals who make up 13% of the total a material topic by stakeholders. It was found • Offered 11 wellness-related concessions to These three components are backed by workforce versus 23% and 14% in 2018. that employees, visitors, and residents want DMCC employees and family. national programmes, and progress under • Ten interns participated in the Emiratisation experiences that elevate mental and physical • Held 39 events in partnership with each assists the UAE national plan. graduate programme. health. The National Programme reinforces community restaurants, retailers, and local • 6% increase in female representation on the this notion of happiness and wellbeing, which organisations. We host an Emiratisation graduate board. we wholeheartedly support. • For the third year in a row, DMCC programme that resulted in the recruitment of • 36% female representation in the workforce Corporate Games took place, which five young Emiratis this year. It is because of versus 37% in 2018. DMCC has a successful track record as host to engaged employees, encouraged them efforts like this that Emirati nationals are the • One person of determination recruited. vibrant events that elevate the human spirit, to get active, and involved various sports second-largest nationality at DMCC. mentally and physically, such as ‘DMCC Family and physical health challenges. Days’, which have been held for the last three • Aligned with the UN Global Compact SDG years. 3, DMCC invited employees to participate in a free body analysis conducted by DMCC’s key achievements toward wellbeing in Fitness First Gym in celebration of World DMCC’s key data points towards training and TRAINING AND development in 2019 include: 2019 include: Health Day. DEVELOPMENT • 5,767 online learning hours, including We want our employees to have staying customer service staff engagement. power and to be fulfilled. We understand that • A target of 20 hours per employee annually Executed 14 events Gym and fitness club to achieve these two things, employees need was established. with a total of 36,959 memberships, healthy opportunities to learn. • The average female employee received attendees including meal plans, dental 23 hours of training and the average male employees, visitors, and health check-up Therefore, we offer a variety of learning employee received 16 hours. and residents concessions opportunities and, with every year, become • An 80%+ target for the satisfaction survey more innovative in our approach. Some achieved an 86% average score. of these opportunities include leadership programmes, coaching, and rotations. All In 2019, HR launched the Learning Management employees receive a performance review and System (LMS) as a digital solution for all JLT Festive Market Outdoor cinema event are provided with a satisfaction survey to fill learning and development needs. The solution held in December held throughout March out to ensure continuous improvement. This acts as a learning gate for employees to be able attracted 20,696 and April attracted year, we introduced online training, which to access all training and development courses visitors 4,900 visitors resulted in a considerable boost of learning and materials in different formats. The target is hours for the entire workforce. that 100% of DMCC employees utilise the LMS. 34 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 35 Responsible Business Ecosystem REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND ANTICORRUPTION We recognise that effective regulatory • Updated and published internal policies compliance is intrinsic to anticorruption and external guidance covering Designated efforts. As a UN Global Compact participant, Non-Financial Businesses and Professions we take Principle 10 on anticorruption (DNFBPs), Suspicious Transaction Reporting seriously and, hence, have a zero-tolerance issuance, Whistleblowing, Ultimate Beneficial approach to it. This approach also extends to Ownership provisions, and AML/CFT. member companies. • As part of the Operational Readiness Our regulatory compliance function assesses Inspection (ORI), there were 5,909 physical internal business risks and also identifies inspections undertaken and 713 inspections mitigation factors that can reduce these risks. of companies with flexi-desk leases. Risk identification is overseen by the Executive • The legal team updated and published the and Risk Committee. Each department is Legal Policy and Procedures guidelines. responsible for the identification of potential risks to their designated function, which are Additionally, ORI for member companies then stipulated in a risk register. resulted in 36 fines to a total amount of AED 540,000. In 2019, 77 companies were DMCC’s key achievements to create a safe sanctioned for non-provision of information. and compliant business environment in 2019 DMCC Legal is compliant with the International include: Standard of Auditing (ISA). If three or more cases are brought against the same company, • Proactive member of the UAE task force the company will go through an inspection and formulated in preparation of the Financial dispute resolution process. There were three Action Task Force (FATF) UAE assessment. instances of this in 2019. • Two Anti-Money Laundering and Combating We are dedicated to advance initiatives in 2020 Financial Terrorism (AML/CFT) seminars regarding AML/CFT supervision of DNFBPs. RESPONSIBLE under DMCC’s knowledge series programme Initiatives will include training, guidance, and targeted to member companies. the implementation of a Compliance Hub. BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM The Compliance Hub will provide a third-party compliance resource for SMEs that do not currently have compliance capabilities. Through stakeholder support, DMCC intends to reduce compliance incidents Create a resilient foundation for positive impact and create a more prosperous business community for all. 36 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 37 Responsible About DMCCBusiness Ecosystem Responsible Business Ecosystem Beyond regulation, we take an advocacy role. RESPONSIBLE DIGITALISATION, DATA For example, we hosted the World Federation of Diamond Bourses and International SOURCING PROTECTION, AND Manufacturers Association meeting and presented at the Responsible Jewellery Council’s President’s meeting. CYBERSECURITY DMCC facilitates the trade flow of coffee, tea, DMCC’s key achievements to effectively support precious stones, and metals. Our responsibility a responsible trade ecosystem in 2019 include: is to provide an infrastructure that promotes DMCC recognises that digitalisation introduced, and a penetration test (VAPT) was best practice sourcing protocols. • DMCC oversaw the Kimberley Process office must remain a top priority as the world conducted. in the UAE, responsible for the exit and entry becomes more integrated and dependent We navigate this critical topic through regulation of all rough diamonds. The first on digital access. The information DMCC’s key achievements towards strategic partnerships such as the Organisation Kimberley Process office in the world to be technology (IT) department of DMCC acts digitalisation, data protection, and for Economic Cooperation and Development awarded the ISO 9001 certification. as the gatekeeper of all innovation and cybersecurity in 2019 include: (OECD) and the Kimberley Process. • UAE Kimberley Process office presented implementation of digital solutions. measures taken to enhance quality, • DMCC achieved a 90% digitalised The Ministry of Economy, in collaboration efficiency, and transparency to HE Sultan We understand that enhanced digitalisation workstream. with DMCC, has been a proud member of the Bin Saeed Al Mansoori, UAE Minister of leads to increased threats of security. • Delivered 70+ enhancements to improve the Kimberley Process for 18 years. The certification Economy. The presentation was an initiative Therefore, IT solicits third-party support to customer service experience and services. was acquired to uphold high trade and global under the ‘Ministry of Economy Strategic conduct information security regulations • Onboarded ‘iSupplier’ aligned with the standards and protect the legitimate diamond Objectives 2017-2021.’ (ISR) gap analysis. 41% of the gaps paperless initiative. industry locally and abroad. • To localise international standards, DMCC identified were addressed. Additionally, a • Executed wireless sensor networks and smart published a publicly available Arabic data loss prevention (DLP) solution was lighting across JLT. We believe Dubai needs to be at the forefront translation for ‘The Diamond Terminology of responsible global gold trade. Therefore, Guidelines’, endorsed by the world’s leading Initiatives under the Smart and Sustainable District Strategy in-progress: we have actively led the establishment of diamond industry organisation. responsible sourcing regulatory standards, • DMCC has partnered with the Diamond such as the DMCC Practical Guidance for Development Initiative (DDI) to improve Market Participants in the Gold and Precious the lives of small-scale diamond miners. Metals Industry (the ‘DMCC Guidance’) and Our Executive Chairman, Ahmed Bin DMCC Rules for Risk-Based Due Diligence in Sulayem, led a DMCC delegation to the the Gold and Precious Metals Supply Chain Democratic Republic of the Congo to visit (the ‘DMCC Rules for RBD-GPM’). the project site. Smart District Community Mobile App Platform Portal DMCC / DDE Diamond Centres AWDC / 4x bourses GJPEC / BDB / SDB / IDI CIBJO RJC Industry Organizations IDMC DPA MyKYCBank World Federation of 31 Bourses Diamond Bourses Arbitration / Mediation & Sanctions (IDMA) Code of Conduct 40 Members World Diamond Council Represents the industry with the KP Smart Lighting Smart Kiosk Parking Sensors DIAMOND Introducing new SoW INDUSTRY Kimberley Process 82 countries working against REGULATORY Cetification Scheme conflict diamonds FRAMEWORK In 2020, DMCC will secure the ISO Certification 27001 to enhance the IT infrastructure. 38 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 39 Social Impact SOCIAL IMPACT We have formalised our approach to social impact with the introduction of a social impact policy, centred on progress towards the SDGs, that will guide all community investments. We have identified the following goals to focus on: DMCC GIVES BACK 2019 was a milestone year in which 0.5% of the company’s net profit will be allocated towards social impact annually. Diamond Development Initiative and DMCC Elevating Women Entrepreneurs Come Together for Artisanal Miners We believe that female-led organisations are the The Diamond Development Initiative, the way of the future and, through our free zone, we SOCIAL implementation agent, and DMCC came together in 2018 to drive the formalisation of the artisanal mining sector in the Democratic are in a privileged position to support them. Therefore, this year, we launched a scheme in IMPACT Republic of Congo. In 2019, it was reported which the notable female-led social enterprise that 169 artisanal miners were registered on Evolvin' Women was invited to become a member the programme, benefitting from training of the free zone with access to office facilities. and cooperative structures to move from The office space will be used by women who are transient work to formal smallto mediuma part of the Evolvin' Women programme. In this scaled mining. programme, unemployed women with limited access to quality education from Africa come to the UAE for experiential learning experiences and career development opportunities at local hotels. 40 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2019 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 41 www.dmcc.ae
