Communication on Progress 2019 Summary Summary • Company presentation • Renewal of management commitment • Human Rights • International Labour Standards • Environment • Anti-Corruption • Indicators Company presentation History of SURYS: a 35-year journey « This journey started nearly three decades ago when, inspired by the rich potential of holographic science and propelled by our relentless quest for innovation, we began to design solutions to the world’s authentication challenges. » SURYS Heritage “Start-up” Growth 1984 2009 Acquisition of Advestigo Key Corporate Milestones & Creation of Hologram Industries (R&D digital) 2014 2006 Acquisition of 2010 Trigenion Acquisition of • Acquisition of Keesing (equipment for ID Daussmann 1998 Reference Systems in the personalization) Acquisitions Holographics Company is listed Netherlands (R&D) in Germany 2011 Specialization in Digital • First Government document 2019 • First Brand Protection project 2012 • December : SURYS First Fiduciary products (banknotes, acquisition by IN Product Development & • Launch of Optical casino coins, tax stamps) 2002 Smart labels group DIDTM adopted on banknotes 2010 • First PhotometrixTM 1999 Selection by Central Bank to produce On an official ID 1993-1994 Development of Vehicle Philippines banknotes (DIDTM) document Commercialization Exclusive focus on Security Holograms (abandonment of products (HolocisTM) 2018 Display Holography) 2003 Launch and 1st project 1989 Development of ID documents for authentication of DIDTM Wave for 1998 and anti-counterfeiting Diversification into Security Selection by the ECB(1) banknotes Holograms for identification for the Euro notes 2015 cards/credit cards Production of Smart Labels Display for Moët Hennessy Holography Diversification Security Solutions 6 Technlogy pillars of SURYS expertise • Investment in R&D (7 to 10% of revenues are reinvested each year) • 40 researchers, engineers and et technicians • 4 internal laboratories • Collaborations and joint labs with French academics Optical Science Chemistry Material Science Nanostructured Digital Equipment Film It is essential to master Essential for designing the combination of Critical for selecting Critical for the It is essential to and developing various materials Critical to complete optimal adhesives, industrial production develop solutions to advanced and visually (substrates) and to the offer and retain varnishes and thin film of complex serve emerging digital attractive optical understand the customers deposition. nanostructures. markets. security features. customer's operational needs. 7 What are SURYS' activities? Design Develop Industrialize 4 areas of expertise A worldwide presence 390 employees €93m of 90% of the business is 10% worldwide international is reinvested Turnover in 2018 in R&D Present in 127 countries Bussy-Saint-Georges, France Head office, Production site 12,000 m2 10 Our certifications Quality Environment Health & Safety Printing Safety Business ethics 11 From science to confidence we manage your journey 12 Our values Renewal of management commitment SURYS is a french company which today employs more than 400 people worldwide. Since 1984, our solutions have been helping to build a safer and more sustainable world on a daily basis in more than 127 countries. Committed to the values advocated by the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the UN and a loyal member of the Global Compact organization, our CSR approach is an integral part of our culture. Our employees are all passionate, bold and honest. Each of them is working to meet a major challenge: the fight against crime and counterfeiting. As Chief Executive Officer, I renew SURYS' voluntary commitment to sustainable development and the application of the 10 fundamental principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Fabio Tremolada – Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Respect for human rights at Surys Surys has not received any complaints concerning the respect of human rights. 2018 2019 Number of 0 0 Human Rights engagment complaints SURYS is proud to show its commitment to justice, human rights, fundamental freedoms and its determination to contribute to a safer world. Alerting device The purpose of the procedure for collecting alerts is to encourage the reporting of With the SAPIN 2 (2016) law, companies information when a crime, offence or must set up a process to report a crime or behaviour contrary to morality, law or delict, a serious and manifest violation of Internal engagment regulation is detected. an international commitment duly ratified or approved by France, an unilateral act of This procedure ensures the confidentiality of an international organization taken on the the victim and the impartial treatment of his basis of such an undertaking, the law or the report. SURYS has set up an email address to regulations, or a serious threat or prejudice collect and process employee alerts in to the general interest, of which it has accordance with the procedure in force. personal knowledge». SURYS : a major actor in the promotion of respect for human rights Indeed, with its core business, SURYS creates an innovative technology to be better protected against: fraud; counterfeiting; External engagments and even terrorist attacks, in particular by the protection of identity documents. International Labour Standards Integration of new entrants The day of integration: through this day new talents are immersed in our businesses and our company's values. Feeling welcome Once a month the newcomers are gathered together to share a breakfast and listen to a speech by the General Manager. Each new employee has a mentor which First day of integration at SURYS will be the designated chaperone during the integration period. In 2019, 7 newcomers benefited from the integration day. Integration of new entrants The integration process: An individual and personalized program is proposed by the Human Resources Department. The purpose of this program is to create interaction between the expert and new entrants. In addition it fosters understanding of the roles and responsibilities of each person in the company. Feeling welcome All new entrants have an HSE and safety integration: two key aspects at SURYS. The QHSSE politic Working in safety The occupational risk assessment According to the regulations, our occupational risk assessment is updated : Annually; After each incident; After process modification. Working in safety Is It is constantly updated by feedback from audits, incident reports and proactive risk analyses, which help to define the action plan for the coming year. Interference risk management is a daily challenge covered by robust prevention plans and safety protocols. Safety audits SURYS has decided to set up in 2020 a specific HSE audit program in addition to QHSE audits. The Working in safety purpose of safety audits is to check if safety rules are understood and applied by all and to identify possible improvements. Operational communication SURYS communicates on HSE subjects to its team by different means : Boards in production; 1/4h HSE monthly; Working in safety Daily presence in the field. Quality of Working Life (QWL) Agreements Right of Each year, Quality of Expression Working Life Agreements are negotiated with union stewards with the aim of Agreements Private life Feeling good concluding and signing Teleworking QWL 2019 work life balance agreements to ensure the preservation of employees’ well-being Right to disconnect Surys team forum Several times a year, employees meet for a meal to discuss with management the problems encountered on a daily basis in the various sectors. Suggestions for improvement are then forwarded to action managers. Feeling good Company events SURYS to federate its collaboratoes (I don’t know what this means; I think you want something different in English) organizes various events during the year:  Annual evenings  « Galette des Rois » Feeling good  Chinese New Year  Cabécou Party Cabécou Party, September2018  Christmas raffle SURYS also has a football team. Other events can be organized on an ad hoc basis depending on the current news. Social diagnosis In 2018, SURYS undertook a social diagnosis of all its employees. Thanks to the results of the survey, working groups were initiated leading to the development of short and medium-term action plans. Feeling good Some numbers: -293 people consulted -60% participation rate -9 areas for improvement Equality of treatment SURYS has been pursuing a policy of equal pay for several years. Thanks to this policy SURYS obtains a score of 84 points out of 100 in 2019 on the index of professional equality between women and men. Feeling equal Actions are being taken to improve this score: Encouraging internal promotion; Tend towards gender balance in female, or male, dominated services. Disabled workers A disabled workers’ ambassador was present at the Bussy-Saint-Georges factory once-a-month for several months. The TH ambassador accompanies and advises the employees through permanent offices (not sure what this means) to assist them in their Feeling equal administrative procedures and answer their questions. Exceptional purchasing power bonus The company decided to grant a bonus to employees who received a remuneration below the amount equivalent to twice the amount of the SMIC. In 2019, this bonus was 600 euros. Exempt from employee contributions, it increases the purchasing power of SURYS employees. Feeling equal Creating partnerships SURYS wants to create and maintain partnerships with several schools in order to recruit and detect talents. Several trainees are present in the premises of the company. Encouraging vocations SURYS also participates in job forums to attract talented candidates and expert. Creating partnerships SURYS has made a donation to Simplon school. Simplon is a network of solidarity and inclusive factories that offer free training in Encouraging vocations digital technology in France and abroad. The school mainly trains job seekers. The environment Energy component SURYS is committed to highlighting the control of its energy consumption. From 2020, a project aimed at reducing our energy bill by 10% compared to 2019 will be started and will Environmental impact be articulated around several aspects: • Identification of deposits; • Financial package for investments; • Implementation of technological solutions adapted to our problems; • Measurement and follow-up of energy savings. Aqueous discharge control For several years, SURYS has been using substantial financial and human resources to reduce its impact on the aqueous compartment linked to its activity: Setting up and daily management of an industrial Environmental impact water treatment plant in the historic building Installation and daily management of an industrial water treatment plant in the new building Installation in 2020 of an automated cleaning station for printing tableware, enabling us to reduce our consumption and aqueous discharges on the one hand and improve working conditions on the other. Atmospheric emissions SURYS improves its air treatment devices from year to year, in particular by installing and operating a thermal oxidizer or a washing tower to neutralize alkaline effluents. Environmental impact Thanks to these installations, SURYS controls the impact of its manufacturing process on its environment. Accidental spills An accidental spill is an accident that has an impact on the environment. 2018 2019 Environmental impact Number of 0 0 accidental spills Substitution of the most hazardous products The technical teams in 2019 have substantially contributed to a major success in terms of chemical risk prevention. Indeed, they substituted one of the most risky products used on the site, the cornerstone of the manufacturing process. Hazardous Materials Management The technical teams continue to study future substitution by prioritizing their work on the basis of the chemical risk analysis. Anti-Corruption Compliance & Ethics Our values – integrity, trust, honesty, and transparency – reflect our continued commitment to ethical business practices and legal compliance. SURYS applies a zero-tolerance policy on corruption in all forms. Culture and commitments We take a strong stand against bribery, kickbacks, and facilitation payments, and promote a culture of excellence in all our relationships with third parties with the highest level of commitment with regards to ethical rules. All employees and business partners must conduct themselves in accordance with the rules and the law and must have knowledge of corruption-related practices, especially in their relationship with government officials and public agents, towards which most of national and international laws devote particular attention. All employees acting on behalf of SURYS must be free from conflicts of interest that could influence their judgment or their objectivity in conducting business activities. In 2018 and in 2019 none corruption incident was registered. The Banknote Ethics Initiative BnEI accreditation The Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) is an initiative established to provide ethical business practice, with a focus on the prevention of corruption and on compliance with anti-trust law within the banknote industry. As a founding member of the IHMA (International Hologram Manufacturers Association), SURYS actively cooperates with the world’s leading hologram companies to maintain the highest professional standards and the highest principles of business ethics since 1993. Today, SURYS is proud to commit to the BnEI global ethics initiative that reflects our values of integrity, trust, honesty, and transparency. Code of Business Conduct «Corruption is illicit retribution or any other behavior towards persons with responsibilities in the public or private sector, who contravenes the duties they have by virtue of their status as public servants, employees of the private sector, independent agent or other such relationship and which is intended to provide undue advantages of any kind whatsoever, for themselves or for a third party.» It is prohibited to pay, offer or agree to pay bribes or grant undue advantages to a public official Anti-Corruption and/or a private person in order to obtain preferential treatment or to influence the outcome of a negotiation in which the Group has an interest. If an employee pays bribes in the course of his or her professional activities, he or she may be subject to criminal sanctions and the termination of his or her employment contract. These measures are described in the company's Code of Business Conduct. In particular, it specifies that only gifts or benefits of low value, which are not paid in cash and are in accordance with current business practice and not contrary to law or regulations, may be accepted. SURYS encourages its employees to donate the gifts received to the CSE for the organization of the annual tombola. Indicators Indicators in the report Indicators 2018 2019 Number of complaints 0 0 concerning the respect of human rights Integration of new entrants 0 7 with the integration day Indicators Score on equality of treatment Not applicable 84 Number of accidental spills 0 0 Ethic accreditation 1 1 CONTACTS : SURYS Parc d’activités Gustave Eiffel 22 Avenue de l'Europe 77607 Bussy-Saint-Georges +33 (0)1 64 76 31 00
