2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY 04 CEO STATEMENT REPORT 06 THE MSC GROUP, A FAMILY COMPANY 12 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT WHILE ADDRESSING DISRUPTIONS IN GLOBAL SUPPLY AND VALUE CHAINS 26 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS 34 SOCIAL INCLUSION 56 ENVIRONMENT 88 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 106 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 134 ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO STATEMENT We are publishing our 2019 Sustainability Report while The world needs changes, and we all need to play an facing one of the major challenges of the century. What active part in redefining the present while ­building the we thought would be a health threat has ­suddenly future. MSC’s commitment to fully support this journey turned into a global health crisis with unpredictable is well embedded in our DNA: as a family c­ ompany, we global socio-economic impacts, hitting countries, econofeel an integral part of the global community. Helping mies and people around the world disproportionately to make this transition happen, through our unique in the short and long term. approach to shipping and our fast decision-making process, is very important to us, and we consider it to This unprecedented event accelerated the understandbe part of acting responsibly. ing that globalisation creates not only new opportunities for wealth and trade, but also adverse and ­unexpected In this new era, we have clearly understood the true impacts requiring transformative approaches and resilvalue of the word “indispensable” and have reassessed ience at the same time. From now on, more flexible the importance of those activities that have been taken and faster responses and, above all, determination will for granted so much that they became invisible. With be instrumental in developing new pathways. Working the world suddenly paralysed, guaranteeing the transDiego Aponte Group President and CEO, Capt. Gianluigi Aponte Group Chairman, Alexa Aponte Vago Group Chief Financial Officer together is and will be more fundamental than ever, port of goods became fundamental and, in this scenario, and sharing know-how and visions will certainly lead the shipping industry has been praised for its central Reviewing our contingency plans, adapting ­capacity on board for their excellent work and for the extraorto a new generation of multi-stakeholder partnerships. role in guaranteeing interconnection at global level. and, whenever necessary, redefining our routes to dinary commitment demonstrated in such challenging Businesses, regulators and the investor community We commend the recognition in this respect received offer better solutions to our customers and business times. Our top priorities will therefore continue to be are already addressing some of those adverse impacts by the international community, including specialised partners, as well as absorbing the shift from air and strengthening human capital management, ensurby jointly supporting the transition to a low-carbon United Nations Agencies such as the ILO and the IMO, in intra-­European cargo, were all part of this momentum. ing safe crew changes and the safe repatriation of our economy, promoting stricter and more transparent due valuing our sector and ­especially s­ eafarers as essential. In parallel and, as a direct consequence, we contribseafarers, as well as further enhancing robust health diligence processes as well as by generating or leveruted to reducing emissions on a global level, as liner and safety protection protocols and measures across aging capital markets driven by impact investing and To better illustrate how we successfully translate our shipping is still less impactful than other modes of transour ships, infrastructure and offices. blended finance models based on ESG criteria. commitment into concrete actions, we have included port. Despite this particular situation, we kept focusing in this report a dedicated section on the global crisis. on innovating responsibly. The significant fleet growth I would like to conclude by saying that being and remainThere is no doubt that in order to create “the future we The latter highlights our support in addressing global achieved in 2019 with new-generation ships enabled us ing a successful and responsible business enterprise in want”, we need to build a more equitable and ­sustainable trade disruptions and helping to secure economies on to further increase our environmental efficiency, thus these difficult times does not come without risks and process for development, including ­financial ­processes, the long-term while promoting responsible business pursuing the ambitious challenge of decarbonisation. challenges. However, it is the way we react to those where no one is left behind. Yet, to achieve this and practices, in line with our broader sustainability ­strategy risks and challenges that defines us and becomes our allow growing tangible contributions to the ­realisation of and our four Sustainability Pillars. Going the extra mile has always been part of the way we strength in the long term. Learning from this experience, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we need do business and we take the same approach to ­providing remaining committed to excellence and leveraging our to further enhance ­cooperation at all levels to secure During the outbreak and beyond, we played a key role help. The initiative of converting passenger ferry vessels ongoing efforts to bring further sustainable value to our the stability and long-term ­resilience of ­economies. in guaranteeing global logistics supply chain continuity. from Grandi Navi Veloci, part of the MSC Group, into customers, communities and countries in our day-to This is of paramount ­importance as it is needed to To do so, we continuously worked closely together with floating hospitals to assist patients with COVID-19 and day-operations and wherever we operate will be our ensure that all stakeholders are better prepared to port authorities and relevant stakeholders to mitigate those convalescing, in cooperation with relevant stakevery first step. overcome unexpected disruptions in value and supply impacts on trade disruptions. Thanks to our global holders and Italian authorities, is a clear example. chains, without compromising our ongoing collective reach, flexible approach and support of governments, global efforts towards fostering inclusive sustainable we were able to connect our customers with their final Yet, all of these efforts have been possible thanks to the development. receivers, securing a direct consignment. And above people who worked tirelessly to make this happen. All Diego Aponte all, we never stopped. my gratitude, once more, goes to our staff ashore and President and CEO 4 CEO STATEMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 THE MSC GROUP, A FAMILY COMPANY Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, and privately owned, the MSC Group is a leading shipping and logistics conglomerate. Guided by an innovative, flexible and unique approach to shipping, MSC’s visionary leadership transformed a single vessel operation in 1970 into a successful and sustainable global business. Over the years, despite changing trade patterns, global challenges, and competitive business environments, MSC’s human capital, portfolio of activities as well as volume and fleet capacity have grown exponentially. Today, the MSC Group is comprised of the Cargo Division (MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company, MEDLOG, TiL) and the Passenger Division (MSC Cruises, GNV, SNAV), employing over 70,000 employees for its offshore and onshore operations and activities, which go well beyond cargo services. With investments in terminals in some of the world’s key shipping hubs and ports, integrated logistics solutions that stretch across the globe by road, rail and sea, as well as ferries and award-winning luxury cruises, MSC truly connects the world’s populations and countries. 6 THE MSC GROUP, A FAMILY COMPANY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 GRAPHIC A CARGO DIVISION PASSENGER DIVISION GRAPHIC A GRAPHIC A GRAPHIC A 560 200 500 21 million 155 493 vessels routes ports of call TEU carried annually countries offices Fleet Investment Plan up to 2021 200 500 21 million TEU 155 493 3,845 ports of call A global leader routes 560 200 500 carried annually 21 million560 countries155 200 offices 493 500 21 million 155 493 port calls in shipping and 560 vessels 200 routes ports of call 500 TEU carried 21 million annually vessels 2019155countries routes 493 offices 2020 ports of call TEU carried annually 2021The offices world’s largest countries 17 vessels routes Fleet Investmentports of call Plan up to TEU carried 2021 countries annually offices privately owned modern and technologically logistics Fleet Investment Plan up 15 to new2021 ships Fleet Investment 1 new ship Plan up to 2021 5 new ships advanced ships 211 2019 Investment Plan 2020up to 2021 2021 cruise company 3,845 3,845 Fleet 1-12k+ TEU 4-14k+ TEU port calls itineraries 23k+ TEU 23K+ TEU 3,845 port calls 201915 new ships 2020 1 new ship 10-23K+ TEU 2019 2021ships 5 new 2020 2021 17 Nº1 cruise line port calls17 2.75 560152019 TEU 4-14k+ TEU 2020 2021 in Europe, South America, 17modern and technologically modern and million guests technologically new1-12k+ ships 1 new ship 23k+ TEU 15 new ships 5 new 23k+ships TEU 1 new ship 5 new ships advanced South Africa and the Gulf 211 advanced ships 81 211 vessels 10-23k+ TEU modern and ships technologically 15 new ships 1-12k+ TEU 4-14k+ TEU 1 new ship 1-12k+ TEU 5x15 new ships 4-14k+ TEU x1 x5 advanced ships 211itineraries countries itineraries 23k+ TEU 1-12k+ TEU 4-14k+ TEU 23K+ TEU 23k+ TEU 23K+ TEU 1-12k+ TEU 10-23K+ TEU TEU 4-14k+ 10-23K+ TEU Nº1 cruise line 2.75 Nº1 cruise line itineraries 2.75 23k+ TEU 23K+ TEU 10-23K+ TEU Nº1 in Europe, cruise lineSouth America, millioninguests Europe, South America, 2.75 million guests inSouth Europe,Africa South and the Gulf America, South Africa and the Gulf 81 million guests 81 x15 x1 x15 x5 x1 x5 81countries countries South Africa and the Gulf x15 x1 x5 countries One of world’s largest A leading company terminal investors Present at 7 of 34+ million 62 terminals 15 ships 13 ships 18 1.7 the world’s 25 container moves 2 greenfield operating in the fields and seasonal major routes million and operators busiest ports per year terminals of coastal navigation, chartered ships passengers by volume (MSC and TiL) cargo and passenger Present at 7 of 34+ million Present at 762 of terminals 34+ million 15 ships 62 terminals transport in 13the ships 18ships 15 1.713 ships 18 1.7 the world’s Present at 7 of25 container 34+ million moves the world’s 62225 greenfield terminals container moves 15 ships 2 greenfield and seasonal 13 ships 18 routes major million 1.7and seasonal major routes million Mediterranean Sea world’sports thebusiest 25 container per year moves busiest ports terminals 2 greenfield per year terminals chartered and ships seasonal major routes passengers chartered ships million passengers by volume busiest ports (MSC per yearand TiL) by volumeterminals (MSC and TiL) chartered ships passengers by volume (MSC and TiL) 17 92 MEDWAY routes connections / day (summer) 70 163 8+ million sqm, 4.4 million 17 92 17 92 Global transport countries operating 1 million TEU TEU 17routes 92connections / routes connections / MEDWAY This shipping company MEDWAY MEDWAY 25 1 17 4.4 and logistics yards stacking transported routes day (summer) connections / day (summer) MEDWAY fast cruise ports million capacity by operates road, ferry services day (summer) services provider ferries ferry of call passengers 70 163 8+ million70 sqm, 4.4 million rail or andbarge is a leader in 163 8+ million sqm, 4.4 million countries 70 operating 163 8+ 1million million sqm, countries TEU TEU 4.4 million operating 1 million TEU TEU the yards transported 25 1 Mediterranean Sea 17 25 1 4.4 17 4.4 countries operating stacking 1 million TEU TEU yards stacking transported by road, fast 25 cruise 1 17ports fast cruise4.4million ports million yards capacity stacking transported capacity by road, ferries cruise fast ferry of call ferries ports passengers ferrymillion of call passengers capacity railroad, by or barge rail or barge ferries ferry of call passengers rail or barge 8 THE MSC GROUP, A FAMILY COMPANY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 JUNE OCTOBER MEDLOG launched MSC was named the Collateral Management ‘The Greenest Shipowner (CM) Programme to of the Year’ for its efforts promote innovative to promote the sustainaDECEMBER financial opportunities ble use of marine resources MARCH MSC Cruises launched the Ocean Cay and facilitate access to and investments in green MSC was the first Programme, the successful conversion finance for exporters technologies shipping line to of an industrial wasteland into or importers MSC announced that gain recognition for APRIL a natural paradise MSC was the first liner it will not explore or use excellence beyond MSC committed to MSC is a key driving force carrier in the industry the Northern Sea Route existing safety a leadership role in behind a USD 5 billion global fund to offer customers between Europe and Asia regulations, for the Digital Container to cut emissions the option to offset for container shipping, its measures to Shipping Association AUGUST MSC is the first major shipping line JANUARY the unavoidable carbon focusing instead on reducing mitigate fire risks (DCSA) to establish a MSC The first three of the to use 30% biofuel blends MSC was the primary emissions caused by the environmental impact of onboard vessels common technology 23,000+ TEU Gülsün Class MEDLOG opened a barge terminal shore-power user the transportation of existing shipping trade routes MEDLOG supported foundation increasing ships (MSC Gülsün, MSC inland depot facility in Nigeria to connect in Shenzhen: 42% of their cargo, thanks to a humanitarian relief standardisation and partnership with Samar and MSC Isabella) NOVEMBER inland locations and remote areas the calls were made during Cyclone harmonisation within were delivered – the largest Launch of the MSC Foundation TiL recorded significant increases in by MSC vessels South Pole Idai by providing the shipping industry container vessels in the world and disclosure of the main the number of TEU moved per quay metre logistic services areas of impact and per hectare of yard space, a rise in FEBRUARY MSC Cruises Christening MAY JULY SEPTEMBER MSC Cruises Christening of berth productivity, as well as a reduction MSC received of MSC Bellissima, MEDLOG activated MEDLOG officially became MSC jointly with MSC Grandiosa, one of the in fuel consumption per move recognition from a state-of-the-art ship the integration of a rail freight operator in MSC Foundation most environmentally sound TiL made full or partial acquisitions Port of Oakland for featuring the latest four new electric Italy, expanding its existing supported emergency ships at sea and an energyat terminals in three strategic global 100% shore powerin environmental locomotives into European intermodal network response initiatives efficient role model for locations: La Réunion, Seattle and ready vessels technology its Iberian fleet under the name of Medway after Hurricane Dorian modern cruising Gioia Tauro HIGHLIGHTS 2019 10 THE MSC GROUP, A FAMILY COMPANY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 SUPPORTING DEVELOPMENT WHILE ADDRESSING DISRUPTIONS IN GLOBAL SUPPLY AND VALUE CHAINS 12 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 KEEPING THE WORLD MOVING RESPONSIBLY DURING THE GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 While we were writing this report, the new coronavirus us to realise that we live in a truly globalised world, SHIPPING AS A STRATEGIC ACTOR IN THE CRISIS SCENARIO (COVID-19) was suddenly changing our world and the which relies on complex integrated systems with strong way we were living and working. In just a few months, mutual dependencies across multiples countries. As a This unprecedented event clearly showed the strategic role Additionally, we adjusted our capacity and, when necesthe pandemic affected all human beings, societies and result, as never before in the last century, we observed of the shipping industry in supporting the global ­economy. sary, reviewed our routes, to absorb the shift from air economies. The global health crisis reshaped producthat, although responses and mitigation measures were In fact, in the early phase, aviation had to dramatically and intra-European cargo to maritime seaborne trade. tion and trade patterns, forcing to re-think global value adapted to local specificities and settings, ­different reduce operations because of the closure of many airports As a consequence, this switch generated a significant chains while enhancing concerted efforts at the ­national cultures or different levels of development, current and worldwide. The transfer of goods was therefore mainly impact on CO2 emission reduction in the transport and international level to minimise social impacts on future global challenges require and will require shared managed by sea. sector. This adds to our existing initiatives, measures workers and communities. Yet, above all, it helped responsibilities and global solutions. and strategies we are implementing to meet and/or In this scenario, granting continuity was vital to secure exceed international environmental regulations. connections at international and intercontinental level DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES and, at the same time, to directly support businesses as Thanks to the support of governments, our work well as the distribution of medicines and medical equipnever stopped. This enabled us to play a crucial ment in the critical areas across the world, thus helping role in supporting the world’s population to enjoy to mitigate the spread of the pandemic and to ensure basic needs by keeping trade flowing through our medical t­ reatment for those affected by COVID-19. global network at global, regional, national and sub-­ SUSTAINING PROTECTING AND SECURING SHIPPING & LOGISTICS FLOW: SEAFARERS national levels. As one of the key actors in global supply chains, ECONOMIES MSC reacted promptly, showing flexibility, resilience At the same time, MSC enhanced and continued to GLOBALLY and financial strength, despite the difficult operating implement procedures to prevent health risks to its conditions. We remained fully committed to ensuring employees around the world and its crew on board RISK ASSESSMENTS & ANALYSIS OF HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS business continuity by maintaining essential services ships. As soon as reports of the outbreak emerged, across all markets, thus contributing to the high-­priority we immediately implemented robust health protection transport of essential goods such as foods, critical measures across our ships, infrastructure and offices, agricultural products, raw materials, medical equipin line with the official guidance from the World Health ment and other vital supplies. Connecting our customers Organization (WHO) and in compliance with national with their final receivers also has a strategic implicaauthorities’ recommendations. We made sure to keep tion related to the mitigation of the pandemic, due to these measures in place as long as necessary to help the possible contamination of the goods during the counter the threat of the disease and protect our people transfer. Securing a direct consignment and reducing and their families. the risk of contamination while providing a door-to-door service are considered instrumental in this particular situation. VERTICALLY EXTERNALLY ADAPTING TO CATALYSING UNEXPECTED JOINT EFFORTS WORKING AND EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RESPONSE ssive Identification and prioritization of Engagement and awareness through risks across MSC’s entities raising on MSC’s Human Rights peration 14 Due Diligence processes with MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 nits, Human Rights Impacts key external stakeholders, SUSTAINING AND SECURING ECONOMIES IN THE LONG TERM GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 In our efforts to support our customers in minimising Transportation of food, including perishable food, as and from Italy to Spain, Tunisia, Albania and Morocco. in Saudi Arabia, Lomé in Togo, Rodman PSA Panama disruption to their businesses and in securing the supply well as pharmaceutical products and essential goods in Once again, during the outbreak, GNV confirmed its key International Terminal in Panama, and Tekirdag Asyaport chain, we immediately adapted our shipping services Europe, was also ensured by Grandi Navi Veloci (GNV), role in Mediterranean seaborne connections, proving in Turkey) as advance yard storage to help shippers networks to help companies ship goods more easily. part of the MSC Group. that maritime transport is an “essential infrastrucbegin moving goods early in anticipation of a resumpture asset”, especially for the major and small island tion in demand. This provided flexibility and enhanced In Europe, in particular, we a ­ ssisted shippers to use our As a leading player in supporting the development of connections. As soon as restrictions eased, GNV also operational and financial efficiency, as it empowered short sea shipping networks as a reliable alternative the European strategic short-sea and regional conneccontinued to a­ ctively promote the growth and revival of our customers through the control of their storage costs to road transport to avoid new land-border blockages tivity networks knows as “Motorways of the Sea”, GNV the Italian tourism i­ndustry through the transportation at the booking stage, while allowing them to adapt the created by governments’ essential action to curb the never stopped focusing on supply chain ­continuity. To of passengers (EUROPAX) connecting Italy and its two delivery date to their own needs. movement of people and to be prepared to meet current illustrate, during the crisis, GNV continued to ensure main islands, namely Sicily and Sardinia. and future market demands. Building on our extensive key services in the Mediterranean region, by connectIt also helped to decrease congestion in ports of direct Mediterranean and Baltic feeder network and in ing the islands to the main inlands and contributing Furthermore, MSC has continuously worked c­ losely with discharge and improve efficiency, as products were response to market and customer needs, shippers of to reduce social costs and traffic congestion: during port authorities and relevant stakeholders to mitigate placed closer to distribution networks. dry and reefer cargo could rely on MSC’s European and the period March-May 2020, about 40,000 trucks used economic impacts on customers and disruptions to Short Sea services to help ensure the continuous and maritime services instead of road transport. Examples the global community. This was achieved through the At the beginning of the pandemic, a sudden slowdown quicker flow of their goods across Europe. include services between northern and southern Italy constant monitoring of maritime network restrictions in trade resulted in a necessary reduction in capacity and joint efforts focused on adapting our complex from container shipping networks in order to match supply chain system accordingly. Preserving our usual lower demand for cargo shipments. However, as the close contact and relationships with our customers was impact of the crisis lessened during the start of the third also essential for us during those challenging times, as quarter of 2020, we kept innovating with new shipping a company that has always differentiated itself in the and logistics services, including storage facilities, while market through our personal touch. In addition to a­ ctively adapting solutions from the past. For example, we upgrading our online booking platform, myMSC, we reintroduced a service which had been discontinued in worked t­ irelessly to continuously adapt contingency plans the past but now perfectly suited a partial recovery in and advise our customers on how to manage c­ hanges, cargo volumes on a particular route. The subsequent relying on our efficient internal ­information-sharing rebounds in trade flows after the easing of lockdowns system that collects data from 155 countries. on businesses and communities have underscored the strategic importance of our flexible and reliable network During the first half of 2020, we also ­promoted innovamanagement, as well as our strong competencies in tive and cost-effective solutions to our customers delivering ad hoc services. and business partners. For example, we launched the Suspension of Transit (SOT) Container Shipping More information on how we bring long-term sustainable Programme using some of the world’s leading transvalue and keep enhancing hinterland networks and r­ egional shipment hubs around the world (Bremerhaven in connectivity can be found in the “Social Inclusion” chapter Germany, Busan in South Korea, King Abdullah Port (pages 34-55). 16 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Our ship management technical, Other assistance has included financial support, such a cash advances safety and support teams have been in certain mindful cases, of the condition ad crewproviding on hoc allocations board due to for seafarers delayed to meet relief and have PROTECTING SEAFARERS KEY ACTIONS TO HELP ADDRESS THE MAIN CHALLENGES FACED family and provided BYfor THE SHIPPING children’s additional support education not INDUSTRY AND SEAFARERS DURING THE GLOBAL PANDEMIC only for day-to-day issues but also motivated crew to share personal stories. GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 The world’s seafarers were among the categories of crew and provided social and financial support in Our ship management offices workers hardest hit by the pandemic, with many working relevant cases, while urging governments to respond to long stints at sea due to the closure of borders and the call of the UN Secretary-General – and many others COMBINED Other seafarers’ SHORT assistance has included certificates, financial& SEA worked with governments to extend in accordance INTERM support, such as cash advances with IMO guidance, allowing other restrictions on the movement of people. During in intergovernmental and industry bodies – to facilitate in certain cases, providing ad hoc crew on leave to join to start earning allocations for seafarers to meet the crisis, a number of statements, calls of action and crew changes in support of seafarers and their families. instead offor waiting for renewal family and children’s educationof communications were released by the broader intercertificates • Expanded freight capacity national community urging governments to address In July 2020, a number of governments with leading MSC crewing offices have been in close Our ship management At various officeslines ports, shipping the challenges faced by the shipping industry and the global shipping hubs agreed to help seafarers still At•various worked with ports Contribution shipping governments lines to tomaximising extend flow of MSC crewing contact offices with our have been seafarers close contact with our andintheir have been able to relieve their world’s seafarers. stranded at sea to return home by easing port and seafarers and their families to provide support during this have been seafarers’ able to relieve certificates, their crew, in accordance families to provide period. MSC support crew were during as remunerated this per agreed terms withregional crew, thanks thanks IMO supply guidance, especially to theto especially allowing value the support In June 2020, on the occasion of the International Day of border restrictions and enhancing commercial flights. crew of the leave toNations onUnited join to start and earning various which may period. also MSC include crew wereovertime, remunerated as support of the United Nations and the Seafarer, the UN Secretary-General acknowledged While welcoming these improvements, we continued instead of waiting governments in for renewalseafarers recognize of extended leave entitlement and per agreed terms which may also include certain additional allowances as per • variousShort certificates transit governments as key workers. in times recognisingand increased the essential role played by the world’s seafarers during to stand side by side with other shipowners and seafarMSCstandard crewing overtime, our extended terms. leavebeen offices have in close contact with our entitlement on-time seafarers delivery as key workers the global pandemic, “whose dedication and profeser groups to encourage individual governments to act. seafarers and their families to provide support during this and certain period. MSC additional allowances as crew were remunerated per agreed terms as per At various ports shipping lines sionalism keep the vast majority of world trade moving Our ship management technical, MSCbeen worked our which standard may also terms include overtime, have able collectively through to relieve their crew, safety and support teams have been safely, delivering vital goods – including food, fuel and Meanwhile, on the land side, a similar label of imporextendedofleave mindful the crew entitlement condition and on • Enhancing industry thanks to theof associations especially to the further support viability of ofimprove theNations the United situationandfor its seafarers. various medical supplies.” He also stressed that “this year, tance and expression of gratitude should be aimed at certaindue board additional to delayed allowances relief and ashave per cross-border and regional governments in recognize seafarers trades MSC our standard provided crewing additionaloffices terms. have been support not in close contact with our more than ever, all countries in the world must honour workers in port terminals, depots and warehouses, as seafarers only for and theirissues day-to-day families but provide support during this toalso as key workers. MSC Shipmanagement’s period. MSC crew were technical, remunerated per agreed ascontact MSCworked MSC collectively also engaged through directly with our seafarers by recognising them as key workers and well as drivers of container-carrying trucks, trains and Our MSC ship crewing motivated management crew offices to share have technical, been in stories. personal close with terms our • Enabling access to domestic and whichand safety safety seafarers may and support and also support their includeteams teams families overtime, havehave to beensupport during this been provide intergovernmental global bodies and industry associations to providing the necessary travel assistance to ensure safe barges, who valiantly continued working during the extended mindful of leave entitlement and MSCforeign worked officials in market collectively certain through countriesaccess to by increasing period. mindful ofthe MSC crew the crew crew condition were on on board remunerated condition as per agreed terms further protect industry its seafarers’ to furtherhealth crew changeovers and repatriations.” crisis, where government rules permitted them to do so. certain board which Other additional due may to also assistance delayed include hasallowances relief overtime, included per support, such as ashave andfinancial addressassociations specific situations dueour to cash delayed standard provided extended advances leaveterms. additional relief entitlement and have support not provided and andconnectivity improve theirthe situation working between regional/emerging for its seafarers. conditions At the same time, the Secretary-General of the We believe that the strategic role these workers played, only certainforadditional in certain additional day-to-day cases, support ship management Ourstandard issues allowances providing not only but ad asalso hoc for per day-tohubs and main consumption and International Maritime Organization (IMO) addressed and the value they generated by enabling business motivated our allocations crew forterms.to sharetechnical, seafarers personal to meet stories. day issues safety and but support also family and for children’s education motivated teams have crew been to MSC production centres also engaged directly witharound the world governments to emphasise that “safe ship operations continuity, deserve further recognition at a global level. mindful of the crew condition on intergovernmental bodies and Our share ship management ­personal stories technical, and crew wellbeing should not be compromised. The boardassistance Other safety duesupport and to delayedhasteams relief includedhaveand have support, such as financial been officials in certain countries to humanitarian crisis seafarers face has implications for More information about contingency plans related to prevenprovided cash mindful Our advances ship of additional the crew condition management support officesnot on • Increased address flexibility and trade specific situations inonly board for certain worked due day-to-day cases, with to governments delayed issues providing reliefto but ad and also hochave extend all of us, for the world economy and for the safety of tion of illness, including during pandemics, can be found in the motivated allocations provided seafarers’ crew for additional to share seafarers certificates, in to support personal meet not accordance stories. facilitation, supporting local actors and Other assistance has included financial MSC also engaged directly with life at sea and the environment.“ chapter “Occupational Health and Safety” (page 89). For more family only with forand IMO for children’s day-to-day guidance, issues allowing education but also international partners to address current support, motivated crew on leavesuch crewto as cash tojoin share advances personal to start earningstories. intergovernmental bodies and information on how MSC protects the human rights of s­ eafarers, Other assistance instead of waiting has includedof for renewal financial support, such as and future domestic and foreign trade in certain cash advancescases, providing ad hoc officials in certain countries to To help manage the industry problems of crew stuck Our ship management offices please refer to the chapter “Business Ethics and Protection of certificates in certain allocations worked Other with cases, assistance for providing seafarers governments has included to hoc family’s adextend meet financial support, such as demands address specific repatriation at sea, MSC extended contracts for container shipping Human Rights” (pages 111-113) allocations seafarers’ cash advances for seafarers certificates, to meet in accordance needs family and and for for children’s children’s education education challenges with in At IMO guidance, certain various cases, allowing providing ports shipping ad hoc lines crew on allocations have been leavefor to able tojoin seafarers to start relieve meet totheir earning crew, insteadand family thanks of waiting forthe for children’s especially to renewal education support of Our theship certificates of Unitedmanagement Nations and offices various MSCworkedShipmanagement governments with governments in recognize seafarers offices to extend worked Our asseafarers’ ship key certificates, offices management workers. in accordance with governments to extend seafarers’ Atwith IMO various worked withguidance, ports shipping governments allowing lines to extend certificates, crewbeen have seafarers’on leaveablein toaccordance to join certificates, relieve to start theirwith in accordance IMO earning crew, instead thanks with MSC IMO guidance,workedofguidance, waiting especially allowing tofor collectivelythe allowing crewrenewal support on leave through of to ofcertificates crewtheon industry United leave Nations to join to associations and to various start further earning start governments instead improve earning waiting ofthe instead in recognize situation of waiting for renewal for its of for the seafarers seafarers. as key workers. certificates renewal of certificates At various ports shipping lines have been MSC also engaged able to relieve directlytheir withcrew, Atthanks MSC especially worked various intergovernmental ports to collectively shippingthe support bodies through lines and of the industry have been officials UnitedableNations associations in certain to countries relievetoand various further their to crew, governments improve thanks address the situation especially specific recognize insituations to the itsseafarers forsupport seafarers. ofasthe keyUnited workers. Nations and various governments in recognize seafarers MSC as keyalso engaged directly with workers. MSC worked collectively intergovernmental bodies throughand industry associations officials in certain countries to further to improve address MSC worked the specific situation situations collectively for its throughseafarers. industry associations to further improve the situation for its seafarers. MSC also engaged directly with intergovernmental bodies and 18 officials MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 MSC alsoinengaged certain countries directly with to address specific situations intergovernmental bodies and officials in certain countries to address specific situations ENSURING REPATRIATION OF GUESTS our ships to ensure the health of our crew. A shore-side The company’s leadership was swift to implement a The leadership, in collaboration with the Human Resources AND CREW MEMBERS team of experts has been set up to provide psychologglobal ban on business travel and to cancel visits to our Department based at the Headquarters, regularly evaluated GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 ical support to the crew to cope with stress, anxiety Headquarters from colleagues, customers and suppliers and analysed conditions to ensure that it was sufficiently In March 2020, following the official announcement by or other disorders that may have arisen during the from the end of January 2020. This advice came just days safe for employees to return to the office. the World Health Organization declaring the COVID-19 as pandemic. In parallel, a dedicated team was tasked to after local management in China, the country where the Employees were provided with regular updates, commua global pandemic, countries around the world s­ tarted ­continuously monitor flight availability and work closely first cases of COVID-19 were reported, raised the alarm nications and advice on how to respect safety and to close borders and to implement restrictions on interwith authorities and relevant stakeholders in identifyto halt incoming visits from colleagues. International preventive measures. Additionally, relevant departments national and non-essential travel with a view to limiting ing the appropriate ports for disembarkation, including, meetings shifted to video-conference format until further developed specific online tools to support employees the spread of the virus. These measures significantly whenever possible, ports in close proximity with health notice, following instructions from Headquarters. around the world in protecting their mental health, ­impacted the travel and tourism sectors, including the facilities and hospitals with sufficient capacity to accomRemote working began in our offices in China in January, enhancing resilience to stress and being able to cope cruise sector, requiring prompt and increasing efforts modate patients in case of need. and subsequently at our Headquarters in Geneva and in with the difficult living conditions. from all operators to address not only unexpected many locations around the world. MSC ­provided IT equipDuring these challenging times, MSC also regularly financial consequences but also unprecedented human ASSISTING OUR EMPLOYEES ment to enable employees to work remotely. Specific emphasised the importance of complying with its Code of capital risks and health and safety issues affecting WORLDWIDE TO ADAPT TO e-learning tools were also available to ensure MSC people Business Conduct and reporting any misconduct or violapassengers and crew members. UNEXPECTED WORKING CONDITIONS could use technology to work remotely in an agile way. tion, either by means of the MSC Speak Up Line or through MSC Cruises’ operations effectively halted by the end of Shifting to remote working is part of our established any of the reporting channels indicated in the section of March 2020. Yet, the company kept working tirelessly for Implementing our existing business continuity plans business continuity processes, focused on the advancethe Code “Reporting Misconduct.” At the time of writing, months to guarantee safe working conditions on board, ensured that operations and customer service could ment of skills and knowledge in respect of both online most of these policies and procedures are still in place. while arranging the repatriation of guests and crews continue, while our people avoided travel and practised conferencing and the efficient use of online workspaces. from our cruise ships through charter flights or via other confinement or social distancing. Within China, for As soon as the situation improved, employees were solutions, in collaboration with national authorities. example, we could keep business going by shifting requested to rotate their time in the office to ensure social Additional information on how we promote responsible business To illustrate, a robust health protocol of periodical certain functions to other offices in the country and by distancing. For those coming to the offices, MSC ­provided conduct and our human rights due diligence processes can be medical checks, temperature measurements, prevenrelying on the support of our shared services centres protective equipment, including masks and gloves, and found in the chapter “Business Ethics and Protection of Human tive isolation and quarantine, as well as the sanitation of in other regions, as part of a plan determined before circulated strict safety rules to respect at all times. Rights” (pages 106-123). spaces and goods has been implemented on board all of COVID-19. 20 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 CONTRIBUTING TO COUNTRIES’ AND in close coordination with Italy’s Liguria Health System This initiative catalysed joint efforts and actions from for the entire course of the disease or to host guests COMMUNITIES’ RELIEF EFFORTS and Civil Protection. This solution was implemented in numerous partners, who provided products and services needing to quarantine during the confinement period. GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 a very short period, thus increasing Liguria’s hospital free of charge, in order to equip the ship with all necesA specific sanitary protocol has been implemented on Expressing solidarity towards populations and countries capacity and, where necessary, serving other areas of sary supplies, including HP-Aruba, Alpha Trading, Artigo board, strictly based on specific guidelines and instrucaffected by natural disaster, conflicts and other calamithe country. GRAPHIC 2 Rubber Flooring, San Giorgio del Porto, Auscomar, tions provided by the Italian Ministry of Health and the ties remains a fundamental moral engagement for MSC. ItalBrokers, Le Navi Maritime Agency, Burger King, Italian Red Cross. Among other specific measures, an Additionally, all entities of the MSC Group have already The project has a high level of flexibility and scalability Covim, Emis, Giunti Editore, IdealService, Infomaster, important upgrade of the onboard air-conditioning been involved in similar humanitarian and emergency and can be adapted quickly to meet the future needs of Mantero Sistemi, Provveditoria Marittima Ligure Angelo system was carried out by the GNV Technical Department efforts in the past, in collaboration with relevant local the Liguria Region as the COVID-19 emergency evolves. Novelli and Ansaldo Naval Technical Studio. under the supervision of the classification society RINA. and/or international stakeholders. In this respect, despite GRAPHIC22 GRAPHIC 2 Stationed at Ponte Colombo in Genoa’s Ferry Terminal, GRAPHIC More recently, in August 2020, GNV joined forces The Italian Ministry of the Interior acted as coordinator of the challenging operating and market conditions, we the solution offered a total capacity of 400 beds. The with other MSC Group entities to provide the Italian the emergency operation, by ensuring the effective impleactively contributed to COVID-19 emergency and relief floating hospital also featured a heliport and areas GRAPHIC 2 government with two additional fully equipped ferries, mentation and monitoring of proper security measures initiatives, supporting a number of countries and dedicated to healthcare personnel and crew, organised GNV Azzurra and GNV Aurelia, to be used as floating at local level through its local offices responsible for the communities in their fight against the global pandemic. to guarantee suitable standards, comfort and flexibility. hospitals in the south of Italy. Both ferries were made territory (“Prefectures”) and its national police forces. available to assist COVID-19 paucisymptomatic patients GNV FLOATING HOSPITALS IN RINA verified that the new floating hospital complied THE MEDITERRANEAN AREA with current regulations, identifying the correct balance between safety protection, naval regulations, the Grandi Navi Veloci converted the ferry ship GNV Splendid medical needs of a hospital indicated by the regional MSC GROUP AND MSC FOUNDATION: JOINT EMERGENCY RESPONSE into a floating hospital to aid patients with COVID-19 and healthcare authority (ASL), and the urgent need to find those convalescing. GNV started working on the project a means of helping authorities and the National Health Additionally, in collaboration with the newly established MSC Foundation, MSC provided masks, medical together with classification society RINA1 in early March, Service to address the fight against COVID-19. equipment, food supplies as well as free transportation of emergency humanitarian aid cargo. GRAPHIC 2 MAIN ACTIONS Donation of more than 120.000 China relief special mention: one Donation of perishable goods, medical masks, value: EUR of the earliest concrete acts of value more than EUR 200.000 Donation of more than Donation of more than 120.000 relief special mention: one China China of perishable DonationDonation of perishable goods, 157.000 solidarity from outside medical 120,000 medical masks, value: > themasks, EUR of the earliest first by any shipping or cruise company concrete acts of goods, value more value: more than EUR 200.000 than 157.000 solidarity from outside China value: EUR 157,000 EUR 200,000 > the first by any shipping or cruise company Donation of more than 120.000 China Donation of more than relief 120.000 special mention: China relief one specialDonation mention: goods, of perishable goods, perishableDonation ofone Donation of more medical than masks, 120.000 value: EUR China relief the ofvalue: special earliest More than mention: concrete 46,600 acts kgone of Donation value moreof perishable than EUR goods, 200.000 6 countries involved for medical masks, value: EURmedical masks, of the EUR earliestfromconcrete of the acts ofearliest acts of value value more than EUR 200.000 more than EUR 200.000 concrete 157.000 157.000 solidarity of goods outside China solidarity delivered, including from outside China masks and goods: China, 157.000 >solidarity from the first by any outside shipping China or cruise company > the first by any shipping or cruise company > the first by any shipping 5,000 or cruise Easter company products Italy, Switzerland, France, Portugal, Brazil, Guinea More than 46.600 kg of goods 6 countries involved for 2 containers donated in Costa delivered, 5.000 Easter masks and goods: Rica and 10 containers free loan More than 46.600 kg of goods 6 countries products (chocolate and doves) China,for involved 2 containers donated Italy, Switzerland, France, in Costa in Panama delivered, 5.000 Easter China relief special masks mention: and goods: Portugal, Brazil Rica and 10 containers free loan 2 containers donated in products (chocolate and doves) China, Italy, Switzerland, France, in Panama one of the earliest concrete Costa Rica Portugal, Brazil acts of solidarity from outside Donation of more than 120.000 China relief special mention: one and Donation China first by of any shipping perishable goods, medical than 46.600 More masks, value: EURkg of goods More of the earliest concrete than 46.600 6 countries kg acts of of goods involved or cruise value more company than EUR 200.000 2 containers donated in Costa for 6 countries involved for donated in Costa 2 containers donated in Costa More than 46.600 kg of goods 157.000 solidarity delivered, 5.000 Easter>delivered, from 6 countries involved for outside China masks and goods: 2 containers Rica and 10 containers Rica free loan delivered, 5.000 Easter 5.000 the first by any shipping Easter or cruise masks company and goods: masks and goods: Rica and 10 containers free and 10 containers free loan loan doves) (chocolate products (chocolate andproducts China, and Italy, doves) France, Switzerland,China, in Panama Italy, Switzerland, France, in Panama products (chocolate and doves) China, Italy, Switzerland, BrazilFrance, Portugal, Brazil Portugal, in Panama Portugal, Brazil 1 RINA is a founding member of the International Association of Classification Societies (IACS), formed in 1968. The purpose of a Classification Society («CS») is to provide classification, statutory certification and services as a Recognised Organisation acting on More information on how MSC contributes to emergency and disaster relief initiatives around the world, through the MSC behalf of a flag Administration, and assistance to the maritime industry and regulatory bodies as regards maritime safety and pollution prevention, based on the accumulation of maritime knowledge and technology. For more information: www.rina.org/en/ Foundation, independent actions and/or strategic partnerships with local authorities, partners and specialised humanitarian More than 46.600 kg of goods 6 countries involved for 2 containers donated in Costa business/marine; www.iacs.org.uk/about/iacs-vision-and-mission/ delivered, 5.000 Easter actors, can “Humanitarian be found in the chapterRica masks and goods: Aid” (pages 124-133). and 10 containers free loan products (chocolate and doves) China, Italy, Switzerland, France, in Panama Portugal, Brazil 22 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 GLOBAL HEALTH CRISIS – COVID-19 LOOKING AHEAD Despite the challenges we may face, MSC’s fast and In line with our socially inclusive approach, our flexible decision-­making process will remain guided investment in innovation, technologies and digital by our core values which place employees, customers connectivity will promote the safety and the expertise and our passion for the sea at the heart of our develof our ­employees, not their replacement. We will thereopment strategy and business continuity planning. In fore continue to promote e-learning opportunities, while future, we can only imagine doubling down on adapting continuing to invest in enhancing physical connectivity to evolving trade scenarios, market needs and broadbetween countries through our integrated network of er transformation in global value and supply chains. road, rail and sea transport resources, which stretches across the globe. Digitalisation has been slow to come to c ­ ontainer shipping. Only recently have significant changes Furthermore, MSC is currently focusing on improving ­started to take place around documentation, finance and existing emergency preparedness and response contibooking processes, the incorporation of e-business tools nuity/contingency plans, as well as health and safety and the online connectivity of equipment. Nevertheless, operating protocols onboard our cruise and cargo ships. we must also acknowledge the importance of technolThese are based on scenario analysis and designed in ogy and digitalisation during COVID-19, which have accordance with relevant international, national and/or dramatically supported the shift to new ways of working regional guidelines. and, we believe, also modified workers’ expectations and habits in this respect. We are and will remain fully ­committed to further enhancing existing management systems to minimise risks related to human capital management, as well as passenger and crew safety, both during the outbreak and in post-­pandemic operations. 24 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS 26 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 MSC Headquarters, Geneva, Switzerland GOVERNANCE: DECISION-MAKING AND COMMITMENT MSC’s sustainability governance structure is designed and processes. It also ensures that measures and activto support the progressive integration of ongoing and ities reflect relevant external stakeholders’ expectations emerging strategic economic, social and ­environmental and comply with the complex regulatory framework in topics across the organisation. Our broader approach to which MSC operates. sustainability focuses on the promotion of ­responsible business conduct in accordance with MSC Values, REPORTING LINES our Code of Business Conduct and applicable good corporate governance requirements in the countries The Sustainability Steering Committee is advised of operation. Additionally, management measures, regularly by Department Heads and subject matter processes and priorities are set and formulated in line experts from across the Company. Multiple corporate with international standards, regulations and principles. departments provide insights and counsel to senior These include but are not limited to: management in the form of briefings, presentations and direct correspondence. Furthermore, due to the complex • A wide range of sector-specific international nature of our legislative and operational framework, standards and requirements defined by MSC relies on the expertise of various teams based at maritime and labour conventions adopted at its Headquarters to support sustainability initiatives and the international level by the United Nations assist relevant departments in implementing sustain• Relevant standards developed by the International ability matters throughout the Company’s value and Standardisation Organization (ISO) and supply chains, as well as in embedding these within recog­nised Classification Societies the business model. Activities include, for example, • Broader internationally recognised briefings, ad hoc training, improvement of policies, sustainability best practice, standards and processes and procedures, and interactions with exterprinciples, as well as voluntary commitments nal stakeholders from both the private and public sector. and pledges such as operating responsibly Our approach is regularly evaluated and improved in alignment with the United Nations Global based on internal assessments and developments at the Compact’s Ten Principles national and/or international level. Cross-departmental working groups are regularly formed as needed, to Overall responsibility for sustainability rests with the provide diverse expertise to management on cross-­ Group Executive Sustainability Steering Committee, cutting themes. comprised of the Company Leadership and senior executives from various departments at the Geneva MSC’s sustainability subject matter experts also a ­ ctively Headquarters. This Committee oversees the formulation participate in international or sector-specific fora to and planning of sustainability objectives in alignment advance good corporate practices by sharing best with MSC’s business strategy and priorities, by providpractices or expertise. Progress is regularly reported ing policy guidance to key business units, functions and in our Sustainability Reports and in related external departments implementing related standards, policies communications published on our official website. 28 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 METHODOLOGY AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT EMBEDDED MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS Social, economic Shipping sector’s International Stakeholder CHOOSING OUR MATERIAL TOPICS and geopolitical global regulatory guidelines engagement and megatrends framework, and sector-specific expectations This report clarifies how MSC’s decision-making In line with the above, each chapter of our 2019 including guidelines and process and day-to-day-operations bring inclusive report contains relevant information and explanations international regulations social progress and contribute to economic growth on ­related to the shipping sector’s regulatory frameworks, environmental a global scale, while promoting respect for responsible considerations related to compliance requirements regulations business practices and the protection of the environand comprehensive lists of international conventions ment. Our materiality approach remains driven by our and regulations for each key area. Concrete examples four Sustainability Pillars, which have been identified ­included in this document demonstrate how we operathrough a global assessment taking into account our tionalise and implement relevant recommendations and complex regulatory frameworks, our sector s­ pecificities international and/or sector-specific guidelines developed and the MSC Group Values. by a number of stakeholders, including the ­international community. This approach is fully integrated into our International This approach enables us to have a broad framework risk assessments and project finance processes. and domestic of reference, which can be adapted to a number of legislations related internal and external factors which are impacting the While this report covers the 2019 fiscal period, we Shipping sector’s to the Business and UN Global Sustainable ­international shipping sector and global value and ­decided to extend the reporting scope to provide MSC Group global issues and Human Rights agenda Compact’s development’s supply chains. This is essential to us, as we consider information on how we responded to the 2020 global Values challenges and Modern Slavery Ten Principles main drivers our materiality assessment a continuous process, allowhealth crisis, which, regretfully, while we are finalising ing us to strategically redefine it against megatrends, this report, is still impacting economies and ­societies evolving trade patterns and customers’ needs, as well as at a global level. In this respect, we have added an ongoing and future global and geopolitical challenges. ­introductory section which describes our significant contribution to the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable In addition, we focus on reporting areas which are Development despite the difficult operating condirelevant to our wide range of key stakeholders and on tions and the evolving scenario we are experiencing. the progress we make in terms of social impacts, environIn particular, we have highlighted how our decision-­ ion lus En mental performance and governance efforts, both as an making process remains guided by our core values, the Inc vi r individual company and as part of collective actions. ESG factors and the United Nations Global Compact’s l So nt me Regarding governance, given the complex nature of our Ten Principles, when addressing challenges and ci a regulatory frameworks, it is paramount that we stress how major global disruptions. To better demonstrate our SOCIAL INCLUSION OUR ENVIRONMENT OCCUPATIONAL SOCIAL INCLUSION on HEALTH ENVIRONMENT OCCUPATIONAL BUSINESS ETHICS HEA we ensure compliance with laws, including compliance ­systemic approach to sustainable development, we have & SAFETY & SAFETY & PROTECTION with international standards, relevant maritime convenlinked our main actions and steps to each of our four tectio n FOUR OF HUMAN RIGHTS tions adopted at the international level by the United Sustainability Pillars and related chapters. We have also Pro s PILLARS h t & g Ri O cs Nations as well as our progress in implementing stand­illustrated the leading role we play in supporting econoHe ccu ards and recommendations defined and/or formulated by mies in the long term, without compromising our strong hi an al t nal m third parties such as recognised Classification Societies. commitment to environmental stewardship and to act of ess E tio afety This illustrates our commitment to invest in and conduct responsibly, in accordance with internationally recogHu t Bu pa & S our business activities responsibly. Moreover, some “Case nised human rights and labour standards. Furthermore, sin h Studies” have a focus on specific programmes and initiawe have stressed our continuous engagement with tives which show how we cooperate/we work jointly with key stakeholders, including SOCIALnational INCLUSIONauthoritiesENVIRONMENT and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SOCIAL BUSINESS INCLUSION ETHICS ENVIRONMENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH BUSINESS ETHICS local communities, business partners and other stakeholdbusiness partners, to ensure trade flow continuity and & SAFETY & PROTECTION & SAFETY & PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF HUMAN RIGHT ers with a view to keeping and maintaining a constructive to minimise adverse impacts on populations, economies dialogue thus to contributing to enhance a social positive and regional and global markets. And this, we believe, impact at local operational level. goes far beyond a “business as usual” approach. 30 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 ASSESSING AND IDENTIFYING which they operate. Impacts may differ, however, our IMPACTS ON THE SDGs decision-­making process and our systemic and dynamic OUR IMPACT: CORE STRATEGIC AREAS AND C ­ ONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGs assessment methodology remain the same. This report Being part of the international shipping sector, MSC therefore explains how the different investments and • People-centred approach whilst supporting the development of international trade, which contribcontributes and impacts all Sustainable Development initiatives undertaken by the MSC Cargo Division around utes to long-term inclusive social and economic growth Goals (SDGs). Indeed, as we could observe during the the world take into account Environmental, Social and • Promoting cleaner seas, land and cargo through massive investments in low-carbon technology, 2020 global pandemic, transportation is one of the key Governance (ESG) factors, with a view to maximising energy efficiency and operational efficiency; continuous investments in responsible innovation and sectors to secure and meet the basic needs of the world’s opportunities for generations to come and minimising latest available technologies population. In our globalised and interconnected socieforces that are affecting inequality as well as disruptions • Whether on land or at sea, the health and safety of our people is our top priority ties, physical connectivity remains the prerequisite for in global economies. • Conducting business in a fair, ethical and responsible manner, promoting the respect of internationinclusive growth and development. ally recognised human rights and labour standards, including steps to identify, mitigate and prevent In this respect, we design our risk assessment ­processes the risks of modern slavery in operations and supply chain by giving a broader definition of the nature of the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT impacts we may have on societies, communities and countries. In particular, in line with the OECD Guidelines In measuring potential impacts, being a global ­company for Multinational Enterprises (MNE Guidelines) we not with interests all around the world and given the MSC MEDLOG TiL only manage and mitigate risks internal to our business, nature of our business, we are in constant interaction we also consider risks external to our business and with our key stakeholders, both from the public and • Connecting people, continents, • Increasing inland regional and • Modernisation of existing the potential adverse impacts that may derive from private sectors. Their views and expectations are thereand economies through the inter-island connectivity infrastructure and/or greenfield our activities. We focus on how our investments and fore involved and integrated in our decision-making MSC’s global network • Facilitating access to the global terminals, in collaboration with operations create value and positive impacts on populaprocess and risk assessment process. Multi-stakeholder • Addressing global development shipping market including for the International Finance tions and our planet with a long-term perspective. This engagement is also promoted as part of our partnerchallenges and priorities SIDS and LLDCs Corporation (IFC), a branch of the includes considerations related to our contribution to ship strategies or when addressing our sector’s shared • Trade facilitation and adaptation • Supporting small players World Bank, local stake­holders addressing global issues and challenges, such as poverchallenges. Additionally, with a view to continuously to evolving customer needs through ad hoc transportation and/or governments (PPPs) ty and climate change. improving our internal processes and procedures, we and unpredicted events solutions • Addressing growing coastal Our approach is embedded in the different activities of regularly seek the participation of our internal stake• Facilitating access to global • Investment in reefer urbanisation/terminal each of our entities, taking into account their respecholders through surveys and/or interviews. shipping markets including for technologies and sharing of congestion through tive sector’s specificities and the local contexts in Small Islands Developing Statesknow-how and expertise operational efficiency SIDS, Landlocked Developing • Continuous investment in • Investments in climate change Countries-LLDCs (which have no and promotion of efficient resilient infrastructure access to the sea) and sustainable freight • Deploying of state-of-the-art • Enabling growth of shipping-­ transportation systems infrastructure, technologies related industries and services in • Inland logistics centres to and equipment emerging, developing countries, minimise and reduce negative • Capacity building: vocational Least Development Countries externalities training -LDCs and Small Islands • Capacity building: promotion • Strategic support for sites during Development States-SIDS of local employment opportunational emergencies or natural • Supporting the world’s populanities without discrimination; disasters tions to meet their basic needs ­vocational training and sharing • Capacity building: promotion of of know-how, with a focus local employment opportunities on developing countries and without discrimination remote areas • Enabling women’s empowerment • Protection of the environment and biodiversity • Responsible use of natural resources 32 INTEGRATION OF SUSTAINABILITY INTO THE BUSINESS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 SOCIAL INCLUSION 34 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 MEETING EMERGING AND EVOLVING MARKET GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 4 GRAPHIC 4 4 We also remain committed to contributing to port develand main consumption and production centres. This NEEDS TO FOSTER SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRAPHIC 4 opment by continuously improving productivity and decreases port congestion and further enhances the GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 4 4 operational efficiency. In doing this, we are developviability of cross-border and regional trade when delivering and implementing sustainable and environmentally ing both domestic and international cargo. It also allows GRAPHICGRAPHIC 4 4 measures and processes, in line with applicable friendly us to proactively adapt our services to better anticipate According to the European Community Shipowners shipping sector. MSC is at the heart of global trade, GRAPHIC national 4 and international regulations and standards. our customers’ evolving needs and to be prepared to Associations (ESCA), “in a globalised world, the seamless contributing to the growth of many different sectors, Additionally, we are increasing hinterland networks and meet current and future market demands. and sustainable transport of goods and passengers is a developing and linking global supply chains in a responGRAPHIC 4connectivity between regional and/or emerging hubs key enabler for growth and prosperity. 90% of everything sible way. we consume travels to us by sea. Without any doubt, Additionally, MSC strives to continuously adapt to COMBINED SHORT SEA COMBINED SHORT & INTERMODALSEA & INTERMODAL SERVICES: CREATING SERVICES: CREATINGVALUE VAL shipping is at the very centre of our globalised world.”2 changes and challenges in global trade patterns by develCOMBINED COMBINED SHORT COMBINED SHORT SEASEA AND SHORT & INTERMODAL INTERMODAL SERVICES: SEA & INTERMODAL SERVICES:CREATINGCREATING VALUE SERVICES: CREATINGVALUE VAL Over the past 50 years, MSC has been shipping products, oping tailor-made end-to-end transport solutions to help COMBINED COMBINED SHORT SEA SHORT & INTERMODALSEA & INTERMODAL SERVICES: SERVICES: CREATING CREATINGVALUE VAL everyday goods and essential supplies across all conticustomers and business partners to reach new markets nents, becoming an industry leader in the international and opportunities all around the world. •COMBINED COMBINED SHORT Expanded freight • Expanded SHORT SEA capacity &freight SEA INTERMODAL capacity& INTERMODAL SERVICES: SERVICES: • Reducing CREATING the CREATING last mileVALUEdistance VAL Expanded freight capacity Reducing the last • Reducing mile distance the last mile dis • Expanded freight capacity • carriedReducing by the trucks, last mile distance strengthening COMBINED SHORT SEA & INTERMODALcarried • Expanded freight capacity SERVICES: by trucks, • Reducing carried CREATING by trucks, strengthening the last VAL mile safety, strengthe dis •• Expanded • Expanded Contributionfreight to maximising capacity freightflow capacity of 1 mile carried safety, by trucks, reliability • Reducing carried and strengthening the minimising by trucks, last mile dis COMBINED • Contribution SHORT to maximising SEA flow of • SERVICES: Reducing the last mile andstrengthe distance of & INTERMODAL CREATING VAL 1 mile reliability safety, and minimising reliability congestion minimisi •regional Contribution supply to value maximising flow 1 mile safety,1 mile reliability congestion &carried and negative minimising by trucks, strengthe externalities • Expanded••regional Contribution Expanded freight supply capacity to value freight maximising capacity flow of carried and negative •1 Reducing •safety, trucks, byexternalities Reducing congestion the lastreliability strengthening mile&the and mile last negative distance minimisi dis externa regional supply • Contributionregional • value Contribution to maximising supplyflow to maximising value of flow of 1 mile congestion on mile populations &safety,negative externalities reliability and minimisi GRAPHIC 7 • Expanded freight capacity safety, reliability carried by trucks, congestion carried on and minimising by populations & negative trucks, strengthening externa strengthe BOOSTING EFFICIENT LOGISTICAL AND •regionalShort transit supply Helping • Contribution regionaltimes value •• Contribution Short toto supply transit maximise maximising and the value increased to maximising times flow flow flow of 1 mile ofofand increased on congestion Ensuring populations 1 mile safety, • Reducing congestion on &safety, business reliability populations negative continuity carried and &the reliability by last mile negative externalities minimising trucks, dis externa minimisi andstrengthe •on-timeShort transit • delivery times Expanded and increased freight capacity •on Reducing populations the last mile dis DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS FOR LOCAL regional supply on-time delivery •on-time Short regional regional • supply value Contribution • Short on-time transit value times supply delivery transit delivery value maximising totimes and increased and flow of increased •on despite • and Ensuring populations congestion 1 mile changing Ensuring despite geopolitical business & trade congestion •safety, business changing patterns Ensuring carried negative dynamics trade continuity & negative business externalities reliability bycontinuity trucks, patterns and and externa contin minimisi strengthen • Short transit times and increased on• Ensuring despitepopulations business changing trade contin pattern PRODUCERS AND INTERNATIONAL •on-time Enhancing delivery • • regional •on-time Contribution of Short Enhancing • Short transit times and increased supply delivery viability the transit of value to maximising of viability times the and flow of increased of • 1on despite populations mile geopolitical Ensuring changing congestion safety, •despite dynamics business trade Ensuring geopolitical & reliability changing negative patterns continuity and business and trade externa minimisi contin dynamics pattern on populations BUSINESS PARTNERS •cross-border Enhancingregional on-time delivery cross-border Short • • of and on-time the regional Enhancing cross-border HIGHLIGHTS Short •and regional transit Enhancing viability supply delivery transit trades of and timestradesand of of viability of value the regional times increased the viability trades and increasedof KEY FIGURES Ad geopolitical despite • Ensuring changing hoc expert on dynamics congestion despite geopolitical • Ensuring business advice trade and &dynamics negative changing patterns business continuity trade externa pattern andcontinu • Enhancingcross-border of the viability and regional of trades •geopolitical Ad-hoc expert dynamics populations geopolitical advice dynamics and on-time delivery supportdespite changing offered despite by •• Ad-hoc MSC’s changing trade Ensuring expert networkpatterns business trade advice and pattern and contin Enabling on-time •cross-border •cross-border access • • Short and delivery Enhancing Enablingtotransit regional domestic access and of times trades regional the and to and trades viability domestic increased of and Ad-hoc •support expert offered • by Ad-hoc advice the MSC’sand advice expert and • Enhancing of the viability • Fleet of of • geopolitical of local agencies MEDWAY geopolitical is present support dynamics despite as rail dynamics offered changing by the trade MSC’s pattern • Enabling access on-time to domestic delivery and support offered in by Ensuring ••support the MSC’s business continu “Maritime stakeholders are seeking more efficient and inland waterways on a global scale. Our aim is to further foreign marketcross-border cross-border• and • access Enabling foreign Enhancing 4,282 access market regional of by and wagons increasing trades regional access the to domestic trades by viability and increasing of and € MEDWAY network • freight Ad-hoc € of local expert undertaking Ad-hoc networkagencies advice Portugal, geopolitical expert offeredand of local by agencies dynamics advice the and MSC’s sustainable operations in the face of changing power enhance strategic opportunities for both local actors and foreign •connectivity connectivity market Enabling access • Enabling between foreign access connectivity •between Enhancing to regional/emerging cross-border access market by domestic increasing between andthe regional/emerging of to access and regional domestic viability by increasing regional/emerging trades of € network Spain support € locomotivves and • Ad-hoc of Italy; local Fleet offered despite support •network expert agencies of 78 changing theoffered byadvice Ad-hoc ofexpert MSC’s trade andagencies local pattern by the MSC’s advice and dynamics and stricter environmental regulations. The short sea and feeder shipping sector is playing a international business partners, driving economic and social growth in the long term. hubs andmarket foreign main foreign connectivity •hubs • EnablingEnhancing access hubs and main production centres consumption access Enabling consumption cross-border and connectivity • to Russian around market between by access main Operations domestic and the viability increasing consumption in between the and 6 and access toand countries regional Federation, of India, world by regional/emerging domestic (Turkey, trades increasing andand regional/emerging € • network ••support € Cost-efficient Cost-efficient 2016-2019 of Cost-efficient geopolitical local offered period: network support • of solutions agencies local offered Cost-efficient by the expert MSC’s advice • Ad-hoc totalsolutions dynamics by agencies the MSC’s solutions and connectivity hubs between and main consumption regional/emerging and • Cost-efficient solutions ­valuable part in this evolution.”3 In line with the above, MSC continues to expand not foreign market production hubs and main foreign production • cross-border centres hubs access Enabling production consumption connectivity and market Portugal, and around different centres access main by increasing Spain, regional the centres between consumption and gauges. access around to Italy) trade world by domestic around with 4 increasing the the and regional/emerging world and world CO 2 € network investment solutions € of •• Cost-efficient Lower emissions Million of network local more than support ••Ad-hoc Lower •network of agencies EUR100 local offered Cost-efficient compared solutions emissions agencies by expert advice the MSC’s solutions and to compare connectivity between regional/emerging Short sea shipping refers to the movement of cargo by sea over relatively short distances as opposed to only its freight transportation services but also its transshipment operations, as well as its logistics and • Increased flexibility production hubs and main • foreign Enabling production centres hubs around and •connectivity Increased consumption market access and main centres trade theconsumption flexibility between access toaround world and bythe domestic and trade increasing and and world regional/emerging CO 2 CO other • CO € • Lower 2 modes emissions Cost-efficient support •of •other transport, Lower modes of compared offered emissions Cost-efficient solutions local agencies by to allowing thecompare MSC’s solutions of transport, allo •facilitation, Increased flexibility foreign and market trade access increasing bytrade € 2 supporting • Increased local flexibility actors and and other modes significant CO2 of network • transport, Lower savings of allowing local emissions agencies compare intercontinental cross-ocean deep sea shipping. MSC’s terminal networks. Challenges in creating and improvproduction production centresfacilitation, hubs around and main centres supporting the around world consumption the local world actors and and CO 2 • CO Lower 2 emissions other significantmodes compared • Cost-efficient CO2 of transport, to savings allo solutionsallo facilitation, international supporting connectivity • IncreasedEnabling•facilitation, Increased COMPETITIVE partners flexibility and local between toflexibility address supporting trade actors and regional/emerging and ADVANTAGES current trade local actors andAND ASSETS significant CO2 other savings modes of savings transport, combination of deep-sea services and short sea services, ing ­physical infrastructure around the world remain. international domestic production partners and foreign centres to around address the current worldand LowerotherLower • CO modes emissions • significant of transport, Lower compared emissions compared to CO2 allowing emissions to compared connected to its landside intermodal operations, enable However, we continue to fill this gap through massive international and hubsfacilitation, future domestic facilitation, partners •supporting and and international Increased future to andmainaddressconsumption supporting foreign localpartners flexibility domestic actors current trade toand and and local address and actors trade trade foreign current CO 2 other 2 significant modes ofCO2 Cost-efficient •significant transport,savings solutions CO2 savings allowing • Increasedmarket flexibility access by and increasing trade other modes other • of Lower modes transport, of emissions transport, allowing allo compare reliable door-to-door deliveries for dry and reefer cargo. investments in container terminals and related facilities, and future demands international domestic production international and partners connectivity future and between foreign centres partners todomestic address trade aroundto andand current regional/emerging the address foreign worldcurrent trade CO 2 CO2 savings significant facilitation, facilitation, demands supporting • Increased • 555 supporting local direct actors flexibilityand local andforeign actors and • Dedicated HQ trade trade coordinating MSC’s Team significant significant CO2 savings CO2 savings This also allows us to help maximise the flow of regional such as warehouses and depots, while expanding our demands and future hubs and demands domestic andfuture main employees and domestic consumption and CORail •other Lower modes of transport, emissions allo compared international international partners facilitation, to foreign partners address supporting trade to address current local current actors and Strategy and driving 2 significant CO2 savings supply value by offering integrated systems that strateshort sea services and feeder networks with ­extremely demands •demands Increased production centres around the and flexibility worldtrade MEDWAY other modes of transport, allo and and future domestic future international • and domestic foreign Extensive partners and trade foreign tolocal address trade current development of Regional gically link transport solutions by sea, road, railway and short transit times. facilitation, supporting investments in actors andrailway company significant CO2 savings demands demands Increased and future domestic capacity-building and foreign current trade international flexibility partners and trade and capital intensive to address and demands facilitation, future supporting domestic localandactors foreign trade and international partners to address demands current and future domestic and foreign trade demands 2 Source: ECSA Strategic Priorities for EU Shipping Policy 2019-2024 3 Source: www.greenport.com/news101/coastlink/short-sea-shipping-a-sustainable-option 36 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 CASE STUDY FEEDER SERVICES AND INTERMODAL SOLUTIONS IN ASIA MSC continues investing heavily in developing or enhancIn the coming years, MSC is expected to further grow its ing existing regional and international trade corridors, network coverage in the region by introducing ­additional including through feeder operations in ­strategic locations services, connecting regional terminals with major hubs around the globe. Among ­container vessel sizes, feeders in Asia. are the smallest segment with under 3,000 TEU of ­capacity. Additionally, MSC has been expanding its competitive Feeders bring shipping containers to and from smaller or and sustainable inland transport solutions by increasregional ports via international or transshipment hubs, ing its intermodal transport routes through its subsidiary serving bigger ships travelling on long-haul lanes. MEDLOG. In particular, during 2018 and 2019, MEDLOG As an illustration, in April 2019 MSC joined the Intra-Asia China increased multimodal transportation ­services for trade, launching a number of dedicated feeder services, inland manufacturers providing connections to Central ensuring reliable services and competitive transit times West Europe and West Asia, benefitting from the decision between North East Asia and South East Asia. These of the local government to enhance critical structural services aim to further enable and support the growth infrastructure. Additionally, MEDLOG China has been of other trades by developing and enhancing cargo flow, working with local MSC Offices to jointly develop landside while providing alternative solutions benefitting local services in order to extend the company’s capabilities to shippers and producers, significatively impacting on local provide door-to-door services. Alternative ad hoc logistics economies. solutions were also implemented through the use of RoRo Figures reported by Alphaliner in December 2019 showed and special equipment size types, in collaboration with that the total capacity deployed in the Intra-Asia trade is both local and offshore MSC and MEDLOG counterparts. GRAPHIC equal K three million TEUs, representing the largest to nearly This helped to decrease the expected congestion during capacity employed in a regional trade. Yet, such capacity Chinese New Year and enabled us to meet the demand is utilised for the Intra regional cargo and to assist bigger for more efficient and ­reliable services. ships, with their long-haul/international cargo. INTRA-ASIA FEEDER SERVICES 38 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 SUPPORTING THE SHIFT FROM TRUCKS TO CASE STUDY ALTERNATIVE OF INTERMODAL SOLUTIONS INCREASING INTERMODAL CONNECTIVITY IN BENELUX, GERMANY AND FRANCE FOSTERING WATERWAY OPERATIONS WITH BARGES MSC, through its subsidiary MEDLOG, supports the goods. Barge owners and/or operators comply with MEDLOG has been offering integrated intermodal moved intermodally, compared to by truck. Today, shift from trucks to alternative modes of transport by the highest safety standards, requirements and intersolutions to a wide range of stakeholders and business MEDLOG cooperates with a wide range of suppliers investing in the most efficient and sustainable intermodal solutions, wherever possible. In particular, we GRAPHIC 5 national regulations for waterway operations as defined by relevant stakeholders and by maritime conventions partners in Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany and France since 1998. Our operations benefit from the offering more than 150 weekly barge sailings which are used to transport containerised freight via rivers and are enhancing our inland depot network in strategic adopted by the International Maritime Organization increased inland waterways network developed by waterways. In 2019, approximately 120,000 containers areas to be able to use inland waterways such as rivers (IMO) where applicable. Auditing, monitoring and the European Commission in key regions and from were transported using barges instead of trucks via the and canals, which allow us to significantly reduce the evaluation processes are carried out by relevant Flag the empty container network owned by Medrepair, ports of Antwerp and Rotterdam. distance covered by trucks. GRAPHIC 5 According to the European Commission, “the potential State authorities and/or certified third parties, such as recognised Classification Societies in their role as MEDLOG’s subsidiary. In recent years, MEDLOG began promoting alternative Transporting containers using barges as the main transport mode allows for a significant reduction in absolute for increasing the modal share of inland waterway transIMO-defined Recognized Organizations (RO) which also intermodal services, improving reliability while enhancCO2 emissions. As a transport mode, trucks are more port is significant. Compared to other modes of transport issue certificates verifying compliance. These processes ing financial efficiency for its key stakeholders. In 1998 than three times more polluting than barges, as shown which are often confronted with congestion and ­capacity aim to prevent unnecessary risks to employees and the only a minority of our carriers’ haulage containers were in the graphic below. problems, inland waterway transport is characterised by environment, and to ensure safe operations throughits reliability, energy efficiency and major capacity for out the ­integrated intermodal logistics chain, including increased exploitation.”4 operating, managing or handling third parties’ assets. In line with the above, through our investments in Where no inland and/or intracoastal waterways are barges, we are promoting energy efficiency, supportavailable, MSC promotes its intermodal transportation ing the reduction of congested corridors, and minimising solutions through its railway network to achieve the negative externalities for populations. Additionally, same goals. barges allow us to further increase the safety level of operations especially when transporting dangerous 4 Source: https://ec.europa.eu/transport/modes/inland_en COMPARISON OF CO2 EMISSIONS FROM TRUCKS VERSUS BARGES (G/TON/KM)5 Truck 162.6 gram per ton/km Truck Truck Barge Barge 162.6 grams 48.1 grams 162.6 gram 48.1 gram per ton/km per ton/km per ton/km per ton/km Barge 48.1 gram per ton/km 5 Source: UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) Greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors 2018 40 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 CASE STUDY SUPPORTING THE REDUCTION OF ROAD AND The average distance of our carrier haulage is roughly 250km (round trip) and the average weight is 18 tons. In January 2020, MEDLOG moved the first cargo in northern France via the new, enlarged barge service to TRAFFIC CONGESTION IN NIGERIA Whilst truck transport is mainly on a round trip basis, Bruay sur Escaut in the Hauts de France region, which intermodal transport by barge is based on one-way covers a large area along the French-Belgian border. transport with only the first or last mile performed by This first and last mile service benefits from the recent In December 2019, MEDLOG opened a barge termiTo meet the local market demand, MEDLOG Nigeria truck; the empty container is picked up at or returned regional infrastructure investment made by the Flemish nal and depot facility in Nigeria in the western part also offers intermodal services to connect our ­recently to one of our inland depots. When the main carriage government in Doornik, a city in the Belgian/French of the Lagos Port. The infrastructure complies with constructed depot with inland locations and remote is by barge, the truck part of the transport is reduced, border area, which allows barges of up to 2,000 tons the sector-specific Environmental, Health and Safety areas. Our depot and trucks exceed local ­environmental allowing a reduction of total “road kilometres”of 45km to be operated. Guidelines for Ports, Harbours and Terminals produced compliance requirements, in order to reduce noise and to 100km. Furthermore, whenever possible, MEDLOG by the International Finance Corporation (IFC)6. It also air pollution and ensure safer working conditions for also actively promotes rail transport, offering a complete follows and GRAPHIC 6 improves management continuously our drivers. To be hired, our drivers must have relevant service with low emissions. systems and contingency plans for fire prevention, certifications and strictly follow our policies. flooding and handling of dangerous cargo. As part of its broader sustainability strategy, MEDLOG The facility promotes the shift from trucks to barges Nigeria has built an access road to its barge terminal up to 70 metres in length and with 50 TEUs ­capacity, with a drainage system that prevents the area from TERMINAL AND DEPOT NETWORKS (KEY EUROPEAN REGIONS) GRAPHIC 6 significantly reducing the congestion around Lagos port. KEYheavy flooding during FIGURES rain seasons, which also benefits Additionally, this new solution optimises land operalocal communities. In addition, MEDLOG Nigeria plans tions and reduces transit times up to one week, allowing to allocate 5% of its annual net income to local commuRotterdam NETHERLANDS importers and exporters to have a reliable and cost-efnities. The 2020 budget will be approx. USD 250,000 and Barge terminal: Waal Emmerich fective solution, and cost-effective service. will be allocated to schools and water projects in line GRAPHIC 6 18,000 SQM Moerdijk Zuid -Wil lem sva Cuijk KEYforFIGURES Furthermore, the use of barges allows the replacewith regional development plans. Depot: art Veghel Venlo Duisburg ment of up to 50 trucks per day. This contributes to 20,000 SQM Antwerp Grobbendonk Meu se reducing both CO2 emissions and the risk of road Neuss Gent Schelde Albertk anaal accidents in the port and its hinterland. 110 LOCALLY Wielsbeke Meerhout GERMANY Barge terminal: Willebroek Born Koln 18,000 SQM recruited employees Le ie Sche lde Genk KEY FIGURES More than 200 INDIRECT Depot: Canal BELGIUM Bonn KEY FIGURES 20,000 SQM EMPLOYEES Lille Charleroi Luik Brussels La Louviere Bruay Sur Andernach Koblenz L’escaut Meu se Frankfurt Am Main Barge terminal: 110 LOCALLY TRAININGS on operational 18,000 SQM recruited employees management and process control, Commercial Business Development and Ginsheim Depot: More than 200 INDIRECT Finance control for Head of Departments Trier Gustavsburg LUXEM20,000 SQM EMPLOYEES for enhancing technical and managerial BOURG skills of Nigerian Managers Mannheim Barge terminal: 110 LOCALLY FRANCE 110 locally recruited Training on operational TRAININGS on operational Germersheim recruited employees management and process control, Woerth 18,000 sqm employees management and process control Commercial Business Development and Karlsruhe More than 200 INDIRECT to enhance the technical and Finance control for Head of Departments EMPLOYEES for enhancing technical and managerial Stuttgart Depot: More than 200 indirect managerial skills of local managers skills of Nigerian Managers Strasbourg Kehl 20,000 sqm employees (Commercial, Business Development TRAININGS on operational and Finance Control management and process control, Commercial Business Development and for Heads of Departments) BARGE Finance control for Head of Departments Ottmarsheim for enhancing technical and managerial PORT OF CALL skills of Nigerian Managers Basel SWITZERLAND 6 For more information: www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/sustainability-at-ifc/ publications/publications_policy_ehs-portsharborsterminals 42 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 • Fleet of • MEDWAY is present as rail 4,282 wagons MEDWAY freight undertaking in Portugal, Spain and Italy; Fleet of 78 PROMOTING RAILWAY NETWORK CONNECTIVITY • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, locomotivves Russian Federation, India, • 2016-2019 period: total HIGHLIGHTS Portugal, Spain, Italy) with 4 KEY FIGURES investment of more than EUR100 different gauges. Million • Fleet of • MEDWAY is present as rail HIGHLIGHTS KEY FIGURES COMPETITIVE 4,282 wagons MEDWAY freight undertaking in Portugal, ADVANTAGES RAPHIC 7 AND ASSETS Spain and Italy; Fleet of 78 HIGHLIGHTS KEY FIGURES COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS locomotivves HIGHLIGHTS KEY FIGURES • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, Russian Federation, India, • 2016-2019 period: total Portugal, Spain, Italy) with 4 investment of more than EUR100 • Fleet of • MEDWAY is present as rail • 555 direct different gauges. HQ Team • DedicatedMillion • Fleet of • MEDWAY is present as rail 4,282 wagons MEDWAY freightMEDWAY undertaking freight in Portugal, employees coordinating MSC’s Rail 4,282 wagons undertaking in Portugal, Spain and Italy; Fleet of 78and Italy; Fleet of 78 Strategy and driving Spain MEDWAY • Extensive development of Regional HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTSHIGHLIGHTS KEY FIGURES KEY FIGURESKEY FIGURES locomotivves locomotivves • Operations in 6 wagons Fleet of 4,282 countries (Turkey, MEDWAY present as rail • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS 555 direct employees investments in capacity-building railway company Russian Federation, Russian India, Federation, freightIndia, undertaking in Portugal,• 2016-2019 period: total • 2016-2019 period: total Portugal, Spain, Italy) with 4 Spain, Italy)Spain and Italy; investment of more investment than EUR100 and capital intensive Portugal, • Fleet of with 4 • MEDWAY of more than is present as EUR100 rail different gauges. • Fleet of different gauges. Fleet of• Fleet 78 of locomotives Million • MEDWAY is present as rail Million • 555 direct • MEDWAY is present as rail • Dedicated HQ Team 4,282 wagons 4,282 wagons MEDWAY freight undertaking in Portugal, 4,282 wagonsfreight undertaking in Portugal, employees MEDWAY MEDWAY freight undertaking in Portugal, coordinating MSC’s Rail Spain and Italy; Fleet of Spain 78 and Italy; Fleet of 78 Spain and Italy; Fleet of 78 Strategy and driving locomotivves locomotivves MSC MEDWAY continues to focus on developing the logistic and Goal 3, Target 6 (SDG 3.6) and the European • Extensive locomotivves development of Regional • Operations • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, in 6 countries (Turkey, intermodal supply chains both at the local and global Commission’s long-term goal to halve road casualties COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES COMPETITIVE Russian Federation, Russian India, Federation, India, ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, AND ASSETS • 2016-2019 period: total Russian Federation, India, investments in • 2016-2019 period: total capacity-building • 2016-2019 period: total railway company level. We believe in the potential of the railway sector by 2020 and move close to zero fatalities in road transPortugal, Portugal, Spain, Italy) with 4Spain, Italy) with 4 investment of more than investment EUR100 of more than EUR100 and therefore we are enhancing our investments in port by 20507. Portugal, Spain, Italy) with 4 and capital intensive investment of more than EUR100 different gauges. different gauges. Million Million equipment, assets and inland rail facilities. With this in mind, MEDWAY developed its own Health different gauges. Million • 555 direct • Dedicated HQ Team • Dedicated HQ Team In 2016, MEDLOG, MSC’s logistics arm, historically a and Safety Management System (HSMS), approved • 555 direct Operations employees in 6 countries employees Total investment of more coordinating MSC’s Rail Extensive coordinating MSC’s Railinvestment service provider, became a rail operator by acquiring by the European Rail Agency (ERA), which ensures (Turkey, Russian Federation, than EUR Strategy 100 and million driving in capacity Strategy and driving building and the former national rail freight operator CP Carga, today compliance with a wide range of security and safety COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS MEDWAY COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS MEDWAY • Extensive India, Portugal, Spain, Italy) • Extensive (2016-2019development period) of Regional capital intensive development of Regional renamed “MEDWAY”. requirements. The HSMS also establishes appropriate investments in gauges with 4 different investments in COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS railway company railway company Currently, we have a strategic focus in Europe and management systems aimed at preventing, reduccapacity-building capacity-building especially in Portugal, Spain and Italy where MEDWAY ing and minimising any unnecessary risk to workers, and•capital intensive and capital intensive 555 direct • Dedicated HQ Team runs its own trains as a rail operator, providing tailorcommunities and the environment. employees • 555 direct coordinating MSC’s Rail • Dedicated HQ Team made and reliable services to customers. In the coming Furthermore, MEDWAY operates in full compliance with employees • 555 direct Strategy and driving coordinating MSC’s Rail • Dedicated HQ Team MEDWAY years we plan to become rail operators in the majority the “Regulation concerning the International Carriage • Extensive employees development of RegionalStrategy and driving coordinating MSC’s Rail MEDWAY of European countries. of Dangerous Goods by Rail” (RID)8 which has been investments in • Extensive railway company development of MEDWAY Regional Strategy and driving Additionally, in line with MSC’s broad sustainability transposed and enforced also in the countries of the capacity-building investments in • Extensive railway company development of Regional approach, MEDWAY is promoting the shift from trucks European Union (EU) and of the European Economic and capital intensivecapacity-building investments in railway company Dedicated HQ Team to train, fully supporting Sustainable Development Area (EEA)9 through European Directive 2008/68/EC.10 and capital intensive capacity-building coordinating MSC’s Rail Strategy and capital intensive and driving development of regional railway company 7 Ref: EU Safety policy framework for 2021-2030 and strategic action plan on road safety, both published in May 2018 as part of the ‘Europe on the Move’ package. Source: https://ec.europa.eu/transport/modes/road/news/2019-04-04-road-safety-data_en 8 For more information: https://otif.org/en/?page_id=1105 9 EU countries (2020 data): Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden; the EEA includes EU countries and also Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. It allows them to be part of the EU’s single market. Switzerland is not an EU or EEA member but is part of the single market. Source: www.gov.uk/eu-eea 10 For more information: www.unece.org/index.php?id=25748 44 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 In line with the RID, MEDWAY conducts regular inspections on each train before departure. Also, a dedicated OFFERING VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND LOCAL JOB OPPORTUNITIES auditing team, which includes three certified Dangerous Goods Advisors, verifies compliance of procedures and FOR YOUNG PEOPLE IN THE RAIL SECTOR operator competences as well as all applicable regulations related to the transport of dangerous goods. MEDWAY is currently supporting local capacity-building for the Liguria Region, Italy, and focuses on “employabilin the rail sector in collaboration with several stakeholders ity, equal opportunities and helping young people make TERMINAL AND DEPOT NETWORKS (KEY EUROPEAN REGIONS) by offering tailor-made vocational training with its highly the transition from education into high-quality jobs”12. specialised trainers. Based on a comprehensive analyIn this respect, MEDWAY has developed ad hoc trainsis of the labour market and related business outlooks, ing modules to ensure that young people acquire the MEDWAY is also supporting ­national and regional develnecessary expertise, technical competence and deep opment plans focused on reducing unemployment rates knowledge of innovative processes, procedures and by promoting job creation in the railway industry. equipment to become highly skilled professionals and As an illustration, since 2019, MEDWAY has been collabenter the Italian railway’s labour market. Additionally, as orating with the Scuola Nazionale Trasporti e Logistica11 part of the agreement with the Liguria region, MEDWAY located in La Spezia, Italy, by offering vocational traindoes not require any fees for these training opportuniing for young people interested in pursuing a career as a ties and is committed to recruiting 70% of students upon train driver or rail operator. The school is the first training completion of the courses. In 2019, 20 students c­ ompleted structure in Italy dealing only with logistics and transthe training. Additional courses will be launched for new port. The vocational training programme is funded by the apprentices in 2020. European Social Fund (ESF) Operational Programme (OP) IN THE NEXT FIVE YEARS (2020-2024 PERIOD), MEDWAY PLANS TO INVEST: EUR 380 million in private rail inland terminals: Lousado (Portugal), Saint Petersburg (Russia) KEY FIGURES and Cortenuova (Italy). • MEDWAY EUR 100 is present millionasinrail 26 new-generation interoperable locomotives. These have 15% more MEDWAY freight undertaking in Portugal, tractive effort and can Spain and Italy; Fleet of 78 pull trains up to 2,500 tons. They therefore have increased carrying capacity and are thus more efficient. Equipped with the latest technologies on board to locomotivves key, HIGHLIGHTS KEY FIGURES guarantee driver safety, the new locomotives • 2016-2019 period: total will be also fitted out with assisted guidance and automation. investment of more than EUR100 Million • Fleet of • MEDWAY is present as rail EUR 15 million 4,282 wagons to acquire 300 new freight MEDWAY wagons with “whisper” brakes, fitted with an freight undertaking in Portugal, innovative composite material allowing a significant Spainreduction of noise. and Italy; Fleet of 78Sophisticated NTAGES AND ASSETS telematic systems are able to track, monitor andlocomotivves report physical parameters such as weight, • Operations in 6 countries (Turkey, temperature and humidity levels of cargo. This will also increase the reliability and safety of Russian Federation, India, • 2016-2019 period: total Portugal, Spain, Italy) supporting the equipment, with 4 predictive maintenance to eliminate investment unexpected of more failures. than EUR100 • Dedicated HQ Team different coordinating gauges. MSC’s Rail Million MEDWAY Strategy and driving information Moredevelopment about MEDWAY’s investments in electric locomotives and key environmental initiatives of Regional to reduce CO2 11 For more information: www.scuolatrasporti.com/en/home/ railwayand emissions company improve energy savings can be found in the “Environment” chapter (pages 56-87). 12 Source and for more information: https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/en/atlas/programmes/2014-2020/italy/2014it05sfop006 COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND ASSETS 46 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 • 555 direct • Dedicated HQ Team employees coordinating MSC’s Rail MEDWAY Strategy and driving CASE STUDY IMPLEMENTING “I RAIL ACTION” TO SUPPORT INTEROPERABILITY IN KEY EU RAIL FREIGHT CORRIDORS In recent years, the European Commission has enhanced MEDWAY is active in the Atlantic and Mediterranean RAIL FREIGHT CORRIDORS (RFCS) MAP 2020 its efforts to remove barriers that prevent the expansion corridors. We expect the project to have significant of European rail logistics chains by promoting interlong-term impacts on several EU member states, as Rail Freight Corridors (RFCs) map 2020 Oslo Stockholm Tallinn operability13 across Europe. The main objective of the the actions will allow interoperability between any of Hallsberg Katrineholm Göteborg Mjölby interoperability strategy is to standardise the several the five corridors and the exchange of information will RFC1 Rhine-Alpine Älmhult Riga Glasgow Edinburgh sub-systems of the European railway network, at all follow standard specifications. RFC2 North Sea Mediterranean Malmö Taulov levels, creating an enabling environment for operators RFC3 Scandinavian Mediterranean Trelleborg RFC4 Atlantic Padborg Gdynia Kaunas and other relevant stakeholders that will allow trains The main expected project outcomes focus on the RFC5 Baltic Adriatic Lübeck Rostock ´ Swinoujscie´ ´ Gdansk to cross countries and contribute to the creation of a following specific objectives: Bremerhaven Neustrelitz Elk RFC6 Mediterranean Wilhelmshaven Hamburg Szczecin Amsterdam InowrocIaw Warszawa European Rail Network that is much more competitive RFC7 Orient / East-Med Uelzen Rotterdam Meteren Berlin Rzepin Poznan´ Skierniewice Luków RFC8 North Sea Baltic Bremen Terespol and less fragmented. To achieve this, the European • Increasing the competitiveness of small and Verden Hannover / RFC9 Czech-Slovak / Rhine Danube Vlissingen Lehrte ´ Zdunska Wola Radom Commission is harmonising requirements, procedures medium-sized railway undertakings, which must RFC10 Alpine Western Balkan London Zeebrugge Terneuze Roosendaal Antwerpen Löhne Magdeburg Falkenberg Wroclaw Tunel Dunkerque Duisburg / Katowice Kraków RFC11 Amber Aarschot Elsterwerda and technical standards. Additionally, several member meet the requirements in terms of complexity of Gent Aachen Oberhausen Dresden Opole Medyka Mechelen Liège Fulda Multi-corridor station Czechowicestates have further increased their investments in strucTAF TSI functionalities Köln Ostrava Dziedzine Single-corridor station Calais Lille Namur Montzen Frankfurt/Main Würzburg Praha Ceská Trebová tural infrastructure, for example by building new lines • Improving the speed and quality of communication Le Havre Bettembourg Nürnberg Plzen Breclav Prerov Zilina Leopoldov Kosice Matovce ´ Mannheim Wien for passenger and freight trains and refurbishing existbetween rail stakeholders by replacing manual work Regensburg Linz Bratislava Metz / Treuchtlingen Nové Zámky Cierna nad Tisou Woippy Stuttgart Ingolstadt Wels Gyor ´´ ing infrastructure to allow an increase in train’ length, and paperless processes through Paris Karlsruhe Strasbourg Augsburg Wiener Neustadt Sopron Hatvan Záhony Bruck/Mur Csorna Nyíregyháza weight and gauge in tunnels. the implementation of TAF TSI standards and Nantes / Tours Dijon Basel München Rosenheim Salzburg Budapest Szombathely Miskolc St Nazaire Graz In line with the above approach, MEDWAY Iberia is the digitisation of safety procedures La Rochelle Geneva DomoInnsbruck Villach Pragersko Szolnok dossola Zidani Kiskunhalas Arad currently implementing the project I RAIL Action, • Reducing operational costs by an average Bordeaux Lyon Ambérieu Novara Bellinzona Milano Brenner / Brennero Udine Most Kelebia co-funded by the European Commission, which aims of 10% per year by implementing TAF TSI Bayonne Zagreb Brasov Bilbao Padova Trieste Vukovar Ljubljana Hendaye / Valence Torino Tortona Bucuresti to implement European-wide procedures and interfaces standards and the digitalisation of Irun Alessandria Arquata Verona Treviso Divaca Vinkovci Craiova Miranda Nimes Bologna Venezia Koper Rijeka Beograd between rail actors, in order to contribute to an interopthe Safety Management System Constanta Leixoes / de Ebro Avignon Vidin Ruse Valongo Lleida Fig. Vilafant Genova La Spezia Ravenna Medina del erable and cost-efficient information exchange system • Enhancing the efficiency of processes by planning Campo Zaragoza Barcelona Perpignan Miramas Nis Karnobat Burgas Portbou Fos / Marseille Pisa Ancona within EU member states. The I RAIL project will support in advance and decreasing idle time in operations Madrid Tarragona Figueres Livorno Firenze Sofia Svilengrad railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and by an average of 10-15%, resulting in improved Manzanares Lorca Valencia Roma Kulata Lisboa Linares wagon keepers, helping to ensure interoperability and service quality and cost-effectiveness. Sines under Cartagena Napoli Taranto Thessaloniki construction Paola data safety in five of the eleven EU Rail Freight Corridors: Almería Palermo Messina Patra Athina Mediterranean, Atlantic, Rhine-Alpine, ScandinavianAlgeciras Augusta Mediterranean and Baltic-Adriatic. Source: http://rne.eu/rail-freight-corridors/rail-freight-corridors-general-information/ 13 Interoperability is regulated by the Interoperability Directive 2008/57/EC, amended by Directive 2016/797/EU and Safety Directive 2016/798/EU, which establish Technical Specifications for Interoperability (TSI), essential to ensure that trains can run safely and seamlessly throughout the entire European Union rail system. Link: www.era.europa.eu/activities/technical-specificationsinteroperability_en. 48 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 CASE STUDY EXPANDING INTERMODAL AND SHIPPING DIRECT CONNECTIONS FROM TRIESTE PORT SERVICES VIA THE PORT OF TRIESTE, ITALY According to Oxford Economics, 14 the European Thanks to its advantageous geographical position, shipping industry directly contributed EUR 54 billion Trieste Terminal can serve multiple inland destinations to the EU Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employin faster and more efficient ways compared to the standing 685,000 people. However, the same report reveals ard route through which North and Eastern Europe are that if the spill-over effects on other sectors of the EU served. Indeed, a container shipped from Asia or Turkey ­economy are taken into account, the total contributo a German inland destination needs up to six extra tion of the European shipping industry rises to EUR navigation days to reach the main discharging port, 149 billion, providing employment opportunities for 2 where it continues its journey via rail. This not only million people. improves the efficiency of the transportation itself, but also allows for the reduction of CO2 emissions and thereSince its creation, MSC has being a key player in Europe, by enhances the sustainability of the transportation. extensively supporting job creation and dramatically MSC collaborates with leading European retailers to contributing to the development of connections between provide tailor-made transport solutions. Through close regional corridors and the rest of the world. Today we coordination with customers, MSC focuses on i­ ndividual WORLD COVERAGE VIA GIOIA TAURO TRANSSHIPMENT TERMINAL continue to focus on this strategic area, through massive shippers’ needs and unique requirements, helping our investments in infrastructure, terminals and sustainable business partners and customers to optimise their integrated shipping and logistics solutions. respective supply chains. For example, to complement our outstanding global port coverage, with over 200 sea-freight ­services worldwide, MSC developed a European intermodal network connecting Trieste Marine Terminal, in the north of Italy, to a number of inland destinations. The planning of the rail connections was coordinated with MSC’s Far East Phoenix ocean-liner service to ensure efficient and competitive transit times for shippers. As of today, MSC provides direct calls from the Trieste Marine Terminal to the eastern Mediterranean area, Greece, Turkey, the Red Sea and Asia. Optimised connections from the Terminal to the rest of the world are ensured via Gioia Tauro Transshipment Terminal, located in the south of Italy. 14 Source: Oxford Economics The Economic Value of EU Shipping Update 2020 50 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 TRIESTE MARINE TERMINAL’S KEY HIGHLIGHTS GRAPHIC 9 Trieste Marine Terminal (TMT) started its operations in 2001, positioning itself as a key gateway in the heart of Europe. Today, the two shareholders of the terminal are Terminal Investment Limited (TiL), MSC’s subsidiary, €€ GRAPHIC 9 and the Maneschi Family, which has been acting in the shipping and terminal management business for the last 40 years. TMT extensively supports long-term inclusive social and economic growth in the region, while promot€€ ing operational efficiency, energy efficiency and CO2 reductions thanks to its strategic location and through its €€ rail facilities and intermodal networks. FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ECONOMIC BENEFITS STRATEGIC ASSETS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT €€ ECONOMIC BENEFITS STRATEGIC ASSETS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ECONOMIC BENEFITS STRATEGIC ASSETS FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC BENEFITS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ECONOMIC BENEFITS STRATEGIC ASSETS RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE supporting the intermodal network 362 2015-2019 2015-2019 VOLUMES €€ 2019 19,000 19,000 DAILY DAILY 362 days BERTH BERTH 2015-2019 approx. VOLUMES 2019 days 362 APPROX. EUR MILLION 30EUR TEU CAPACITY 24h 7/7 AND D 2015-2019 APPROX. EUR 30 MILLION 30 MILLION 688.000 VOLUMES 688.0002019 TEU TEU TEU DAILY 19,000 CAPACITY 24h days 7/7 BERTH AND DRAFT APPROX. EUR 30 MILLION (increase of 55% TEU362 CAPACITY 24h 7/7 AND DRAFT 2015-2019 688.000 (increase VOLUMES 2019 TEUof 55% 19,000 DAILY days BERTH Increased capacity from Upgrading of 4 Ship-to-Shore VOLUMES IN 2019: TEU CAPACITY 24h 7/7 AND DRAFT APPROX. EUR 30 MILLION 688.000 FINANCIAL INVESTMENT since TEU 2015 (increase since of 2015 15) 15 55% ) ECONOMIC BENEFITS STRATEGIC ASSETS 12,300 (in 2019) to 17,000 Upgrading of 4 (STS) STS Upgrading cranesof 4cranes STS cranes 688,000 (increase TEU of 55% since 201515) STRATEGIC ASSETS trains per year (in 2020) since 2015increase 15 ) thanks to the recent upgrading Upgrading of 4 STS cranes Upgrading of 4 STS cranes (55% vs. 201515) program of the Port Authority 12 new 12 reachnewreach reach stackers stackers 400,000 400,000 12 new-reach stackers 12 new stackers (mobile and RFI carried out in 2019 297 DIRECT297297DIRECTDIRECT 400,000 sqm sqm 400,000 and 2020 new liftingreach 12 liftings mobile machines)stackers machines to liftingsmove -containers mobile to move machines to move sqm liftings mobile machines toonmove 297 DIRECT EMPLOYEES OPERATIONS EMPLOYEES OPERATIONS EMPLOYEES sqm OPERATIONS liftings in the mobile containers machines the terminal to move yard containers onyard the terminal yard CFS362 CAPACITY terminal CAPACITY (increased by station 2,500 sqm containers on the terminal yard 2015-2019 EMPLOYEES (increased by 19,000 DAILY BERTH CAPACITY VOLUMES 2019 235 days YARD containers on thenew terminal yardN4 the terminal T.O.S.: Navis 80 people in just (increased byjust 770 235 CAPACITY covered 24h 7/7area AND DRAFT YARD APPROX. EUR 30 MILLION reefer TEU BERTH 3 (increased years) 80 people by in 688.000 TEU metres 235 770 YARD plugs new T.O.S.: Navis New Terminal operatingN4 Operating system.the System terminal Navis 4 is one (TOS): 297 DIRECT EMPLOYEES 80 reefer BERTH 3 people inpeople just 235 metres 770 (increase of 55% 5 rail tracks new T.O.S.: new Navis T.O.S.: operating Navis N4 (one N4 Navis of themost system. ofartthe N4the-inthe Navis most terminal used used and state of the terminal is the4market andone 80 (an people years) increase ofin 80just plugs reefer reefer 770 600 meters eachBERTH BERTH metres YARD since 201515) OPERATIONS CAPACITY operating system. operating Navis system. system Navis4 in is4state one ismarket) one Upgrading of 4 STS cranes in33 INDIRECT 3years) years) years) 900,000 plugs plugs metres of the most state-of-the-artused systems and the of the EMPLOYEES TEU Dedicated cranes Second track for the terminal rail gate of the of most usedused art most the system and and in thestate of the state market of the 12 new reach stackersApprox.150 400,000 for operations INDIRECT 297 DIRECT 900,000 art system art system in thetrack Second inmarket theformarket the terminal rail gate liftings mobile machinesif towemoveconsider sqm EMPLOYEES OPERATIONS 25 new terminal tractors the external CO2 emissions containers on the terminal INDIRECT yard EMPLOYEES INDIRECT TEU 900,000 900,000 CAPACITY Second track for the terminal rail gate companies working (increased by DEDICATED SLOTS NATURAL reduction through EMPLOYEES Approx. 150 450 TEU 18 235 YARD Second 25 new track for terminal the tractors Second track for the terminal rail gate terminal New stacking area rail gate new T.O.S.: Navis N4 directly the EMPLOYEES for terminal TMT. 80 people in just TEU FOR TEU IMO IMDG metres DRAFT reefer the 770 promotion of the shift of BERTH SeveralApprox. OVER thousand if we 150 150 consider INDIRECT 3 years) DANGEROUS CARGO plugs mode of transport metres (from trucks operating system. Navis 4if is weone Approx. 150 consider to trains): In 2019, a reduction 25 New new terminal stacking upgrading area tractors of of the most used and statetheof we ifthe theconsider EMPLOYEES Community external of approximately 7,800 tons of 25 new terminal tractors 7 RMG yard cranes art system in the market if workingthe weif around we consider external consider companies the external working CO2 was recorded in 2019. INDIRECT DEDICATED SLOTS NATURAL 25 new terminal tractors Upgrading of 7 RMG yard cranes the the terminal companies companies external working directly for working TMT. 900,000 450 DEDICATED SLOTS FOR IMO IMDG 18 was calculated This amount by New stacking 78 area additional Second track for the terminal rail gate EMPLOYEES TEU TEU 450 CO 2 usingmetres 18 the tool developed by NATURAL DRAFT companies directly directly Several TMTthousand for for TMT.working Approx. 150 FOR IMO DEDICATED IMDG DANGEROUS CARGO SLOTS Eco TransIt16. New stacking area direct employees TEU 450 metres DRAFT 18 NATUR 78 additional direct employees directly (several Several for thousand thousand if we consider TMT. if if we consider FOR DANGEROUS IMO IMDG CARGO metres New stacking upgrading area of TERMINAL EXPANSION: 2020 25 new terminal tractorswe consider the community if we consider the external TEU DRAFT upgrading 100 METERS LENGTH X 400 METERS WIDTH 7 RMGofyard cranes Several thousand the Community companies working DANGEROUS DEDICATED SLOTS CARGO working around the terminal) 450 18 NATURAL Terminal expansion in 2020 the Community if working we consider around directly for TMT. FOR IMO IMDG upgrading7 RMG yard cranes of metres New stacking area TEU metres DRAFT 100 length x 400 metres width working the terminal the Communityaround Several thousand DANGEROUS CARGO 7 RMG yard cranes if we consider upgrading of the terminal 78 additional 7 RMG yard cranes working around the Community 78 direct additionalemployees working around the terminal the terminal direct employees 78 2020 additional TERMINAL EXPANSION: 78 additional 2020 TERMINAL EXPANSION: direct employees direct 15 100 employees METERS LENGTH X 400 METERS WIDTH Source: www.trieste-marine-terminal.com/sites/default/files/attachment/Statistics%20-%20History%202004-2019.pdf 100 METERS LENGTH X 400 METERS 2020 WIDTHTERMINAL EXPANSION: 2020 TERMINAL EXPANSION: 100 METERS LENGTH X 400 METERS WIDTH 100 METERS LENGTH X 400 METERS WIDTH 52 SOCIAL INCLUSION INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE supporting the intermodal network RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE RAILsupporting INFRASTRUCTURE the intermodalSUPPORTING TMT TRAFFIC COMPOSITION, A GROWING supporting the intermodal network THE INTERMODAL RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE NETWORK network MODAL SHIFT BETWEEN TRUCKS AND RAIL INCREASING ACCESS TO FINANCE TO PROMOTE supporting the supporting the intermodal intermodal network network THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGRICULTURE Increased capacity from Increased 12,300 (in Increased Increased 12,300 capacity (in 2019) 2019) to capacity from17,000 from 12,300 from to 17,000 2016 2017 SECTOR AND ALLEVIATE POVERTY trains per year (in 2020) Increased 12,300 capacity from trains thanks (in 12,300 2019)per (in to(in to2019) year the 2019) (in recent 17,000 2020) to 17,000 to 17,000 upgrading trains per year thanks Increased trains toper the recent capacity year upgrading (in from 2020) program trains (in per 2020) of year the (in thanks Port 2020) to Authority the recent program 12,300 of (in the Port 2019) Authority thanks and thanks RFI to thetocarried the recent out to recent upgrading in upgrading 17,000 2019 33% 41% and trainsRFI carried GRAPHIC out in 2019 5 program upgrading and program 2020ofper ofprogramme the year the Port (in Port 2020) Authority Authority of and andthanks and 2020 RFIRFI tocarried the carried outrecent inout 2019 upgrading in 2019 67% 59% the Port Authority and RFI carried out and 2020 program of the Port Authority and CFS2020 CFS station station 2,500 2,500 sqm sqm in 2019 and 2020 and RFI carried out in 2019 covered covered CFS station area area 2,500 sqm and 2020 CFS covered area station 2,500 sqm As part of its broad, holistic approach to sustainable in a warehouse under Collateral Management. They covered area 2,500 sqm covered area 2018 2019 55 CFSrail tracks railstation: tracks development, MSC promotes innovative financial opporhave more flexibility regarding the timing of their sales CFS 5600 600 station tracks railmeters meters each each 2,500 sqm 600covered 5 meters rail tracks each area 41% tunities to facilitate access to finance for e ­ xporters or and reimbursements. They pay back the loan once their 600 Dedicatedmeterscranes Dedicated Dedicated cranes each cranes 59% importers, through its subsidiary MEDLOG. goods are sold. 5 rail for for tracks operations operations for rail tracks: 5 operations 600 metres each 52% 48% 52.3% 47.7% The Collateral Management (CM) Programme, launched The CM programme fits perfectly into the value chain 600 meters each Dedicated cranes CO2 CO2for emissions operations emissions in 2019, is a tripartite contract between MEDLOG, offered by MEDLOG SA and the MSC Group. CO2 emissions reduction through reduction Dedicated through cranes financing entities (bank, funds, seller) and ­borrowers So far, the CM programme has been implemented the reduction the promotion promotion through of the of the of of shiftshift for CO2 the operations emissions promotion of(from the shift of Dedicated mode mode ofof transport transport cranes (from fortrucks trucks operations in which goods are under custody of the collaterin East Africa, benefitting coffee producers and rice reduction mode tototrains): of In transport 2019, through a (from reduction trucks trains): In 2019, a reduction al manager (MEDLOG) as a “third party holder”. ­importers in West Africa. Cocoa and cashew in West CO2 the to ofof emissions promotion trains): approximately approximately In 2019, of 7,800 the shift a reduction tons 7,800 of of tons of CO2reduction mode of was CO2 ofrecorded recorded approximately was through transport in 2019. 7,800 in (from 2019.tonstrucks of MEDLOG implemented this programme in collaboAfrica are also in discussion to support producers. Brazil the This to CO2 This promotion amount trains): was amount was Inwas2019, recorded of the calculated calculated by of shift ainreduction 2019.by Truck CO 22 CO using mode of theemission tool of16tool approximately developed transport reduction by (from 7,800 through  trucks tons of ration with international institutional partners, local will be the next step. CO using EcoThis the 2 the amount TransIt promotion to trains): . 16 was calculated by In developed of the by shiftbyof mode = 162.6 gram banks and Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs). The CO2 was the recorded. 2019, ainreduction 2019. CO 2 per ton/km Eco using TransIt tool developed of This of Eco approximately amount transport TransIt . was 7,800 16(from tons calculated trucks of by to trains): Collateral Management and its warehouse receipts are ENABLING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CO 2 CO2 was using reduction aThis the recorded tool developed of in 2019. approximately by Barge also used by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), CHAINS amount Eco TransIt 16 . was calculated by 48.1 gram per ton/km CO 2 7,800 using tons the tool of CO was recorded developed 2 by in 2019. = a member of the World Bank Group, under its Global Eco amount. was calculated by using his TransIt 16 T Warehouse Finance Program (GWFP)17. According to MSC also supports business partners, local producthe tool developed by Eco TransIt16. the IFC, “about 75% of the world’s poor are rural and ers and exporters by continuing to invest in cold involved in farming and agriculture. The GWFP program chains and the latest available cooling technologies. is part of IFC’s efforts to increase access to finance for Our reefer solutions allow fresh commodities to reach SOCIAL INITIATIVES TRAINING AND APPRENTISHIP farmers and to promote agriculture development as a different trade areas, securing food supply regardless PROGRAMMES FOR YOUNG STUDENTS means of alleviating poverty.” of the season and preventing food waste in the event Trieste Marine Terminal (TMT) is one of the most active The programme aims to overcome barriers related to of low market demand. Additionally, MSC’s Controlled logistics companies in the region, significantly contribDirect investments in school courses and the local Maritime the lack of accessible credit that borrowers may face. Atmosphere (CA) containers help perishable goods to uting to the regional and national economy. In recent Academy are further examples of how Trieste Marine It gives producers and traders the opportunity to grow travel further and for longer, potentially opening up new years, the Terminal carried out a number of actions to Terminal actively participates in the social and ­economic their business, or start activities for newly established markets for exporters and importers. further strengthen the relationship between the citizens life of the community. As an illustration, TMT supports companies. It also supports local trade opportunities, By increasing the supply and affordability of quality food and the port community, in collaboration with major selected transport and logistics learning programmes preserves jobs and helps “increase market efficiency around the world, reliable cold chains can help reduce local stakeholders such as the yearly “Port Open Day”. in schools. In particular, training and apprenticeship so that commodity producers will have more options to poverty, foster responsible consumption and promote Furthermore, TMT is also a sponsor of various initiaprogrammes have been launched in collaboration with time the sale of the products and have better cash flow the right to health. tives targeting the younger generations living in the the local Nautical Institute and the Maritime Academy. management”. The programme provides local banks region, including local sport clubs such as the main TMT managers regularly provide ad hoc courses on agreed with liquidity (short term loans) or risk coverage (credit Additional information on our investments in reefers and cold Trieste football and basketball teams. key subject matters and ­accompany students during their guarantee) backed by warehouse receipts. Exporters chain technologies can be found in the “Environment” chapter visits to the ­container terminal. have access to financing by keeping farmers’ goods (page 80). 16 EcoTransIT World compares energy consumption, CO2 and exhaust atmospheric emissions for planes, cars, trains and trucks. The methodology behind the calculations is sound and scientific, taking a life cycle-based approach to energy, and is approved by the European Environment Agency; link: https://uic.org/sustainable-development/energy-and-co2-emissions/ecotransit-world?gclid= 17 The Collateral Management and its warehouse receipts, are also used by International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of Cj0KCQjwyPbzBRDsARIsAFh15JYt_PEQx-U53EmkddihLbBR2oLIqiwuxYaosfas0QDUjCgypagFBA8aApJoEALw_wcB the World Bank Group, under its Global Warehouse Finance Program (GWFP) 54 SOCIAL INCLUSION MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 ENVIRONMENT 56 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 THE OCEAN IS OUR HOME For MSC, the ocean is our home. We are part of a thrivMSC’s environmental focus is on vessel and operationIn terms of the CO2 impact of shipping, it has been estimated that the sector is responsible for 2.2% of total global ing ocean economy upon which we, and many millions al efficiency, and emissions reduction. We are working anthropogenic emissions. However, shipping already compares favourably to other transport modes with respect of people all over the world, depend. Climate change hard to make a positive contribution to the associatto fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions (grams per tonne-kilometre)23. poses short, medium and long-term risks to populations ed SDGs, notably SDG 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing), on every continent. Communities already in disadvanSDG 13 (Climate Action) and SDG 14 (Life Below Water), taged situations and vulnerable people are, and will while also providing a service that brings value to sociecontinue to be, disproportionally affected by climate ty. As a family-owned company, with a long-established GRAPHIC GRAPHIC GRAPHICGRAPHIC SHIPPING 11 11 11 (0.3% OF GLOBAL GDP) 11INDUSTRY change effects, according to the Office of the High seafaring heritage, MSC makes commitments knowing Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)18. Addressing that they must succeed and endure. The trust of valued this global challenge with a clear understanding of interclients, partners and employees depends on this assurconnected social impacts is at the top of the international ance. We see our focus on sustainable operations as a agenda and requires a multi-perspective approach. Since primary way to contribute to lasting business partnerPREDICTED PREDICTED PREDICTED INCREASES INCREASES PREDICTED INCREASES IN IN IN WORLD INCREASES WORLD WORLD INSEABORNE WORLD SEABORNE TRADE, SEABORNE SEABORNE TRADE, TRADE, GDP TRADE, GDP GDP AND ANDAND GDP POPULATION POPU POPULA POPULATIO AND 1990, global annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ships and future generations. 2.2% OF GLOBAL 90% OF GOODS ANTHROPOGENIC TRANSPORTED have risen by 41%19. To play our part in tackling this, 18 18 18 18 CO2 EMISSIONS 180180180180 WorldWorld seaborne seaborne World World seaborne trade BYtradeSEA seabornetradetrade carried carried incarried tonnes tonnes in(billions) (billions) incarried tonnes in tonnes (billions) (billions) DECARBONISATION TRANSITION 12 12 12 12 120120120120 WorldWorld economy World World economy economy economy GDP GDP GDP in USD in USD GDP in USD (billions) (billions) in USD (billions) (billions) Shipping is a vital facilitator of world trade: 90% of everything we consume travels by sea. Cargo transported by 6 6 6 6 60 60 60 60 WorldWorld population World population population (billions) World population (billions) (billions) (billions) the liner shipping industry represents about two-thirds of the value of total global seaborne trade20. There has been a 73% increase in world GDP in the last two decades; in parallel, seaborne trade has increased by more billions billions billions billions trillions trillions trillions trillions than 112% over the same period21. As shown in the graphic below, a consistent increase in world seaborne trade 2000 20002005 2000 20052000 2010 2005 2010 2015 2005 2010 2010 2015 2020 2015 2025 2020 2015 20202030 2025 2020 20252030 2025 2030 2030 APHIC 11 is expected over the next decade. In this scenario the decarbonisation transition poses a significant challenge for the whole industry, with direct impacts on the environment as well as on the global economy. 2019 global GDP: USD 87,265 billion Shipping contribution: USD 261 billion (Source: https://stats.oecd.org ) PREDICTED PREDICTED INCREASES INCREASES IN WORLD IN WORLD SEABORNE SEABORNETRADE, GDP TRADE, ANDGDPPOPULATION 22 AND POPULATION CO2 EMISSIONS: SHIPPING IN COMPARISON WITH OTHER TRANSPORT MODES 18 180 World seaborne trade carried in tonnes (billions) 12 120 World economy GDP in USD (billions) 6 60 World population (billions) billions trillions 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 AIR:AIR: 580 AIR: 580 580 g AIR:g 580g ROAD: g ROAD: 45 ROAD: ROAD: g45 45 g45 gRAIL: g RAIL: 18RAIL: 18 g18 g SEA:SEA: g18RAIL: g 3g SEA: 3g SEA: 3g3g 18 www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/HRAndClimateChange/Pages/HRClimateChangeIndex.aspx 19 www.wri.org/ 20 Source: IHS Global Insight economic contribution of liner shipping industry data November 2009/data 2007 21 The economic value of shipping and maritime activity in Europe, Oxford Economics (2016) 22 Source: Predicted Increases in World Seaborne Trade, GDP and Population. IHS Global Insight; World economy-OECD Statistics; World Population-UN Department for Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division www.ics-shipping.org/shipping-facts/ shipping-and-world-trade/predicted-increases-in-world-seaborne-trade-gdp-and-population 23 3rd IMO GHG Study, 2014 58 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 EMISSION EMISSION EMISSIONEMISSION REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT TO TO SUPPORT SUPPORT DECARBONISATION DECARBONISATION TO DECARBONISATION SUPPORT DECARBONISATION In addition, some shipping companies, including MSC, meet the IMO’s goal. It could even help accelerate the have already significantly improved their e ­ fficiency, development of commercially viable zero-carbon ships REDUCING EMISSIONS FURTHER as indicated by a reduction in the Energy Efficiency by the early 2030s. Operational Indicator (see page 63). MSC believes that In parallel with the aforementioned collective initiatives, READINESS FOR IMO 2020 as its strong, well-established partnerships with major decarbonisation of shipping is necessary. We support the MSC is investigating emissions reduction solutions global fuel providers. These partnerships allowed the ambitious emissions reduction targets that have been related to biofuel blends (see pages 66-67) and interOn 1st January 2020, the Amendment to the IMO necessary flexibility during the transition period, ensurset by the International Maritime Organization24(IMO) modal solutions (as described in the chapter on Social International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution ing compliance in all global regions and at all the ports and are already investing heavily in available solutions Inclusion, see pages 34-55). We are evaluating applicafrom Ships (MARPOL) Annex VI regulation regarding in which MSC operates. and working hard with key partners to develop ­scalable ble innovative solutions such as hydrogen fuel cells, IMO’s sulphur limits (IMO 2020) came into effect. It aims The coming into force of IMO 2020 is possibly the and innovative solutions to reach these targets. We complementary battery power, other alternative fuels to tackle the cardiovascular, respiratory and other diseasmost significant disruption in shipping since commeralso acknowledge that decarbonisation depends on and, possibly, wind and solar, to help accelerate research es linked to poor air quality. For ships operating beyond cial containerisation became widespread in the 1960s. ­technology breakthroughs in propulsion t­echnology and development initiatives that will help meet our designated Emission Control Areas (ECAs), it limits Impacts extend beyond ship owners and operators too, and zero emission fuels. We are are contributing to emissions reduction ambitions. sulphur in fuel oil used to 0.5% (mass by mass), compared as markets, manufacturers, retailers, consumers and collective efforts in those areas through our particiMSC believes that green financing mechanisms offer to a previous limit of 3.5%. This amendment will lead to maritime technology specialists are also affected by AIR: 580 g ROAD: 45 g RAIL: 18 g SEA: 3 g pation, for example, in the Global Industry Alliance25 great potential to drive sustainability performance with an estimated 77% drop in overall sulphur oxide (SOx) aspects of the transition to low-sulphur emissions opera(GIA), 580 gp AIR: whose ­ rimary goal ROAD: 45 ggas emission RAIL: is greenhouse 18 g approach. Lending a long-term g SEA:or3investment arrangeemissions from the shipping sector, or an annual reductions. It is the most significant regulatory change for the (GHG) reduction from the shipping sector. We are ments which integrate environmental, social and tion of approximately 8.5 million metric tonnes of SOx28. shipping industry as a whole to ever be implemented. also members of the Clean Cargo Working Group26, a governance factors can serve as both an enabler and a Throughout 2019, MSC was assiduous in its implemenleading buyer-supplier forum for sustainability in the facilitator of projects with positive social and environFUEL SUPPLY CHAIN ESTABLISHMENT tation of the final preparations for compliance with this cargo shipping industry. We have expressed our support mental outcomes. MSC will continue to explore and To meet the sulphur emissions limit, many MSC ships regulation, with efforts focused on: (i) supply chain estabfor and helped shape plans to create a USD 5 billion intends to implement such new initiatives in the coming switched to low sulphur fuel oil. MSC achieved timely lishment for low sulphur fuels, (ii) ensuring IMO 2020 environmental research fund27, which aims to help interyear, while cooperating with the key stakeholders to and systematic preparation for IMO 2020 thanks to its implementation onboard, and, (iii) Exhaust Gas Cleaning national shipping achieve the transitions required to define criteria and targets. status as a world leader in maritime transport as well System (EGCS) installation. EMISSIONEMISSION REDUCTION REDUCTION SOLUTIONSSOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT TO SUPPORT DECARBONISATION DECARBONISATION EMISSION REDUCTION SOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT DECARBONISATION ACTIVATED ACTIVATED BEING EXPLOREDBEING EXPLORED ACTIVATED BEING EXPLORED Biofuel blendsblends Biofuel HydrogenHydrogen fuel cells fuel cells Intermodal Biofueltransport • Intermodal services blends transport services Complementary fuel cellsbattery power • HydrogenComplementary battery power Shore power transport services • Intermodal Alternative • Complementary fuelsbattery power Shore power Alternative fuels • Shore power • Alternative fuels 24 Reduction in carbon intensity of international shipping (to reduce CO2 emissions per transport work, as an average across international shipping, by at least 40% by 2030, pursuing efforts towards 70% by 2050, compared to 2008); and reduction of total annual GHG emissions from international shipping by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008 25 https://glomeep.imo.org/global-industry-alliance/global-industry-alliance-gia/ 26 www.clean-cargo.org/ 27 www.ics-shipping.org/news/press-releases/2019/12/18/shipping-sector-proposes-usd-5-billion-r-d-board-to-cut-emissions 28 www.imo.org 60 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 ENSURING IMO 2020 COMPLIANCE ONBOARD to recirculate the EGCS wash water within the system, Guideline MEPC.1/circ.684 and reflects ship perforC 1212 2IC For a fleet as large as MSC’s, throughout 2019, the preparation of vessels and crew for IMO 2020 required significant without discharging to the sea. MSC signed commercial contracts ordering a large number of scrubbers to be mance in terms of transport work. EEOI can also be used to provide information on the benefits of mainteplanning, investment and training, as well as communication and documentation of fuel handling and changeoinstalled across the fleet. By the end of 2019, MSC was nance measures such as hull or propeller cleaning, as ver management. MSC Shipmanagement developed and issued detailed internal guidance on the aspects listed an industry leader on EGCS installation, with a greater well as operational enhancements. MSC began tracking below, with regular training for crew ashore and on board, in a classroom context and/or by webinars, to ensure number of systems installed, or being installed, than EEOI in 2015 and then recorded a 13% improvement up proper implementation. its counterparts29. to 2018. MSC has been awarded the Energy Efficiency Operational Index Certificate by a globally recognised Statutory StatutoryDesignated Statutory Designated Designated MSCMSC MSC Measures Measures Vessel-specific Measures Vessel-specific Vessel-specific With the new legislation now in place, and regulators third-party auditing company. In 2019 the EEOI was emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissionsfor operation for operation for operation fuel fuel fuel changeover changeover changeover working to ensure equitable enforcement of IMO 2020 slightly above the value for the previous year, which globally, the focus in the sector is now on achieving may be explained by the disruption associated with the regulations regulations regulations control control control control control and and control and handling handling handling procedures procedures procedures other IMO objectives to reduce the shipping sector’s dry-docking of many MSC ships for the installation of areas areas areas policies policies policies environmental footprint. MSC is prioritising CO 2 EGCSs to ensure compliance with IMO 2020. Smaller (ECAs) (ECAs) (ECAs) emissions reduction, in line with the IMO Strategy on vessels were deployed temporarily, to replace larger Statutory emission Designated Emissions MSC emissions Measures for operation Statutory Statutory Statutory Statutory Designated Designated Designated Designated MSC MSC MSC MSCMeasures Measures Measures Measures Vessel-specific Vessel-specific Vessel-specific Vessel-specific Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships. ones in dry dock, and there were some blank sailings, regulations Control Areas (ECAs) control policies and handling emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions emissions forfor forfor operation operation operation operation fuelfuel changeover fuel fuel changeover changeover changeover both of which contribute to an elevated EEOI. regulations regulations control control control control control andand and and handling handling procedures procedures MONITORING ENERGY EFFICIENCY MSC expects a reduction of EEOI in 2020 thanks to the regulations regulations control control control handling handling procedures procedures areas policies policies FOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND BUSINESS arrival into service of the 10 new 23K+ TEU Gülsün areas areas areas policies policies PERFORMANCE class vessels in late 2019. Compared to 2003, when the (ECAs) (ECAs) (ECAs) (ECAs) average capacity per ship was 2,500 TEU, by the end MSC fully supports reporting CO2 emissions transparentof 2019, the average capacity was close to 6,800 TEU. Vessel-specific fuel Record keeping Training Use of exhaust gas cleaning ly and precisely in the European Union (EU) Monitoring, This, together with MSC’s focus on maintaining one of Fuel Fuel testing Vessel-specific Fuel changeover procedures testing testing Record Record Training Record TrainingIMO IMO Training IMO 2020 2020 compliance 2020 systems compliance compliance (EGCS) Reporting and Verification (MRV) system, as mandated the most modern fleets on the high seas, are key ways on fueland sampling changeover and and sampling sampling keeping keeping keeping through use useuse through through by EU legislation, and the IMO Data Collection System in which MSC ensures optimal fleet efficiency. ng protocols procedures protocols protocols of exhaust gas gasgas of exhaust of exhaust (DCS) on fuel consumption. MSC also continues to use Consistent with our energy efficiency programme, and cleaning cleaning cleaningsystems systems systems the Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) to to set a further ambition for emissions reduction, we (EGCS) (EGCS) (EGCS) record and analyse individual ship and fleet perforhave agreed to an EEOI-linked target of 14.22 by 2023, Fuel tank preparation was a major focus. Provisions with IMO 2020. Specific to the fuel changeover, each mance over time. The indicator is set out in the IMO down from 14.8 in 2019. Fuel Fuel testing Fuel Fuel testing testing testing Record Record Record Record Training Training Training TrainingIMO IMO IMO 20202020 compliance compliance were made for the emptying of main and overflow SIP featured IMO details2020 2020 on (i) risk compliance compliance assessment and mitigaand fuel and tanks and and sampling sampling and sampling sampling keeping the transfer keeping keeping keeping of any remaining heavy tion, (ii) tankthrough through cleaning through through anduse use (iii) procurement bunkering, use use FLEET CARBON EMISSIONS ANNUAL EEOI VS NEW DELIVERIES protocols fuel protocols oil (HFO) toprotocols protocols sludge tanks. Across the MSC-owned of compliantof exhaust ofoil,exhaust fuel of exhaust and ofgas (iv) exhaust gas fuel gasgasprocechangeover fleet approximately 4,000 fuel tanks, including storage dures and planning.cleaning cleaning cleaning cleaning systems systems systems systems EEOI 16.65 tanks, and settling and service tanks, required clean(EGCS) (EGCS) (EGCS) (EGCS) 16.50 ing to be ready to bunker 0.5%S fuel oil, known as very INSTALLATION OF EXHAUST GAS CLEANING low sulphur fuel oil (VLSFO). Fuel tank cleaning at MSC SYSTEMS 16.00 15.55 ompliance began with the recruitment of dedicated teams from In addition to a switch from HFO to VLSFO, the 15.50 MSC Crewing Offices and selected vendors. More than strategy used by MSC to ensure compliance with the e 15.00 14.80 14.80 300 personnel were engaged worldwide in the onboard progressively tighter IMO sulphur regulations has 14.56 gas task of cleaning fuel tanks in the 10 months leading to been investment in Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems 14.50 stemsimplementation of the IMO 2020 regulation. Tasks relat(EGCS). Despite being more expensive, MSC chose 14.00 ed to tank cleaning and preparation were mostly carried to invest in hybrid EGCS because of their greater 13.50 out during navigation of the vessel, to avoid service reliability and operational flexibility, safety for the 13.00 disruption. MSC worked with a qualified maritime expert crew and, importantly, to future-proof the retrofitted 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 consultancy to develop a Ship Implementation Plan (SIP) vessels. Hybrid EGCS can operate in both open and for each vessel to ensure full and timely compliance closed loop, meaning that it is possible, if necessary, EEOI = gr CO2/(tons cargo/miles) 29 www.alphaliner.com 62 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 BIOFOULING: AN OPERATIONAL AND of native species of flora and fauna. This in turn has implifrom biofouling. The Plan takes into account the vessel’s on a programme to retrofit the propellers of the entire ECOLOGICAL CHALLENGE cations for the essential services derived from nature, trading area, expected environmental conditions and fleet with optimised, lighter designs featuring PBCFs such as medicines, food and clean water. Use of certain operational requirements related to the prevention of to achieve fuel efficiency gains, as well as benefits for In the context of shipping, biofouling refers to the anti-­fouling systems may pose further threats to marine biofouling (e.g. average sea water temperature, fouling noise reduction, as outlined on page 81. Recent monitoraccumulation of aquatic plants, animals and microorganlife. severity, speed, dry-docking interval) for, in ­particular, ing and analyses performed by MSC Shipmanagement isms on vessel surfaces that are either immersed in water the propeller, rudder, bow thrusters and sea chests. have confirmed that vessels equipped with PBCFs regisor exposed to the surrounding marine environment. ACTING TO CONTROL BIOFOULING ter savings of 3% in fuel consumption, which translates Biofouling can reduce a ship’s efficiency. Encrustation MSC follows the IMO ‘Guidelines for the control and EXPLORING ALL OPTIONS into significant gains for emissions reduction. causes increased hull frictional resistance, so more power management of ships’ biofouling to minimise the is required to maintain service speeds. It is estimated ­transfer of invasive aquatic species’ 30 (‘Biofouling There is no single solution to emissions reduction from MSC celebrated another environmental milestone, that biofouling can cause an increase of up to 40% in fuel Guidelines’), which provide an approach to the global shipping; a variety of approaches is required. MSC therearising from the decision to use an award-winning consumption, with consequent increases in costs as well shipping community to follow when addressing this fore embraces a 360-degree approach to improving non-toxic foul release coating in its managed vessels. as emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and air pollutissue. All vessels managed by MSC carry an onboard efficiency, deploying a variety of solutions focused on This coating makes it harder for fouling organisms to ants. Furthermore, biofouling on ships can ­contribute Biofouling Management Plan, which provides practical significantly improving environmental performance. cling to surfaces, even at slow steaming. The biocideto the transfer of alien (invasive) species. This poses guidance to crew on minimising the transfer of invasive Propeller boss cap fins (PBCF), installed on the hub free layer leads to reduced drag, and thus improved a serious ecological threat because of the link between aquatic species and keeping the ship’s underwater cap of the propeller, reduce the hub vortex ­generated fuel ­efficiency and lower overall emissions. The coating invasive species and biodiversity loss and the extinction surfaces and internal sea water cooling system free by propeller, and the associated decreased load on has now been applied to 29 other vessels, resulting in the shafting helps to improve propeller efficiency. a CO2 reduction of around 4,000-23,000 tonnes over a MSC carried out detailed technical studies and tests to five-year cycle in each case, depending on the size of confirm the reported benefits of PBCFs for vessels under the vessel, amounting to approximately 315,500 tonnes its management. Following initial positive trial results of CO2 over the five-year period. regarding the effect of PBCFs, in 2012 MSC embarked TYPICAL SCHEDULE OF PLANNED INSPECTIONS, REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, AND RENEWAL OF THE ANTI-FOULING SYSTEMS FEATURED IN A STANDARD MSC BIOFOULING MANAGEMENT PLAN TYPE OF INSPECTION / REPAIR / MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE Renewal of antifouling coating Once every three or five years (drydocking) In-water inspection of antifouling coating Once every year (or scheduled in-water survey) based on vessel performance and handling Renewal of cathodic anodes Once every five years (drydocking) Propeller blades polishing Once every year (based on propeller slip/performance) unless propeller is silicon-coated Bow thruster blades polishing Once every five years Cleaning sea chest areas/grills of macro organisms Routine inspection of the strainer as per vessel’s (barnacles) planned maintenance system and externally: once every year along with propeller polishing Bow thruster + stern thruster grills inspection/cleaning Once every year (in water survey) cleaning: based on condition Hull cleaning Based on condition and percentage of macro organisms 30 Resolution MEPC.207(62) 64 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 MEETS CRITERIA ProtectionRELATING of land with TOhigh Protection rights biodiversity of valla • Expanded freight capacity Zero-deforestation Compliance with human, Com the last milelab ISCC CERTIFICATION and ENSURES high carbon stock THAT carried THE • Reducing and high BIOFUEL carbondis righ s BIOFUELS AS A PATHWAY FOR Biofuels can also offer benefits for air quality and ISCC certification ISCC certification ensures that theensures biofuel meetsthatcriteriathe biofuel relating rights to: meets criteria relating by trucks, strengthe to EMISSIONS REDUCTION IN SHIPPING therefore human health, because SOx emissions from MEETS• Contribution CRITERIA RELATING to maximising flow of TO 1 mile Measurement safety, reliability and and minimisire regional supply value Protectioncongestion of land emissions with high & negative externa biodiesel, for example, are almost absent and particuCompliance with human, Compliance labour and wit land In line with MSC’s commitment to climate action late matter emissions are also very low. Zero-deforestation and Measurementhigh carbonon populations and stock reduction Mea o and, specifically, our support for the IMO Strategy • Short transit timesrights and increased rights on Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships, we are TRIALS UNDERTAKEN on-time delivery emissions •Traceability Ensuring business emis througho continu working on the testing and implementation of various Despite these benefits, there has not been widespread Protection ofCompliance land with high with despite biodiversity human, changing val la trade pattern solutions. This ensures that progress will continue to be use of biofuels by the shipping sector owing to concerns Zero-deforestation • Enhancing of the Measurement viability of and reduction Measurement of geopolitical greenhouse dynamics and made, while technological solutions are developed for regarding cost and availability, both in terms of quantity cross-border and regional andtradeshigh carbon rightsstock Traceability Integration ofsupply throughout Trace smallh deployment at scale. In addition to the focus on energy and location. Nonetheless, following fruitful negotiaemissions emissions efficiency, MSC is exploring other pathways to reduce tions with a key partner, MSC began a series of biofuel Zero deforestation Protection of Compliance with Measurement chains • Ad-hoc expert advice and Traceability • Enabling access to domestic and support offered by the MSC’s its environmental impacts throughout its supply chain. trials in 2019. The trials focused on the use of a blend Protection of land with high biodiversity value land with high Compliance human, labour andwith and human, Measurement Integration reduction of of labour and throughoutand Integ of reduction smallholders landino of fuel oil and ISCC31 certified UCOME (Used Cooking foreign market access biodiversity by increasing Traceability land rights throughout € greenhouse supply gas network Traceability chains supply local chains agencies throug WHY BIOFUELS? Oil Methyl Ester) biofuel. UCOME biofuel is made from connectivity between and high carbon stock value and high rights regional/emerging emissions chains emissions Compliance with chain law Use of biodiesel instead of conventional fuels offers used vegetable oils, fats or greases. The resulting hubs and main carbon stock consumption and • Cost-efficient solutions production centres around the world environmental benefits for two primary reasons. ­biofuel can be used, in the form of a blend of b ­ iofuel Integration of smallholders Integration inofinternational of sma s Plants used to produce biodiesel absorb CO2. This and petroleum-based fuel, in diesel engines without Measurement and reduction Traceability •Good throughout Lower management greenhouse emissions supplyCom compared gives biodiesel a lower overall CO2 emissions profile engine modification. Compliance with human, labour and land • Increased flexibility chainsand trade Compliance CO 2 with chains other laws and modes of transport, allo int than regular diesel. Responsibly sourced biofuels could Trials were run with the selected biofuel on two MSC facilitation, supporting emissions local actors and significant CO2 savings provide one solution to help the shipping sector to meet ships, and performance was evaluated against criteria rights international partners to address current The trials were comp Goo Integration Good 30%management of smallholders practice in the 2030 IMO level of ambition for CO2 emissions intenrelating to machinery function, fuel viscosity, sulphur and future domestic and Compliance foreign trade with laws blends and Compliance international blend fuel, andwith tre follow l sity reduction and could also make significant progress emissions and cold climate impacts, for example. demands Traceability throughout chains supply chains toward the 2050 levels of ambition. pany is now using 3 Integration of Measurement Compliance with and Good reduction management TheThetrials of trials werewere greenhouse completed completed with gast The with Good 30% management practices Good 30% managem smallholders emissions Integration laws and international blends of smallholders practices Compliance blend a minimal 10% blend fuel, blends fuel,furtherand with infollowing international laws and blen furtheint s in international treaties and following trials, supply chains chains pany is now using the Company is now using 30% pany blend The trials were completed Trials were run 30% blends The with with the trials a minimal were selected biofuel 10%co 30% Good 30% management practice Traceability blends throughout blend fuel, and supply performance following blends chains was blendtrials, further evaluated fuel, the andCo against fol criter Compliance with laws fuel and viscosity, international sulphur emissions and tre cold pany is now using 30% blends pany is now usin The trials were completed Trials were run with with IntegrationGood of Trials smallholders 30%were run with thein management blends blend international selected practices fuel, against biofuel on twosuppl and followingperformance MSC sh furthe was ev ENCOURAGING RESULTS performance was evaluated criteria relating to chains The trials were successful, proving not only the technical Followingsulphur fuel viscosity, panythis success, MSC hasand isemissions now using fuel decidedcold viscosity, continue impa to climate 30% sulph blend viability of the biofuel blend for use in large container bunkering blends with responsibly sourced, certified, ships, but also demonstratingTrialsan were average The runCOwith 2 trials were the selected reduction completed biofuel second-generation Trials on 32 were two MSC biofuel. with run This with a minimal is ships, a highlythe significant 10% selected and biof 30% fuel. In November performance of 15% compared to conventional was evaluatedand measure,against performance criteria in termsrelating both was of the blend evaluated toratio machinery against and the extentfunction, cr December of 2019 alone, Compliance blends at the fuel blend with start of the project, viscosity, sulphur fuel, more lawsof its application. emissions and following and and fuel cold international MSCviscosity, further is proud to climate sulphur become the impacts, trials, emissions firstexample. for the treatie major Co and than 100k metric tons (MT) of biofuel was pany is now using 30% blends bunkered by shipping line to take this step towards fully operationalMSC, with associated estimated absolute CO2 savings Trials were run ising up to with the selected 30% biofuel blends in almostbiofuel all ofon 0.1%MSC s ourtwo of over 30k MT. The potential CO2 reduction in the performance bio and 0.5% was evaluated bunkering againstMSC in Rotterdam. criteria relating to will continue Good management practices component of these fuels could reach 80-90%, according to investigate fuel viscosity, sulphurtechnological, emissions and and fuel-based cold o ­ perational climate impa to the biofuel supplier. MSC will monitor and confirm solutions for meeting emissions reduction objectives. this over time. Trials were run with the selected biofuel on two MSC ships, and The trials were performance was evaluatedcompleted against criteria withrelating a minimal to machinery 10% function, 30% blend fuel, and following and in this case they further are palm oil-free. trials, the Com32 Second-generation biofuels, also known as advanced biofuels, are produced from non-food fuel viscosity, sulphur emissions and cold climate impacts, for example.crops, such as the waste from food 31 www.iscc-system.org/ blends crops, agricultural residue, wood chips and waste cooking oil, pany is now using 30% blends 66 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 CONTRIBUTING TO MEETING GLOBAL NOx Tier III compliant engines. MSC partnered with leading AIR POLLUTION TARGETS maritime technology providers to ensure the SCR systems installed use the most reliable, safest and most effective The International Convention for the Prevention of designs for each ship class. Safety and operational training Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), overseen by the IMO, on the use of the SCR is provided to all crew concerned. limits the primary air pollutants contained in exhaust Already, as per the regulation, all new MSC ships calling gas from ships, including nitrous oxides (NOx). NOx at ports in the North American ECA and the United States has adverse impacts on human health and the natural Caribbean Sea ECA use SCR for NOx control when these environment. High levels of NOx in the atmosphere requirements apply. causes respiratory conditions with impacts on lung On her maiden voyage in July 2019, MSC Jewel from the function; in plants, NOx in high concentrations has a Josseline class vessels called at the Port of Long Beach. negative effect on leaves and growth. NOx has been The Port is a leader in tackling air emissions and associsteadily increasing in concentration globally33, particuated health risks. The Clean Air Action Plan35 Update, larly in areas with high levels of motorised transport. approved at Long Beach in 2017, provides guidance on MARPOL Annex VI details progressive reductions in achieving a zero-emissions future, while safeguarding NOx emissions limits from marine diesel engines. Tier and reinforcing the port’s strong economic position. MSC III emissions standards apply to all ships built after 1st Jewel is a new 14,436 TEU vessel equipped with shore January 201634, for trading in North American emission power connection capability, powered by Tier III diesel control areas (ECAs) and the United States Caribbean engines in conjunction with SCR, which are 75 per cent Sea ECA, and 1st January 2021 for ships operating in the cleaner than the International Maritime Organization’s Baltic Sea ECA and North Sea ECA. The standards call (IMO) Tier II standard. She was welcomed as the “cleanfor an 80% reduction relative to earlier Tier I standards. est container ship to visit the United States” by the Long ENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT ON MSC’S GÜLSÜN CLASS SHIPS MSC fully supports IMO-led efforts to curb ­atmospheric Beach Harbour Commission President on 12th July 2019.. pollutants, including NOx, and has been investing in MSC was also awarded for MSC Jewel’s visit through 2019 was a landmark year in the world of container lower the carbon footprint of their supply chains. Their Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology which the Port of Long Beach Green Ship Incentive Program. shipping, especially for MSC, and especially for environdeployment is part of MSC’s efforts to help ensure our can lower ship NOx emissions from about 650ppm to mental performance. The year saw the coming into customers have sufficient service on the world’s major 10-40ppm (80-95%). Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) PARTNERING FOR CLEAN SHIPPING TECHNOLOGY service of the first 10 of the MSC Gülsün class 23K+ trade lanes between Asia and Europe. is an emissions control technology whereby a reducIn 2019, MSC entered a partnership with the South Coast TEU ships, currently the largest container ships afloat. The MSC Gülsün class ships feature a remarkable ing agent (ammonia, in the form of urea) reacts with a Air Quality Management Directive (AQMD)36 in California. In August, MSC Gülsün, the first in this new class of approach to energy efficiency with the shape of the catalyst in the exhaust stream of an engine. The ensuing It was agreed that in 2020, together with another partner, ships, made its maiden voyage from the North of China bow designed to enhance hydrodynamics by reducing chemical reaction converts nitrogen oxides principally MAN Energy Solutions USA Inc. (MAN), MSC and to Europe. hull resistance. State-of-the-art engineering minimises into harmless nitrogen and water, which are expelled AQMD will develop, install and demonstrate a retrofit These Ultra Large Container Vessels (ULCVs) can carry wind resistance, resulting in lower fuel consumption. through the exhaust funnel. ­technology to reduce NOx emissions from ocean-going over 4,500 more 20 ft containers (TEUs) than the previThe ship’s improved energy efficiency and fuel economy The first five MSC Josseline class vessels were delivered vessels (OGVs). For the proposed project, the retrofit ous class, MSC’s 19,000+ TEU Oscar class ships, which help ensure that MSC is on track to meet international in 2019. These ships, along with the four due for delivery technology will be installed, tested and demonstrated were already high-performing in terms of fuel and 2030 emissions reduction targets set by IMO ahead of in 2020, are the first of the MSC fleet with IMO MARPOL on one of MSC’s Tier II vessels. energy efficiency. This new class of 23,000+ TEU ship time, building on a 13% improvement in CO2 emissions builds on the previous innovative design, maximising per ton of cargo moved already achieved across the operational and environmental performance. At some MSC fleet between 2015 and 2018. 400 metres long and more than 60 metres wide, the To comply with the IMO 2020 sulphur regulation, each Gülsün class ships have a record capacity for a containof the ships is equipped with a UN IMO-approved hybrid er ship: 23,756 TEU. Due to the size, and technological Exhaust Gas Cleaning System (EGCS) and can switch innovations on board, this class of ship emits less CO2 to low-sulphur fuel when necessary; the vessels can per container carried, helping companies which ship also be adapted for liquefied natural gas (LNG) use in goods on MSC’s services between Asia and Europe to the future. 33 www.data.worldbank.org 34 Keel laid or date of signing of the building contract. 35 https://cleanairactionplan.org/ 36 www.aqmd.gov/home 68 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 CASE STUDY GLOBAL LEADERS IN SHORE POWER Ports are highly dynamic economic and logistic hubs, where shipping companies, such as MSC, play a key role in the movement of goods. Trade volumes across the world have increased substantially in recent decades, from approximately USD 10 trillion in 2005 to USD 17.5 trillion in 201737. In parallel with this, air pollution in ports from ocean-going vessels, as well as trucks, locomotives and other vehicles in operation at terminals, has also increased. Even when a ship is at port, though it does not need energy for propulsion, other ship functions such as ventilation, heating, cooling, pumps and control systems still require power. Running generators to provide this power can contribute to local noise and air emissions with impacts on public health. MSC is very aware of this and has been a strong advocate of the use of shore power to reduce emissions from ships in ports, contributing to SDG 3, Good Health and Well-Being, and in particular Target 3.938. All new MSC vessels are built with shore-power connection capability. At the end of 2019, a total of 173 vessels were equipped. SYSTEMIC GROWTH OF THE COLD-IRONING the berths at Yantian International Container Terminal INFRASTRUCTURE (YICT) in Shenzhen. The infrastructure in place has an Some of the world’s largest, most sophisticated and output of 60Hz, which corresponds to a potential reducmost modern ports in the world are in China. In fact, tion of vessel-related CO2 emissions by an estimated China is home to six of the world’s busiest ports. The 3,500 tons/year, as well as 10 tons/year of SO2 and 70 Chinese government has spent ¥ 1 trillion since 2012 to tons/year of NOx. expand the country’s port facilities. Part of this included investment in measures to combat urban air pollution. MSC China has been swift to use the shore-power All main port terminals were requested to install shore connections in Shenzhen. Of the 670 port calls that used power to reduce emissions. Eight major ports in China shore power in Shenzhen in 2019, 283 (42%) were made now offer cold-ironing (shore power), with some ports by MSC vessels, making MSC the primary shore-power providing this at multiple berths. user in Shenzhen. Of the 459 calls made by shore-power BRIDGING THE GAP: MSC CARBON NEUTRAL PROGRAMME equipped MSC vessels to terminals in Shenzhen in 2019, MSC CHINA CONNECTS TO SHORE POWER 283 voyages connected to the available shore-power The above sections explain the lengths to which MSC its clients the possibility to compensate for their cargo’s Shenzhen, a major urban centre in Guangdong province, infrastructure, representing over 62% of all MSC calls; is going to reduce emissions. We continue to make environmental impact through the purchase of offsets, is a leader in China in the provision of shore power. an increase of 10% is expected in 2020. progress in this area and are confident that technologiwhich direct funds to two emission reduction projects For example, connections are available at 16 (80%) of cal breakthroughs will help the sector achieve the IMO with verified environmental and social benefits. Carbon emissions reduction objectives. However, despite all certificates are then generated, which are audited and the efforts to increase the energy efficiency of vessels, third-party certified according to the most stringent marine transportation of goods currently still causes international standards. MSC was the first liner carriunavoidable CO2 emissions. To offer an interim solution er in the industry to offer certified offsets to customers. to compensate for these unavoidable emissions, MSC has partnered with a world leader in the development Further information on the MSC Carbon Neutral Programme of emissions reduction and renewable energy projects, can be found on www.msc.com/carbon-neutral South Pole39. Since early 2019, MSC has been offering 37 unctad.org 38 By 2030 substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil pollution and contamination 39 www.southpole.com/ 70 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 CASE STUDY ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AT TiL: typically segregate waste ­voluntarily (e.g. paper, plastic, glass, wood, fluorescent tubes, metals, used oil and TiL-owned terminals and joint ventures are also working to attain globally recognised energy management A FOCUS ON PRODUCTIVITY electronics) for disposal and recycling, where facilities are standards through the development of formal energy available. Only authorised vendors are engaged to handle management systems (EnMS). Asyaport in Tekirdag, waste, which is processed and documented according Turkey, Klaipedos Smelte in Klaipeda, Lithuania and to national guidelines. All TiL greenfield projects are MSCTV in Valencia, Spain have already been ISO 50001 designed and implemented in accordance with relevant certified in recognition of their progress. This certificaContainer terminals provide the essential interface between the container shipping industry and landside multiInternational Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance tion is a key element in integrating energy management modal logistics and distribution networks. A business as complex as this may have various environmental impacts, Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability40. into broader site-level efforts to improve quality and but these can be managed responsibly to ensure an overall positive contribution to the local port community and Examples of our social and environmental risk impact environmental management. Asyaport and MSCTV have broader economy. Since it was founded in 2000, Terminal Investment Limited (TiL) has grown to become one of assessments and management systems can be found in both also received the European Port Environmental the largest and most geographically diverse container terminal operators in the world. The company has material the “Social Inclusion” chapter of our 2018 Sustainability Review System (PERS) certification, the only port sector-­ ownership interests in 38 operating terminals and two development terminals in 26 countries on five continents. Report (pages 26-39). A total of 15 terminals across the specific environmental management standard. In North There are 11 MSC Terminals under TiL management. TiL works to apply principles of eco-efficiency throughout its world that are either managed or co-managed by TiL are America, three terminals (New Orleans Terminal LLC, operations, i.e. value generation through technology application and process optimisation, while also minimising ISO 14001 certified. These sites have adopted a recogPET Port Everglades and Termont Montreal) have been resource use and environmental impact. TiL has become a market leader through strong and consistent business nised framework for the establishment of a site-based awarded GreenMarine certifications for their exemplary performance, strategic investment at many of the world’s busiest ports, prioritisation of health and safety and an environmental management system. This enables them environmental performance, following assessment on environmental approach which integrates sustainability considerations with high productivity. to identify, manage, monitor and control their environperformance indicators focused on air, land and water mental priorities in an integrated way. pollution. FOCUSING ON PRODUCTIVITY Fuel consumption per move at TiL has been reduced by 25% since 2017. In a further reflection of improvements At TiL, the sustainability approach is characterised by a in operational efficiency, berth productivity, measured in focus on boosting productivity. Sustainable operations terms of the number of moves per hour, has increased require strategic planning and careful management of from 55 in 2016 to 60 in 2019. inputs and outputs; the same is true for productivity. By focusing on productivity metrics, TiL is also achievA HOLISTIC APPROACH TO SITE-LEVEL ing reductions in fuel use, optimising use of quay and ECO-EFFICIENCY yard space, reducing machine wear and cutting truck idling time. The optimisation of operations by TiL has wider benefits Since 2006, the cargo handled by TiL has more than for emissions reduction, beyond the company itself. quadrupled, to 33 million moves in 2019. This excelFor instance, average truck turnaround time at TiL lent performance is a result of consistently high-quality terminals has been reduced by six minutes (15%) since service and strong partnerships combined with capaci2016, meaning less time idling or queueing. TiL works ty expansion projects. TiL records and monitors a range to ensure a smooth service to the trucking community of energy efficiency indicators to ensure that its strong and to deliver this in tandem with superior waterside business performance runs in parallel with r­ esponsible service. environmental management. For example, TiL has Broader environmental responsibility is practised by TiL achieved a 14% increase in the number of TEU moved at site level through, inter alia, compliance with applicaper quay metre and a 16% increase in the number of TEU ble and relevant domestic and local laws, as in the case of moved per hectare of yard space, since the end of 2016. waste management for example. Offices and workshops 40 www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/sustainability-at-ifc/publications/publications_ handbook_pps 72 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 INVESTING IN INNOVATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS MSC is constantly seeking business, technical and with product suppliers. Further, MSC’s commitment to operational innovations to improve our service and ensure ISO 14001 compliance has led to the establishreduce our ecological footprint. ment by MSC Shipmanagement of robust, externally audited procedures for onboard waste management TAKING ON THE PLASTICS CHALLENGE for all ships in our fleet. Waste generated on board our vessels is gathered, sorted and deposited at ports where MSC is working to ensure that we do not contribute to MSC has partnerships with certified third parties for the widespread problem of marine plastics, and that appropriate disposal in accordance with local waste our activities support SDG 14, and particularly target management regulations. MSC works to instil aware14.142. An estimated eight million tons of plastics enter ness about plastic waste through the Company’s Quality, the world’s oceans every year, causing serious injury or Safety and Environment Management System (QSEMS), death to marine wildlife43. Plastic pollution also contribproviding regular crew briefings on the need for plastic utes to climate change, and puts human health, coastal waste management, as well as the recycling procedures tourism, and food safety and security at risk. onboard. In addition to the provisions of the IMO’s MARPOL In 2019, MSC Shipmanagement also made the firm Annex V, with which all ships must comply, banning commitment to reduce single-use plastics (mainly in plastic disposal from ships anywhere at sea, countries packaging material, including bottles) onboard all of are also imposing national-level measures to curb plastic its vessels. As part of this initiative, MSC now procures waste. For example, in late 2019, Kuwait announced its concentrated water-based cleaning agents, for which the policy to prohibit the use of certain single-use plastic solution is prepared on board, resulting in a significant items onboard Kuwaiti and foreign ships while in port reduction of plastic waste generation. For example, the in Kuwait or in Kuwaiti waters. India is also introducuse of a dilutable concentrate available in a 10-litre drum ing similar measures, in a phased approach. MSC’s can produce 1,000 litres of ready-to-use (RTU) solution, © Port of Long Beach primary approach has always been to focus initially on thereby replacing 1,000 smaller 1 litre plastic containers. plastic reduction, through engagement and negotiation TERMINALS: FOCUSING ON CAPACITY BUILDING With the continuous modernisation of terminal operaenvironment and the port community are managed tions worldwide, TiL maintains a focus on personnel, in tandem with the needs and expectations of clients, team performance and skills development. To achieve partners and suppliers. With this as a guiding principle, employee satisfaction and talent retention, TiL focuses on TiL will continue to make a significant contribution to reskilling and professional development to support career SDG 9 (Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive evolution and progression, through training, for example. and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation), Business thrives when the welfare of employees, the and specifically target 9.441. 42 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine 41 By 2030 upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource use efficiency and greater decries and nutrient pollution. adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes 43 www.iucn.org/resources/issues-briefs/marine-plastics 74 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 DIGITALISATION FOR ACHIEVING COLLABORATION AND SECTOR BENEFITS TradeLens offers visibility to its members, enabling TradeLens, and over 10 million discrete shipping events THE SDGs Players in the aviation sector have been benefitting from them to connect and exchange information across the and thousands of documents are processed every week. collaboration for some years. For historical reasons, the full shipping supply chain50. The platform offers users The shared visibility that the platform provides helps to MSC is a modern, global company both in spirit and shipping sector is still gaining momentum in this area, a means to access data and to collaborate as cargo is build trust between carriers, shippers, customs authorpractice. We are forward-thinking and moving with and MSC is working hard to support this. For example, shipped around the world, helping create a secured, ities, port officials, freight forwarders and other players and adapting to the changing world around us. For MSC has committed to a leadership role in the Digital transparent and incontrovertible record of transacacross the shipping value chain. these reasons, we are driving and supporting digital Container Shipping Association (DCSA)48. Together with tions. Today there are more than 100 participants in solutions to facilitate collaboration and transparency other leading shipping companies, through the DCSA, across our global operations and within the broader MSC is helping to establish standards for a common shipping sector. technology foundation that enables global collaboraMSC is also represented in the Port Call Optimisation (PCO) industries. The broader purpose is to streamline port tion, the scalability of Internet of Things (IoT) solutions, Task Force. PCO draws on existing industry standards call planning and execution and to reduce unnecessary BOOSTING GLOBAL TRADE operational efficiencies and interoperability. The broader and is backed by a range of organisations i­nternationally waiting time. MSC is working closely with the DCSA on Expanding global trade is essential for reducing goal is to make shipping services easy to use, flexible, recognised for their deep knowledge of the shipping sector the topic of PCO to help achieve these important goals. poverty44. By boosting economic growth, trade enables efficient, reliable and environmentally friendly49. and standards. The PCO Task Force is working towards the realisation of a number of SDGs, allows access to A major achievement of the DCSA in 2019 was the publithe long-term goal of interoperability between shipping Source: https://portcalloptimization.org/ technological input and creates incentives for innovacation of the ‘Industry Blueprint’, agreed upon by nine of lines, agents, ports and, where applicable, other associated tion. MSC’s worldwide transport s­ ervices facilitate trade the largest carriers in the world. It defines more than 50 primarily by interconnecting global markets. But the shipping ‘events’, relating to berthing and mooring for benefits of trade are only sustainable and e ­ quitable example. This enables carriers and customers to have when systems are in place to allow for information a precise, shared and agreed understanding of events CUSTOMER BENEFITS sharing, and to overcome trade barriers such as lack through the use of common terminology. Also, in 2019, Shared visibility (SV)51 (common situational awareness) physical parameters and provide information on the of standardisation. Digital technologies, part of what with the objective of reliably sharing requirements and is one of the benefits of digitisation and digitalisation52. status and movement of the container. These assets are is sometimes referred to as the ‘Fourth Industrial specifications for IoT solutions installed on containers, It allows not only for business optimisation but, in the linked digitally to a monitoring platform. This allows for Revolution’, are one of the six transformations required DCSA began work on a specific track to address the case of the shipping sector, it offers the ability to track delivery predictions and deviation alerts which provide to achieve the SDGs45. The 2019 CEO Study conducted communication technology layers of IoT solutions. This the whereabouts of cargo. Nowadays, improvements important information on trip status and progress. by the UN Global Compact46 also revealed that digital work aligns with MSC’s investment in smart container in cloud and mobile technologies, together with the MSC is expanding its work on smart technologies in the technologies are considered one of the primary ways technology described below. Internet of Things (IoT), are making it possible to offer knowledge that such innovation brings g ­ reater customin which companies can contribute to the SDGs. For The rise of new digital platforms such as TradeLens ­customers the visibility they demand in order to better er confidence, with simultaneous gains for safety, logistics and mobility alone, it is estimated that digital are of considerable interest to MSC. Tradelens is a plan their operations. MSC was one of the early backers efficiency and carbon footprint, arising from more solutions could abate 3.6 gigatons of carbon dioxide ­b lockchain-enabled digital platform collaboration of Traxens, a French company, which provides t­ racking seamless integration. Ancillary environmental benefits equivalent (CO2e)47. But like any enabler of sustainabilbetween IBM and some of the shipping sector’s largest capabilities for dry containers and also provides ­security of improved tracking and tracing of containers include ity, this transformation requires deep, long-term and actors, including MSC. Our involvement in TradeLens is features such as alerts in response to door opening, increased defence against illegal wildlife trade. This coordinated investment to succeed, and this is an area a further sign of MSC’s commitment to greater trust and shocks or changes in humidity and temperature, for kind of optimisation of business processes is part of in which MSC is ­currently active. collaboration across supply chains. MSC will ­continue to example. Traxens was purposely designed to improve the broader pursuit of efficiency and best practice which explore opportunities to use such platforms and other ­transparency and control in the container shipping underpin MSC’s environmental approach. In 2019, MSC digital tools that drive efficiency, improve t­ he service we sector using IoT and Big Data. ‘Smart assets’, which invested in smart technology for 10,000 reefer (refrigeroffer to clients and meet our business needs. include dry containers, reefers and trailers, can be ated unit) containers, in response to shippers’ demand tracked using embedded sensors which capture various for innovation. 44 Bartley Johns, Marcus; Brenton, Paul; Cali, Massimiliano; Hoppe, Mombert; Piermartini, Roberta. 2015. The role of trade in ending poverty (English). World Trade Organization: Geneva. 45 Sachs, J.D., Schmidt-Traub, G., Mazzucato, M., Messner, D., Nakicenovic, N., Rockström, J. 2019. Six Transformations to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, Nature Sustainability volume 2, pages 805–814 (2019) 50 www.tradelens.com/ 46 www.unglobalcompact.org/library/5715 51 Source: www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/02/how-the-global-logistics-industry-can-collaborate-to-increase-trade-and-reduce-poverty/ 47 https://gesi.org/ 52 Digitisation describes the converting of information from a physical format into a digital format; digitalisation is the process of 48 For more information: https://dcsa.org/ using digitisation to enhance business processes. 49 https://dcsa.org/ 76 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 PORT CALL OPTIMISATION: JUST IN TIME ARRIVAL TRIAL MULTIPLE ADVANTAGES ACROSS MSC is a strong supporter of the emissions reduction targets of the IMO. Resolution MEPC.304(75) (from the IMO THE COMPANY Maritime Environment Protection Committee (MEPC)) on the Initial IMO Strategy on Reduction of GHG Emissions Digital technologies can raise productivity, lower producpartnerships with a range of IT service providers to from Ships sets out a vision for reducing and eventually eliminating GHGs from the shipping sector. One of the tion costs, reduce emissions, expand access, and make develop practical solutions that bring real value to measures presented in the Strategy includes the optimisation of the logistic chain and its planning, including ports. public services more readily available. However, MSC customers by, for example, reducing administrative As the interface between the sea and the land, ports play a central role in the broader supply chain. MSC is actively recognises that returns on investment in digitisation burden and paper-based documentation processes. participating in collaborative digital and data-based projects involving ports through its membership of the Global only follow when those investments are targeted and One such internal initiative is OneVision. OneVision is Industry Alliance (GIA), a public-private initiative, established under the framework of the GEF-UNDP-IMO GloMEEP. strategic; only practical projects bring tangible benefits. a collection of centrally coordinated projects involvMSC’s Real-Time Monitoring system is one example ing Agencies and Headquarters to streamline global of a project with highly actionable outputs that benefit business processes, standardise data flows and harmoJust in Time Arrival (JIT) is a concept that has been which is currently focused on improving the quality and the environment. Our Real-Time Monitoring system nise the management of our systems. successfully implemented in other industries such as availability of master and event data. JIT Arrival of ships provides diagnostic information about ship performanufacturing. In the context of the maritime sector, it contributes to GHG emissions r­ eduction and air quality mance to the masters and to Shipmanagement teams. Digital transformation and sustainability present an C 15 describes how ships may optimise their voyage speed to improvement in two p ­ rimary ways: This informs decisions on which retrofit or operational array of opportunities to companies ready to learn and arrive at the port when availability of the berth, fairway • Voyage optimisation: Engine efficiency and associmeasures could be applied to optimise energy use and move with the times. MSC is pleased to operate at the and port nautical services (e.g. pilots and tugs) is assured. ated fuel consumption reductions are achieved thereby reduce emissions, as well as to reduce costs. convergence of these two forces. We believe that this is The benefits of JIT Arrival are increased safety, reduced through optimised sailing speeds Across the Company, MSC is moving towards more another way we can help to promote prosperity, drive environmental footprint and cost reduction. However, a • Reduced manoeuvring and anchorage time: efficient, inter-connected and less resource-intensive efficiency and drive the development of clean technolprerequisite for JIT Arrival is real-time data exchange, The approach to port and waiting time at anchor is digital technologies. We have established ­strategic ogies and greener operations. which requires agreed data standards and a common minimised. (It is estimated that ships may spend language. To this end, MSC is participating in an interna5-10% of their time at sea waiting to call at port53) tional task force promoting Port Call Optimisation (PCO) JUST IN TIME ARRIVAL Route Enhanced Ship to ship Port call Port call Optimisation monitoring route exchange synchronisation optimisation In 2019, MSC participated in a desktop trial in JIT the voyage on when the ship was requested to arrive at Arrival ship operations at the Port of Rotterdam, led the pilot boarding place. The ship could then adjust to by the Global Industry Alliance (GIA). During the its optimum speed. When compared, 23% less fuel was desktop exercise, a 247 nautical mile voyage between consumed in the JIT scenario. The study also ­pointed to Bremerhaven and Rotterdam was simulated in various other likely opportunities to reduce emissions, namely scenarios. First, a “business as usual” scenario was through (i) increasing the ship’s draught and (ii) reducing modelled, i.e. the ship received an update regarding the port stay duration. These measures offer signifirequested ­arrival time at the pilot boarding place at the cant fuel consumption reduction potential, with ancillary first ‘Calling In Point’ (typically about 30 nautical miles benefits for GHG emissions and port air quality. The from port, when the ship is within radio communica­consolidated findings of the GIA roundtables will be tion range). In the second scenario, under JIT Arrival presented in a Guide on JIT Arrival for delivery in 2020. conditions, the ship received regular updates earlier in 53 https://portcalloptimization.org/ 78 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 79 REEFERS: INVESTING TO MEET CUSTOMER DEMANDS AND NOISE REDUCTION HIGH ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS The UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and dedicated service routes. Compared to conventional The number of oceangoing vessels, both commercial Although the propeller boss cap fins (PBCF) are p ­ rimarily estimates that 14% of food produced annually for human reefer containers, the integrated Star Cool CA™ refrigand recreational, is increasing worldwide. In tandem known for their energy-saving merits, as explained on consumption worldwide is lost during the post-harvest eration system offers a lighter, more energy-efficient with this, underwater noise is on the rise in many global page 65, their installation reduces propeller cavitation production stage, before reaching the retail stage of reefer container with higher capacity, without comproregions. This can have a detrimental effect on marine and consequently underwater noise. This is a positive the food system54. This presents a significant sustainmising strength or reliability. life57. Noise from ships and other motorised maritime and noteworthy secondary effect of MSC’s propeller able development challenge, particularly with respect The O2 and CO2 levels in these reefers can be ­regulated vehicles can impact the ability of cetaceans (i.e. whales, retrofit campaign, started in 2012. Having confirmed to SDG 2, Zero Hunger. Unsustainable food production independently to prolong the ripening process, thus dolphins and porpoises) to detect prey, communicate, the performance of the PBCFs, MSC Shipmanagement and supply have related or indirect impacts on other keeping fruit fresher for longer. For perishable fruit, this navigate, rest, avoid danger, mate and reproduce58. decided to install them on the entire managed fleet as SDGs related to, for example, water use, biodiversity is particularly valuable in reducing loss due to overPropeller cavitation, the biggest source of underwater part of the propeller retrofit programme. protection and soil degradation. To help draw attention ripening during transport. This also allows for a wider noise from a ship, is generated as the propeller turns The Port of Vancouver authority-led Enhancing Cetacean to these issues, the UN General Assembly nominated range of destinations to be reached, and thus more in water. The turning of the propeller causes changHabitat and Observation60 (ECHO) programme is a collab29th September as International Day of Awareness of markets accessed with deliveries of fresh fruit. es in pressure on propeller leading and trailing edges, orative research initiative that aims to better understand Food Loss and Waste. resulting in the bursting of many tiny water bubbles. and reduce the cumulative effects of shipping on at-risk The global demand for fresh fruit is growing s­ teadily. EMISSIONS REDUCTION IN THE COLD CHAIN In April 2014, based on work carried out by the Marine whales in the region. This includes the northern resident In 2018, it reached a total volume of 868 million metric MSC has been thorough in ensuring compliance with Environment Protection Committee (MEPC), the IMO killer whales, humpback, fin, blue and sei whales. In tonnes55. Meeting this global demand at a time of climate the Kigali Amendment, which came into effect on 1st published guidelines59 on this subject. Design considrecognition of the value of PBCFs from a nature conserconcern and ever-higher customer expectations requires January 201956 following ratification by 65 countries. erations for propellers were provided, in addition to vation perspective, since January 2017, PBCFs has been planning, investment and innovative transport solutions, The Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on other technical (e.g. hull design, engine mounting and recognised by the Port of Vancouver as an approved and MSC excels in all of these areas. Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer will help selection of onboard machinery) and operational (e.g. device for reducing underwater noise. Vessels fitted reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorpropeller cleaning and ship speed) measures for noise with this technology are awarded a discount in harbour REDUCING FOOD LOSS AND WASTAGE ocarbons (HFCs), which are potent greenhouse gases reduction. dues. A large part of the MSC-owned fleet has already MSC is a market leader in delivering fruits and vegeta(GHGs). been fitted with PBCFs, and further propeller retrofits bles in excellent condition to customers across the 2019 saw the installation of StarConomy temperaare ongoing. world. In 2019, MSC transported more than 1.8 million ture control software by MSC on its entire StarCool TEU of reefer cargo. MSC’s services go well beyond the fleet, reducing energy consumption by up to 50%. port too, as we also offer inland transport by road, rail Furthermore, the ability of these reefers to keep food and barge. The commitment to cargo-specific delivery cooler for longer gives MSC clients a wider range of ­services extends to MSC’s intermodal network, ensurtransport modes to choose from, potentially avoiding ing that high-quality produce is reliably transported air freight, with associated benefits in terms of costs to coastal and inland destinations to the standard the and emissions reduction. growers expect. Mindful of the need for a closed-loop approach to the In 2018, MSC invested in reefer containers equipped with use of materials, MSC is selecting reefers that can be Controlled Atmosphere (CA) system technology, and in recycled when they reach their end-of-life. MSC believes containers chilled by an innovative, sustainable refrigerthat further improvements in environmentally sound ation system. ln 2019, adding a new dimension to MSC’s transport will be achieved, and we will continue to work reefer shipping abilities, MSC expanded the fleet with with technology providers as well as local growers, the addition of 5,000 new Star Cool CA™ reefer units, farmers and producers to provide tailor-made servicfollowing a three-year trial period on closed services es to meet the food needs of consumers worldwide. 57 Weilgart, L. 2018. The impact of ocean noise pollution on fish and invertebrates. Report for OceanCare, Switzerland. page 34. 58 https://research.ocean.org/research/cori 54 www.fao.org/publications/sofa/en/ 59 MEPC.1/circ. 833 Guidelines for the reduction of underwater noise from commercial shipping to address adverse 55 www.statista.com impacts on marine life 56 www.unido.org 60 www.portvancouver.com/environment/water-land-wildlife/echo-program/ 80 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 81 MEETING AND EXCEEDING THE STANDARDS ISO CERTIFICATIONS DESCRIPTION MSC MSC MSC AGENCIES HEADQUARTERS SHIPMANAGEMENT (GENEVA, (CYPRUS AND SWITZERLAND) SORRENTO) MSC customers deserve the utmost clarity when it MSC follows an extensive programme of work to reach comes to understanding how our Company operates. and maintain the ISO standards. The programme ISO 9001: 2015 (QUALITY Specifies requirements Scope: Liner agency Scope: Ship Scope: Demonstrating through voluntary certification that our includes meeting fundamental expectations of our MANAGEMENT) for a quality manageservices and container management of Centralised procedures, policies and operations meet global benchclients, such as ISO 9001 (2015) certification for quality ment system cargo management container carriers, car container cargo marks for excellence is one of the main ways that we management, to more recent certifications for ISO 28000 carriers, bulk carriers management can prove to our stakeholders that we hold ourselves to (security management system for the supply chain). This and Ropax vessels system high standards that are externally verified. Adherence is a reflection of the heightened measures put in place to International Organization for Standardization (ISO)61 by MSC for security along the shipping supply chain, ISO 14001: 2015 Maps out a framework to Scope: Maritime Scope: Ship standards also helps companies, such as MSC, to and demonstration of precautions taken to avoid delays (ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT) be followed to set up an container cargo management of contribute to the SDGs, by providing guidelines and rising from the seizure of illegal cargo. effective environmental management (IAF 35) container carriers, car frameworks for key sustainability topics such as energy management system evaluated according carriers, bulk carriers efficiency and environmental management. to the requirements of and Ropax vessels Technical Regulations RT-09 ISO 28000: 2007 Specifies the Scope: Security design (SECURITY MANAGEMENT requirements for a and management of SYSTEM security management maritime container FOR SUPPLY CHAIN) system, including those cargo information aspects critical to security assurance of the supply chain ISO 50001: 2011 For establishing, Scope: Ship (ENERGY MANAGEMENT) implementing, maintainmanagement of ing and improving an container carriers, car energy management carriers, bulk carriers system (EnMS) for continand Ropax vessels uous improvement of energy performance and the EnMS OHSAS 18001 Helps to put in place Certification held (OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND the policies, procedures by MSC SAFETY) and controls needed to Shipmanagement, achieve the best possible Cyprus and Sorrento, working conditions and which will transition workplace health and to ISO 45001 in 2020, safety, aligned with replacing OHSAS internationally recog18001 nised best practice 61 For more information: www.iso.org/standards.html 82 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 83 PROTECTING RESPECTING WILDLIFE AND ECOSYSTEMS SUPPORTING WILDLIFE PROTECTION CAMPAIGNS COLLABORATING ON INCIDENT RESPONSE AND INVESTIGATION MARINE LIFE MSC is pleased to partner with various organisations All over the world, human populations are dependent whose work is focused on the protection of wildlife on On 2nd January 2019, 342 containers were lost in the on healthy oceans for food, jobs, climate regulation land and in the sea. For example, we are signatories of North Sea from the MSC Zoe during very heavy ­weather. The melting of polar ice is a serious environmenand economic wellbeing; the environmental, e ­ conomic, the Buckingham Declaration Against Wildlife Trafficking, The Company immediately began an unprecedented tal concern for multiple reasons. For example, ice and social, cultural and spiritual value of healthy oceans a pledge to combat illicit wildlife tracking, and have a response effort and has continued to work closely with snow reflect the sun’s energy back into space in what is is staggering. For example, an estimated one billion zero-tolerance policy on the trade of endangered species Dutch and German authorities to perform extensive known as the albedo effect, which helps to keep Earth people in developing countries rely on seafood for their or banned wildlife products. Throughout 2019, MSC mapping of the seabed, recover items from the North cool; melting of large tracts of land-based ice causes sea primary source of protein62. MSC is concerned about continued its participation in the United for Wildlife63 Sea, and remove related debris from the ­surrounding levels to rise, putting populations in regions close to sea ocean biodiversity and environmental degradation and Task Force whose work is focused on combatting illegal shoreline. The relevant authorities are continuing their level at risk across the world; thawing permafrost releases is actively involved in a number of projects aimed at wildlife trade (IWT). We are continuously strengthening investigative efforts, and MSC will apply information large amounts of CO2, exacerbating climate change. MSC protecting marine ecosystems. our systems to identify and trace illegal shipments of and conclusions drawn from those investigations to is deeply concerned by these impacts and the implicagoods, including IWT. minimise the risk of any future container losses at sea. tions for people and wildlife, and accordingly, has taken THE MULTIPLE BENEFITS OF BIOCIDE-FREE In 2019, MSC became a member of the North American a strong position on the use of the Northern Sea Route. ANTI-FOULING Marine Environment Protection Association (NAMEPA). The Northern Sea Route connects Europe with Asia Anti-fouling refers to the protection of a vessel’s hull NAMEPA is a marine industry-led organisation of through Arctic waters, which until now have typically from marine growth through the application of a layer environmental stewards preserving the marine environbeen blocked by year-round sea ice. The Route has been of protective paint. MSC complies with the International ment by promoting sustainable marine industry best heralded by some as an opportunity for new commerConvention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling practices and educating seafarers, students and the cial shipping lanes with additional potential for fossil fuel Systems in Ships (‘AFS Convention’), which entered public about the need and strategies for protecting extraction. MSC will not use the Northern Sea Route for into force in September 2008 and prohibits the use global ocean, lake and river resources64. container shipping. MSC prides itself on a long nautical of harmful anti-fouling paints and other anti-fouling In 2019, as in 2018, MSC received an award from the heritage and passion for the sea; entry into these Arctic systems that contain harmful biocidal substances. MSC National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration65 waters would contravene these deeply held principles. also implements an internal policy requiring the surface (NOAA) for voluntary vessel speed reduction in We believe that efforts should be focused on limiting preparation of each ship’s hull every five years. Cordell Bank and Greater Fallarones National Marine environmental emissions and protecting the marine MSC is working in collaboration with leading coating Sanctuaries, where endangered whale species feed. environment, and that the 21 million containers that we manufacturers to stay abreast of improvements in MSC was placed in the top ‘Sapphire’ performance move each year can be transported through existing low-friction anti-fouling paints. MSC’s trials of silicon category (75% or more of distance travelled at 10 knots shipping global trade routes. coating on vessel propellers more than a decade ago or less). The speed reduction programme goals are not led to a decision by MSC to apply silicon paints on only to improve air quality, but also to reduce the potenrudders fleetwide, except where locational or other tial for fatal whale strikes, which are one cause of whale Bering Strait factors prevent this. This practice has brought ­multiple injury and mortality worldwide. MSC’s involvement in NOTH POLE advantages, including time and cost saving for routine other wildlife protection activities is coordinated through NORWAY cleaning, as well as the reduction of scrapings and the MSC Foundation66, for which environmental consere ut N o th e aR o residues from underwater cleaning which may contain vation is a core project area. rn Se microplastics, invasive species and biocides, which can ST. PETERSBURG all potentially affect the marine environment. MSC will RUSSIA VLADIVOSTOK continue to explore technologies and partnerships for Swiss further efficiency and environmental gains through the Channel CHINA use of novel hull treatment and coatings. Strait of Malacca Exi stin g ro u te 63 https://unitedforwildlife.org/ 64 www.namepa.net/ 65 www.noaa.gov/ 62 www.worldbank.org/ 66 https://mscfoundation.org/ 84 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 85 SHIP RECYCLING PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE SHIP RECYCLING PRACTICES as water and sanitation, housing and healthcare facilities. These aspects were highlighted for attention during previous visits by MSC, or by industry delegations. We The large amount of steel and other metals from end-of-life community and its importance is now widely recogIn the absence of a consistent and systematic approach believe those improvements arise from the accession ships can be recycled or re-used to produce other finished nised. Significant steps have been taken to extend to responsible ship recycling practices at the global to the IMO HKC and the adoption of the Recycling of products, helping to reduce pressure on natural resources. regulatory measures aimed at promoting greener level, MSC has taken proactive steps, striving to ensure Ships Act 2019. According to the European Commission, “the recycling of and more sustainable practices, such as the EU Ship that the recycling of materials and ship components scrap metals from ships also reduces the need for mining, Recycling Regulation (EUSRR) 2013. Yet, at this stage, are performed at yards without any unnecessary risk IMPLEMENTING THE EUSRR ON BOARD an environmentally damaging practice. In this way, it is there is no global regulatory framework in force to to human health, safety or the environment. VESSELS a vital part of the circular economy – which purports to ensure a level playing field for all stakeholders involved. MSC has an excellent track record in vessel mainteminimise waste and recycle some ­materials i­nfinitely.”67 In this respect, the 2009 IMO Hong Kong Convention on nance, which makes it possible to extend the life of In accordance with the EU Ship Recycling Regulation Additionally, the ship recycling industry contributes considthe Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, its vessels in many cases. Additionally, in line with its (EUSRR) 201371, MSC ensures that its ships calling erably to the creation of thousands of much-­needed known as the Hong Kong Convention (IMO HKC), has Ship Recycling Policy (available at www.msc.com/che/ at European ports have an Inventory of Hazardous employment opportunities and to boosting inclusive local not yet entered into force and challenges in implementsustainability/ship-recycling-policy), MSC adheres to Materials (IHM) on board. MSC began preparing its economic development in a number of countries, such as ing responsible environmental and labour practices in the relevant provisions of the IMO HKC and its relevant fleet five years ago to comply with this regulation. Each Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Turkey. the yards remain. Due to the significant growth of the recycling standards, from design, construction and vessel now has an IHM formulated in line with the 2015 world’s merchant fleet68 (as shown in the graph below) operation to the preparation of ships for the end of their Guidelines for IHMs developed by the IMO, together STATUS OF SHIP RECYCLING and other market factors, an increase in the number of operational cycle. with a statement of compliance issued by a recognised REGULATIONS: MAIN CHALLENGES ships being recycled may be expected in the near future. Also, in taking the decision to recycle a vessel, MSC Classification Society. The IHM is considered a valuaThus, there is a need to enhance the availability of yards requires that the recycling yard complies with the ble tool not only for ensuring environmentally sound GRAPHIC 19 In the past 20 years, the ship recycling sector has operating in compliance with the relevant i­nternationally relevant provisions of the IMO HKC Convention. MSC ship recycling processes and for better protecting yard received growing attention from the international recognised standards. would blacklist any buyer of its vessels which does employees, but also for enhancing health and safety not comply with the Company’s high standards, as measures for crew members working on board ships. well as the provisions contained in its sale contracts in Additionally, MSC procurement systems require that GROWTH GROWTH OF THEOF WORLD’STHE WORLD’S MERCHANT MERCHANT FLEET BY PRINCIPAL VESSEL TYPE FLEET BY PRINCIPAL VESSEL TYPE relation to green ship recycling processes and proceexisting vendors, or potential new vendors, provide a (MILLIONS OF DEAD-WEIGHT TONS) (MILLIONS OF DEAD-WEIGHT TONS) dures. Additionally, in line with its Ship Recycling Policy, signed Materials Declaration (MD) as well as a Supplier 2000 MSC periodically conducts on-site audits to monitor the Declaration of Conformity for Material Declaration in Oil tankers Source: UNCTADstat recycling yards it uses. These audits include an assessline with the high standards set forth in its policies 1500 (UNCTAD 2019a); Bulk carriers ment of the working conditions of yard employees. on the subject. This is a requirement for conducting Clarksons Research. 1000 General cargo Note: Commercial ships As an illustration, during its recent visit to the ship business with MSC. As an illustration, MSC requires Container ships of 100gt and above; recycling facility located in Alang-Sosiyia, India, MSC that all materials delivered on board be asbestos free. 500 beginning-of-year figures Other types of ships was pleased to note significant improvements in terms Recently, MSC has taken additional steps in its due 0 of training and environmental stewardship put forward diligence process as well, as in its responsible procure1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 by the Gujrat Maritime Board (GMB), a state organisament practices, by contracting a third-party specialist tion responsible for the infrastructure development of company to assess and monitor its main suppliers’ faciliOil tankers Bulk carriers General cargo ship recycling yards along the coast of the province ties and the repair yards where the majority of its vessels In this respect, in 2019, MSC welcomed the adoption of with India’s ship recycling volume considerably contribContainer ships Other types of ships of Alang. GMB has focused on enhancing the training come for repairs. All findings are communicated to the the Recycling of Ships Act 201969 as well as the accession uting to the required recycling capacity.”70 At present, 20 provided at the governmental ‘Safety Training Institute’, responsible leadership for immediate corrective action. to the IMO HKC by the government of India, the world’s Source: UNCTADstat (UNCTAD 2019a); Clarksons Research. Indian recycling yards have made an application for their Note: Commercial ships of 100gt and above; beginning-of-year figures including basic safety awareness and skills training for largest ship recycling country, as a positive step towards inclusion in the list under the EUSRR, which will allow gas cutting, as an example. Further investment by GMB the enforcement and full implementation of global standvessels registered under the flag of European Union in downstream waste handling, including incinerators, ards. According to the IMO, “India’s accession brings this member states to be recycled at these facilities. We believe has helped achieve compliance with environmental important convention a significant step closer to entering that this will provide further incentive for the Indian yards standards. We are also pleased to report the further into force, with the required 15 States now party to it and to continue upgrading their facilities. enhancement of a number of services for workers, such 67 Source: Science for environmental policy, Thematic Issue: Ship recycling reducing human and environmental impacts, European Commission, 2016 68 Source: https://stats.unctad.org/handbook/MaritimeTransport/MerchantFleet.html#ref_Unctad_2019a 71 The EUSSR (No. 1257/2013) requires mandatory carriage of an Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) onboard new vessels of 500 69 The Act not only imposes a financial penalty for the use of hazardous materials during recycling, but has also made GT or above flying the flag of an EU/EEA member state, effective 31st Dec 2018; from 31st December 2020 it will extend to all vessels this a criminal offence with a possible prison sentence. flying EU/EEA member state flags or third-party flags calling at a port or anchorage of an EU/EEA member state. 70 www.imo.org/en/MediaCentre/PressBriefings/Pages/31-India-HKC.aspx 86 ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 87 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 88 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 89 ENSURING OUR PRIMARY SAFETY PRECAUTIONS GRAPHIC F GRAPHIC F • First aid equipment, eyewash stations, firefighting and lifesaving appliances, and any emergency or PEOPLE ARE SAFE protective equipment should be stowed in the correct locations and be ready to use. The use of the equipment MSC is not just about ships; people are at the should be demonstrated to the crew ­epicentre of everything we do, and ensuring our Training people are safe and well is part of our purpose and • Continuous training and drills for the crew. This includes Risk prevention one of our MSC Values72. It is also part of our commiton-the-job training, showing videos, understanding • Risk assessment should be carried out ment to promote responsible businessGRAPHIC F practices, in • All onboard jobs should be well planned and organised the various safety posters and completing ‘Look, Act, line with internationally recognised human rights Report, Prevent’ (LARP) cards Supervision to ensure safety procedures are followed and labour standards as well as with the SDGs 3 • A competent person(s) must supervise any work • Any hazardous tasks and/or exposure to hazardous (Good Health and Wellbeing) and 8 (Decent Work that poses special hazards and where several of materials should be identified, and control measures Create 10 icons to repla and Economic Growth). In this respect, MSC takes a the crew are involved. Otherwise constant strong leadership role in ensuring that the health and developed and implemented GRAPHIC F You supervision should also be maintained will find the text in safety of all seafarers and shore staff is prioritised. MSC safety procedures and policies are designed Qualified personnel and implemented to exceed the requirements of • Work should be allocated based on the skill and international conventions and guidelines, most ability of the person notably the International Safety Management Code73 • A permit system should be used, including hot work (ISM), the Maritime Labour Convention74 (MLC) and permits and enclosed space entry permit Appropriate rest periods Crew involvement and communication the International Convention for the Safety of Life at • All power equipment, electric or pneumatic, should be • Appropriate work and rest hours to be followed • The departmental heads should organise regular safety Sea1 (SOLAS). This same ethic applies to compliance checked by competent person(s) before use to prevent accidents due to fatigue briefings to discuss the work for the day with all the crew, with the International Convention for the Prevention explaining the safety procedures, and identifying of Pollution from Ships2 (MARPOL), for matters relatany hazardous tasks and associated control measures ing to environmental safety. MSC also believes • There should be good communication amongst the team that accident avoidance is a shared responsibility; members. Instructions should be simple, clear and in everyone has a role to play in ensuring tasks are the language understood by all the crew completed without incident. Therefore, we invest Personal protective equipment (PPE) and Clean and orderly workspaces • All crew should be advised that safety is paramount and in training our employees on safety measures and other equipment • The work area should be kept clean and safe for work. that shortcuts should never be taken. If anyone feels procedures, and we promote open communica• Proper task-appropriate personal protection equipment (PPE) Safe working practices should be followed unsafe, they should not hesitate or be afraid to stop tion on these issues as a basis for the continuous should be worn, as indicated in the fleet-wide PPE matrix the work, take corrective actions or advise improvement of existing practices and procedures. • Protective clothing should be comfortable and well-­fitted. the departmental head of their concerns Safety is a theme throughout MSC, on shore and Only safety shoes with steel toecaps and slip-resistant soles on land, and appropriate measures are in place in should be worn. Appropriate gloves should be worn to Create 10 icons to repla each context to help ensure safe working spaces for protect the skin against heat, chemicals, sharp edges, etc. You will find the text in all our employees. However, the following sections • Tools and equipment should be kept in good order and their Accident investigation and reporting apply primarily to the safety of seafarers, whose correct use should be advised to the crew • Near-miss situations should be reported regularly, Information availability (manuals and signage) operating conditions require particular attention to • Portable tools and equipment must be carried with both so actions can be taken to prevent reoccurrence • Instruction manuals and plans should be available avoid accidents and injury. hands. If climbing ladders or staircases, the tools should be and major accidents for crew to follow the correct procedures carried in tool belts or bags worn across the body leaving • All accidents and near-misses should be fully • Protrusions of the vessel’s structure in the walkways SAFE AT SEA both hands free to hold the railings for climbing ­investigated, the root cause identified, and lessons should be highlighted. First and last ladder steps or descending documented and shared should be highlighted In operational terms, our approach to safety at MSC • All moving machinery should be well guarded • Any deck areas which can get wet due to rain or is based on ten elements, observed for accident • The lockout/tagout system should be used – to shut down spray should be coated with antiskid aggregates avoidance on our vessels. the machinery, disconnect from the power source, etc. • Any areas that must be kept clear must be marked with • While using lifting equipment such as cranes, hoists or striped coating and open manholes, or areas which can 72 www.msc.com/cmr/careers/our-values chain blocks, the safe working load should not be exceeded 73 www.imo.org result in trip, slip or fall hazards, should highlighted in 74 www.ilo.org contrasting colours and cordoned off 90 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 91 In addition, in accordance with each ship’s Cargo recognised safety certification. However, regrettably, LEADERSHIP IN CARGO SAFETY AND of documents using optical character recognition, Securing Manual, all MSC crew engaged in cargo not all accidents are preventable, and occasional errors PREVENTATIVE INSPECTIONS algorithms and artificial intelligence ensure that the securing operations are trained in checking the proper occur. In 2019 MSC Shipmanagement recorded one fatal screening process is consistent and standardised. securing of containers, the identification of defective accident. During 61,619,920 working hours, a total of Loss prevention and avoidance of cargo-related Automatic analysis of port, partner and vessel restricequipment, manual handling skills, the handling of 215 accidents occurred, of which 29 crew members incidents is a fundamental priority for MSC, and is part tions by the system increase the level of safety checks cables and other related aspects of operations that may (13%) required repatriation for treatment. A signifiof our work to ensure the safety of our crew, our vessels and controls. pose a safety risk. cant proportion of accidents recorded are due to trips, and the marine environment in which we operate. Speed is an outstanding feature of the DSCM. For slips and falls, with other cases including contact with While most shipping companies screen hazardous example, the Reply Timer is a component of the MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT: PROMOTING machinery and injury from falling objects. The two bookings, MSC is exceptional in its development and system that measures how long it takes MSC to reply SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELFARE OF MSC Shipmanagement offices recorded lost time injury interlinking of an ever-increasing number of technito ­customers when they place a hazardous booking. SEAFARERS frequencies (LTIF) of 1.17 and 1.16. cal and analytical solutions to produce a world-class This feature indicates that MSC is substantially faster As part of the mission to further embed a safety culture screening system: the Dangerous, Sensitive Cargo than others in the market at confirming these bookings. In addition to the coordination of all tasks r­elated across our fleet, MSC Shipmanagement coordinates the Management System (DSCM). Furthermore, the Reply Timer provides KPIs that give to the technical management of vessels, MSC safety training of MSC employees. While ISO certifications, notably ISO 9001: 2015, ISO feedback to MSC on system performance, which is Shipmanagement oversees the recruitment, training, Some 12,834 crew members employed to work on 14001: 2015, demonstrate MSC’s commitment to cargo valuable from the perspectives of quality assurance welfare, professional development and administrative MSC’s managed vessels received safety-related trainsafety and security, the DSCM takes our performance monitoring, as well as continuous improvement. needs of our s ­ eafarers, in accordance with intering in 2019, amounting to 387,012 hours. to the next level of excellence. Each of the components The strength of the DSCM lies not only in the ­efficacy national standards. For example, together, MSC MSC Shipmanagement has been in receipt of multiple which currently comprise the DSCM adds an additionand utility of the individual components, but the way Shipmanagement centres in Limassol, Cyprus and industry awards in wider recognition of performance al layer of checks and intelligence to the system. For in which they link and interact, contributing to an Sorrento, Italy, are major centresEMPLOYEES for this work. and commitment to excellence, including in the area of example, the MSC Cargo Inspection (MSCI) application ­integrated and sophisticated screening system. For MSC Shipmanagement sets an(increased by exemplary ­standard safety. We continue to embed a safety culture throughwas developed by MSC to make container inspections example, the identification of hazardous cargo by the for safety performance, and in 80 people in just 2019 qualified for out our operations and are working tirelessly to make more targeted. It draws data from a wide range of sourcsystem links to stowage and terminal space planning OHSAS 18001: 2007 (which since transitioned to ISO working with MSC both safe and rewarding. es to screen bookings for risks. This in turn informs and segregation. Also, there are plans to incorporate 3 years) EMPLOYEES 45001 in 2020), a third-party assessed internationally third-party inspection teams which containers to invescontainer tracking and monitoring devices into the (increased by tigate. MSCI has led to a more than 95% success rate DSCM, to provide further intelligence on variables such 80 people in just in identification of mis-declared hazardous cargo in the as heat, light conditions and location of containers with INDIRECT 3 years) flagged containers, thereby greatly reducing the c­ hances hazardous cargo, to provide early warnings of possiEMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES of possible incidents. Wider recognition of the value ble incidents. of MSCI is evident in MSC’s receipt of the award for MSC will continue to enhance the DSCM with ­additional Approx. 150 (increased by the ‘Most Sustainable Commitment to Health, Safety, components in the coming years, in parallel with our 80 people in just INDIRECT Security and Environment (HSSE)’ at the Green Shipping broader work on digitalisation (see page 76), to ensure 3 years) EMPLOYEES Summit in 2019. MSC also received fifth prize in the TT we are serving our customers with cargo safety as a Club Innovation in Safety Award for its MSCI container top priority. Our ambition is to continue to integrate Approx. 150 cargo screening and inspection process. existing technologies not yet linked to the system and Safety-related 12,834 387,012 One of the unique strengths of the DSCM is its consistto pursue our vision of ever-greater cargo safety and training crew members trained INDIRECT hours of training ently high reliability. Automated upload and screening risk reduction. EMPLOYEES Approx. 150 92 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 93 CASE STUDY SAFETY MEASURES ABOARD ADVANCED FIRE PREPAREDNESS Each of the enhanced fire-fighting systems installed on THE MSC GÜLSÜN CLASS VESSELS The MSC Gülsün Class vessels broke new ground in the funnel top and the compass deck features four new terms of crew and cargo safety because of the new and additional long water jet monitors. The monitors dual-tower fire-fighting system with high-capacity can be rotated 360° and have a flow rate of 250m3/hour pumps, which further enhance the safety of seafarers and a water spray reach which can extend up to 120m. onboard and protect cargo carried across the whole There are four high pressure (15 bar) booster pumps deck of the ship. This equipment, which was designed on board that connect to the monitors, which increase and installed for the first time in the industry by the water jet flow volume, and these pumps are supplied in Company and certified by DNV-GL, a world leading turn with water by two ballast water pumps, each with classification society, shows clearly how responsible a flow rate of 1000 m3/h. innovation represents a strategic asset. The approach In addition to the fire-fighting infrastructure installed on pioneered by MSC to equip the vessel with an advanced all the Gülsün Class ships, an innovative fire-­detection fire-fighting system far beyond existing international system is being trialled on one ship. In this case, fixed regulations will guide the maritime industry to a higher thermal cameras are installed on the bridge and funnel, safety level and lead the container shipping industry to to monitor irregularities and alert the crew to potena new standard. tial fires. The system offers three primary benefits: NEW FIRE SAFETY STANDARD AWARDED TO MSC • Crew: Large volumes of water pumped reduce the risk to crews by (i) reducing the spread of fire MSC is the first shipping line to be awarded a top new and (ii) improving the fire-fighting conditions. notation in relation to fire safety on board our ­container The system also enables crew to provide a faster ships. The new notation from classification society response without needing to approach the fire, DNV-GL highlights the strong systems in place across helping to contain a fire in the early stages MSC’s Gülsün Class. The new fire safety notation, specif• Vessel and cargo: There is a cooling effect from ically aimed at container ships, is designed around a the amount of water sprayed, reducing fire spread function-based approach, focusing on: and further fire damage • enhanced safety level beyond present SOLAS MSC’s new 23,000+ TEU ships have broken records and crew, vessel and the cargo itself. In response to this, • Customer: Increased cargo safety and thus requirements set new standards in terms of size, efficiency and safety. the International Convention for the Safety of Life reliability of service • increased hazard awareness However, such large vessels introduce a new suite of at Sea (SOLAS) Chapter II-2 Regulation 10 has been • enhanced ability to detect and fight container fires challenges related to fire prevention, navigation, cargo revised in accordance with IMO Resolution MSC.365(93) loading and discharging, maintenance and mooring. to enhance portable fire-fighting equipment. However, misdeclaration of hazardous cargo and the incorrect ENHANCED FIXED FIRE-FIGHTING stowing of hazardous cargo in containers warrant SYSTEM FOR ON-DECK CARGO additional fire safety measures. MSC’s ‘Gülsün Class’ of 23,000+ TEU ships are c­ urrently Fires on container ships can pose a serious risk to the the largest container ships in the world. To ensure that lives of seafarers and the environment. As container onboard fire safety standards on these vessels ­extended ships have become larger in recent years, the volume of beyond compliance with regulatory requirements, MSC cargo carried on deck has also increased ­considerably, decided to install the enhanced fixed fire-fighting system with associated implications for the fire risk to the for on-deck cargo areas. 94 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 95 NAVIGATIONAL AND OPERATIONAL In addition to the fire-safety measures described on pages creation and evolution are important, MSC also ensures is one of the core values of MSC and the Seafarer’s SAFETY 94 and 95, further safety measures have been installed that jobs are meaningful, and that people have the tools Engagement Survey is one important way in which on these 23k+ TEU vessels. These include: and autonomy to succeed in their roles. Management can gauge the needs and sentiments of The great size of new ships creates additional considera• the installation of 16 CCTV cameras on the deck and Finally, in keeping with the MSC family spirit, MSC takes its seafaring employees. tions for navigation, especially in areas with high density in the engine room, some of which can be rotated the view that each crew member is a vital part of a ship’s Although the main structure of the survey remained the traffic or congestion. Navigational actions are a ­ nticipated and zoomed in and out for providing information on team, and each ship is a vital part of the MSC fleet. We same as in previous years to allow us to compare trends, well in advance because the response time of larger vessel clearance while berthing and unberthing recognise hard work and performance through promothe 2019 edition saw the addition of some new questions vessels is longer than smaller ones. For the same reason, • ECDIS charts which can be overlaid on radar screens tion, challenging assignments and talent development, and areas in order to measure some c­ hanging operaMasters of the MSC ships also plan anchoring p ­ articularly • entirely enclosed bridge with separate to demonstrate to our seafarers that their individual jobs tional parameters. The response rate in 2019 was high carefully, factoring in current and wind, for example. air conditioning and heating and professionalism contribute to the success of a great (76%), up from 67% in the 2017 survey. 6,944 responses The large number of containers carried by these ships • hardened glass floor of bridge, for monitoring company that, in turn, brings value to clients across the were received across all ranks and nationalities and from presents additional safety considerations for cargo loading pilot boarding and disembarking and for accurate world and supports the global economy. both active crew and those on leave. Overall, crew satisand discharging procedures. Large ports may operate up positioning of the gangway while berthing faction across all the Key Areas was very high, scoring to 11 gantry cranes at a time, the progress of which needs • floating, lightweight, easy-to-handle mooring ropes CREW ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS an average Net Promoter Score (NPS) of 6.31 out of 7. to be tracked simultaneously by duty officers and crew. • search lights which can be remotely operated NPS is a metric that is widely used in business to evaluStowage of many containers on upper tiers also demands from bridge and moved through 360 degrees and In 2019, for the third time, MSC Shipmanagement ate client or ­employee satisfaction. The three highest extra checks to ensure lashings are secure. Furthermore, vertically, using a joystick conducted its biennial Seafarer’s Engagement Survey. NPS scores were found in the areas of (i) Sustainability, with multiple gantry cranes operating at once, Masters • two gangways on either side of the vessel for use All seagoing MSC staff on cargo ships were invited to (ii) Commitment and (iii) Company values, all of which and their crews must control listing of the ship through, depending on vessel load condition provide feedback across 10 Key Areas. The scale and recorded scores of more than 6.4 out of 7. In addition for example, the judicious use of heeling tanks. Masters • lashing bridge ladders on extreme ends of the fifth breadth of the survey highlights the commitment of MSC to the scores recorded, written comments provided by of these Ultra Large Container Vessels (ULCVs) also work and sixth tiers with protective railings on fore and aft Shipmanagement to seeking staff opinion on matters respondents provided further insights into the views to ensure adherence to MSC policy on maintaining an sides to prevent falls relating to operational excellence, s­ ustainable growth of seafarers. even keel on departure from port, which can be compli• location and configuration of fuel tanks, which avoids and progressive policy formulation. Care for people cated by vessel length and squat effect. The large size and ballast tank contamination height of the cargo holds require thorough and meticuThere is never any complacency when safety is lous inspection, which frequently must be undertaken with concerned. MSC is continuously learning and noting short turnaround times at ports, placing extra demands on design modifications that may further increase the crew specially trained for this important task. the safety on board our ships. CREW ENGAGEMENT SURVEY: KEY AREAS CREATING A HEALTHY LIFE ON BOARD COMMUNICATION MSC CULTURE LEADERSHIP PEOPLE ON BOARD OF INFORMATION MANAGEMENT A working life at sea has many challenges. MSC working environment. This begins with creating regular Shipmanagement is very aware of this, so has estaband open communication channels between team lished a dedicated team to run programmes that embed members and their superiors. In this way, in keeping the strong MSC company culture that is focused on with the MSC Value ‘Continuous Evolution’75, feedback safety, performance and skills development, with an can be gathered, needs expressed, ambitions shared, emphasis on empowering its people. misunderstandings avoided and conflict mitigated. ORGANISATIONAL SERVICE SUSTAINABILITY COMPANY MSC GROUP A productive workplace is also one where effort and ORGANISATIONAL EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE OBJECTIVES VALUES EXCELLENCE ENABLING A POSITIVE AND talent is recognised and rewarded. MSC has a well-esSERVICE SUSTAINABILITLY COMPANY MSC GROUP OPEN WORK CULTURE tablished programme of training and professional EXCELLENCE OBJECTIVE VALUES development opportunities, described on pages 101-105. MSC Shipmanagement strengthens the motivation and Furthermore, as a large, growing company, MSC offers engagement of seafarers by working to build a positive possibilities for career progression. And while job 75 www.msc.com/swe/careers/our-values 96 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 97 scores of more thanSERVICE ORGANISATIONAL COMPANY MSC GROUP SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE OBJECTIVE VALUES CREW ENGAGEMENT INFO/ SURVEY: KEY RESULTS PEOPLE PREVENTING ILLNESS COMMUNICATION MSC CULTURE LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT ON BOARD The three highest NPS scores were found in the areas of (i) SUSTAINABILITY, (ii) COMMITMENT and (iii) COMPANY VALUES all of wich recorded scores of more than 6.4 out of 7 In a world so reliant on global trade, seafarers play from international bodies, notably the World Health PEOPLE a crucial role in ensuring that goods are exchanged Organisation (WHO) and the IMO, and integrated into MSC CULTURE ORGANISATIONAL LEADERSHIP SERVICE MANAGEMENT ON BOARD COMPANY MSC GROUP SUSTAINABILITY between markets. Any threat to the health and welfare an Outbreak Management Plan. EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE OBJECTIVE VALUES of seafarers is therefore a concern for MSC. As part of the Outbreak Management Plan, illness-specific TALENT RETENTION SERVICE COMPANY QUALITY MSC OFGROUPLIFE ONBOARD SUSTAINABILITY In the event of a pandemic, specific actions taken depend information is made available by MSC Shipmanagement, The survey results provided rich, quantified, EXCELLENCE actionable According OBJECTIVE to survey results, the majority of seafarers VALUES on the nature of the disease (e.g. MSC’s response to explaining the origins, symptoms and incubation period evidence to MSC Shipmanagement on all Key Areas, consider that the onboard environment, quality and The three highest NPS scores were found in the areas of (i) SUSTAINABILITY, (ii) COMMITMENT and (iii)COVID-19 is described on pages 12-25). MSC’s approach and risk factors, for example. Advice on the establishbut some key findings stood out. For example, in a cultural sensitivity of the food experience, and internet COMPANY VALUES all of wich recorded scores of more than 6.4 out of 7 is to provide immediate guidelines, fleet circulars to the ment of onboard Illness Prevention and Control Task demonstration of MSC’s success in talent retention, the availability are key aspects of quality of life on board. ores were found in the areas of (i) SUSTAINABILITY, (ii) COMMITMENT and (iii) vessels and internal memos, all of which are regularForces is provided, along with detailed information on VALUES all ofshowed survey that the scores wich recorded majorityof(65%) those moreofthan out of 7 Installation of more crew-friendly facilities likely led to surveyed 6.4 ly updated. Protection kits are provided as required to measures to prevent infection, as summarised below. intended to sail with MSC for the full duration of their an increase in the score for internet availability. Results crew and office staff to safeguard against transmisThe Outbreak Management Plan also provides clear careers. Other indicators of seafarer satisfaction were show an improvement in onboard food quality too, sion of the illness. Further specific measures are taken guidance in case of a suspected case of the virus on evident in responses to questions in the new Key Area which follows improvements already recorded in 2017 based on the advice of internal experts and guidelines board. ‘Attractiveness of MSC Compared to Others’. A very high relative to 2015. Across the eight areas relating to quality rating of 6.33 was recorded. Furthermore, when asked if of life on board, all have improved since 2017. The main MSC had improved over the past two years, all seafararea for further management attention is the ­quality of ers gave a score of at least 6.35 out of 7. protective clothing. OUTBREAK MANAGEMENT PLAN: KEY THEMES LEADERSHIP AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATIONAL EXCELLENCE DISEASE PREVENTION MEASURES EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROCEDURES In the area of leadership, the survey indicated that not In the Seafarer Survey there are eight measures for • Awareness raising • Determination of source and extent of illness among crew only are MSC seafarers generally satisfied that their Organisational Excellence. In previous years, MSC already supervisors keep them well-informed, but they also felt scored highly in these areas, so the 2019 survey did not • Clear communication • Isolation and exposure prevention that they could communicate freely with them. While record substantial changes. Yet, when overall satisfaction the results on the ­ability to motivate and inspire junior levels are already high, even small increments are signif• Personal hygiene • Actions to be taken when at port staff improved since 2017, the survey pointed to this as icant. For example, timely remittance of wages received an area for further improvements in the coming years. the highest rating across all survey questions, scoring • Use of onboard equipment • Actions to be taken when at sea It is of utmost importance to MSC Shipmanagement 6.8/7, an uptick of 0.02 since the 2017 survey. that seafarers feel their professional development and • Disinfection and cleaning • Contact tracing working conditions are being prioritised. Survey results show that this is the case. Seafarers who rated this as an procedures important theme for them feel there are good opportunities for personal growth and development with MSC: SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE – • Ship ventilation and HVAC systems • Clinical management of suspected cases the survey reported a score of 6.25/7 for this issue. The SEAFARER PERSPECTIVE satisfaction level with promotions at MSC improved Sustainability has always been a priority for MSC • Use and disposal of PPE; laundering • Attending to patients isolated in their cabins since 2017 and MSC Shipmanagement will continue to Shipmanagement, and survey results show that seafaraddress this to ensure ever-higher levels of satisfaction ers are also concerned about environmental protection. • Ship-shore personnel exchange • Managing close contacts for seafarers in this area. The results also suggest that our emphasis on sustainability is well understood by seafarers, and that MSC is • Food safety • Transfer of suspected patients making progress on raising awareness of these issues. Like the results from 2017, the 2019 survey results • Disposal of medical waste indicate that our seafarers feel proud that MSC puts effort into fuel efficiency initiatives to make a positive • Reporting and record keeping protocols and requirements environmental impact. Sustainability was the best-rated area in the survey, with no questions registering scores • Prioritising crew mental health during the pandemic under 6.51 on a 7-point scale. 98 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 99 SUPPORT FOR SEAFARERS AND THEIR FAMILIES motion the arrangements to relieve the crew member. MSC goes to considerable lengths, administratively and PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT financially, to plan logistics, and where necessary, liaise MSC Shipmanagement Crewing Department underwith government officials, and oversee the bureaucrattakes a wide range of tasks to ensure the wellbeing of ic aspects of swift, unplanned repatriation. In addition, our seafarers. There are many important administraMSC Shipmanagement is very aware that when working MSC Shipmanagement has been investing in the capacDEVELOPING SKILLSETS FOR SAFETY tive aspects of the work, but it is the human dimension on the high seas, contact with family and friends can be ity building of its team both on board the ships and AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION that makes the MSC core values of ‘People’ and ‘Family’ a lifeline. The Company has installed internet across its ashore since its inception. We consider that creating stand out. MSC recognises that for crew members who fleet to enable crew members to contact their families a culture of learning and leadership is part of growing A knowledgeable and well-trained workforce is not just spend months at sea, knowing their families are cared as needed. our organisation and empowering our people. It is part part of responsible business operations, it is also an for brings comfort, and allows them to focus on the Once they have successfully completed a contract of value creation, which itself extends beyond finaninvestment in the future. Shipping is a highly regulatrequirements of their roles. The MSC ethic is clear; onboard an MSC vessel, all MSC seafarers are insured cial measures of performance to include intangible, but ed and technical sector, which requires advanced levels seafarers’ family members are also part of the MSC by a Medical Plan which extends to their vacation nonetheless invaluable, aspects of our success, such as of expertise upon which the safety of the crew, security family. periods. Medical plan by Marine Benefits offers client relationships, trust, experience and reputation. of the cargo and, ultimately, the performance of MSC While employment agreements define the duration of service, claims handling and member support, around depend. One specific skillset that is rapidly evolving, the period at sea, at times urgent requests are received the clock, 365 days a year. Furthermore, prompt payment EXCELLENCE THROUGH LEADERSHIP owing primarily to emerging regulations and advances for disembarkation, due to, for example, death or of wages has always been a priority for MSC, and even in technology, is environmental protection, and specifillness of family members, or other personal requests in times of global economic downturn, MSC protects Creating the conditions for excellence in safety requires ically, the use of machinery and technology for this. of importance to the seafarers. In such situations the staff salaries by first seeking cost saving measures skills in communication, influencing others and leading Autonomous ships may be a reality in the future, yet MSC Crewing Office reviews the request and puts in elsewhere. by example. MSC Shipmanagement, headquartered at MSC we believe that human capital is an invaluable in Limassol, Cyprus, and in Sorrento, Italy, have asset, and thus remain focused on training our staff both been running a leadership development course since onboard and onshore in this important area. 2011. 2019 saw the transformation of the course with the addition of new content. The new Excellence in PRIORITISING IT KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS Leadership course was launched in 2019 and 250 Despite the growing need for staff with IT skills, there officers have already participated. It explores leadership are no official standards or certifications required by characteristics and examines what makes a great leader the International Convention on Standards of Training, and how leadership style can be applied in d ­ ifferent Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW). situations. MSC Shipmanagement values strong and To fill this gap, MSC Shipmanagement has put in place successful leaders and depends on them to manage regular training to improve the IT skills of its officers the various challenging scenarios that life at sea can on board by focused tutorials, webinars or seminars present. with service providers. For example, in collaboration with a leading maritime training institution in India, A key message of the course is the need for leaderas part of the crew onboarding programme, MSC ship by example, because of the trust and respect that Shipmanagement has established a training programme this engenders amongst peers. The ‘Excellence through for all ranks on board. Currently offered to cadets, it Leadership’ programme aims to achieve the following focuses on maintaining relevant and current IT knowlfundamental outcomes: edge and skills as well as instilling a digital mindset • Create leaders of the future amongst our crew. This is very important for building • Improve management and leadership capabilities both the confidence and competence to use technology within the business to its full potential. The programme will soon be extend• Identify and develop talent for management ed to other crew training centres. positions • Enable high-performing teams • Energise and engage employees 100 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 101 NAVIGATIONAL SIMULATOR TRAINING industry. MSC prepares officers for future e-navigation76 SAFE USE OF BALLAST WATER emissions reduction technology. MSC opted to install At MSC, we have been early adopters of simulator trainand for compliance with our strict harbour manoeuvring TREATMENT SYSTEMS hybrid exhaust gas cleaning systems (EGCS) on many ing to provide lifelike practical preparation for operational plan (HMP) requirements. HMPs were first developed MSC complies with the requirements of The International vessels in its fleet because of their greater reliability and scenarios and incident avoidance. For example, the use of and used by MSC in 2012 to further enhance navigaConvention forGRAPHIC the Control and H Management of Ships’ safety from the perspective of the crew. technology to simulate real-time navigation, berthing and tional safety. These plans are followed by a vessel’s Ballast Water and Sediments (BWM Convention). These The proper and reliable operation of EGCS depends unberthing of our ships helps to make navigation safer. bridge team and by harbour pilots, and have contributregulations entered into force in September 2017 and on the training of both crew and shore-side personnel, Navigational incidents pose a risk to the environment for ed significantly to smooth navigation through harbours. aim to protect the marine environment from the transfer as well as support from a dedicated Shipmanagement a variety of reasons: containers can fall overboard; fuel MSC Shipmanagement was an important partner in the of harmful aquatic organisms in ballast water carried by maintenance team. Each crew member involved in the tanks may be damaged; other vessels may be damaged, EU-funded Sea Traffic Management Validation Project77, ships. The Company has retrofitted ballast water treatoperation is provided with specific training and a digital which may also contribute to pollution. The MSC simulain which over 90 Company-managed vessels participatGRAPHIC H ment systems on more than 250 vessels (approximately manual with troubleshooting tips and real-time ­scenarios tor training has undergone major changes since it started ed between 2015 and 2018. 50% of the fleet). In addition, all vessels delivered since to deal with operational issues. over 15 years ago. It is now conducted across all ranks of In 2019, MSC introduced new online training for passage 2012 have this technology already. Crew training on officers and deck ratings, and real incidents are simulated planning on ECDIS for Masters and Navigating Officers. these systems is carried out on a regular basis in the CLOUD-BASED SOFTWARE FOR CARGO PLANNING based on possible environmental factors such as wind, The course aims to provide the required knowledge, skill following ways. Until recently, MSC used a variety of software for loading swell, sea and visibility conditions. and understanding of passage GRAPHIC H the safe planning to ensure cargo onto different ships. In 2019, the decision was taken navigation of vessels whose primary means of navigation EMISSIONS REDUCTION CONTROL: to implement a uniform cloud-based cargo planning ELECTRONIC CHARTS FOR NAVIGATION AND is ECDIS. The course emphasises specific requirements EXHAUST GAS CLEANING SYSTEMS system across whole MSC fleet. This measure was to PASSAGE PLANNING for passage planning, calculating of safety limits and the Meeting the requirements of IMO 2020 in full and on achieve consistency, to provide standardised vessel-loadMSC Shipmanagement started installing the ECDIS usage and update of available data layers. It is an importime for the 1st January 2020 deadline required not only ing information to all stakeholders and to ensure that (Electronic Charts Display Information System) on tant step in achieving MSC’s fundamental objective of substantial investment in equipment and retrofits (see possible safety risks such as overloading, high stresses board its vessels in 2012, well before subsequent regulazero navigational incidents. page 62), but also in the training of crew on the use of and excessive lashing force are addressed. tion came into force. We also started training our deck The environmental technology on board MSC ships officers, including Masters, on ECDIS use, so when it requires specific, technical user knowledge to ensure became mandatory in 2018, there was already a good its safe and reliable operation. The following sections level of familiarity with ECDIS operation amongst MSC provide examples of the measures taken by MSC to officers. Lack of familiarisation with ECDIS has contribensure crew members are trained on the purpose and uted to serious navigational incidents in the shipping function of such equipment. 1.Simulators and coaching 2.Briefing in Manning and 3.Onboard webinars and tr Simulators and coaching Briefing in Manning and Onboard webinars and 1.Simulators and coaching at MSC Training Centres at MSC Training Centres Technical Offices training of staff 2.Briefing in Manning and Technical Offices 3.Onboard webinars and training of staff 76 The harmonised collection, integration, exchange, presentation and analysis of marine information on board and ashore by electronic means to enhance berth to berth navigation and related services for safety and security at sea and protection of the marine environment (IMO) 77 www.seatrafficmanagement.info 102 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 103 CREATING CAREERS AND employed by MSC, as well as the recruitment of onshore A LONG-TERM COLLABORATION WITH NATIONAL ADOPT-A-SHIP PROGRAMME OPPORTUNITIES staff across various MSC offices as Superintendents UNIVERSITY ODESSA MARITIME ACADEMY, The Cyprus Shipping Chamber (CSC) and the Cyprus or Planners, Port Captains in crewing offices, and in UKRAINE Marine Environment Protection Association (CYMEPA) MSC Shipmanagement recruits approximately 500 cadets management positions in global MSC offices. This form National University Odessa Maritime Academy79(OMA) have developed a voluntary ‘Adopt-a-Ship’ Programme. from various countries, mainly India, Ukraine and Russia, of capacity building also creates competencies that will was founded in 1944 as the Odessa Higher Engineering The Programme has a dual purpose; firstly, to encourage and actively promotes shipping as a career avenue in be of value outside the Company, with a positive ancilMarine School. In 2016 it was renamed the National children aged 10 to 12 years old to consider a career in other countries such as Cyprus, Pakistan and Bangladesh. lary impact on local economies too. University Odessa Maritime Academy. Over the years shipping, and ­secondly, to promote shipping as a safe, Some cadets are recruited from these regions too. Our the University has trained over 40,000 professionals efficient and modern mode of transport. support ranges from investing in independent maritime MSC TRAINING ACADEMY, INDIA from 45 countries. The details of the operations and processes in the training institutes by means of equipment for training, to MSC has been associated with the International Odessa Maritime Academy has been a well-known and shipping industry are not widely understood. Articles contributing to the development of training programmes Maritime Institute78(IMI), the leading maritime institute respected institution in the world maritime c­ ommunity in the media at times present a negative image of the relevant for the future growth of maritime professionin India, for over two decades. MSC Shipmanagement for decades, and in January 2019 celebrated its 75th sector. Whilst the Adopt-a-Ship Programme cannot als. MSC supports these institutes by making subject has been consistently investing in and supporting the anniversary. Its main objective is to satisfy the growing change the wider public perception of shipping, it aims matter experts available, delivering lectures on key topics, training of cadets and taking care of their welfare. In educational and cultural needs of Ukrainian citizens and to help the children participating in the scheme to better providing regular interaction with sponsored cadets, invitrecent years MSC has further strengthened this relationforeign nationals in obtaining higher maritime educaunderstand, for example, what a ship does, where it ing them on board our ships for practical experience, ship by setting up the MSC Training Academy, a joint tion which ensures employment opportunities, a good travels, the cargoes it carries, etc. The programme and later supporting them with further education and venture with IMI to train crew for their cruise line salary, lifelong career development perspectives and runs for the entire school year and typically requires certification. The success of this investment in cadet trainvessels, thereby furthering maritime careers and creatcompetitiveness in the world labour market. a weekly email exchange between the school and the ing is evident in the Masters and Chief Engineers now ing opportunities for future generations. Students and cadets at the academy number in the ship to which it is assigned. The school children have region of 10,000, with thousands of additional seafarers a maritime map in their classroom showing where the undertaking refresher courses at the Academy each year. ship is, the latest email posted, details of ports of call, The Academy offers a modern theoretical and technicargoes carried, etc. In addition to a weekly message, cal education, as well as advanced maritime simulators. the ship may send photos, old charts and accounts of MSC Shipmanagement (Cyprus) has been supporting the crew’s activities onboard. The Masters of the vessels and collaborating with the Academy for more than share pictures, challenges and adventures at sea, which 10 years, in partnership with the MSC Crewing Services help to inform and inspire the students. LLC, based in Ukraine. In recent years, new equipment, The Adopt-a-Ship programme was first introduced on laboratories and simulators have been installed. MSC 12 MSC vessels in 2016 and has proven hugely popular Shipmanagement (Cyprus) sponsored the deployment with schools and students alike. Since then, the number of new navigational equipment for training, including of participating ships has increased to over 20 and over gyro compasses, magnetic compasses, an echo sounder, 25 children from local schools have visited our MSC a GPS receiver with a display, an a ­ ntenna and matchShipmanagement premises. The Programme is set ing power supply. to continue its educational mission, and its objective to highlight the contribution of shipping to the local community and economy in Cyprus, as well as the central role of shipping in global trade. 78 www.imi.edu.in 104 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 105 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 106 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 107 HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES In recent years, human rights considerations, in accordance with the latest and expected developments at the Procurement and Finance Departments. Our main current ­practices and processes related to national and international level, have been ­progressively human rights and the steps we have taken to mitigate GRAPHIC 21 integrated into the work of key departments and the risk of Modern Slavery and human trafficking in our entities. These include, but are not limited to, MSC business activities and supply chain are reported and Shipmanagement, Global Accounts, Global Human published every year on our official website: www.msc. According to the Office of the United Nations High work and, as a result, this will significantly reduce the Resources, Audit, Compliance and Contracts Teams, com/modern-slavery-statement. Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) “it is increasrisk of accidents and incidents on land and at seas. They ingly recognised that human rights are essential to will also help promote responsible practices ­wherever achieve sustainable development.80 The Sustainable we operate. MSC’S CROSS-DEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION ON HUMAN RIGHTS Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable MSC’S CROSS-DEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION ON HUMAN RIGHTS Development “seek to realise the human rights of all Furthermore, MSC believes that sustainable development Brings together different departments MSC’s evolving business activities, and to achieve gender equality and the empowerment can only be achieved by promoting non-­discriminatory and/or entities to create shared responsibility operating contexts, development at of all women and girls”81. As reported by the Danish management processes allowing employees to have and leadership on human rights the national and international level Institute for Human Rights, “more that 90% of the goals an enhanced and fulfilled human existence. In this 1 1 on Business and Human Rights over time and targets are grounded in the Universal Declaration respect, MSC offers and secures long-term employGRAPHIC 22 The primary forum for informaGRAPHIC 22 of Human Rights and other international human rights ment opportunities, supports participatory and inclusive PREVENTIVE & Emerging and future human rights tion-sharing and dialogue to develop 2 EVOLUTIONARY instruments82.” access to quality professional development plans and RESPONSIBLE MODEL 2 challenges, including cross-cutting creative approaches and solutions APPROACH issues and linkages between In line with this approach, MSC believes that the respect promotes healthy and safe working environments. For to sector-specific challenges on human rights matters environmental and broader social issues for human rights begins with the respect for its employus, this means helping people “to have the right tools 3 3 ees and other key stakeholders who might be impacted to lift themselves out of poverty, combating the cycle by its business activities and operations. MSC’s Human of ­poverty as well as reducing the risk of transmitting Promotes understanding and Overall strategic directions and plans Rights Due Diligence Processes therefore focus on poverty to the next generations. And this can only be internal/external related to human rights in accordawareness of MSC’s commitment ance with MSC’s broader sustainability leveraging existing compliance infrastructure within progressively realised by empowering human beings, to human rights DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES approach DUE DILI the organisation to maximise the creation of long-term increasing their sense of ownership, and improving their sustainable value while preventing adverse impacts on access to their basic needs and to the enjoyment of their people and communities. fundamental rights and freedoms”83. DUE DILIGENCE APPROACH SHIPPING & LOGISTICS FLOW: SHIPPING SHIPPING AND LOGISTICS FLOW MSC’s broader sustainability approach reinforces the ESTABLISHMENT OF A HUMAN RIGHTS RISK RIGHTS ASSESSMENTS & ANALYSIS OF HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS RISK ASSESSMENTS & AN message that all SDGs are equally important and interFUNCTION HUMAN IMPACTS: RISK ASSESSMENTS AND ANALYSIS related, as all MSC’s Sustainability Pillars have the same strategic importance. For us, this is crucial not only to To better improve internal processes, promote policy prevent legal, financial, commercial or r­ eputational development within the organisation and raise awarerisks, including those related to human rights, but also ness of our complex human rights frameworks internally to ensure business continuity and preserve our natural and externally, MSC introduced a cross-departmental resources for current generations and others to come. Human Rights function based at the Headquarters. This As an illustration, MSC’s commitment to the progressive supports key HQ Departments and MSC’s entities by HORIZONTALLY VERTICALLY EXTERNALLY realisation of the UN SDG 8 (Decent work and Economic further bringing a human rights lens to their respecHORIZONTALLY VERTICALLY EXTERNALLY HORIZONTALLY VERTICAL growth) is strongly linked to all others, including the tive existing activities, processes and practices. The • Ongoing and progressive • Identification and prioritisation of • Engagement and awareness policy development through risks across MSC’s entities raising on MSC’s Human Rights environmental goals such as the SDGs 14 (Life below function provides policy guidance and supports MSC’s cross-functional Ongoing cooperation and progressive Identification and prioritization of Due Diligence Engagement Ongoing processes progressive andand with key awareness Identific water) and 15 (Life on land). If all employees, includdue diligences efforts, both internally and externally, policy key business units, withdevelopment MSC through • Human MSC’sAssessments Rights Impact risks across entities external on stakeholders, raising policy MSC’s Human development including through Rights risks acr ing seafarers, have decent working conditions and their in the areas of Business and Human Rights, Labour entities and departments cross-functional cooperation at country level Due customers and cross-functional Diligence business processes partners cooperation with rights are guaranteed, they will be committed to their Standards and Modern Slavery. with key business units, Human Rights Impacts key key business withexternal units, stakeholders, Human MSC’ s entities and • HQ guidance to MSC’s Assessments worldwide at country level including MSC’ s entities customers and and Assessm departments network of Agencies on key areas business departmentspartners whenever relevant HQ guidance to MSC’s network HQ guid 80 Source: www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/SDGS/Pages/The2030Agenda.aspx of Agencies worldwide on key of Agenc 81 Source: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/post2015/transformingourworld areas whenever relevant areas wh 82 Source: “Navigating Human Rights-A guide to Human Rights Due Diligence and Salient Human Rights Issues in Shipping”, page 2, The MSC’s approach to human rights has been formulated against relevant international guidance tools and recommendations, including the “Good practice Note on Organizing the Human Rights function within a Company”, prepared by Shift and endorsed by the United Nations Global Compact on Danish Institute for Human Rights Human Rights and Labour Working Group in 2014 (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/921). 83 Source: MSC’s Sustainability Report 2016, page 27; for more information on how MSC alleviates poverty through social inclusion and promotes the respect of human rights, please visit: www.msc.com/sustainability 108 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 109 INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES: OUR HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS OF SEAFARERS MSC commends the ongoing efforts put forward by with and implement. We focus on identifying areas of At the international level, seafarers are considered as a MSC allocates an operational budget for crew welfare the international community in the area of Business improvement in alignment with developments at the category of workers needing specific and comprehenon board its ships to guarantee that there are no finanand Human Rights. We particularly appreciate the steps international level and in domestic legislations, and sive protection due to their type of work. In this respect, cial constraints in implementing ongoing and expected taken to encourage policy coherence in government on working c ­ ollaboratively with our peers and other to ensure decent living and working conditions on board new regulations and requirements in this area. As an action84 and related discussions advancing corporate stakeholders to meet our industry’s shared challenges, ships, in 2006 the International Labour Organization (ILO) illustration, in accordance with the 2014 amendments to human rights regulatory frameworks at the regional whenever relevant. Our policies, processes and proceadopted the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (MLC, the MLC, 2006, which came into force in January 2017, and/or global level. Despite the increasing number of dures consider the following: ad hoc interpretations of 2006), widely known as the “Seafarers Bill of Rights”. MSC has financial security in place to comply with the international guidelines and tools providing guidance human rights potential risks and impacts; interactions following new regulations: on how to implement the United Nations Guiding with concerned/relevant stakeholders and right-holdMSC meets and/or exceeds the requirements of the MLC, • Repatriation costs and other expenses for all essenPrinciples on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), we ers to prevent human rights abuses; compliance with a 2006 and strictly complies with the terms and conditial needs, including food, medical, accommodation still face a fragmentation at the domestic level in the wide range of ­international standards and requirements tions of the applicable collective bargaining agreements and communication (as per MLC regulation 2.5) enforcement of corporate requirements related to the defined by maritime and labour conventions adopted negotiated by the International Transport Federation to ensure that seafarer repatriation takes place protection of human rights. Furthermore, o ­ perational at the international level by the United Nations. These (ITF) on behalf of seafarers. The MSC Shipmanagement effectively and that crew members are paid and best practices and related recommendations seeking include, but are not ­limited to, working conditions, Crew Welfare Department monitors the effective implerepatriated in a timely manner; to clarify governance gaps, risk assessments and human development and training at the workplace set mentation of international standards on board ships • Ship owner’s liability (as per MLC regulation 4.2) human rights considerations, are, at this stage, mainly forth by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and through: to ensure that the seafarers are protected from tailored to businesses dealing with the production/sourcthe International Maritime Organization (IMO) for our financial consequences arising from sickness, ing of commodities (“upstream sectors”) or to those sector and local health and safety requirements at the • periodical audits on board ships injury, death or long-term disability in connection processing commodities, products, software, technolports of call or repair facilities. • individual interviews with crew members with their employment ogy or other materials into final products for end-users to understand their concerns/feedback (“downstream sectors”). Additionally, MSC has management systems assess• follow-up and implementation of any gaps or areas Additionally, MSC Shipmanagement has already ­started ing, preventing and mitigating potential environmental, of improvement as noted during audit/onboard to implement the 2018 amendment to the MLC, 2006 In contrast to the above-mentioned sectors, MSC human rights and broader social risks in project finance. inspection/third-party inspections related to piracy and armed robbery since 2019, even is a service provider dealing with transportation Whenever applicable, MSC complies with the though it has not yet come into force. and, whenever relevant, the storage of commodities International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance The Department works closely with MSC The financial security fund has been arranged with our (“midstream sector”), operating worldwide in one of the Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, Shipmanagement’s Technical, Safety and Quality, P&I Clubs86 and a copy of the financial security certificate most regulated industries at the global level. Therefore, which “have become globally recognised good Crewing, and Learning and Development Team to is available on board each vessel. It is also accessible to MSC’s responsible business practices adhere to and practice in dealing with environmental and social risk ensure that all corrective actions and findings related each crew member, and a copy is kept with the respecdraw upon internationally recognised human rights and management.”85 to compliance with the MLC, 2006 are addressed as a tive flag administration of the vessels. labour principles and standards. matter of priority. The Team has also the responsibilIn this respect, we developed our due diligence More information on due diligence processes and social and ity to proactively keep abreast of any amendments or More information on how we promote the human rights of our ­processes against the existing complex regulatoenvironmental risk impact assessments and management developments in international regulations and to ask the seafarers can be found in the “Business Ethics and Protection ry frameworks, including our sector-specific human systems can be found in the “Social Inclusion” chapter of our relevant departments to review and implement policies of Human Rights” chapter of our 2018 Sustainability Report rights regulatory framework, which we already comply 2018 Sustainability Report (pages 16-45). or processes accordingly. (pages 98-102). 84 Source: United Nations Document A/74/198 entitled “Report of the Working Group on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises: Note by the Secretary-General” 86 The P&I Clubs provide marine liability cover (protection and indemnity) for approximately 90% of the world’s ocean-going tonnage. 85 Source: www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/sustainability-at-ifc/company-resources/ Each Club is an independent, not-for-profit mutual insurance association, providing cover for its shipowner and charterer members sustainable-finance/equator+principles+financial+institutions against third-party liabilities arising out of the use and operation of ships; for more information: www.igpandi.org/about 110 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 111 INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS FOR SEAFARERS It should be noted that the MLC, 2006 applies to all ships, whether publicly or privately owned, ordinarily engaged in The Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 has two ­primary commercial activities, other than ships engaged in fishing purposes: or in similar pursuits and ships of traditional build such • To bring the system of protection contained in existas dhows and junks. This Convention does not apply to ing labour standards closer to the workers concerned, warships or naval auxiliaries. All merchant ships vessels in a form consistent with the rapidly developing, over 500 GRT88, with the exception of those navigating globalised sector (ensuring “decent work”) exclusively in inland waters or in waters subject to port • To improve the applicability of the system so that regulations, must carry the MLC certificate of compliance. shipowners and governments interested in providFor vessels under 500 GRT, international guidelines recoming decent conditions of work do not have to bear an mend the vessels to be voluntarily in compliance with the unequal burden in ensuring protection (“level-playing MLC, 2006 and as documented by the flag states. field” fair competition) For more information: www.ilo.org It is often called the “fourth pillar” of international maritime regulatory regime, because it will, when it enters into force, stand beside the key IMO Conventions (SOLAS, MARPOL and STCW87) that support quality shipping and help eliminate substandard shipping. Source: www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---normes/ documents/presentation/wcms_230030.pdf EMPLOYEES AND THIRD PARTIES In a globalised economy where workers and employers are based in different countries which may have different levels of enforcement of social protection and development, achieving equal decent work conditions throughout the whole value and supply chains is often challenging. Nevertheless, in addition to national applicable legislation and requirements, MSC strives to promote responsible business conduct based on international standards. In this respect, MSC supports: • the UN Global Compact Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption • the respect of relevant principles as contained in the International Bill of Human Rights as well as the respect of relevant provisions and recommendations of International Labour Organization (ILO) instruments and Conventions • the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Practices, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and related sector-specific guidance tools developed by the international community. As a Swiss company, MSC also supports the relevant recommendations as contained in “The Commodity Trading Sector: Guidance on Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”89, published by the government of Switzerland in 2018. 87 International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS); International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL); International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW) 88 GRT is the gross register tonnage of the vessel which shows the volume of space on ship available for cargo, stores, fuel, crew, etc. 89 Source: www.seco.admin.ch/seco/fr/home/Publikationen_Dienstleistungen/Publikationen_und_Formulare/Aussenwirtschafts/ broschueren/Guidance_on_Implementing_the_UN_Guiding_Principles_on_Business_and_Human_Rights.html 112 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 113 POLICY COMMITMENT TO FOSTER in performing their professional duties. Since 2017, MSC has adopted the MSC Conflicts of Interest Policy employees worldwide. More precisely, MSC focused on a global assessment of appropriate thresholds regardRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT (RBC)90 which provides guidelines on how to identify, report ing gifts and corporate hospitality within MSC Agencies and manage actual and potential conflict of interest worldwide and adopted policies on the subject. The situations. policies take into account the fact that gifts and corpoIn order to adopt more efficient methods of reporting, rate hospitality are part of establishing and maintaining by 2019 all employees were requested to disclose via an a good business relationship, but state that they should As stated by the United Nations, “transport is the is actively ensuring that the Code complies with local online platform any potential or actual conflict of interbe reasonable, ­proportionate, transparent and justifiable backbone of global trade and the global economy. The applicable requirements. To ensure a correct underest, by completing and submitting the conflict of interest for the occasion. The threshold takes into considerajobs and livelihoods of billions of people in the developstanding and the widest dissemination of the Code’s questionnaire on a dedicated web-based platform. tion applicable laws, cost of living, minimum wage, etc. ing world, and standards of living in the industrialised principles and standards, employees have access to the Any gift or corporate hospitality with a value exceedand developed world, depend on ships and shipping. Code in 20 different languages. TACKLING CORRUPTION ing the threshold set by MSC’s Procedure for Gifts and The shipping industry has played an important part in Furthermore, MSC continuously focuses on employee Corporate Hospitality, as implemented, is subject to the the dramatic improvements in global living standards capacity-building and professional development. We The fight against corruption is at the core of MSC’s approval of MSC Geneva’s Corporate Legal Compliance that have taken millions of people out of acute ­poverty therefore provide regular training sessions on ­specific Compliance Programme. In support of this position, Team. In relation to third parties, in 2019 MSC actively in recent years91”. modules of the Code to MSC employees and Agencies. MSC has adopted policies and procedures that oblige enhanced its efforts by contractually requesting identiAs a world leader in international container shipping, Our objective is to raise awareness of legal requireall employees to comply with the letter and spirit of all fied business partners (such as terminal operators and MSC’s worldwide daily operations enable and support ments that are relevant to each employee’s daily work. applicable anti-corruption laws. Our internal Anti-Bribery connecting carriers) to comply with ­applicable anti-bribdevelopment and inclusive growth across five contiSuch trainings are tailored to our industry with illusPolicy applies to all employees around the globe. MSC’s ery laws. In addition, MSC expects such business nents. To ensure long-term benefits wherever we trative examples and case studies. Since 2018, MSC anti-corruption programme includes trainings and partners to perform their services in accordance with operate, we are strongly committed to conducting our Geneva’s Corporate Legal Compliance Team has delive-learnings focusing on anti-bribery. similar ethical principles to those set out in the Code. business activities legally, responsibly and with integered mandatory trainings on the Code to newcomers to Throughout 2019, MSC focused on developing anti-­ MSC also performs compliance screenings and due rity, and we expect the same from our affiliates and MSC as part of their onboarding programme at MSC’s bribery measures by putting in place a Procedure diligence on identified third parties. business partners. This commitment is endorsed by the Headquarters. The MSC Shipmanagement team delivfor Gifts and Corporate Hospitality, applicable to its top management and reflected in a number of policies, ers similar training to all of its shore-based employees processes and practices implemented by relevant and crew members, including master and senior officers departments. employed onboard its managed vessels. Considering MSC’s global operations and the international shipping sector’s complex regulatory framework, In the spirit of constant development of its compliance MACN MARITIME ANTI-CORRUPTION NETWORK MSC’s compliance with its legal obligations is a daily programme and adherence to international standtask that requires continuous monitoring of applicable ards, including the United Nations Global Compact In order to confront the challenges of anti-corruption within as the reduction in demands for facilitation payments laws and regulations. To meet this challenge, MSC has Ten Principles in the areas of anti-corruption, human the shipping industry, since October 2017, MSC has been a during operations at Nhava Sheva Port in India. MSC created a compliance programme in accordance with rights, labour and the environment, MSC launched a member of the MACN Maritime Anti-Corruption Network. joined the “MACN Port Integrity Campaign in India” the ethical standards of responsible business conduct, review process of all sections and topics of the Code, MSC Geneva’s Corporate Legal Compliance Team, in colwhich tackles corrupt practices at Nhava Sheva Port. as set forth in the MSC Code of Business Conduct (the in collaboration with relevant in-house subject matter laboration with MSC Shipmanagement, engages with exKey activities of the campaign include the implemen“Code”) and in line with the MSC Values. experts. The revised version of the Code was published ternal stakeholders and participates in discussions, collabtation of integrity training for port officials and the esin 2020, while we were writing this report. orates and exchanges views with other shipping lines to tablishment of clear escalation and reporting process. Throughout 2019, MSC continued monitoring the impleshare best practices and develop strategies to tackle cormentation of the Code within MSC’s Agencies, in close Another part of MSC’s Compliance Programme is ruption in the maritime sector and more specifically in the To foster integrity, MSC continuously focuses on embedcollaboration with the local Code Implementers. A preventing employees from being involved in any container shipping industry. MSC is part of the Container ding the anti-bribery culture among vessel masters and network of approximately 160 local Code Implementers activity that would conflict or alter their judgement Working Group within the MACN which represents around crew members. Throughout 2019, over 770 senior officers, 65% of the container carrier market. In 2019, MACN’s including MSC Shipmanagement Masters, have been collective actions have generated major outcomes such trained in anti-bribery matters. 90 As intended by the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises: “the business should i) make a positive contribution to economic, environmental, and social progress with a view to achieving sustainable development; and ii) should avoid and address adverse impacts through their own activities and seek to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts directly linked to their operations, products or services by a business relationship”; for more information: Due Diligence for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting, OECD 2019, Annex A. Terminology (page 69) 91 Source: www.un.org/press/en/2016/sgsm18129.doc.htm 114 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 115 NAVIGATING A COMPLEX GLOBAL SANCTIONS LANDSCAPE SPEAKING UP: A CORNERSTONE OF MSC’S COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION MSC is fully committed to ensuring that all its activities Establishing a culture of speaking up is a continuous KEEP INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE also strengthened its collaboration with local human and operations are in line with applicable sanctions regulaobjective for MSC. In that respect, confidential means resources officers, continuously striving to ensure that tions when conducting business anywhere in the world. of reporting such as the “MSC Speak Up Line” are at MSC’s people are at the heart of our business and proacprocesses and procedures respect relevant domestic Compliance with Swiss and European Union sanctions employees’ disposal to raise their concerns. This tool tively contribute to our long-standing success. They are requirements and legislations while promoting social regulations is at the core of MSC’s business model. is an online platform developed by a third-party service our key asset and one of our main competitive advantagand cultural awareness and sensitivity. Therefore, all our employees and MSC Agencies performprovider, complementing MSC’s existing reporting es. Just as our services cover all continents, spanning ing shipping-related services on our behalf have to comply procedures. land, sea and inland waterways, our employees come PROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND with them. Throughout 2019, as required by MSC’s Values, the from the four corners of the globe, bringing a wealth of NON-DISCRIMINATION PRACTICES With this in mind, MSC developed and implemented a MSC Speak Up Line led to an open and accountable local knowledge and richness that support the growth of Since the beginning, MSC has focused on promoting sanctions compliance programme consisting of a set of workplace. Our employees worldwide were ­strongly MSC’s brand in a manner that makes us stand out from an inclusive, diverse and multi-cultural working environprocedures to ensure compliance with such sanctions encouraged to report any misconduct or violation of the rest. Indeed, they embody our corporate culture and ment through the recruitment of local employees in each regulations. laws without fear of retaliation. This mechanism is meaningful core values, transmitting to our millions country of operation, without discrimination. Today, MSC has a dedicated team dealing with compliance with adapted to applicable laws and requirements. All reports of customers our passion for shipping, commitment MSC prides itself on having a global workforce that sanctions regulations and a network of compliance officers received were carefully and confidentially evaluated on to responsible business practices and our heightened consists of 157 nationalities and spans four generations, in each MSC Agency implementing our procedures. MSC a case-by-case basis by experts in the relevant subject sense of service. from baby boomers to Generation Z. With a view to provides its employees with compliance training through matter. Depending on the report, internal investigations Since 1970, MSC has seen exponential growth in terms maintaining and reinforcing our richness of representawebinar or live sessions to its employees. Such trainings may be initiated, and an action plan is adopted where of volume, fleet capacity and global number of employtion, we keep adapting our recruitment processes and are tailor-made and adapted to the shipping industry. deemed necessary. ees, while diversifying its activities and services. Despite procedures to further attract and retain young talent the extremely competitive business environment and coming from different social, educational and economthe wide range of economic, social and geopolitical ic backgrounds. challenges our industry has faced, we have navigated each decade with versatility, business agility and a MSC works across boundaries, geography and cultures. resourcefulness that still keep us at the top of our indusConsequently, it is important for us that people are able try. We are strong because we come together, and we to work together in a respectful environment where their never stopped investing in our human resources capacvoices and ideas are heard, and that they are given the ity and the continuous development of our employees. opportunity to be included in decision-making processAs our business continues to expand, in recent years, es at all levels. We believe that a working environment our People Development Team, within the Human where fruitful cognitive exchanges and diversity are Resources Department based at the Headquarters, has promoted drives changes and increases motivation, further increased its range of e-learning and courses employee engagement, and productivity. on technical, soft skills, and health and well-being. We In order to achieve this, we work to maximise the are also multiplying our efforts to embed MSC’s Values performance of each individual and actively encourage throughout our growing value chain and to enhance our teams to work collaboratively toward ambitious goals. support for employees and managers in further developBullying and discrimination based on any grounds are ing the core competencies that define our own unique forbidden, in line with our Code of Business Conduct. corporate identity. There are rules in place ensuring that decisions affectAdditionally, our Global Human Resources Department ing employment, performance, training, promotion continues to work closely with MSC’s network of and career development are based on an individual’s Agencies worldwide, providing courses and relatcapability and potential to grow. Additionally, we strive ed educational material, adapted to the various local to prevent any passive acceptance of an environment contexts and regional and/or country-specific ­thematic in which discrimination or working-related abuses may areas. In line with this approach, the Department has occur by constantly promoting open communication via 116 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 117 (AMERICAS, ASIA PACIFIC, EUROPE, AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST) 71% M a number of platforms and reporting channels, without The number of women employed within our organisaCARGO HQ AND MSC AGENCIES 29% F Female Male fear of retaliation. tion may still appear to be very low. This is because the data is combined with positions and senior managerial NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES FEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS REDUCING THE GENDER GAP roles requiring an extensive nautical knowledge. These DISAGREGGATED BY GENDER CARGO HQ AND MSC AGENCIES FEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS In line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development roles are therefore mainly occupied by men who have and its Sustainable Development Goal 5, MSC believes previously worked onboard cargo ships. However, it 64%64% M 23% 23% Under30 Under 30 that “gender equality is a fundamental and inviolable is important to report that we have almost reached a 157 nationalities 36%36% F 65% 65% Between30-50 Between 30-50 human right and women’s and girls’ empowerment is gender balance in other critical departments. 12% 50+ 12% 50 + essential to expand economic growth, promote social Furthermore, MSC Shipmanagement Cyprus is currently 157 nationalities development and enhance business performance.”92 working with some leading maritime training institutes Despite significant advancements in reducing barriers in its crew sourcing countries. The project focuses on MANAGERIAL POSITIONS ACROSS LEADERSHIP POSITIONS MANAGERIAL POSITIONS ACROSS REGIONS to improve gender balance and eradicate gender steresponsoring the recruitment of a number of female cadets GRAPHIC 24 (AMERICAS, ASIA PACIFIC, EUROPE, AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST) (CARGO REGIONS DIVISION) LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AT THE HQ CARGO DIVISION otypes, attracting female talents to work in the maritime for working on cargo ships’ deck and engine departsector, and in particular on cargo ships, still remains ments. Cargo ship crews are mostly male dominated 71%71% GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 23 23 M 75% 75% M a challenge. According to the International Maritime and, over the years, MSC Shipmanagement has creat29%29% F 25% 25% F Organization (IMO), only 2% of seafarers are women and ed a mindset among its crew members where the 94% of female seafarers work in the cruise industry.93 working environment is based on trust, mutual respect (Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa Being part of the international shipping sector, MSC and accountability, in line with its internal policies. and MiddleGRAPHIC East) 24 acknowledges that a number of factors may prevent Based on recent assessments, MSC Shipmanagement FEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS women from being interested in pursuing a career believes that now is the appropriate time to increase OVERALL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ASHORE Female Female Female Male Male Mal 23% Under 30 at sea. Nevertheless, we have been strongly promotthe number of females working on board cargo vessels. 65% 62% Between 30-50 Male ing on-shore employment opportunities for women, MSC Shipmanagement will not only be involved in the 12% 38% 50 + Female encouraging their progressive integration into maritime selection of the sponsored female cadets, but will also MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT CARGO CARGO HQ ANDHQ AND MSCMSC AGENCAG activities. This is now possible as the industry has follow their progress throughout their career in order to MSC Shipmanagement’s overall number of female Throughout 2019, over 1000 hours of training in soft evolved tremendously during the past decades, becomsupport the female cadets to become successful at sea. employees ashore has increased by 5% compared to skills and non-technical skills OVERALL NUMBER OF were provided EMPLOYEES ASHORE to female 64% 64% ing more sophisticated and therefore requiring an the year 2016. In past three years, in terms of recruitemployees on a wide range of matters, including but GRAPHIC 24 LEADERSHIP POSITIONS AT THE HQ CARGO DIVISION increase in new functions and departments both at the Our commitment to gender equality and women’s ment, 48% of new recruited employees were female. 36% not limited to leadership, 36% performance management MANAGERS AT Male Headquarters and local levels. We are therefore also empowerment was recently reinforced by further We75%are also glad to report M THEofEND that the number OF 2019 female and62% top management culture. In the coming years, our focusing on empowering women through extensive mainstreaming gender considerations in our Human managers has increased from 8% in 2016Fto 23% in 2019. female 38% employees will receive additional support from Fema 25% investment in capacity-building efforts. Our aim is to Resources processes and procedures. As an illustraWe believe that this was77% mainly due to the increase a certified business coach Malewho will assist them in their provide further support in developing the technical skills tion, we have improved our existing data collection by of our portfolio of career development programmes. development plans and Female growth. career 23% and competences that our complex sector demands. In adding specific “Social Performance Indicators”, which MANAGERIAL MANAGERIAL POSITIONS POSITIONS AC addition to specific technical courses, we also encourare gender-sensitive and focus on tracking progress on (AMERICAS, (AMERICAS, ASIAASIA PACIFIC, PACIFIC, EUROP EU age people in managerial positions to share with their our current and future initiatives related to ­diversity and OVERALL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ASHORE MANAGERS AT THE END OF 2019 OVERALL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ASHORE OVERALL NUMBER OF MANAGERS ASHORE respective teams and especially with younger generinclusion. ations of female employees their knowledge, best 2016 TO 2019 71%71% Male 62%62% 77% Male 77% practices and lessons learnt from years or decades of experience in the sector. 38%38% GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 5% increase 23 23 23%23% Female 29%29% Fema in total female employees onshore between this period 5% increase 5% in MANAGERS total female employees AT THE END OF 2019 2016 TO 2019 FEMALEFEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS DEMOGRAPHICS 77% 5% increase Male 23%23% Female Female Female between Male Male Mal in total female employees onshore this period 23% Female 65%65% 5% 92 Source: https://sdgcompass.org/sdgs/sdg-5/ 12%12% 93 Source: www.imo.org/en/OurWork/TechnicalCooperation/Pages/WomenInMaritime.aspx CARGO CARGO HQ ANDHQ AND MSCMSC AGENCAG 118 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 2016 TO 2019 64%64% MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 119 5% increase 36%LEADERSHIP 36% LEADERSHIP POSITIONS POSITIONS AT T in total female employees onshore between this period LOOKING AHEAD: THE FUTURE IS NOW across our value chain, MSC will also establish a Diversity As stated by the Secretary General of the IMO on World and Inclusion Committee of executives representing Maritime Day 201994, “empowering women is not just company departments. This will help to increase accountan idea or a concept. It is a necessity that requires ability at all levels across the organisation. strong, positive action to address structural, instituThese initiatives will follow the launch of our Diversity tional and cultural barriers. Shipping has always been and Inclusion Policy. In line with our values and in particua male-dominated industry and the same applies to many lar with the value “Equal Opportunity”, our Code of of the associated jobs and professions in the maritime Conduct, as well as our commitment to the progressive community.” realisation of Sustainable Development Goal 5, the Policy In line with the IMO’s approach, in the coming year, MSC aims to further support our continuous efforts to be a Geneva will be implementing a three-year Diversity and truly inclusive company, in which individual employees Inclusion Action Plan which will also focus on educacan demonstrate their potential to the fullest and through tion, awareness and behavioural shift. In particular, we different approaches. For us, this means further embracwill develop and launch a “Mental Bias” e-learning as ing and valuing diversity of perspective, thus building a well as a “Diversity and Inclusion” e-learning. In order to flexible organisation where each and every employee is promote diversity inclusion and gender considerations treated with respect and dignity, without discrimination. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ACTION PLAN: MAIN EXPECTED OUTCOMES • Improved sense of belonging to our corporate culture and MSC’s Values • Increased understanding among employees on how to operationalise MSC’s Values in their day-to-day work and relationships at all levels • Enhanced employee motivation and well-being thus improving productivity, performance and innovation • Long-term career path in safe and healthy working conditions, especially in developing countries • Improved recruitment practices ensuring the creation of larger talent pools, including with high levels of cognitive diversity • Improved employee retention rates, especially in developing countries • Increased representation of women in the workforce • Increased representation of women in leadership roles • Foster the MSC brand as an employer of choice 94 The theme promoted was “Empowering women in the maritime sector”; link: www.imo.org/en/About/Events/WorldMaritimeDay/ Pages/WMD-2019.aspx 120 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 121 CASE STUDY TiL: PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY 87.21% 12.79% IN LKAB KLAIPEDOS SMELTE 87.10% LKAB “Klaipedos Smelte” is a modern container terminal located in Lithuania, on the Eastern coast of the Baltic GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 23 23 NUMBER OF TRAINING AND/OR SKILLS DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES 9.68% Sea. Since 2008, it has been fully owned by Terminal Investment Limited (TiL), MSC’s port container terminal DISAGGREGATED BY GENDER investor and operator. Currently the terminal plays the role of a strategic regional gateway to the emerging and growing markets of Lithuania and Belarus, among some other neighbouring countries. In 2019, 253,000 TEU were handled by the Terminal. In addition to general container handling and transshipment operations, the terminal supports MSC and its customers by offering competitive services such as Project Cargo handling as well as access 20% 20% to empty container depot, cold storage, a Container Freight Station95. 18% 18% FemaleFemale Female Male Male Mal LKAB “Klaipedos Smelte” offers equal employment opportunities to all its employees and has proactively supported the recruitment of women since the beginning of its operations. Nevertheless, as other port companies, the terminal is still male-dominated and faces challenges in attracting female workers due to the specific types of As an illustration, the Terminal’s Equal Opportunity per month when raising CARGO more CARGO thanHQtwoAND HQ AND MSC children AGENC MSC under AG work involved, which are traditionally carried out by men. Policy guarantees equal status to all the employees or age of 12). The extra day granted is paid by the employer. applicants, in all aspects of employment as well as in all Gender equality is also 64% 64% and regulated by guaranteed 87.21% aspects of the employment processes, strictly prohibita specific internal payment system. The latter ensures NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DISAGGREGATED BY GENDER 12.79% ing discrimination based on any grounds. transparency and equal 36% 36% pay for the same work or Additionally, the Policy provides a set of measures for work to which equal value is attributed, includaimed at further promoting equal rights for women and ing additional remuneration paid in any form by the AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES men in the workplace. These include, but are not limited employer or its representative to employees for the GRAPHIC GRAPHIC 23 23 IN LEADERSHIP ROLES to, opportunities for professional development, requalwork performed, in compliance with the Law on Equal ification and mandatory social benefits, including those Treatment96 and the Labour MANAGERIAL MANAGERIAL Code of the Republic POSITIONS POSITIONS of AC 87.21% 87.24% 87.10% 90.30% (AMERICAS, (AMERICAS, ASIAASIAPACIFIC, PACIFIC, EUROP EU related to childcare, maternity and paternity leave. All Lithuania. 12.76% 12.79% 9.70% 9.68% Company employees have equal possibilities to submit All employees are informed about the Company’s an application for childcare leave, regardless of their procedures and related changes, if any, over time and 71%71% gender or age. The company also has procedures in requested to sign the acquainting register. FemaleFemale Female Male Male Male place to protect women who have recently given birth All employees and all 29% 29% for vacant positions candidates 20% and are breastfeeding, in accordance with domestic have the right to report any misconduct, without fear laws. These include part-time work upon request and/ of retaliation, to the company’s Chief Lawyer. Any 87.10% 18% In line with MSC’s broader efforts to promote women’s empowerment, the Terminal believes that gender equality or the opportunity to work remotely for at least one fifth suspected non-compliant behaviour or practice is 9.68% CARGOCARGO HQ AND HQworking AND MSC MSC AGENCIES AGENCIES is key to removing social and cultural barriers that may prevent the creation of a more inclusive environof their total working time upon request. ­reported to the leadership and investigated by the ment. In this respect, the Company has developed and implemented a number of policies and measures to help In addition, any employee raising two or more children Ethics Commission, inFEMALEline FEMALE DEMOGRAPHICS DEMOGRAPHICS with the Terminal’s non-­ ensure that all employees have equal conditions for work, equal pay and the same64% 64% career opportunities, in accordM M under the age of 12, or a disabled child under the age of judicial complaint resolution procedure. The procedure ance with applicable domestic laws, regulations and requirements. 157 nationalities 157 14, isnationalities given one extra rest day per month (or two extra days 23%23% is kept strictly confidential. 36%36% F F 20% 65%65% 18% 12%12% MANAGERIAL MANAGERIAL POSITIONS POSITIONS ACROSS ACROSS REGIONS REGIONS 95 Source: www.smelte.lt/index.php/en/about-us/about-company/ (AMERICAS, (AMERICAS,ASIAASIA EUROPE, PACIFIC, PACIFIC, EUROPE, & MIDDLE AFRICA AFRICA & 96MIDDLE EAST) EAST) Source: https://e-seimas.lrs.lt/portal/legalAct/lt/TAD/77e54a933db211eabd71c05e81f09716?jfwid=-m1syin5ov LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP POSITIONS POSITIONS AT T 71%71% M M 122 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 123 75%75% 29%29% F F 25%25% CONTRIBUTION TO HUMANITARIAN RELIEF JOINING HANDS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE The MSC Foundation works both independently, implementing initiatives of its own design, and in conjunction with trusted partners that have a strong innovative vision or track record for effective action, leveraging MSC SUPPORTING PEOPLE AND humanitarian organisations. These include l­ ongstanding Group engagement to connect communities, raise awareness and mobilise the financial support of millions of COMMUNITIES IN NEED WHERE WE support for organisations such as the World Food people. Its longstanding partners include UNICEF, the Andrea Bocelli Foundation, Marevivo and Mercy Ships. OPERATE AND BEYOND Programme (WFP), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and the United Nations Children’s Fund According to the United Nations Office for the (UNICEF). Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) “the size and number of humanitarian emergencies across the INTRODUCING THE MSC FOUNDATION The Foundation’s programmes are concentrated in four key focus areas: world continues to grow, testing our capacity and ability to respond effectively”97. Furthermore, the number In addition to providing humanitarian assistance through of people affected by humanitarian crises has almost its core business activities, MSC has been actively contribdoubled between 2010 and 202098. uting to addressing the needs of the most vulnerable In addition to the rising number of disasters, the nature of communities for over a decade through a wide range of the emergencies is changing as well, with severe weathimpactful environmental conservation and h ­ umanitarian er and other natural disasters increasing in intensity due programmes. to climate change99. According to the United Nations The MSC Group established the non-profit MSC Environment Programme (UNEP), “climate change can Foundation to consolidate, leverage and expand its drive mass migration; battles over natural resources can environmental conservation, marine protection, sustainplunge countries into prolonged war; and a fragile environable development and humanitarian commitments ment can increase the risk and s­ everity of natural disasters.” worldwide. The Foundation was officially launched on 8th It is widely recognised by the international ­community that November 2019 on board the new MSC Cruises ship MSC natural disasters have a far-reaching impact on already Grandiosa. The relief efforts and charitable projects previvulnerable communities. They further widen inequality ously carried out by MSC or MSC Agencies have now and poverty. People living in vulnerable communities are been incorporated into the MSC Foundation portfolio. Environmental education, school education and The Foundation supports the most ­vulnerable more impacted and tend to have less access to essential Aligned with the United Nation’s Sustainable vocational education are key for the younger communities around the world to realise their resources for preparedness, mitigation and relief. Development Goals (UN SDGs), the MSC Foundation generations who are our future. full potential through education, sustainable works to protect and nurture the planet, help development and lifesaving humanitarian MSC is deeply committed to providing emergency logis­disaster-struck populations to recover, and support programmes. tics services through its core shipping and logistics vulnerable communities around the world to realise their activities, contributing and supporting peace-­building full potential. Areas of activities include the promotion of efforts, as well as facilitating timely access to relief inclusive and equitable access to quality education for all goods in compliance with international regulations. In and awareness-raising campaigns on sustainable develthis respect, MSC’s global network enables us to provide opment and the responsible use of natural resources. effective assistance to humanitarian relief efforts and The MSC Foundation drives and supports interventions we strive to offer our assets, equipment and experfocused on the marine environment, social issues and tise to deliver containers filled with lifesaving supplies healthcare through the facilitation of funds, relief aid and The Foundation aims to intervene promptly in The Foundation shares the same passionate in different parts of the world. Moreover, we continue research. It also helps steer the MSC Group’s commitdisaster situations, securing and ­transporting commitment to the environment as every entity to maximise the effectiveness of our response operament and strategic approach to fostering sustainability emergency relief to crisis areas worldwide. in the MSC Group. This commitment is expressed tions and deliver timely assistance through strategic and promoting responsible business practices that can through impactful projects around the world. partnerships both with local entities and international have long-term positive impacts around the world. 97 https://business.un.org/en/documents/11208 98 https://business.un.org/en/documents/11208 99 www.unenvironment.org/news-and-stories/story/rebuilding-future-role-humanitarian-aid-climate-resilience 124 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 125 ORGANISATIONS AND PROGRAMMES SUPPORTED BY THE MSC FOUNDATION ORGANISATIONS AND PROGRAMMES SUPPORTED BY THE MSC FOUNDATION PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION KEY FACTS PROGRAMME DESCRIPTION KEY FACTS SEVERE ACUTE To contribute to the response Completed with the following results: MOBILE CLINIC To benefit the communities Direct impact: MALNUTRITION of the hunger situation • 6,858 children treated since start of programme in 2015 IN ­HAITI WITH in five of the island’s poorest 8,850 direct beneficiaries IN ­MALAWI by supplying Ready-to• With MSC’s support, incidence of acute malnutrition in ­ANDREA areas, providing medical • 2,850 children WITH UNICEF Use therapeutic food to Malawi was reduced from 4.1% in 2016 to 1% in 2019 ­BOCELLI care, treatments, vaccines • 6,000 members of the communities help reduce death rates in FOUNDATION and training. children under five years. (ABF) Indirect impact: 16,075 indirect beneficiaries PLASTIC WASTE To foster a women• The possibility to deliver an environmental impact by TO SCHOOLS IN empowering recycling ­addressing the plastic waste problem while improving MARINE To support youth-centred GUARDIAN DOLPHINS CÔTE market that transforms education quality convinced us to become the first corpoEDUCA­TIONAL educational activities to Direct impact: D’IVOIRE plastic waste into safe, rate donor to support this important programme. ACTIVITIES raise kids’ awareness of the Students: 700 per year WITH UNICEF low-cost bricks to build • MSC Foundation was able to provide catalytic funding by IN ITALY WITH importance of marine protecTeachers: 50 per year classrooms. pre-ordering construction kits for classrooms allowing the MAREVIVO tion and of combating sea Indirect impact: first plastic bricks plant in Africa to be built in Côte d’Ivoire. pollution. Families: 700 approx. • MSC Foundation thus created the basis to provide better Parents: 1,400 approx. ­learning conditions for 8’350 children by 2021. Total family members: 2,800 approx. indirectly involved • Supporting the global scale-up of a sustainable plastic waste recycling market by supporting research to develop NAUTICAL INSTITUTES a sustainable investment model. We are making an imporDirect impact: tant contribution to address the global waste management Students: 550 per year approx. problem. Teachers: 60 approx. Indirect impact: All classes in every school where the YING YAO To ensure equitable access to Between January and July 2019 at national level: programme is provided are indirectly involved BAO IN CHINA appropriate nutrition support • 3 national ‘train the trainer’ workshops were held in several Families: 550 approx. WITH UNICEF by providing counselling and provinces in China. Parents: 1,200 approx. “Ying Yang Bao” micronutrient • 120 maternal and child health (MCH) staff members from Total family members: 2,200 approx. indirectly involved delivery (YYB) five demonthe programme provinces were trained on YYB programme stration counties in Qinghai management. ON BOARD province. Qinghai province results: 200,000 young people worldwide voyaging with MSC Cruises Out of 19,739 children aged 6-23 months in 5 counties: engage in our onboard “edutainment” and awareness-raising • 99.63% received YYB activities every year • 80.02% eat one sachet of YYB a day at least four days per week THE SHIPS To support its hospital ship, Life changing surgeries: over 1,800 • 66.70% reported improved dietary diversity OF HOPE volunteer crews and medical Medical consultations: over 19,500 IN AFRICA WITH staff to provide lifesaving Dental procedures: over 29,900 OCEAN CAY: To protect and restore the Reserve area: 64 sq. km MERCY SHIPS operations in remote areas Palliative care encounters: over 200 MARINE tropical ecosystems and Freestanding coral colonies: 816 without access to healthcare Trained in nutritional agriculture: over 30 RESERVE AND vulnerable coral species in Fish species: 88 facilities. Professionals trained: over 1,300 ECOSYSTEM 64 sq. km of marine reserve Direct beneficiaries: over 20,200 RESTORATION waters around Ocean Cay IN THE with a pioneering project. KIRCH­WERDER To improve the ecologiElbe Habitat Charity Gala BAHAMAS LIFELINE IN cal status of the River Elbe, • A visionary concert programme performed by a 100-piece HAMBURG, restoring the unique habitats youth orchestra IL PARCO DEL To fund the innovative The Ballata per Genova fundraising concert GERMANY WITH and natural diversity of its • 1,920 tickets sold MARE IN ITALY “Il Parco del Mare” park for • Supported by more than 40 famous artists live on stage in ELBE HABITAT river landscape. • EUR 250,000 raised and donated to the Kirchwerder Lifeline WITH ANCH’IO families, to regenerate the front of 16,000 people FOUNDATION Initiative to help restore the unique habitats and natural PER GENOVA Valpolcevera area struck by • A unique opportunity for the relaunch of Genoa ­diversity of the River Elbe the Morandi Bridge collapse. • EUR 500,000 raised for Il Parco Del Mare Ecopark • Global visibility to the cause 126 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 127 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY MERCY SHIPS, ENSURING QUALITY HEALTHCARE UNICEF: WORKING TOGETHER TO REDUCE SERVICES TO VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES MALNUTRITION, FACILITATE ACCESS TO EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN AND EMPOWER WOMEN Mercy Ships is a global charity that uses hospital ships Mercy Ships reports that over 18 million people die Since 2009, the MSC Group and UNICEF have partnered facilitating women’s access to employment through a staffed by all-volunteer crews as the most efficient way due to lack of surgical care every year100. 25% of the in life-changing projects to fight malaria in Africa, recycling market that makes it possible to transform to deliver free, world-class healthcare services to people world’s diseases are concentrated in the continent, yet provide education for children living in the slums plastic waste into innovative low-cost bricks to build in desperate need in some of the poorest countries in there are less than 10 physicians per 100,000 people. of Brazil and combat child malnutrition, saving over much-needed modern classrooms. the world. MSC’s global transport and logistics network enables 112,000 young lives. us to transport medical supplies and other resources Since 2019 MSC has been working with UNICEF on the MSC has been supporting Mercy Ships since 2011 with even to remote locations. Thanks to this support, Mercy In 2019, The MSC Foundation committed to support ‘Plastic Waste to Schools’ project which will enable to: a special focus on sub-Saharan Africa, bringing hope Ships has been able to perform 18,550 free, life-changone of UNICEF’s most innovative programmes worldand healing to thousands of people without access to ing s­ urgeries since the partnership with MSC was wide: the ‘Plastic Waste to Classrooms’ programme • Recycle 881,179 kg of plastic waste safe, modern healthcare and surgery. As part of this launched in 2011. In addition, Mercy Ships provides in Côte d’Ivoire which combines environmental action • Build 152 equipped classrooms partnership, MSC provides free containers and utilises training, capacity building and infrastructure renovawith women’s empowerment and increasing access to • Bring 8,360 children improved access to education all its resources to support the organisation’s committions that leave a lasting impact after their ship sails. education. • Provide 66 women per year with a steady income ment to performing lifesaving operations in areas that Throughout 2019, the partnership facilitated the increase are without easy access to healthcare facilities. in the level of healthcare in countries lacking access to At present, only 5% of plastic waste is recycled in Côte Furthermore, MSC Foundation and UNICEF created proper ­facilities and expertise. d’Ivoire, a country where 46% of households live below a new edition of the “MSC for UNICEF Kids United the poverty line and 1.6 million children are out of school Magazine” dedicated to MSC’s partnership with UNICEF because of poverty and a lack of classrooms101. The and the new project in Côte d’Ivoire. The magazine will MSC Foundation’s new project with UNICEF addressbe distributed to 83,000 young readers on MSC Cruise es all three of these problem areas simultaneously by ships. IMPACT OVERVIEW IMPACT OVERVIEW • More than 1,800 life-changing surgeries • Since 2009, the MSC Group has supported UNICEF’s work, both through the MSC Cruises “Get on Board for Children” • Over 19,500 medical consultations initiative and by providing logistic support • 29,9000 dental procedures • Donations from passengers of MSC Cruises reached EUR 10.56 million (by end of 2019) • Over 200 palliative care encounters • In 2019, 16,478 children were treated for severe acute malnutrition in Malawi with a recovery rate of 93.1% • 30 trained in nutritional agriculture • Since 2013, over 112,657 children have been treated for severe malnutrition in Ethiopia, South Sudan, Somalia and Malawi • 1,300 professionals trained in their fields • MSC transported 4 containers of life-saving supplies to the victims of Cyclone Idai in Mozambique and 2 containers to • More than 20,000 direct beneficiaries victims of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo • MSC Cargo supported Mercy Ships with • In 2019, UNICEF joined two christening ceremonies onboard MSC’s flagship cruise vessels MSC Grandiosa and MSC the shipment of 54 free containers Bellissima, promoting UNICEF’s work to an audience of millions of people For more information: For more information: © Mercy Ships mscfoundation.org/programmes/mercy-ships mscfoundation.org/programmes/msc-unicef 100 https://mercyships.ch/en/annualreport 101 https://mscfoundation.org/projects/msc-unicef 128 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 129 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CYCLONE IDAI – REBUILDING DISASTER-STRICKEN HURRICANE DORIAN – FROM HUMANITARIAN COMMUNITIES RELIEF TO RECOVERY COUNTRY SITUATION When the intense tropical cyclone Idai hit Mozambique The MSC Capri was the first container vessel to berth Hurricane Dorian ravaged the Bahamas in September efforts. In addition to having ­provided and delivered over in March 2019, several provinces were severely in Beira after the cyclone, coming alongside just four 2019. Dozens were killed and thousands left homeless. 250 containers full of essential goods and making geared ­impacted, leaving an estimated 1.85 million people in days after the cyclone hit. The work done by the logisUnder a joint initiative with the MSC Foundation, MSC container ships available for the emergency relief cargo need of humanitarian relief102. Cyclone Idai is ­regarded tics community in Beira in the days immediately after enlisted the help of scores of customers and partners service from the US to the Freeport, Marsh Harbour as one of the worst tropical cyclones on record to the cyclone could support those who most needed it to collect donated items that matched the aid requireand Abaco container terminals, the MSC Group’s efforts affect Africa and the Southern Hemisphere as a whole, and helped to guarantee in the long run the wellbeing ments identified by the Bahamian government. MSC focused on providing semi-­permanent prefabricated causing catastrophic damage and a humanitarian of numerous families, in Beira and the region, who rely was able to carry thousands of vital goods such as modular housing for people made homeless (delivered crisis in Mozambique and neighbouring countries. on this logistics network for employment and more. building materials, generators, tarpaulins, water, food, in 2020). In addition to lacking access to shelter and essential sanitary and medical supplies to local people in need. goods such as food, fresh water and medicine, people In the first 72 hours following the landfall of Idai in MSC has been present in the region for the past 20 in the affected areas also suffered from a fast-spreadBeira, the city remained completely cut off from the A global taskforce was established to design and coordiyears and it has long been the leading cargo import and ing cholera outbreak103. One of the worst affected areas country’s communication, transport, water and electricnate the efforts across the MSC Group of ­companies, export ­operator in the Bahamas. Its local Headquarters was Beira. The Port of Beira is the second largest port ity networks. Operations in the port of Beira, including working closely with local officials, community leaders are based in Freeport, Grand Bahama. Working closely in Mozambique, acting as a ­strategic gateway not only major rail and truck connections, were suspended for and key relief and recovery organisations. The aim was together, the MSC Foundation and MSC Group were able to central Mozambique but also to the land-locked days. Customs and terminal operations resumed on to provide both immediate first responder relief and to take i­mmediate, effective action, providing EUR 5.5 countries of Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi. 22nd March 2019. Two weeks after the cyclone hit, all effective longer-term assistance with the rebuilding million of vital aid in the aftermath of Hurricane Dorian. MSC-operated infrastructure and hinterland connecKEY ACTIONS tions had been repaired and were operational, causing only minor delays in vessel operations. MSC, along with its logistics arm MEDLOG, supported the intergovernmental and international aid organisaMSC’s employees were among those badly a ­ ffected tions responding to the crisis by providing shipping by the tropical storm. MSC’s Beira office was s­ everely and logistics services. This included the provision of damaged, and our container depot suffered a ­containers and space on ships for food imports as part complete structural collapse. In addition, numerous of the overall relief effort. MSC e ­ mployees suffered significant damage to their homes. Forty MSC employees reported damage to roofs, The MV Border was the first locally organised relief windows, doors, walls, and severe water damage from vessel to reach Beira, delivering 185 standard 20‑foot the heavy rainfall, as well as damaged insulation. The containers packed with food, water, medicines and company quickly responded and covered the rebuildemergency relief aid cargo. Over 100 of these were ing costs for all of the affected employees. ­provided by MSC. The company also collaborated with the World Food Programme (WFP) to transport 81 standard containers of rice to Beira. 102 United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) 103 www.unocha.org/southern-and-eastern-africa-rosea/cyclones-idai-and-kenneth 130 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 131 CASE STUDY TRANSFORMING AN INDUSTRIAL SITE INTO A MARINE RESERVE AND A STUNNING TROPICAL DESTINATION The MSC Foundation and a panel of conservation expert of 64 square miles of marine waters and ecosystems partners are restoring and nurturing the coral reefs near Bimini in the Bahamas, adjacent to the new MSC around Ocean Cay in the Bahamas, which are populatdestination of Ocean Cay. The Foundation focuses its ed by one of the most vulnerable sets of coral species efforts on making the Ocean Cay Programme a reality. on the planet. The Ocean Cay Marine Restoration The programme aims to protect and restore the tropiProgramme is our effort to pioneer the protection and cal ecosystems of coral reefs, fish and other marine restoration of the Caribbean reefs and marine species species such as the Queen Conch, by applying innovafacing growing environmental pressures. The MSC tive techniques, building knowl­edge and educating the Foundation is supporting the protection and restoration next generation of marine ecologists. 132 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 133 ABOUT THIS REPORT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report has not been assured externally. However, it takes into consideration relevant international and sector-specific guidance tools, stakeholders’ expectations, recommendations received by external auditors and the revised GRI Standards. REPORTING AREAS AND TERMINOLOGY This report covers the MSC Cargo Division and uses internationally agreed terms in relation to risks, impacts and broad sustainable development issues. More information about our material topics and the terminology we use can be found in the chapters “Methodology and Materiality Assessment” and “Business Ethics and Promotion of Human Rights.” Regarding the MSC Group, all data refer to the end of June 2020; in this edition of the Sustainability Report, it has been decided to include a specific section to highlight how the MSC Group responded to the unprecedented global health crisis. All information and data related to the scope of this specific section are updated as of end of August 2020. CONTACT For further information about this report and MSC’s approach to sustainability, please feel free to contact us: sustainability@msc.com MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company 12-14, Chemin Rieu 1208 Geneva, Switzerland www.msc.com 134 MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 135
