COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Annual Report 2020 617-621 Dien Bien Phu, Ward 25, Binh Thanh Dist., HCMC, Vietnam. Phone: +84 28 6291 5226. Website: thecolorclub.net COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 To our stakeholders: The Color Club is a global marketing company with core services spanning Brand Marketing, Digital Marketing, Marketing Implementation and Marketing Performance. Since 1993, we have been delivering content for Global Clients across all media platforms via our own creative production studio as well as other marketing solutions. Located in Denmark and Vietnam, we ensure consistency in the visual communication across print, interactive and online media platforms to take our clients’ marketing to the next level with top efficiency and creativity. Launching the business in Vietnam a country where the practice of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in almost all enterprises, especially in small and medium enterprises is still limited; there is not much attention and support from the government and the society. As a small size company joined UN Global in 2016, we aim to improve the life quality of our employees and try our best to bring the benefit to the society and our planet. In this annual Communication on Progress report, The Color Club reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our daily operations, our culture, and our business strategy. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our primary channels of communication. We believe with our nonstop effort together with other organizations around the world, we can make remarkable change to the world. Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Carsten Conradt-Eberlin Chairman of the Board 2/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 Strategy Criterion 1: The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units The Color Club services and departments Human Rights Criterion 3: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of human rights 1. Commitment to comply with all applicable laws and respect internationally recognized human rights, wherever the company operates (e.g., the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Guiding Principles on Human Rights) To earn trust, respect and commitment amongst our employees, partners, suppliers, and customers in order to construct an environment that allows for freedom of expression amongst all parties, our policy is heavily influenced by the human factor. A critical element for any successful company is building a respectful culture. We aim to create this culture, and influence our employees, partners, suppliers and customers. We ensure a flat organizational structure to facilitate the above goals and vision; we uphold an open door policy to generate a work environment that eradicates elements that would deter employees from performing to their highest potential; we follow both international and local regulations in respect to Occupational Health and Safety (this includes temperature, humidity, lighting and table height in accordance with the requirements); Our aim is to follow the standards of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We uphold the Vietnamese Labor Code and its subsequent yearly updates. We adhere to the legal regulations pertaining to HIV/AIDS prevention and control. We understand that equal career opportunities for all people create a sustainable corporate culture, improve employee satisfaction, performance and attract and retain talent. We commit to comply with all applicable laws and respect internationally recognized human rights and specify it clearly on our Internal Labor Regulations. References document: The Color Club Human Rights Policy The Color Club Code of Conduct – Humanity & Ethics The Color Club – Employee Handbook 2. Integrated or stand-alone statement of policy expressing commitment to respect and support human rights approved at the most senior level of the company. In our labor contract, Collective Labor Agreement as well as Internal Labor Regulations, we specify that: • We have given equal job opportunities, the equal training and promotion opportunities for both male, female, and other genders employees irrespective of their gender, race, ethnic origin, disability, age, nationality, national origin, sexual orientation, religion, marital status, and social class for all positions. • Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. • Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of their interests. 3/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 • Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. • The health and safety of the employees are the most important concern of the company. • We prohibited all behaviors of Human Trafficking, Slavery, Torture, violence, Forced Labor • Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience and religion, not be discriminated against their nationality. • Respect the privacy of all people, not discriminate against their actual genders, marital status and keep personal information confidential. The Color Club Human Rights Policy always published internally for employees and externally for all stakeholders and partners. References document: The Color Club Human Rights Policy The Color Club Code of Conduct The Color Club workplace policy The Color Club – Employee Handbook Criterion 4: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles 1. Process to ensure that internationally recognized human rights are respected • We comply with all applicable laws and respect internationally recognized human rights. • All employees and personnel, including handicapped personnel, are given the right to participate in every single company activity and training session. Specifically, everyone has at least 5% of monthly working time spent on training. • We ensure a Flat Organizational Structure, allowing for freedom of expression specifically pertaining to, but not limited to, opinions about the working environment and company personnel. • All employees and personnel are treated with fairness, respect, and courtesy. • We celebrate the holidays to honor and thank the contributions of women such as: Happy International women day, Happy Vietnamese Women's day. • Flexible working policy for women after the 7th of the pregnancy to under 1-year-old children has been adopted as part of the efforts to improve gender equality and work-life balance. • We establish the hold of trade union which is represents for the benefits of the employees • The company follows regulations of the current labor law about the time of rest, working time, overtime rules. Beside that we offer a meal & coffee/tea for employees without any charge. The annual leaves will increase 1 more day every full working years (25 days is the maximum) • We maintain Health and Safety regulations in our office building. • We have 24/7 security, functioning fire alarm systems, and ample fire extinguishers for any emergency situation. 4/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 • Our building further provides firefighting practice yearly to ensure all equipment is functioning and that personnel know the required responses in emergency situations. • Organize annual health checks for employees • There are 02 exit routes from both inside and outside of the building. • We follow both international and local regulations in respect to Occupational Health and Safety (this includes temperature, humidity, lighting and table height in accordance with the requirements). We also follow regulations regarding HIV/AIDs prevention. • Our employees are provided with vital information through newsletters, allowing us to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS, COVID-19 and other infectious diseases • We promote a multicultural environment, with a workforce consisting of various ethnicities and nationalities, religions and culture, ages and genders by giving the job opportunities for all foreigners and give them special benefits such as annual leave, health insurance, flight ticket repatriation. • We respect all religions by: celebrate Christmas, prepare both vegetarian and savory foods for the daily menu, employees can decorate objects of their beliefs on their desks. • We ensure employee information is retained as primary private information, guaranteeing privacy for personnel. 2. Internal awareness-raising and training on human rights for management and employees New members of The Color Club are ensured to be introduced about the culture and respectful behaviors at The Color Club. On their first working day, they will be trained about the structures, human rights, workplace policy, code of conduct, collective labor agreement, gender equality, religious equality, national equality, equality to people with disabilities and the equality to other employees who are under your supervisor or even if they are younger. Leaders and Managers are required to take special Leadership training courses to be more empathy, understand their members from inside out and build up a better team environment, motivate and empower their members. Reference documents for Onboarding training: Orientation Training The Color Club Human Rights Policy The Color Club Code of Conduct The Color Club workplace policy Collective Labor Agreement Criterion 5: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration 1. Grievance mechanisms that are legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rightscompatible, a source of continuous learning, and based on engagement and dialogue (BRE4 + ARE4) We apply this by encouraging direct feedback to the Chairman, Operations Manager, or HR department, through the channels of direct emails, private meetings or company suggestion box. Department’s Hub is created for all members to upload personal opinions/questions and knowledge sharing. 5/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 Company online profile is created on for former/current employees to evaluate, sending feedback and personal point of view regards company’s culture, policies, compensation, working environment, etc. We constantly provide offline training such as weekly/monthly workshops and training sessions. Every member has the right to register for any workshop and training programs. Online training is provided to all members with LinkedIn Learning and EdX online learning platform. Besides courses members need to take to improve skills and knowledge relevant to daily jobs, all members can freely choose and decide other courses in any area/industry. A training module on company system is built to facilitate an easier way of adding new courses and referring to people in the company. Everyone can add courses and add comments, taken by. This is meant to be a place to collect and upload all training material, easy and convenient to access for everyone. 2. Outcomes of integration of the human rights principles • We have diverse genders/ages/background/nationality/religion/etc. in all positions. We have a majority female workforce (52.5%), with a total of 42 female employees amongst a total of 80 employees. • With a total of 5 out of 10 Management positions, taken by females. This allows equal key inputs from all genders in regarding strategy and decision making. • The Trade Union Committee is established so all employees can speak up for the right to freedom of thoughts, opinion, and expression to get their reasonable rights and benefits, ensure the fairness to all members. • The employees have the time to take a rest in the break time or to relax with the annual leaves and can be flexible to resolve personal issues. • A safe and comfortable working environment for employees with all the prevention method for situation such as fire, explosion, labor accident, etc. • Work-life balance is prioritized to all employees to keep balance between work and personal life. Labor Criterion 6: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of labor 1. Reference to principles of relevant international labor standards (ILO Conventions) and other normative international instruments in company policies To protect all employees, we always follow the United Nation Global Compact principles on Labor standards in addition to following Vietnamese Law on Labor rights: • We align with the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • We strictly adhere to the Vietnamese Labor Code 2012 and its subsequent yearly updates 6/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 • We follow both international and local regulations in respect to Occupational Health Safety (this includes regulating temperature, humidity, lighting and table height in accordance with the requirements). We also follow regulations regarding HIV/AIDS prevention and the protection of women. • We uphold the regulations dictated in the Child Labor Protection of Unicef. Specifically: • We strictly adhere to Child Protection laws and prohibit any hiring of child labor or exploitative labor. • We prohibited all behaviors of Forced Labor, Human Trafficking, Slavery, Torture, violence. The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor by giving them the rights to apply for the position they are suitable for. The company always takes the agreement from the employees before moving them to any different positions. • We consistently augment the workplace in a way that meets employees’ standards and more. Our office is located in a modern building, with ample lighting, air conditioning, elevator access, with seating and tables at appropriate heights. Our equipment is updated and clean, ensuring a healthy environment for all employees. • We adhere to the Vietnamese Labor Code in regarding sick leave, maternity or other labor policies: ○ Overtime: We guarantee that extra hours are payable overtime (if there is any), as 400% during holidays, 200% during the weekend and 150% on the weekdays ○ Working time and Rest time: We focus on ensuring a Work-life Balance , allowing employees to conduct work in a stress-free environment. We do so by providing 2 days off a week, which is more than the requirement dictated by the Vietnamese Labor Law. We also increase annual leave yearly. ○ Salary scale: Higher than the regulation of the Labor Law ○ Insurance Benefits: We apply for full Social Insurance, Health Insurance and Unemployment Insurance for all employees, so they are secured in personal and health matters and in retirement years Reference documents: The Color Club workplace policy Collective Labor Agreement The Color Club Code of Conduct 2. Written company policy to obey national labor law, respect principles of relevant international labor standards in worldwide company operations and engage in dialogue with representative organization of the workers (international, sectoral, national). • We specify the labor policy in the internal company policies and organize collective bargaining every year to promptly resolve issues of labor rights. • Internal awareness-raising and training on labor rights before the new employees start to work. Reference documents: 7/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 The Color Club workplace policy Collective Labor Agreement The Color Club Code of Conduct The Color Club – Employee Handbook Criterion 7: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labor principles 1. Dialogue mechanism with trade unions to regularly discuss and review company progress in addressing labor standards We uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining by establishing and hold meetings every year to get suggestions from employees. Collective Labor Agreement 2. Allocation of responsibilities and accountability within the organization • We have the obvious structure of departments. Each department will have the responsible person and members who are assigned jobs and have clear authority • Although the responsibilities are different, we have the same rights to show the opinion or have the same benefits. • To minimize language differences, we support the enhancement of internal communication by providing support fees for English courses for employees. Company structure overview 3. Internal awareness-raising and training on the labor principles for management and employees before they start to work means that we all have the same labor rights and we do need to respect others’ labor rights also. New employees are required to take training session to learn and be announced of all labor principles and labor rights. All updates regard labor rights and principles are publicly sent to all members. The purpose of this training is for employees to aware of their own rights and benefits, avoid confusions and protect themselves, respect others. The Color Club workplace policy Collective Labor Agreement The Color Club Code of Conduct 4. Grievance mechanisms, communication channels and other procedures (e.g., whistleblower mechanisms) available for workers to report concerns, make suggestions or seek advice, designed, and operated in line with the representative organization of workers • All employees can report concerns, make suggestions, or seek advice with their manager, human resource department or the representative organization of workers whenever a problem arises • We ensure a Flat Organizational Structure, allowing for freedom of expression specifically pertaining to, but not limited to, opinions about the working environment and company personnel. 8/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 • Department’s Hub is created for all members to upload personal opinions/questions and knowledge sharing. • Company online profile is created on for former/current employees to evaluate, sending feedback and personal point of view regards company’s culture, policies, compensation, working environment, etc. 5. Other established or emerging best practices • We use the online system to track and measure performance based on standardized performance metrics to avoid bias and misevaluation from evaluators. • We have flexible working hours to avoid rush hour. • We are a member of Local Organization Skill Commute of Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project, organized and supported by the Danish Ministry of Education to help build up Digital Imaging and Graphic Design program for Ho Chi Minh City Vocational College since 2017. • We are certified members of the European Chamber of Commerce (Eurocham) and Nordic Chamber of Commerce (Nordcham) in order to provide more opportunities to all our personnel. This allows them to participate in events, training courses and workshops. • We have secured a contract with a food supplier to assess and ensure the quality of food and adhere to food safety regulations that provides our employees with required nutrients. • We recruit handicapped people and undertake their training, thus allowing them to gain a skill set that equips them for more skilled industries. • We have commenced a community-outreach program since November 2016 that allows us to recruit, train and coach deaf people. • We safeguard the equal treatment of employees, regardless of gender, origin, appearance, religion and sexual orientation. We ensure no wage gap between men and women. • Migrant Workers: We promote a multicultural environment, with a workforce consisting of various ethnicities and nationalities, religions and culture, ages and genders by giving the job opportunities for all foreigners and give them special benefits such as annual leave, health insurance, flight ticket repatriation Criterion 8: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labor principles integration 1. Outcomes of integration of the Labor principles • With the online performance tracking system, we provided trainings to improve members weakness or develop their strength. The annual Leadership review of monitoring and improvement results, productivity increases every year and bias evaluation from supervisors/managers/colleagues is avoided. • With the equality of labor rights, we have a total of 05 handicapped personnel in our employment, with an employment period of 10 years. 100% of handicapped personnel command an important position requiring advance skill levels while 60% of handicapped personnel are shift monitors. 9/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 • We have been successful in recruiting and training a nonverbal and hear impaired employee. • Together with the Technical and Vocational Education and Training Project, we together built the new program for the new courses. We gave the internship opportunities for 4 students. • 0% of employees have health issues such as backache, eyes diseases or other illnesses, relating to the conditions and air at the workplace • 0% of employees have problems with food quality and safety such as food poisoning, allergies, etc. • There is no case of forced labor, human trafficking, slavery, torture, violence in the company • We have 3 employees who have the desire to move to new positions after working time and the companies give them a chance. • We have a total of 5 migrant staff here as official employees and around 5-7 international interns. • All members of our company are aware and understand clearly their rights, benefits and we have maintained the respectful culture for more than 10 years. Environment Criterion 9: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship 1. Written company policy on environmental stewardship We have specified company policies on environmental stewardship: The Color Club Code of Conduct – Commitment to Environment. 2. Specific commitments and goals for specified years In 2021, we would like to continue to reach our target on environmental stewardship as follows: • Contribute to realizing a sustainable society. Organize and participate in Tree Planting & Beach Cleaning volunteer programs for The Color Club’s members. • Commit to the laws, regulations, and other legal requirements relevant mechanisms concerning environmental issues. • Environment protection behaviors are considered a core business plan and management practice • Continue to minimize waste and Waste Classification program. • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Monthly newsletters regards environment protection are continute to be sent out to all members for awareness-raising purpose. • Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Plastic matterials are encouraged to not be used. Plastic straws/bags are changed with paper/bamboo bags/straws. 10/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 Criterion 10: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles 1. Internal awareness-raising and training on environmental stewardship for management and employees Newsletter in the company information board to raise the awareness of environment protection, water saving and paper saving. We always do actions to be help the environment clean, reduce greenhouse gas emissions or minimize the climate change affect such as: • Saving the Energy: Reduce electricity use by switching off lights when not in use, unplug electronics from the wall socket when they’re not in use. • Eat less meat because red meat production requires substantially more water. We try to cut down on meat by adding more vegetarian food into the meal menu. • Ensure water sustainability by using water only when absolute necessary We also have biodiversity, Green Industry and Environmental Stewardship policy such as: • Plant trees in the office and small plants on employees’ desks to absorb excess carbon dioxide and generate a healthy atmosphere. • Implement metal straws at the office and paper bag provisions to reduce plastic waste. • Sorting daily waste • Investment in a new printer from Fuji Xerox in order to reduce noise and dirt emissions at the workplace – safe and eco friendly. • An agreement has been signed with Fuji Xerox regarding the recycling of used toner cartridges in place since June 2016. Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship 1. Outcomes of integration of the environmental principles • Employees have higher awareness about protecting the environment and saving energy (lights and airconditioner are off after working hours). • No litter activities found within or around the office • More vegetarian foods have been ordered. • All The Color Club employees are aware of littering shall not happen not only inside the building but also outside. Anti-Corruption Criterion 12: The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption 1. Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant anti-corruption laws, including the implementation of procedures to know the law and monitor changes 11/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 The Color Club commits to follow and adapt the national laws regarding Anti-corruption and international best practices to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Any Anti-corruption action will be punished in accordance with Internal Labor Regulations and the law. 2. Policy on anti-corruption regarding business partners. All anti-corruption regarding business partners is specified in the labor contract and in our Internal Labor Regulations and get the signatures from employees. The Color Club Human Rights Policy The Color Club Code of Conduct The Color Club workplace policy Criterion 13: The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle 1. Human Resources procedures supporting the anti-corruption commitment or policy, including communication to and training for all employees • A code of conduct policy has been set to make our position clear to all our suppliers, employees, clients, and partners. • The Color Club employees and their families are not allowed to give or receive business gifts, favors from any customers or suppliers of The Color Club, except as approved by the company. • Encourage the employees to speak out and speak up when someone sees something that just does not look or feel right. • Open communication method and systems are used for transparent information. As stated in official workflow, all emails and communication which do not affect personal privacy and personal confidential information, shall be included team’s email to ensure the publicity and avoid corruption actions and behaviors. 2. Internal accounting and auditing procedures related to anti-corruption (D10) • A yearly financial audit by an external auditor has taken place every year since the company was established. • We use the invoice system to manage finanancial/accounting and bill the invoice to clients to avoid action of anti-corruption. Criterion 14: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anticorruption 1. Outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle • All the procedures in the company are stated clearly and step by step of the required processes are followed. • No report about corruption in the workplace, and corrupt activities have been prohibited. • All invoices have the same figures with clients’. 12/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 UN Goals Criterion 15: The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues The Color Club recognizes the 17 goals to Transform Our World, and we actively work towards contributing to some of these. Goal 3. Good Health and Well-being We consistently augment the workplace in a way that meets employees standards and more, ensuring healthy environment and nutriens foods are provided for all employees. The office is cleaned up daily with anti-bacteria liquid, chairs are washed monthly, and other cleaning method and solutions are applied daily to keep the working environment clean and healthy. Goal 4. Quality education One of the many reasons why we are a part of the Vocational Training and Development in Vietnam (VDV), is because we recognize the inequality across education. The skill-gap between school knowledge and industry knowledge is something we would actively like to aid in closing. The VDV project is established in Vietnam with the support from Danish Embassy, Danish Ministry of Education and Ministry of Labor Vietnam. This is our way of aiding students in closing this gap and help to create a more skillful workforce to Vietnam. Furthermore, our staff is encouraged to take part in different training courses by many methods (offline, online, on-job training, lecturing). We ensure to arrange workload and set at least 5% of time for all staff members to seek new knowledge everyday. As mentioned in above criterions of this report, a training system is built for easily access to get training materials and make sure every staff have the same oppoturnity to reach all training sessions. Goal 5. Gender equality While we are aware of difficulties such as the double burden, we actively hire women. We aspire to have the same number of women and men in leading positions. Furthermore, we encourage every member to actively be aware of the prejudices that follow with women leadership. During onboarding new staff, we always include a 2month trial period. This is, among other things, in order to see how the individual acts in a position with multiple females in managing positions. This has resulted in an incredibly positive atmosphere where we see women are being heard and respected. It is important to us, to not only empower females but also having an atmosphere where all genders are considered equal. Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation As a part of safe and healthy working environment, the water supply are sure to be safe and clean, following Government standard and provided by official Government supplier in Vietnam. Drinking water is provided by trustful internation brand – I-on Life to ensure the sanitation for all members. Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 13/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 The Color Club continuosly learning and update new technologies in areas of our industry. Besides, a new system of enterprise resources planning and worflow is built and enhancing constantly by ourselves for data driven and effective workflow purpose. Not only applied inhouse, we have suceeded in convicning our clients to apply the same new system to be more productive, transparent in managing production and working performance and process. Goal 10. Reduced inequality In connection to working towards gender equality, we also actively work towards reducing inequality for disabled people. We believe that every individual has a strength, and that person should be able to practice that. We have, therefore, not only implemented a disabled friendly office, but we also actively recruit people we find fit in regardless of their physical abilities. This ideology has resulted in us having a dynamic and positive working environment where everyone is included. It is important to us that people are not only evaluated based on their current abilities and knowledge. This is also one of the reasons why we are a part of the VDV (Vocational Training and Development in Vietnam which we are elaborating on in criterion 18. Criterion 16: The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy Despite our company size is belong to small size company, we still invest time and resources in enhancing the skill set of workforces and contribute to the society. Vietnamese workforces usually have a big skill gap between learning and practicing. In 2009 when we established the company in Vietnam, we realized the struggles of corporate in hiring and training employees to use new software and systems which were not familiar for Vietnamese people. In 2012, we decided to invest in a Brand Management System (BMS), and apply to our organization. BMS was officially used in our company since 2014, and it took us a year to get all staff trained and used the system correctly. In 2018, a new investment is put into the system to enhance the performance and be more data driven. We have customized the system and created new Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system. In the beginning of 2020, the new ERP was trained and applied to our daily work. Our employees are keep up to date with all new technologies and knowledge. After more than 10 years, we have created a more skillful workforce with more knowledge of using systems and more confident in technologies. Continue to contribute to the society, we at the same time opened free Photoshop training courses for handicapped and poor personnel of Saigon Children Charity and Shelter for Persons with Disabilities and recruited them to be official members. Since 2017, we continued to participate in Vocational Training Development in Vietnam program which will be described with more details at Criterion 18. 14/15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – ANNUAL REPORT 2020 Criterion 18: The COP describes partnerships and collective action The Color Club is an active member of the dual education project by the Vietnamese Ministry of Labor Invalids and Social Affairs (MOLISA) and the Danish Ministry of Education called Vocational Education Development in Vietnam (VDV). The project aims to support the vocational education system in Vietnam to match school-based knowledge with industry-based skill requirements in order to solve the skill gap challenge. In this project, vocational schools and enterprises collaborate to educate and train students on a work-based learning basis. From 2016 to 2019, the project successfully completed pilot Phase I, and is currently undergoing pilot Phase II from 2019 to 2022. The Color Club has fulfilled their responsibilities and took our own initiatives in both phases. In Phase I of the project, The Color Club welcomed 12 interns from various local vocational schools, most notably Ho Chi Minh City Vocational College. Out of the 12 interns, four became full-time employees at our company. • 2017: 03 Digital Imaging interns • 2018: 02 Digital Imaging interns, 02 Graphic Design interns • 2019: 02 Digital Imaging interns, 03 Graphic Design interns In Phase II of the project, under agreement with MOLISA and the Danish Embassy in Vietnam, The Color Club took on more responsibilities: • We became the co-organizers of VDV’s logo design contest, for which we are also trainer, judge, and advisor. Over a period of 2 months from November to December 2020, the logo design contest was successfully completed. • We held a 2-day training workshop at the company for Graphic Design teachers from Ho Chi Minh City Vocational College and the Television College in Hanoi via real-life and Zoom meetings. Our specialists shared our process of creating a high standard logo. • We hosted a company visit for teachers from six different national vocational colleges. During the company visit, our team leaders and senior employees introduced them to our company, teams, services, clientele, and how we perform onboarding for new employees. 15/15
