Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 1 / 38 Our Sustainability Work 2019 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 2 / 38 The Nolato Group Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with operations in Europe, Asia and North America. We develop and manufacture customer-specific products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for customers within medical technology, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronics, telecom, automotive, hygiene and other selected industrial sectors. Nolato’s sales are generated within three customer-focused business areas – Medical Solutions, Integrated Solutions and Industrial Solutions. Our vision is for Nolato to be regarded as the natural choice when customers need a high-tech cooperation partner and supplier. We define being the customer’s first choice as customers experiencing the delivery of high quality in all aspects of projects. Our core values are based on the view that efficient and profitable business operations must be ethical and sustainable. Issues relating to ethics, social responsibility, environmental matters and work environment are therefore integral to our business. Nolato’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Large Cap segment, where they are included in the Industrials sector. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 For Nolato, sustainability work is an integral part of financial value creation and contributes to a sustainable society. The Sustainability Report should be regarded as an integrated report that provides information about the relationship between financial and non-financial results, and demonstrates how the Group’s strategy, governance and earnings can create value for stakeholders. Nolato’s 2019 Annual Report contains the information (Sustainability Report) required for large companies, in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The purpose of this report, Our Sustainability Work 2019, is to provide more detail and complement the Sustainability Report included in the Annual Report. Contents CEO’s introduction 3 The Nolato Group in brief 4 Long-term perspective on sustainability work 5 Ten-year summary 6 Article: Nolato, plastics and the environment 7 Nolato and sustainable development 8 Targets and KPIs 12 Article: Looking for three green lights 13 Environmental responsibility 14 Article: Sustainable, innovative packaging 20 Social responsibility 21 Article: Social responsibility in practice at Nolato Contour in the US 23 Business partners and other stakeholders 24 Financial responsibility 26 Risks and opportunities 27 Article: Busy bees in Hörby 28 An eventful year 29 About this Sustainability Report 30 GRI index 2019 31 Global Compact 34 Definitions and glossary 35 Nolato AB (publ), 269 04 Torekov | 0431-442290 | www.nolato.com | info@nolato.com Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 3 / 38 Protecting our future by saying no Nolato has been taking responsibility for products. This is happening on a relatively people and the environment for many small scale at the moment, but we are seeyears. We endeavour to create solutions ing growing interest in more low-carbon that benefit business while contributing to products. sustainable development. The ten principles for responsible business enshrined in Supporting our customers the UN Global Compact and the UN SusThe fact that we are on board at an early tainable Development Goals offer guidstage in our customers’ product developance and inspiration in these efforts. The ment process allows us to support them in Sustainability Report details the improveterms of sustainable development, particuments we have made to our strategy and larly with regard to the product’s carbon provides specific examples of sustainable footprint in a life cycle perspective. By solutions. It details areas such as lower adopting a forward-thinking approach in Christer Wahlquist President and CEO material consumption, energy-efficient the choice of raw materials and producproduction methods, sustainable logistics, tion methods, we are also reducing our safe workplaces and involvement in the own carbon footprint. But one of the most communities in which we operate. important things we can do is to actually decline business that doesn’t meet our A major challenge environmental requirements. This may of Reducing our carbon footprint is a significourse seem like a drastic measure, but it’s cant challenge and we have made some something that clearly illustrates that we progress by phasing out fossil fuels, imare serious about our sustainability work. proving energy efficiency and buying fossil-free electricity in countries where this is Environmental and business benefits possible. But the area where we can make I am looking forward to continuing to the greatest positive change for the climate work with sustainable development alongand environment in the future is how we side all our highly skilled and committed develop new products and what products employees. Our overriding objective is to we choose to develop and manufacture. develop solutions that are of interest to Nolato’s most important raw materiour customers, and that create both envials are plastics – fantastic materials with ronmental and business benefits in a comproperties that are difficult to replace. prehensive approach. However, these plastics need to be handled correctly and should not end up in Torekov, March 2020 the natural environment. So there is still a great deal to do to reduce the carbon footprint of plastics. We try where possible to encourage cusChrister Wahlquist tomers to use recycled plastic raw materiPresident and CEO als or bioplastics when we develop new Nolato Sustainability Nolato Report in brief 2019 4 /3 38 The Nolato Group in brief The Nolato Group in brief Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Nolato’s three business areas develop and manufacture products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for leading, often global, companies. Medical Solutions Integrated Solutions Industrial Solutions Medical devices and products for Components and subsystems for fastProducts and product systems for administering pharmaceuticals. growth areas of technology. industrial companies. Share of Group sales Share of Group operating profit (EBITA) Our values Employees Professional Well organised 5,900 Responsible Three basic principles that comprise Nolato’s group-wide values and are key to our long-standing tradition of responsible business and sustainable development strategy. Nolato’s average no. of employees in 2019 Our global presence Other countries 2% North America 7% Sweden 15% Asia 36% Rest of Development, production & sales Europe 40% Sales & technology Sales per geographical market Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 5 / 38 Long-term perspective on sustainability work Sustainability increasingly important plants. In the 2000s, work was developed achieved in areas such as energy efficiency, Nolato’s history within sustainable develand intensified in several areas to include a waste, health and safety, social responsibilopment dates back to 1938 when the comclearer strategy and long-term sustainable ity and business ethics. pany was first established. The concept of development targets. In 2010, sustainabilThe Group’s sustainability work was sustainable development – environmental, ity work was linked to the ten principles reported to the Global Reporting Initiative social and financial responsibility – wasn’t in the UN Global Compact, and in 2016 (GRI), UN Global Compact and Nasdaq around back then, but Nolato developed to the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Listing Center (ESG; Environment, Social, a tradition of responsible business at an Development Goals. Governance). Separately, we also reported early stage in its development. Transparency has gradually increased, under the Carbon Disclosure Project Today this responsible approach is and over the past ten years Nolato has (CDP). described in the Group’s values document, published sustainability reports according The Nolato Spirit, and the concept of susto global guidelines and standards. Further work tainable development is firmly rooted in The timeline below highlights key stages We will increase environmental activities the company’s strategy plans as well as en route towards sustainable development, in 2020 and focus on customer interacday-to-day operations. and the table on the next page provides a tion. Nolato will actively present sustainsummary of key performance indicators in able solutions relating to choice of raw Systematic and future-oriented the field of sustainable development over materials, product design, production Nolato’s commitment to sustainable develthe past ten years. technologies and transportation. We are opment has its origins in fundamental confident that greater use of bio-based and work within health and safety and the 2019 in brief recycled raw materials will create both environment. Satisfying legal requireInterest in sustainable development environmental and business benefits. We ments within these areas was naturally increased in society and among Nolato’s are continuing to introduce measures conimportant for Nolato’s management, business partners. Issues that were of parcerned with more efficient use of energy, but from an early stage they realised the ticular importance included reducing the water and materials, along with reduced importance of working systematically and carbon footprint and impact of plastics carbon footprint. We have also maintained with a future-oriented approach. Several on the environment. We worked on these our focus on activities that contribute to a important steps were taken in the 1990s, areas, and during the year several projects safe and stimulating work environment.  for example Nolato was quick to introwere implemented focusing on greater duce the certified environmental manageuse of bioplastics and recycled plastic ment system (ISO 14001) at its production raw materials. Positive results were also Key stages en route to sustainability Tougher energy and Group-wide carbon emissions ISO 50001 introduced Group-wide sustainability targets Responsibility and targets at several units environmental Projects on good organisation policy Energy audits Updated Gradual introduction Employee Care bioplastics and – Nolato’s basic Group changes Sustainability of ISO18001 health Programme, Buil­ according to EU sustainability recycled raw principles name to Nolato Report acc. to GRI and safety standard ding Hope Together Energy Efficiency targets materials Directive 1938 1950 1982 1997 2005 2010 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Nordiska Latex­ The first Group Basic Principles, A clear link between Training in fabriken i Torecompany achieves Code of Conduct Sustainability sustainability and bu­ business ethics kov is founded ISO 14001 certifi­ and policies work adapted to siness in a new version combined in ISO 26000 Sustainability Health and safety cation of The Nolato Spirit strategy with The Nolato Spirit and environmental Nolato’s sustainabi­ focus on ‘green laws set minimum Endorsement A whistleblowing products’ of UN Global system is intro­ lity targets are linked requirements to the UN Sustainable Compact duced Development Goals Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 6 / 38 Ten-year summary In a global industrial company, improvetime. Improvement work requires a focus demonstrate progress in a number of sigments within sustainable development on the right things, clear goals and follownificant areas. This is encouraging, but happen gradually over a long period of up. In a ten-year perspective, Nolato can there is still a great deal to work on. Area Key performance indicators 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Environment Compliance Number of breaches of environmental legislation (fines, san2 0 2 1 2 0 2 1 1 1 ctions) Energy Energy consumption (GWh) 184 182 188 169 167 163 164 168 141 140 Energy consumption/sales (GWh/SEKm) 0.023 0.022 0.028 0.038 0.035 0.038 0.036 0.043 0.047 0.041 Carbon emissions CO2 emissions from energy consumption (tonnes)* 33,900 36,600 49,000 51,200 57,200 62,400 67,800 65,600 53,200 46,300 CO2 emissions/sales (tonnes/SEKm) 4.3 4.5 7.3 11.5 12.1 14.7 15.0 16.9 17.7 13.7 Water Water consumption (m3) 146,750 146,300 177,900 163,700 179,300 170,800 159,300 169,300 120,700 139,500 Water consumption/sales (m3/SEKm) 18.5 18.1 26.5 36.8 37.9 40.3 35.2 43.7 40.6 41.3 Waste Waste volume (tonnes) 6,900 7,300 6,500 5,200 5,000 4,400 5,300 5,300 3,900 3,600 Waste volume/sales (tonnes/SEKm) 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.1 Raw materials Recycled/bio-based plastics (% of total consumption) 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 4 2 2 Management sysISO 14001-certified plants (% of total) 100 95 95 91 95 100 100 86 85 89 tems People Employees Number of employees (average) 5,941 6,449 7,249 6,418 7,759 8,020 9,357 8,421 5,491 7,563 Compliance Number of breaches of health and safety legislation (fines, 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 sanctions) Health and safety Occupational accidents (number/million hours worked) 4.9 4.1 3.7 5.0 2.3 2.9 2.0 3.9 2.2 2.5 Diversity Number of women on Group Board (%) 30 30 30 22 30 22 30 30 30 30 Percentage of women on local management teams (%) 25 22 22 20 19 24 24 24 18 24 Training Employee training (hours/employee) 26 24 47 53 39 29 18 11 4 4 Management sysISO 45001-certified plants (% of total) 29 24 27 27 30 26 16 5 5 5 tems Code of Conduct Reported human rights breaches (number) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Economic Economic value allocated by stakeholder (SEKm) 7,592 7,993 6,530 4,434 4,407 3,610 3,840 3,238 2,846 2,701 Tax paid (SEKm) 154 199 159 515 102 98 89 70 51 56 *Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to GHG Protocol Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 7 / 38 Interview with Nolato’s President and CEO, Christer Wahlquist Nolato, plastics and the environment The discussion on the role of plastic in our society is intensifying – what is Nolato’s view on this? On the whole I think the debate on plastic is both relevant and important, provided it is balanced. Plastic has both positive and negative effects from an environmental perspective, so it’s not that simple. You have to have a degree of pragmatism and understand that in many ways plastic will continue to have an important role to play in society. For example, when plastic is used to replace metals and other heavy materials in the automotive and aviation industries, it helps reduce weight and fuel consumption, and thus carbon dioxide emissions. In the construction industry, plastics are used as an insulation material, which is positive from an energy perspective. Plastics as packaging material in retail reduce both weight and fuel consumption. At the same time, plastic is based on fossil crude oil, and single-use plastic or plastic used in consumer products with a short lifespan tends to end up in the natural environment and oceans, where it can take hundreds of years to break down. Products with a long or short lifespan – what does Nolato make? We use somewhere in the region of 40,000 tonnes of plastic a year and we make products that have both a long and a short Bioplastic derived from sugarcane has excellent properties and lifespan. Long-lasting products are used as components in items can replace fossil-based plastic in many products. such as vehicles, mobile phones, household appliances and medical devices. Most of the time there are efficient systems in place which we’ve been successfully testing as a raw material in Nolafor collecting and recycling the plastic in products such as these. to’s production technologies. Our offering therefore includes the Short-lived plastic products include pharmaceutical packaging possibility for customers to make an active choice and opt for an and single-use products within health care. Many of these prodenvironmentally sustainable solution. ucts are recycled, but we cannot rule out the possibility of some of them ending up littering the environment. What’s most important to customers – price, or are more of them recognising the value of environmentally sustainable What specific strategy does Nolato have to reduce the environplastics? mental impact of plastics? It varies hugely between different sectors. But overall I’d say that Being a high-tech developer of polymer products is key for us. demand for materials that are more sustainable is growing. A The customer approaches us with a concept or an initial outline key driver is the general transition to fossil-free alternatives that of a product, which they plan to launch on their markets. By companies are having to go through. Increasing the proportion working alongside the customer at an early stage, we can conof products based on bioplastic or recycled plastic for example tribute towards the development of a functional, cost-effective is often a strategic decision that can help strengthen a company’s and environmentally sustainable product. Success factors include position in the market and generate new commercial value. For experience, in-depth knowledge of the materials and processes, example, we know that one of our customers in the automotive involvement early on in the project, expert project management industry has a strategic target of all new vehicles containing 25% and a sound knowledge of customers and markets. recycled plastic by the year 2025. In environmentally sustainable product development, we focus specifically on reducing the product’s fossil raw material content What’s next for Nolato? and increasing recyclability. We have good examples within pharMedical Solutions launched a product made from bioplastic maceuticals and consumer packaging where we are reducing the derived from sugarcane during the year. It’s an excellent mateproduct’s weight and thus its carbon footprint. It’s also possible rial and we’re now introducing it as an alternative in a number to increase the content of fossil-free filler material in the plastic, of ongoing customer projects. Other customers are increasingly which is something that we’re doing with breathing bags, for interested in using more recycled plastic in their products. Whatexample. ever our customers choose, here at Nolato we have the expertise We’re currently using just over 625 tonnes of recycled plastic in and capacity needed to guide companies, based on needs and opproducts that are mainly for the automotive industry, and we’re portunities, through the sustainability transition of phasing out of confident that usage will increase. The same applies to bioplastics, fossil raw materials.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 8 / 38 Nolato and sustainable development Many stakeholders expect Nolato to be A proactive approach – We will be the ment of a functional, cost-effective and proactive about working with issues reexperts regarding the impact of our environmentally sustainable product. Suclating to sustainable development. These business on people, the environment and cess factors include experience, in-depth expectations relate to responsible business, society. We reduce risk and cost through knowledge of the materials and processes, transparency and sound business ethics, preventive measures, risk analysis and involvement early on in the project, expert but also to us working with our custominvestments in modern technology. project management and a sound know­ ers to develop environmentally sustainable New business opportunities – Through ledge of customers and markets. polymer products. resource-efficient production and greatOur strategy for sustainable developThe debate on the role of plastic in soer use of environmentally sustainable ment is a natural element of our mission ciety has had a discernible impact on the raw materials, we generate business opand business model. By creating safe and Group’s value chain. Responsible business portunities and environmental benefits. stimulating workplaces, minimising enviis one of Nolato’s Basic Principles and is Responsibility and transparency – ronmental impact and generating lasting an important aspect of the Group’s longNolato complies with international value for our shareholders and stakeholdterm strategy to create growth and value conventions and principles for sustainers, Nolato is benefitting both business for its stakeholders. able development, including via being and society. a Signatory to the Global Compact. Nolato is an important operator in the Our view of responsible business The long-term targets set out the road polymer industry, and we can make a difOver the years, Nolato has established a map for our sustainability work and we ference by presenting sustainable solulong-term strategy for sustainable developopenly report on both our progress and tions that relate to choice of raw materials, ment. The strategy encompasses activities setbacks encountered, according to inproduct design, production technologies within social responsibility, business ethternational standards for sustainability and transport. Greater use of bio-based ics/financial responsibility and the envireporting. and recycled polymers reduces our carbon ronment. We can demonstrate progress footprint from a life cycle perspective. within these areas, but the challenge of Clear link to business model Product design for sustainable developimproving products’ environmental attribBeing a high-tech developer of polymer ment can help make the products easier utes requires cooperation with raw mateproducts is key for Nolato. The customer to recycle and/or extend their lifespan. We rial suppliers and customers. One imporapproaches us with a concept or an iniare prepared to decline assignments that tant aspect of the strategy is to develop tial outline of a product, which they plan are incompatible with our environmental resource-efficient production methods and to launch on their markets. By working ambitions. products with a low carbon footprint. This alongside the customer at an early stage,  is what we mean by responsible business: we can contribute towards the developOur sustainable development strategy is a natural element of our mission and business model. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 9 / 38 Guidelines and standards lence and 5S, we create a systematic The Nolato Spirit booklet summarises the approach to and credibility for our susGroup’s core values, Code of Conduct and tainability work. policies and explains how they relate to We involve our employees through the business model. The guidelines in The a safe, gender-equal and stimulating Nolato Spirit apply equally to all Nolato work environment. Sustainability work employees, regardless of where in the should be something that encourages world they work. new employees to apply to the company. Since 2010 Nolato has been a Signatory Nolato should be a good corporate citiThe UN presented its Sustainable Development to the UN Global Compact, a framework zen and apply sound business principles Goals in 2017, within the scope of the 2030 Agenda document that comprises ten principles and good ethics. Preventing corruption for Sustainable Development. The 17 goals provide on the environment, human rights, labour is an important aspect of this work and a clear and useful framework for addressing globand anti-corruption. These ten principles something we have undertaken in acal challenges, and they have had a huge impact on are integrated into The Nolato Spirit, and cordance with the principles of the UN society. At the same time they are a catalyst for innoour long-term targets are linked to the UN Global Compact. vation and business opportuniSustainable Development Goals. Sustainability issues are part of Nolato’s ties within the field of sustainNolato’s sustainability work is reported business model and strategy. ability. in accordance with the Swedish Act on Private and public organiSustainability Reporting by Large ComGovernance and monitoring sations have an important panies, GRI guidelines, CDP, the Nasdaq Sustainability issues are managed in a role to play, and businesses Listing Center and the UN Global Commethodical way and they are integrated are expected to contribute by pact (Communication on Progress – COP). into both strategic planning and our dayadopting responsible business Production facilities are certified to the to-day operations. We have established practices, providing transparent international standards ISO 14001 (envilong-term Group targets and follow-up reporting of their own targets ronment), ISO 9001 (quality management) indicators in key areas. Operational reand outcomes and developing and, where applicable, to industry-specific sponsibility for sustainable development products and services that fosISO standards. We also work with health is delegated to the Managing Director ter sustainable development. and safety and energy management standof each Group company. These activities The SDGs help us focus in ards. The ISO 26000 social responsibility are followed up through dialogue with on key areas within sustainable standard provides guidance for our overthe companies’ management and through development, and we arching sustainable development efforts. internal and external audits. Along with have identified several goals the Sustainability Report, we also carry that are clearly linked to the Sustainability strategy out an in-depth analysis of compliance Group’s operations. With these Nolato’s sustainable development strategy with legislation, target outcomes and the goals as a starting point, we includes the following areas: development of performance and KPIs can see that we are able to We aim to create business opportunities during the year. One representative on Noboth reduce our environmenthrough responsible conduct and translato’s Board has special responsibility for tal impact and create business parent communication. Opportunities sustainability issues. Matters relating to opportunities. are also created through resource-effistrategy, risks, monitoring, sustainability We have therefore linked cient production methods and the develreporting, sustainability issues associated the Group’s targets to eight of opment of products with a low environwith acquisitions and dialogues with inthe Sustainable Development mental footprint. In short, we aim to be vestors are managed at Group level.  Goals. This allows us to contribcustomers’ first choice for sustainable ute to an even more sustainable development. world, while generating profitWe reduce risk and cost through preable growth for Nolato. ventive measures, risk analysis and inMinimising Nolato’s use of vestments in modern technology. Issues resources is an important princiregarding energy and carbon emissions ple in achieving our targets. We are particularly prioritised and are subaccomplish this by working with ject to long-term targets. Regarding the innovation, efficiency improveuse of materials, we aim to increase the ments, investments in new techpercentage of recycled plastic raw matenology, greater use of renewable rial and the use of bioplastics. energy and initiatives focusing Using ISO standards and concepts such on bio-based and recycled plasas lean manufacturing, Medical Exceltics. The Sustainable Development Goals also provide inspiration for measures within social responsibility, social engagement and business ethics.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 10 / 38 Materiality analysis Materiality analysis 2019 1. Kundkrav inom hållbar utveckling Within the framework of the ISO 14001, Hög High 1. Sustainability requirements from 2. God affärsetik 22 11 customers ISO 45001 and ISO 50001 standards, 3. Attraktiv arbetsgivare 48 2. Sound business ethics 99 3.4.Attractive Nolato’s businesses endeavour to identify Legala krav inom hållbar utveckling employer 66 4.5.Legal Hållbarhetsfrågor requirements i utvecklingsländer affärsstrategi 84 Nolatos förNolato’s and manage aspects relating to environBetydelse for 5.6.Sustainability Plaster i ett livscykelperspektiv aspects in China 3 3 ment, health and safety, and energy. This 10 55 10 6.7.Plastics Leverantörernas hållbarhetsarbete in a life cycle perspective involves not only identifying risks, but also strategy 7.8.Supply Energiofoch materials klimat and services 11 business 14 Significance looking for opportunities within sustain14 77 11 Safe och climate Säker and 8.9.Energy 9.10. utvecklande arbetsmiljö and stimulating workplace able development. Jämställdhet, mänskliga rättigheter 10. 11.Diversity, Krav frånhuman rights Analyses of risks and opportunities, 12 12 investerare 11. Sustainability requirements from combined with requirements and expecta13 13 12. Samhällsengagemang investors 15 15 13. Transporternas miljöpåverkan 12. Engagement in society tions from a range of stakeholders, pro14.Environmental Hållbarhetsfrågor i samband med 13. impact of transport vide the basis for the materiality analysis. 17 förvärv 14. Sustainability risks during This is based on sustainability reporting 15.acquisitions Utsläpp till luft och vatten, avfall standards (GRI) and provides the back16 16.Emissions 15. Störningarto iair omgivningen (buller, and water, waste 16. External lukter) disruption (noise, odour) Medel ground for which areas are examined in 16 17. 17.Use of chemical avproducts Medium Användning kemiska produkter greater detail in sustainability reporting and which GRI indicators are used (pages Medel Medium Betydelse Significance Nolato’s interessenter förforNolatos stakeholders Hög High 31–33). The chart shows the issues that were teriality analysis provides a fair overview priority to ‘Energy and climate’, which is identified in 2019 as significant and our of the areas to focus on. We have made a result of social commitment to specific Sustainability Report describes how these a few minor changes to the analysis for measures to combat or mitigate the effects issues are managed and monitored. As 2019: ‘Plastics in a life cycle perspective’ of ongoing climate change. a background to the overall materiality has been moved up in terms of impor‘Investor requirements’ has also been analysis, feedback is regularly sought from tance, and this is an area where interest in given higher priority. This is partly a conthe Group’s companies. Although there the environmental impact of plastics has sequence of heightened interest in sustainmay be different priorities at a local level, grown in society and among our customability issues in business journals.  we are generally in agreement that the maers. Furthermore, we have given greater Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 11 / 38 Value for stakeholders significant – and what they consider to be mance reviews with employees, customer important – is based on experience and satisfaction surveys, analyst meetings and Nolato interacts with stakeholders, who long-standing commercial relationships, cooperation with customers, suppliers and bring requirements and expectations in as well as events over the past financial contractors.  relation to sustainable development. Our year. Stakeholder engagement is carried understanding of which stakeholders are out in multiple ways and includes perforOverview of stakeholder engagement in 2019 Stakeholder Key issues, requirements and expectations Value created Many customers impose requirements for a code of conduct and certified enWith expertise in polymer materials, technical support and continual develvironmental management systems. Other requirements concern the phasopment, we boost our customers’ competitiveness on their markets. Nolato ing out of hazardous chemical substances and for sustainability issues to be is convinced that an ambitious approach to sustainable development Customers implemented into the supply chain. There was an increased interest in prodstrengthens relationships with our customers. In 2019, customer surveys ucts containing bio-based and/or recycled raw materials during the year. The and audits were carried out at 13 plants (13). Group companies received Group’s sustainability work is regularly evaluated by our customers. positive feedback about their efforts. The operations in China and Malaysia are certified as Sony Green Partners. It is important for Nolato to retain and develop its employees and to attract During the year, Nolato paid SEK 1,744 million (1,645) in wages to employnew talent. Key areas for employees include health, safety, financial remunerees. The accident rate increased, but remained low in an industrial peration, personal development, social conditions and sound business ethics. spective. The number of training hours totalled 152,400 (154,000). 1,967 Employees (2,300) employees participated in performance reviews. Surveys into satisfaction levels in the workplace produced positive results. The Employee Care Programme was further developed in China. Nolato endeavours to maintain long-term and transparent relationships with Suppliers have been informed of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and we expect its suppliers. The aim is to ensure the right quality, financial stability and susthem to share the Group’s values. We assessed suppliers’ sustainability tainable development for both parties. Suppliers expect consistent and clear work and conducted around 200 (250) surveys and audits. Suppliers met Suppliers requirements. the Group’s requirements to a satisfactory degree. In 2019, Nolato paid its suppliers a total of SEK 5,274 million (5,757). Growth and dividends are at the core of value creation for our shareholders. Integration of sustainable development in strategies and day-to-day work The integration of sustainability issues into our business strategy reduces risk created value for shareholders. Use of the Sustainability Report allowed and creates business opportunities. Developing environmentally sustainable shareholders and potential investors to evaluate the Group’s sustainability Shareholders products, resource-efficient production and investments in environmental work. In daily business paper Dagens Industri’s ranking ‘Sustainable comtechnology will help Nolato maintain its competitiveness. panies 2019’, the Group came in at number five in the capital goods category. The share dividend is expected to amount to SEK 385 million (368). Social engagement is an important aspect of The Nolato Spirit and something Nolato is a Signatory to the UN Global Compact, and work with the Sustainthat is expected by local communities where the Group operates. As a global able Development Goals continued. At a local level, the Group worked with company, we are expected to undertake measures that contribute to national schools and universities, and contributed to health care, sport and culture. Society and global sustainable development goals. Nolato’s tax expense for 2019 amounted to SEK 154 million (199). Satisfying legal requirements is important to Nolato. There were no significant breaches of laws or regulations in 2019. Authorities Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 12 / 38 Targets and KPIs Nolato has group-wide long-term goals cal targets based on the UN Sustainable developing and how we evaluate our abilthat cover the environment, people and Development Goals, primarily within the ity to achieve them. Detailed information society. Several of these goals are linked to framework of ISO 14001 and other ISO on emissions data and other parameters the UN Sustainable Development Goals. systems. The table below provides an overare presented in other parts of the SustainThe production facilities work with loview of how our work on these targets is ability Report.  Area Sustainable development goals Global goal Outcome More efficient energy use, and up until 2020 usage should decrease by 7 p Measures included investments in more energy-efficient production 20% compared with the average for 2011–2012. The group-wide key equipment (electric injection moulding machines), infrastructure and performance indicator (KPI) is GWh/net sales and production units use lighting (LED bulbs). Energy consumption was also affected by producEnergy locally adapted targets and KPIs. tion changes at the plant in Beijing. Since 2011–2012, GWh/net sales has decreased by roughly 50 percentage points. A 20% reduction in emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide 13 p Climate measures include more efficient use of energy, installation (CO2) up to the year 2020 compared with the average for 2011–2012. of heat pumps, purchase of fossil-free electricity and HVO (hydrotreatThe target relates to CO2 emissions from energy consumption. The ed vegetable oil) for heating. The changes in production at the Beijing Carbon emissions group-wide KPI is tonnes of CO2/net sales and there are also different plant are also contributing to a reduction in emissions. For Scope 1 and types of local targets. 2 emissions (GHG Protocol), the KPI has declined by around 75 percentage points. Hazardous chemical substances should be identified and, where possi12 u Some twenty hazardous substances were phased out during the ble, phased out. year. A handful of chemical substances have been identified as candidates for phasing out. Chemicals and raw materials The amount of waste should continually decrease in relation to net sales. 13 u We are seeing a clear trend over the long term, with the percentage The percentage of recycled waste should increase. The Group’s units ofof waste disposed of in landfill declining and the percentage that is reten use detailed targets regarding scrap and waste management. cycled rising. This target is part of the Group’s continual improvement Waste measures and has no specific deadline. The KPI indicates a downward trend. All units to be ISO 14001-certified. Acquired companies should be certi9 p All production units are certified to ISO 14001 standard. fied within two years. Environmental management systems The percentage of bio-based and recycled raw materials should in12 u During the year we used 43 tonnes of bioplastics and 626 tonnes crease. Nolato will take part in projects with customers and other stakeof recycled plastics, which is an increase compared with the previous holders aimed at reducing the environmental impact of existing or new year. Interest is growing among our customers, but it will take time beEnvironmentally products. fore these raw materials make up a significant proportion of the prodsustainable product portfolio. ucts The number of workplace accidents should be minimised with the long8 u There were 4.9 accidents (4.1) resulting in absence per million hours term targeting of zero occurrences. All units must have a functioning worked in 2019. Systems for recording near misses have been introsystem for registering and addressing near misses. This work should be duced and there are certified management systems in place at six (five) Safe workplaces conducted systematically, for example using certified management sysunits. Continued technical and organisational initiatives are required to tems relating to health and safety (ISO 45001). ultimately eliminate all accidents. There should be no cases of infringements of human rights, discrimina5 u During the year, employee training was held on The Nolato Spirit. No tion or forced labour. Active information shall continue to be provided to cases of infringements of human rights were recorded. Recruitment of employees and new staff. people with disabilities continued. Local management teams are made Human rights and up of approximately 25% (22) women. gender equality There should be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formation. Con16 p Training, information and discussions are tools being used in antitinued active information to employees. corruption work. Senior executives participate in an online training session focusing on business ethics. The Group has introduced a whistleAnti-corruption blowing system and no events relating to corruption or inadequate business ethics were recorded during the year. Customer requirements regarding the environment and social responsi8 p A number of customers imposed requirements within sustainable bility shall be met by a comfortable margin. development, for example environmental management systems, code of conduct, hazardous substances and product declarations. Several exCustomers pressed an interest in renewable or recycled raw materials. During the year, customers carried out a significant number of evaluations. On the whole, Nolato received excellent feedback from these evaluations. Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. 8 u In 2019, roughly 200 (250) evaluations of suppliers’ sustainability work were conducted. The suppliers satisfied Nolato’s requirements at an acceptable or good level. Suppliers Reporting must be in accordance with GRI and CDP guidelines. Nolato 17 p Sustainability work was reported in accordance with international will continue to endorse the Global Compact. We aim to achieve good standards. In daily business paper Dagens Industri’s ranking ‘Sustainresults in evaluations by analysts and independent institutions through able companies 2019’, the Group came in at number five in the capital Society, investors and analysts transparent information in the field of sustainability. goods category. p Target achieved u Positive trend, but work still required to achieve target q Negative trend u Unchanged trend Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 13 / 38 Sustainability in day-to-day operations Looking for three green lights “In order to gain a clearer picture of the impact of a new product “In practice the decision isn’t clear cut, and a single-use product on the environment, it’s important to apply a life cycle perspective. may be acceptable on medical grounds. However, we should exThis means that we work with the customer to determine which plore opportunities to opt for a bio-based or recycled raw materaw materials will be included, understand how the product will rial, or look into the possibility of extending its lifespan. We also be used, and find out what happens at the end of its useful life,” need to assess whether the product’s design creates environmental explains Christer Wahlquist, Nolato’s President and CEO. problems, because a combination of several different materials “A simple traffic light system provides the perfect illustration. can make it more difficult to recycle. In simple terms, you could The message is to aim for three green lights, but in practice there say that a product with a long lifespan that has been designed and are a lot of factors to consider. The results of the assessment prolabelled for recycling gets a green light.” vide guidance on whether we should be involved or if we should decline a project.” End-of-life Some plastic products with a short lifespan end up being the cause Raw materials of littering on land and in the oceans. Almost all plastics are currently produced from fossil-based raw “If it emerges that the product to be developed has a short lifesmaterials (crude oil). This is not renewable and causes significant pan, or is only intended for single use, then that’s a red light. A emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. That’s why it gets green light applies to products with short and long lifespans for a red light. which effective recycling systems are in place. One example is cars, “We therefore want to increase the use of bioplastics, in which where legislation demands a very high level of recyclability. the raw material can come from sugarcane, for example. Recycled “Red lights always indicate that we need to discuss the prodplastic raw material is also an interesting alternative, as its carbon uct’s environmental aspects with the customer. If it’s not possible footprint is lower than for newly-produced plastic,” says Christer to make environmental improvements, we have to be prepared to Wahlquist. decline the project,” explains Christer Wahlquist.  Lifespan A plastic product with a short lifespan that is perhaps only used once raises concerns. Raw material Lifespan End-of-life Fossil raw material Short lifespan/Single-use Inadequate recycling systems Bio-based/recycled Long lifespan/designed Effective recycling systems raw materials for recycling Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 14 / 38 Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects This may take place on a fully autoanticipate any significant legal or financial Nolato develops and manufactures cusmated, semi-automated or fully manual consequences as a result of the renewal of tomer-specific products in polymer mabasis. Automated assembly is mainly these environmental permits. terials such as plastic, silicone and TPE carried out for medical devices such Environmental legislation in the form for customers within medical technology, as autoinjectors, for which assembly is of EU directives (REACH, RoHS, CLP, pharmaceuticals, consumer electronics, performed on a fully automated basis at WEEE, energy efficiency, sustainability telecom, automotive, hygiene and other high volumes. reporting), or other national or internaselected industrial sectors. We manufacPost-processing – We provide compotional legislation, relate in the main to the ture everything from individual components with the desired finish through Group’s operations and products. About nents, which the customer assembles in its painting, decoration and metallisation two-thirds of the units are covered by legown product, to complete products that of components for products like mobile islation concerning producer responsibility are ready for delivery to a customer’s cliphones and medical devices. for packaging. In most cases, regular reent. We also develop and manufacture our ports are submitted to the environmental own products, such as pharmaceutical The manufacture of products in polymer authorities, and the supervisory authoripackaging. materials is associated with a number of ties carry out inspections. No significant significant environmental aspects. Some breaches of environmental legislation were Production technologies include: examples include the use of materials registered in 2019. Minor fines were imInjection moulding – Technology for (plastics, silicone rubber, metals), chemiposed in two cases due to delayed reportmanufacturing components from plascals (solvents, varnish, paints), energy and ing to the authorities of refrigerants and tic, silicone, TPE and ceramics to highly water. Emissions of greenhouse gases and chemical products. precise dimensions and stringent quality solvents (VOC), along with the occurrence requirements. Our most common proof various types of waste, are other key enEnvironmental management systems duction technology. vironmental issues. Indirect environmental The ISO 14001 environmental manageInjection blow moulding – Technology for aspects relating to products, packaging ment system standard was introduced in manufacturing plastic bottles and conand transportation are also significant. In 1996, and Nolato had its first plant certitainers. We use this method for the manthe Group, the ISO 14001 environmental fied to the standard in 1997. Since then ufacture of pharmaceutical packaging. management system is the most important this environmental standard has been a Extrusion – Technology for the productool in efforts to systematically reduce our key element of our sustainable develoption of tubing and other tubular prodenvironmental impact. ment strategy and systematic approach, ucts. This technique is used to manufacas the environmental audits and certificature items such as surgical instruments Environmental legislation tion create confidence among the Group’s and urine catheters, as well as EMC Nolato’s companies are subject to extenstakeholders. shielding gaskets. sive legal requirements relating to the enAll production units in the Group are Dip moulding – Technology for the provironment. This concerns both overarchcertified in accordance with the ISO 14001 duction of flexible, airtight liquid rubber ing legislation and specific terms for each environmental management system. products. This is used to manufacture business. We use ISO 14001 to identify Internal and external environmental products such as catheter balloons and applicable legislation and our companies audits are conducted to check that envibreathing bags. implement the relevant measures. From ronmental management systems meet ISO Die-cutting – Technology for producing a strategic perspective, it is important to 14001 requirements. Nolato has around flat products from one or more materievaluate the risks and opportunities of 127 (119) internal environmental audials and for providing effective joining future legislation, and the Group does this tors, who conducted 129 (137) environof components and electronics. We use by participating in networks and through mental audits during the year. The facilidie-cutting for manufacturing adhesive, regular contact with various authorities. ties were reviewed by external auditors on gaskets, seals and cosmetic details for All production units in Sweden apart 28 (21) occasions. customers in the telecom, automotive, from one are obliged to provide notificamedical technology and electronics intions pursuant to the Swedish EnvironPercentage of production units dustries. mental Code. Most of the Group’s units 100 EMC shielding – Techniques and materioutside Sweden require permits or are 80 60 als developed to achieve electromagnetic covered by similar requirements in accord40 compatibility, i.e. to prevent disruption ance with environmental legislation in the 20 from electromagnetic radiation between country in question. Sales from operations 0 electronic components. Radio base stawith permit requirements and notificaISO OHSAS ISO ISO Other 14001 18001/ 50001 9001 certs tions are an example of a customer tion obligations make up the majority of ISO 45001 product that uses shielding. the Group’s net sales. Routine updates Assembly – Assembly of components to to the environmental permits will be carAll production units are certified in accreate a complete product or subsystem. ried out at four plants in 2020. We do not cordance with requirements in the ISO  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 15 / 38 9001 quality management system, while example by optimising ventilation, coolEnergy consumption 90% of the units are certified to industrying, lighting and compressed air. Nolato GWh GWh/SEKm specific ISO standards, for example with is carrying out cost-effective measures 200 0.08 a focus on the automotive industry (IATF and three units are planning to conduct 175 0.07 16949), medical technology (ISO 13485), audits over the next few years. 0.06 150 food industry (ISO 22000) and pharmaEnergy-efficient equipment and process125 0.05 ceutical packaging (ISO 15378). For the es – The change from hydraulic injec100 0.04 environment and work environment, all tion moulding machines to electrical companies are certified according to the machines increases energy efficiency and 75 0.03 environmental management standard reduces the handling of hydraulic oils. 50 0.02 (ISO 14001), almost 30% according to The change was implemented during 25 0.01 the health and safety standards (OHSAS the year at Nolato Cerbo, Nolato Plast0 0.00 18001/ISO 45001), and roughly 10% acteknik and Nolato Polymer. The dipping 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 cording to the energy management standrobot at MediTor continues to generate Total Group energy consumption, GWh Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm ard (ISO 50001). The standard for social significant energy savings. Production responsibility (ISO 26000) constitutes a planning to gain maximum efficiency guideline for Nolato’s work with sustainfrom equipment and the turning off able development. The standard is based of equipment when not in use. Shorter on seven fundamental concepts and details cycle times for injection moulding mahow an organisation can work with envichines reduces energy consumption. ronmental issues, social responsibility and This also applies to variable-frequency ethics. control of electric pump motors in production equipment at Nolato Jaycare. Optimised production planning meant Energy that it was possible to close down one of Energy is consumed by production equipthe painting plants at Nolato Beijing. ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, transISO 50001 – The certified energy manport, purification facilities and heating. agement system (ISO 50001) at UK Nolato mainly uses indirect energy in the units is highlighting energy efficiency. form of electricity (88%) and district heatBuildings and lighting – The use of suring (7%). Some units use fuel oil, natural plus heat from equipment to heat premgas or propane for heating and running ises and warehouse buildings at Nolato purification equipment. Fuel oil accounts Contour. At the same plant, the roof for less than 1% of total energy consumpwas painted with paint that reflects the tion, and is gradually being replaced by sunlight, improving the indoor environheat pumps or biofuel (HVO). Fossil fuels ment and reducing energy consumption. account for approximately 4% (5) and The installation of systems for free coolpurchased ‘green electricity’ for 66% (53) ing is reducing energy consumption at of total energy consumption. Nolato Hungary. Lighting is also beEnergy consumption amounted to 184 ing replaced with LED bulbs on a large GWh (182) in 2019 and the key perforscale. Installation of movement sensors mance indicator, which places energy use for lighting. Installation of electricity in relation to sales, has shown a declining meters at strategic points in buildings. trend since 2011. The cost of energy was To cut consumption of fuel oil, Nolato approximately SEK 158 million (137). Lövepac expanded capacity in the heat Measures aimed at boosting energy effipump system. ciency include: Training and engagement – Measures to Energy audits – Energy audits in accordminimise scrap and production reruns, ance with the EU energy efficiency direcwhich also reduces energy consumption. tive have been performed at ten units. Training and close monitoring of energy The investigations reveal that there are consumption gets employees involved in opportunities for saving energy, for saving energy.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 16 / 38 Carbon dioxide emissions CO2 Atmospheric emissions Other measures concern reduced scrap, tonnes tonnes/SEKm better waste management, the purchase 60,000 18 Greenhouse gas emissions of more fuel-efficient vehicles, increased 50,000 15 Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas use of teleconferences and improved carbon dioxide are caused by energy conlogistics. 40,000 12 sumption, transportation of raw materiChanges to production and reduced en30,000 9 als and finished products, and an array ergy requirements at the largest plant in of indirect activities among our suppliers China resulted in a decline in CO2 emis20,000 6 and customers. Reporting of emissions prisions between 2017 and 2019 of around 10,000 3 marily includes direct and indirect energy 10,000 tonnes. consumption (Scope 1 and 2 according Nolato Jaycare in the UK has signed a 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to GHG Protocol). Emissions from transnational climate change agreement to port, business travel, suppliers and users of counteract climate change. The agreeGroup CO 2 emissions, tonnes Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm Nolato’s products are not immaterial and ment covers energy-intensive industry amount to a couple of thousand tonnes a and, by cutting energy usage, particiyear for the Swedish business. pating companies can receive reduced In 2019, Nolato’s production plants charges under a system in the UK VOC emissions emitted 33,900 tonnes (36,600) of CO2, known as the climate change levy. tonnes tonnes/SEKm 1,900 tonnes of which were from direct 70 0.014 energy consumption (Scope 1), and 32,000 60 0.012 tonnes of which were indirect emissions Other atmospheric emissions 50 0.010 from the production of electricity and disThe use of more than 235 tonnes (90) of trict heating in the countries in which we paints and solvents resulted in emissions 40 0.008 operate (Scope 2). Countries such as Chiof around 37 tonnes (26) of VOCs (vola30 0.006 na, the US and Poland use coal extensively tile organic compounds). The bulk of these 20 0.004 for electricity production, causing signifiemissions are derived from painting prodcant CO2 emissions, which consequently ucts in Beijing and in the production of 10 0.002 has a major impact on the Group’s carbon breathing bags in Torekov. For the latter, 0 0.000 footprint. This mainly applies to our oparound 18 tonnes (19) of gaseous ethanol 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group VOC emissions, tonnes erations in China. The situation regarding was released into the atmosphere. Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm Nolato’s carbon footprint is affected by a There are just over 3.5 tonnes (3.1) of number of factors, such as the following: ozone-depleting substances (HFCs; FThe businesses in Sweden, the UK and gases) in air-conditioning and other equipHungary are reducing indirect CO2 ment at around ten production units. A emissions by roughly 25,000 tonnes a few minor leakages occurred during the year by purchasing fossil-free electricity. year, which corresponded to less than two Our carbon footprint is decreasing as a percent of the installed amount. Emisresult of measures to boost energy efsions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen ficiency, including energy audits and the ­oxides (NOx) remained low and amountintroduction of ISO 50001. The phased to 1.5 tonnes (3). Emissions of dust and ing-out of fuel oil and installation of malodorous substances are negligible, and heat pumps or the use of biofuel is also no complaints were received during the helping reduce our carbon footprint. year.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 17 / 38 Water consumption R  aw materials and chemicals Water issues m3 m 3 /SEKm Production processes used around 42,000 Nolato’s facilities use municipal water for 200,000 50 (42,500) tonnes of polymer materials in purification equipment, some production 2019. More than 98% (97) consisted of processes, cleaning, sanitation and cooling. 160,000 40 plastics and the rest of synthetic rubber. In 2019, 146,750 m3 (146,300) of water 120,000 30 This involves silicone and latex rubber was used at a cost of around SEK 2.3 milused in medical devices. Other materials lion (2.3). 80,000 20 used, amounting to around 1,600 tonnes Plants have systems in place to reduce (1,500) per year, are paints, solvents and water consumption, such as closed cool40,000 10 metals. ing water systems for injection moulding For a number of the Group’s prodmachines and other equipment. Neverthe0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ucts, the customer requires the polymer less, there are some production processes to consist of virgin raw materials. This in which water consumption is high. This Total Group water consumption m3 Consumption divided by sales m3 /SEKm mainly applies to pharmaceutical packagmainly applies to the manufacture of latex ing and medical devices. Some customers rubber breathing bags in Torekov, which are expressing interest in recycled plastic, accounts for around 18% (16) of total for example for components for vehicles, water usage. furniture and garden equipment, as well as Nolato in Beijing has several thousand for packaging for dietary supplements. employees, and this is reflected by the fact The amount of recycled plastic used that the business accounts for just over during the year was approximately 625 40% (40) of the Group’s water consumptonnes (640) and customer projects are tion. The city of Beijing has been identiunderway with the aim of increasing the fied as a water shortage area and the proportion of recycled materials. The use company is undertaking various measures of bioplastics amounted to 43 tonnes (1). to reduce its water consumption. Such We are also seeing interest in reducing measures include involving personnel, polymer usage in some products, which is identifying leaks, repairing leaking equipbeneficial both in terms of cost and enviment and checking that water is not being ronmental impact. Nolato has an express used when equipment and premises are aim of increasing its use of renewable raw not in use. Production changes and staff materials and recycled raw materials. reductions cut water consumption by half One environmental aspect that conbetween 2017 and 2019 compared with cerns most of the Group’s companies is previous years. customer requirements for products not The amount of pollutants discharged to to contain certain hazardous chemical wastewater is limited and consists mainly substances. In addition, there is continued of sanitary water. All production units are substantial interest in the issue of conflict connected to municipal wastewater treatminerals (see Glossary and Definitions). ment plants. Emissions of wastewater are Chemical substances that are identified by not normally expected to result in any customers, and/or that have been identienvironmental impact. One exception is fied as candidates for risk reduction under certain chemical substances used at MediREACH chemical legislation are a priority. Tor in Torekov, which previously had an In practice this means that a limited numeffect on the purification processes of the ber of chemical substances are subject to municipal wastewater treatment plant. phasing-out or other risk reduction measA research project in collaboration with ures. These include, for example, softening Lund University Faculty of Engineering phthalates and silicone rubber, which cona few years ago was able to identify and tains cyclic siloxanes. Continual activities rectify the problems. are being undertaken to reduce the risks of  chemical substances and during the year around 20 chemical products were substituted with alternatives that are better for the environment and health. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 18 / 38 Waste volume Waste Transport tonnes tonnes/SEKm 7,500 2.0 Approximately 6,900 tonnes (7,300) of We work to reduce the environmental waste was generated in 2019. Around impact of the transportation of goods and 6,000 1.6 50% (49) of waste was recycled as mabusiness travel. Here are some examples of terials and 32% (28) as energy. Landfill action taken: 4,500 1.2 disposal of waste remains at a low level, Central procurement of transport servicamounting to around 6% (5) of the total es in Sweden incorporates sustainability 3,000 0.8 amount. From an environmental perspeccriteria, including access to emissions tive, it is positive that the percentage of data for CO2, NOx, SO2 and other air 1,500 0.4 waste disposed of in landfill is decreaspollutants. 0 0.0 ing and the percentage being recycled is At Nolato in China, environmental 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 increasing. This is the result of more derequirements are imposed on transport Group waste, tonnes manding legislation in many countries, firms concerning the use of environmenWaste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm but ultimately relates to a range of pretally certified vehicles. In the UK, the ventive measures introduced at Nolato’s main carrier used is a company regisfacilities. An ISO 14001-based approach, tered under the Fleet Operator Recognilean manufacturing and 5S are important tion Scheme (FORS). This is a scheme tools to reduce scrap and the occurrence that covers legal compliance, safety, efof waste. Hazardous waste accounted for ficiency and environmental protection. 5% (5), or 360 tonnes (378). Hazardous Group companies make use of opportuwaste is transported by companies that nities for video and online conferencing. are approved according to legislation in When replacing vehicles and company the country concerned. External waste cars, Nolato chooses low-emissions management costs amounted to SEK 7.0 models, such as hybrids. million (6.5). Many of the Group’s companies are optimising transportation, including through higher fill ratios in trucks, coordinated transport and environmentally optimised routes. Several companies opt for transport by train or boat as an alternative to truck or air. Other measures that have been implemented include purchasing raw materials from local suppliers, and relocation of product manufacture/assembly to plants that are located close to the customer. Bulk handling instead of handling material in sacks reduces the number of shipments. Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato Jaycare are cutting the number of shipments between the UK and Italy. We do not yet have a complete picture of the climate impact from transport (Scope 3 according to GHG Protocol), but at an estimate, CO2 emissions account for less than 5% compared with emissions from energy consumption.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 19 / 38 Products that contribute to sustainable development We work with our customers on concept development, design, choice of materials, structure, prototypes, production moulds, high-volume production and post-processing. The environmental performance of products has become an increasingly important competitive factor. For Nolato, this applies to everything from mobile phones, vehicle components, domestic appliances and chainsaws, to pharmaceutical packaging and medical devices. Below are some examples of ongoing projects and existing products: Nolato Pharma Packaging is working according to the motto ‘Design for Sustainability’, with a particular focus on biomaterial and recyclability (see page 20). A project is underway at Nolato Plastteknik that aims to replace fossil plastic als for use in garden equipment. The company’s production processes, and in consumer packaging with bioplastics. outdoor product ‘Light My Fire’ uses last year around 30 tonnes of fossil-free Activities are being implemented in co20–70% biomaterial. PE were used. operation with the automotive industry Nolato Gota uses over 610 tonnes of Nolato Lövepac produces gaskets for to increase the use of recycled plastic recycled plastic in some of its products, exhaust systems. Gaskets have excellent raw material. and is working alongside customers sealing properties and help reduce exNolato MediTor is manufacturing to explore opportunities to increase haust emissions. breathing bags with a lower synthetic this figure. Plastic components cut the Nolato Treff has expanded the number rubber content, thereby reducing its carweight of the vehicle compared with of products in a packaging unit, which bon footprint. A project is underway to the equivalent product in aluminium or means fewer journeys. The company is further boost the environmental profile steel. carrying out a project to include bioof these products. Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth in the UK based PLA plastic in certain products. Nolato Beijing is working on several manufactures containers for handling projects to increase the use of recycled hazardous clinical waste (Sharpak). The raw materials and reduce the volume aim is to establish Sharpak as the first Accidents and complaints of waste. A number of measures have choice for clinical waste management been introduced to phase out certain globally. There were no cases of accidents or unconchemical substances in the products, for Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle has develtrolled environmental emissions in 2019. example PVC and halogenated flame oped products using fossil-free polyethThree complaints were registered from retardants. ylene plastic (PE), which is a raw matelocal residents regarding disruptive noise Nolato Polymer has tested raw material rial produced from sugarcane. levels and lighting during the night.  that contains 70% bio-based materiThis bioplastic can be used in all the Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 20 / 38 Sustainability in day-to-day operations Sustainable, innovative packaging With biomaterial as a raw material and ­integrated smart electronics, the ­packaging of the future is here already. Only green electricity is used where possible in production, and recyclability is in focus. “Plastic is an amazing material with a good product life, for the in areas such as traceability all the way back to the raw material, right application,” says Glenn Svedberg, Managing Director of so we can’t make this change yet. But if in the long term our supNolato Cerbo, which makes pharmaceutical packaging. “Accordpliers are able to classify recycled material in the same group as ing to the motto ‘Design for sustainability’, our objective is to convirgin material, then we’ll be ready,” explains Glenn Svedberg. tribute towards sustainable development with effective and smart Biomaterial, however, satisfies all the requirements, and Nolato plastic packaging for pharmaceuticals. is already using polyethylene (PE) from sugarcane for its packag“In a second generation of packaging we’ve also succeeded in ing. reducing the amount of material used by 25%, without compro“The material essentially has the same properties as PE from mising on properties.” fossil raw material, so we can use our existing machinery and tools, and with some minor adjustments to the manufacturing Sustainable design process make products based on bioplastic that offer the same With sustainability in focus, the Nolato Group has switched over technical performance as traditional fossil plastic. In 2020, a large to green electricity at all plants that have access to it, that is everyportion of our standard range will be validated for bioplastics.” where except in China and the US. “Besides switching to green electricity we are also optimising Smart packaging our transport by maximising the quantity in each transport unit to In order to facilitate handling of pharmaceuticals for both patients avoid unnecessary emissions. Naturally we are also cutting the use and healthcare personnel, Nolato has developed smart packaging of chemicals and continually trying to make our processes that bit in which an electronic component is integrated into the lid. cleaner. There’s always room for improvement.” “The component can be linked to a smartphone app and proDesigning for sustainability means always considering the recyvide a lot of information, from flashing when it’s time to take cling stage right from the start. the medicine and monitoring whether the lid is open or closed, “For example, we need to try and avoid combining different to keeping track of the number of tablets and notifying if tablets plastics and refrain from using composite materials, as they are haven’t been taken. It offers genuine peace of mind for the patients difficult to recycle.” themselves, who can check whether or not they’ve already taken the tablet, as well as for healthcare personnel, supporting them in Biomaterial and recycled monitoring the patient’s medication intake.” “We’d love to use more recycled plastics in our packaging, but at Another smart function measures the amount of energy in a the moment there are restrictions due to regulatory requirements. bottle in which an active powder is to be mixed with water and “In purely technical terms we could use a substantial amount of you have to be sure that the emulsion is sufficiently mixed to give recycled material now. But authorities have stringent requirements the right concentration of medicine for the patient.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 21 / 38 Social responsibility Employees Everybody has the right of Average no. employees The average number of employees at representation Nolato in 2019 was 5,941 (6,449). Of the All Nolato employees have the right to be 9,000 total number of employees in the Group, represented by trade unions, and to col8,000 47% (46) were women. Local managelective agreements. In Sweden and China, 7,000 ment teams are made up of approximately the majority of employees are covered by 6,000 25% (22) women. Of Nolato’s Board collective agreements. At the units in other 5,000 members, 30% (30) are women, while countries, there are no unions or collective 4,000 the corresponding figure for Group managreements, and this reflects a normal situ3,000 agement is 0% (0). All units are wholly ation in these countries. 2,000 owned by Nolato and comply fully with 1,000 the guidelines in Nolato’s Basic Principles Gender equality and 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and Code of Conduct. The practical work combatting discrimination relating to personnel issues in the Group is The gender equality policy is an intedecentralised. This means each individual gral part of Nolato’s Code of Conduct Employees by business area Group company is responsible for managand day-to-day activities in this area are ing issues in a way that complies with both delegated to the management of local Industrial Solutions 19% Medical Solutions 27% Group guidelines and the legislation and companies. Gender equality measures culture of the country in question. are conducted according to the gender In Beijing, China, where the Group has equality plans of the Group’s companies its largest workplace with around 48% and includes activities aimed at creating (56) of its employees, an Employee Care a balance between men and women in Programme was introduced and further employment and career development, as developed in 2019. The programme aims well as measures that create opportunities to ensure good conditions for employees for people with disabilities. Formal genin the workplace, and to offer training and der equality plans are in place at around Integrated Solutions 54% stimulating leisure activities. two-thirds of units and over the year 10 The total figure for the average number (10) units introduced measures to promote of employees includes staff in China who gender equality, for example relating to Employees by country are employed through staffing agencies. recruitment. Other 5% This form of employment has mainly been In 2019, 47% (46) of Nolato employees Sweden 19% Switzerland 4% chosen to make it easier for the business were women. The balance between the US 5% to recruit a workforce for various projects number of men and women varies from and consequently avoid creating its own country to country, and in Sweden, the UK large recruitment organisation. In accordand Switzerland there is a predominance Hungary 12% ance with the Group’s Code of Conduct, of male staff. In Hungary, China, Poland these employees are covered according to and Romania there is a predominance of China 51% the same principles as Nolato’s other emwomen. Of Nolato’s Board members, 30% ployees in China with regard to the setting (30) are women, while the corresponding UK 4% of wages, benefits, working hours, work figure for Group management is 0% (0). environment, social responsibility, etc. Of the company’s other senior executives, 37 (31) are women, which corresponds to Code of Conduct provides guidance 25% (23). The recruitment of female manNolato’s Code of Conduct provides clear agers continues to be an important issue guidance on how the Group’s business for Nolato. principles and values should be put into In accordance with the undertakings in practice. It can be viewed as an ethical the Code of Conduct, we work to combat compass to be followed by all staff, irreall discrimination. One target group for spective of workplace and function. The recruitment is people with disabilities, and Code applies to Nolato’s Board members these candidates are treated the same as and contract-based staff as well. The Code others. People with disabilities work at of Conduct also sets out what we expect units in Beijing (China), Gothenburg (Sweof our suppliers in terms of responsible den), Baldwin (US), Newcastle (UK) and business practice. Mosonmagyaróvár (Hungary). Nolato’s  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 22 / 38 work in Hungary has received significant courses in engineering, quality manageCauses of occupational accidents attention and has been recognised with ment and leadership. A recurring activity Heavy lifting, repetitive work 20% Falls, slips 29% several awards. is the trip to central Beijing. Some 721 emTunga lyft, repetivt arb. ployees took part in the Beijing One Day 20 % Fall/halka Whistleblowing Tour in 2019. 29 % In order to quickly alert the company to Other 5% Annat 5% breaches of the Group’s Code of Conduct Health and safety or other serious irregularities, employees Our preventive health and safety measEnergi can sound the alarm regarding any irreguures are implemented systematically. We 11 % Maskiner larities without risk of reprisals or presidentify risks and the causes of incidents 35 % sure (whistleblowing). No such cases were and accidents and take appropriate action. Machinery 35% Energy 11% reported in 2019. This involves both technical improvements and training. Formal safety committees are Occupational accidents Training and personal development in place at 90% of units, covering essenNolato offers management development tially all employees. An important aspect Year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 courses, as well as a large number of speof this systematic work is the introduction LWC* 54 47 47 63 36 cific training courses on quality, technolof health and safety management systems LWC per 4.9 4.1 3.7 5.0 2.3 ogy, our Code of Conduct and health and (ISO 45001). Six (five) units are currently million safety. New employees are an important certified and a further seven are planning hours target group for information and training certification over the next year or so. With worked measures. In 2019, employees attended a regard to health and safety, seven (eight) LWD** 1,390 453 564 447 405 total of around 152,000 (154,000) hours units were inspected by occupational enviLWD per 127 40 45 35 27 of training, which equates to approximateronment authorities during the year. Some million ly 26 (24) hours per employee. minor deviations related to risk analyses hours During the year, 1,967 (2,308) employwere noted and these have been rectified. worked ees participated in performance reviews, In 2019, there were 54 (47) lost work career development or other assessments cases (LWCs), which resulted in a total of *LWC = Lost Work Case (absence ≥ 1 day) **LWD = Lost Work Days of their own work. Employee surveys are 1,390 (453) days of absence. We recorded carried out regularly at a number of the one accident concerning contractors. The Group’s units. In most cases, they are permost common reasons were falls and informed every year or every other year, and jury from equipment and machinery. Over in 2019, 11 (11) surveys were conducted. a five-year period the accident rate averOverall, the work atmosphere was deemed ages 4.0 accidents resulting in absence per to be good and a number of improvements million hours worked. This is low from were suggested by employees. an industrial perspective, but additional We carry out special initiatives in China measures remain to be implemented for to attract, retain and develop both perall accidents to be ultimately eliminated. manent and temporary employees. These Systems for recording near misses have activities come under the umbrella of the been further developed and during the Employee Care Programme, which inyear 1,277 (734) near misses were investicludes activities concerning health, safety, gated and corrective and preventive action sport, lifestyle and language tuition. The taken. programme also includes employee surTraining courses on the environment veys, which are supplemented by a forum and health and safety are part of our prethat enables employees to regularly exventive work and an average of 7.8 hours press their views to the company’s CEO. (7.7) per employee were spent on these E-learning is widely used and the system courses. New employees were an imporcontains over 400 modules (20 new ones tant target group. Regular training is proin 2019) on lean manufacturing, quality vided on first aid, chemical health risks, management, safety, project management personal protective equipment, hot work, and other areas. During the year, 491 forklift driving, waste management, fire (451) employees participated for more safety, ergonomics and machine safety. than 19,600 (17,000) hours in these onNolato Hungary received the Disabled line training courses. Personnel activities Friendly Workplace Award for its initiaalso extend to an e-book lending service, tives regarding employees with disabilities. English language instruction and various  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 23 / 38 Sustainability in day-to-day operations Social responsibility in practice at US-based Nolato Contour Nolato Contour, based in the state of Wisconsin in north-central United States, has set up and subsidised a health clinic at the factory. The clinic welcomes all employees for both primary medical care and preventive health care. A key issue when running a sustainable business is taking care of at the production site. This allows employees to meet a primary employees. So US-based Nolato Contour, in cooperation with a medical care team and receive help with both preventive care, and third-party healthcare provider, has opened its own ‘be-well’ clinic primary care if they are ill. Care even without health insurance “As well as offering our employees good health care at a much lower cost, there are no long waiting times and the clinic staff are friendly and professional,” explains Russell Steele, Managing Director of Nolato Contour. Employees who don’t have health insurance can also receive good medical care. “Other clinics that don’t offer health care subsidised by the company can charge USD 190 for a ten-minute primary care consultation, which a lot of people struggle to pay.” Free preventive care The clinic is open every working day and there are also agreements in place with some other companies in the vicinity for their employees to use it as well. One day a week the clinic opens extra early and closes 12 hours later, ensuring everyone is able to visit. Preventive health care is free, while a medical appointment costs USD 25, but that includes all lab tests and prescribed medication. “Our aim is to build good relationships with our patients and recreate the good health care of the past,” says Jamie Edwards, nurse practitioner and head of the clinic. “Establishing a relationship with patients makes it easier to get to the root of a patient’s problems. That means we can take a preventive approach and keep people well instead of having to treat them.”  B A CKG R O U ND: Health care in the US is mainly based on patients having their own health insurance, which many people on low incomes struggle to afford. What’s more, health insurance doesn’t usually cover the entire cost of health care, and there is normally a maximum coverage allowance and an excess for patients to pay. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 24 / 38 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics tious level as in previous years. No cases ment certification. One example is Sony In accordance with the principles of Noof bribery, corruption or cartel formation Green Partner, for which Lövepac Conlato’s Code of Conduct and the tenth were recorded in 2019. verting, Nolato Beijing and Nolato Malayprinciple of the Global Compact, our busisia have qualified. ness principles should be characterised by Interaction with customers and suppliers As part of these requirements from cusintegrity and responsibility. The Code of Nolato’s customers operate in industries tomers, Nolato is expected to pass corConduct states that: in which issues regarding the environment, responding requirements along its supply Nolato does not offer gifts, benefits or health and safety and ethics have a high chain. This is done by informing suppliers payments that could influence, or be priority. This applies to sectors such as auabout Nolato’s Code of Conduct and specregarded as influencing, the objectivity tomotive, food, telecom and pharmaceutiification requirements, as well as different of the recipient’s decision or that breach cals. There are greater requirements on us types of monitoring. Over the year, we legislation and/or local practice. as a cooperation partner, and monitoring carried out 199 (247) reviews of suppliers Nolato avoids situations in which comis becoming increasingly efficient. Customwith a focus on sustainable development. pany loyalty could come into conflict er requirements are making a constructive Around 150 (200) of the reviews were with personal interests. contribution to the development of Nobased on questionnaires and 46 (44) cases Nolato complies with competition law lato’s sustainability work. In 2019, virtuinvolved formal audits. These reviews did and promotes fair competition. ally all units reported customer requirenot identify any risks relating to the enNolato ensures that all staff can raise ments within sustainable development (see vironment and social responsibility that concerns about irregularities within the table). Requirements shift over the years cannot be managed, but we did identify a company without the risk of personal and are affected by changes such as the number of areas that need improvement. consequences (whistleblowing). introduction of new legislation and new We discontinued our relationship with one approaches to sustainable development supplier. These matters are complex for a global within the corporate sector. One new feaAssessments of suppliers’ sustainability company, and the perception of normal ture in the 2019 assessment was an invesmeasures are extensive and time-consumbusiness principles varies between countigation into the level of customer interest ing. We therefore apply a risk-based model tries and cultures. The Group uses the in recycled and bio-based raw materials, for selecting suppliers for review. The following methods for governance and along with requirements for detailing the detailed criteria for which suppliers are monitoring of the application of sound product’s carbon footprint. These are both selected varies among the Group’s combusiness ethics: areas that we believe will grow in future. panies, but it is usually new suppliers, key Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all During the year, 13 (13) of the Group’s suppliers, or suppliers with particular risks employees and Group company manunits were reviewed by customers from a that are selected for follow-up. agement teams are responsible for conrange of sectors. This involved a signifiA substantial proportion of Nolato’s veying the values in their organisation. cant number of questionnaires and audits. suppliers consist of global groups in the We monitor costs, expenditure and revOverall, customers were very satisfied with polymer and chemical industry. These enues on an ongoing basis. Nolato’s efforts, but some expressed a types of companies often have wellWe pay particular attention to ethical desire to see improvements, such as certain developed and transparent sustainability issues in our relationships with our partphthalate-free medical device products. In activities and the risks are consequently ners. Standard business practice must addition to review systems, some customconsidered to be low. We therefore do not be observed in each individual country, ers have established systems under which carry out detailed assessments of such but if business principles do not comsuppliers qualify for sustainable developcompanies. ply with Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we  must refrain from doing business or take alternative relevant actions. Percentage of units that report customer requirements Senior managers and personnel in sales Customer requirements Percentage of units reporting customers’ sustainability requirements and marketing must complete an online 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 course in business ethics. Using the Global Introduce environmental management systems 62 67 55 67 55 Compact checklists, we conduct annual evaluations of what measures companies Phase out hazardous chemicals 29 38 32 38 40 take to counteract bribery. The assessment Compliance with REACH and RoHS 67 71 96 71 30 for 2019 shows that this work is governed Product-related environmental information 62 48 32 52 65 by Nolato’s Code of Conduct and comBio-based and recycled raw materials 33 – – – – panies are continuing to actively combat Product’s carbon footprint 14 – – – – corruption. Compliance with customer’s code of conduct 76 71 64 71 75 An assessment for the year shows that Conflict minerals 81 76 82 80 80 the Group’s companies are working on issues of business ethics at the same ambiOther requirements 57 57 27 24 25 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 25 / 38 Investors employees have travelled to the school neering Courses of the Future (‘FramNolato’s sustainability work is analysed and donated computers, warm clothes tidens teknikutbildningar’) and the IUC regularly by investors and other organisaand many other items. The company Lean Network. tions. The Group is still approved under has also encouraged the involvement of Nolato Cerbo is a member of Nordic Swedbank Robur’s responsible investment other Swedes in Beijing, in part through Bioplastics Organisation and activities criteria. In daily business paper Dagens Swea (the Swedish Women’s Educational have included giving a presentation at a Industri’s ranking ‘Sustainable companies Association), and collected clothes, toys, conference in Gothenburg. The company 2019’, the Group came in at number five hygiene products, pens and paper for is also taking part in a Vinnova project in the capital goods category. the students. This year we did something on packaging solutions for medical dedifferent and invited the school to visit vices in a circular economy. Social engagement Beijing and Nolato. At the end of AuIn Hungary, the employment of staff Nolato engages with those local communigust, some twenty students and teachers with different types of disability continties where we have operations. It is imporpaid a visit and got to see one of Nolaued. Employment has provided people tant for Nolato to maintain contact with to’s plants, but also the bustling city, the with visual and hearing impairments universities and schools and demonstrate Olympic stadium and museums. with a better quality of life, and they are that Nolato is an attractive employer. This More than half of the units were in conmaking an excellent contribution to the may take the form of family days, open tact with schools and universities, incompany’s work. Our units in China, the days, study visits, workplace degree procluding through study visits and internUS and elsewhere also employ people jects, employment fairs for applicants, inships. Nolato Contour received a visit with disabilities. ternships and development projects. Below from almost 200 students, who listened Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth took on are some examples: to a talk about the company and were a student who carried out studies into Nolato provides financial support for given a guided tour of the plant. Nolato opportunities for using bio-based, bioschools, health care, sports associations Hungary was visited by 140 students. degradable and recycled polymer raw and social activities, and in many cases Nolato Plastteknik welcomed around materials. our involvement is long-term and Group 50 students from Yrkeshögskolan (vocaOver the year, Nolato continued its employees contribute in different ways. tional university) and Chalmers Univercollaboration with the International One such project is Building Hope Tosity of Technology. The latter visit was Institute for Industrial Environmental gether in China, which for the past seven related to a course in lean manufacturEconomics (IIIEE) at Lund University. years has involved us helping a school ing, which is taught by Nolato PlastAmong other things, the students conin a poor area, around four hours’ drive teknik’s Managing Director. ducted an analysis of Nolato’s sustainnorth of Beijing. Over the years, Nolato Nolato MediTor participates in Engiability work.  Children from the school in Daxiwan, a deprived area four hours’ drive north of Beijing, have been supported by Nolato for the past seven years in various ways on site. This year they were invited to see their capital and visit Nolato. Here they are outside the Bird’s Nest, the 2008 Olympic stadium. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 26 / 38 Financial responsibility Strong financial position Financial highlights Consolidated sales totalled SEK 7,919 million (8,102) in 2019. Operating profit SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2019 2018 2017 (EBITA) was SEK 895 million (949). Net sales 7,919 8,102 6,720 The EBITA margin was 11.3% (11.7). Operating profit (EBITA) 895 949 763 EBITA margin, % 11.3 11.7 11.4 Profit after financial income and expenses 857 921 731 Sustainable development and financial Return on capital employed, % 23.1 29.7 26.6 performance Return on shareholders’ equity, % 25.5 30.4 29.4 In 2019, Nolato invested SEK 29.4 million Equity/assets ratio, % 48 50 45 (38.7) in measures that directly or indiBasic earnings per share, SEK 26.60 27.44 21.74 rectly help reduce environmental impact Dividend per share (2019 proposal) 14.50 14.00 12.50 and improve health and safety. Roughly Average no. of employees 5,941 6,449 7,249 half of the investments related to energy measures, primarily more energy-efficient production equipment and infrastructure. Around 25% went on preventive health and safety initiatives. Investments in environment and Expenses for environment and health and safety health and safety Environmental costs amounted to SEK 19.3 million (18.1) and were dominated Waste management by operating expenses for purification 37 % Other Energy efficiency facilities, waste management, internal 9% 49 % administration and fees to authorities and certification companies. During the year, Authorities charges Purification Administration 2% environmental improvement measures 18 % 31 % External services generated cost savings of SEK 1.8 million 3% (2.5). Savings arose mainly from more ISO 14001 + OHSAS 18001 etc Health & Safety 6% efficient energy consumption, recycling of 24 % Purification facilities operation 21 % raw materials and improved waste management. The cost of water supply and Distribution of Group’s investments in Distribution of Group’s expenses for sanitation amounted to SEK 2.3 million environment and health and safety. environment and health and safety. (2.3) and energy costs were SEK 158 million (137). Financial value for stakeholders Financial value for stakeholders (SEKm) Nolato’s business generates financial value that is distributed between various stakeStakeholder 2019 2018 2017 Comments holders. These include suppliers, employSuppliers 5,274 5,757 4,495 Material costs ees, shareholders, creditors and society. See Employees 1,744 1,645 1,534 Salaries and benefits also page 11 for further information about Shareholders 385 368 329 Dividend Lenders 35 24 13 Interest expenses the value created for stakeholders. The efSociety 154 199 159 Recognised effective tax, Group fective tax rate was 18.0% (21.6). ExcludTotal 7,592 7,993 6,530 ing non-recurring items and adjustment to a lower tax rate in Switzerland (one-off effect), the tax rate was 18.2% (22.1).  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 27 / 38 Risks and opportunities Nolato’s strategy includes continuously tainability, we have identified a number environment, ethics and social responsibilminimising operational risks through of risks of potential importance to the ity as early on as possible. active and planned risk management, Group’s financial position. More demandSustainable development also crewhile still capitalising on the business ing environmental legislation, taxes, fees ates lots of opportunities for Nolato and opportunities that controlled risk-taking and other environmental requirements by integrating these issues into strategic brings. The main features of risk mancan entail significant costs for industrial efforts, product development and marketagement are identification, evaluation, operations. There are also risks from a ing we actively try to utilise these opportugovernance, reporting, monitoring and business perspective relating to the envinities. We want customers to regard us as control. For significant risks, there are proronment and social responsibility, which an important partner in sustainable develcedures for accepting, reducing or elimihave gained attention in recent years, with opment efforts.  nating the risk. a particular focus on our own production Nolato’s Annual Report for 2019 proand that of suppliers. Nolato carries out vides detailed information about operaregular risk assessments in order to identional and financial risks. In terms of sustify new risks and/or costs relating to the Operational risks Risk exposure Risk management The risk of significant environmental damage, which Nolato’s operations do not involve any significant environThe production units have the necessary environmental could lead to costs or have a negative impact on Nolato’s mental impact through a risk of emissions to air, water and permits and fulfil the requirements of other relevant enreputation. land. There are no known pollutants of land and groundwavironmental legislation. All units apart from one are certiter at Nolato’s plants. Hazardous substances (asbestos) are fied in accordance with ISO 14001. Regular risk assesspresent in buildings and equipment to a very limited extent ments are carried out to identify new environmentally reat a couple of plants. The risk to people and the environlated risks and/or costs. Regular assessments are carried ment is deemed to be very small. out of the risk of ground contamination and other environmental damage in connection with company acquisitions. The risk of climate change affecting the Group’s operaNone of the Group’s units are exposed to extreme weather The Group examines risk analyses relating to climate tions. conditions or flooding. The units in Beijing are located in an change conducted in the countries in which we operate. area with limited access to water. Climate-related risks are taken into account when carrying out acquisitions and supplier assessments. The risk of lost business due to customers’ interest in Nolato makes polymer products that are primarily based on Our range also includes a number of products that have greater use of bio-based and recycled polymer raw matefossil raw materials. The use of fossil raw materials conan environmental benefit, for example through reduced rials not being satisfied. The risk of lost business through tributes to climate change. Our range includes products weight and lower content of fossil raw materials. The society being more cautious about plastic products. with both long and short lifespans. There is a risk of prodGroup is stepping up its efforts within environmentally ucts with short lifespans ending up littering the environsustainable product development to reduce the risk of ment. losing business, and to contribute to sustainable development. The risk of the Group’s costs increasing significantly or of Nolato has large units active in Sweden, Hungary, the UK, All major units are wholly owned by Nolato, which facilinegative publicity owing to events relating to employees, Switzerland, the US and China. The majority of our employtates the Group’s management of sustainable developrespect for human rights, business ethics or other areas ees are outside Sweden. The concentration in Asia brings ment. Nolato has a significant focus on all units creating related to social responsibility. a heightened risk in areas such as working conditions and good working conditions for employees. Nolato has zero business ethics (corruption). There is always a risk of failtolerance of bribery, corruption and cartel formation. Noure to apply sound business principles, irrespective of lato’s core values and Code of Conduct are continually where operations are pursued. The materiality analysis communicated to staff. Whistleblowing is applied within therefore gives business ethics a very high priority. the Group. Suppliers are regularly assessed via audits and questionnaires. Nolato’s production unit in Torekov Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 28 / 38 Sustainability in Nolato’s day-to-day operations Busy bees in Hörby As well as providing us with honey, the pollination that bees carry out as they fly around and gather nectar is vital for biological diversity. And around one-third of the food we eat comes from plants that depend on being pollinated by bees. Bees are under threat from various quarters. Toxic pesticides and environmental changes such as the disappearance of the old smallscale farming landscape are having a significant impact on bees, resulting in a decline in many kinds of flowers. So more bees are needed to carry out this work, which is vitally important for both us and a flourishing natural environment. Nolato MediTech based in Hörby, Sweden, with customers in both the pharmaceutical and medtech sectors, is taking this seriously through its new ‘Partner for Life’ initiative, which has seen a number of beehives established at the factory site. “We felt this was a good way to tangibly demonstrate our focus on sustainability,” explains Pelle Ekerholm, Key Account Manager at Nolato MediTech, who has led the beehive initiative. “Our new partners help maintain the natural environment around the production facility.”  Nolato MediTech’s medical production in Hörby now has a number of new employees helping to maintain diversity outdoors. Nolato MediTech’s new partners help maintain the natural environment around the production facility. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 29 / 38 An eventful year Over the course of a year, Nolato underpany has introduced a composting sysTogether, an initiative which involves takes a host of measures relating to sustem for organic waste. Nolato contributing to a better situation tainable development. Below is a small Nolato Romania in Negoiesti made for pupils and teachers at a school north sample of activities at our units around the improvements to its work with the enviof Beijing. world. Further information about local ronment, health and fire safety. Lövepac Converting in Beijing focused initiatives can be found in other parts of on effective corporate culture, lean manthe Sustainability Report. UK ufacturing and quality. Furthermore, the Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth conductcompany’s production plant in Schenzen Sweden ed tests using bio-based and recycled was certified according to ISO 9001, Nolato Polymer in Torekov and Ängelraw materials. The skylights were upISO 14001 and ISO 45001. holm updated their safety procedures graded to access more natural light. This relating to materials handling and mahas cut lighting costs by roughly 30% chinery. per year. A more energy-efficient system Malaysia Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma for Sharpak production was installed. There were no occupational accidents at continued Medical Excellence-related First full year of purchasing fossil-free Nolato EMC in Penang during the year. activities. Recycling projects were carelectricity. ried out and the number of chemical Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle did not US products reduced. have any occupational accidents reNolato Contour expanded its facilNolato MediTor in Torekov installed sulting in absence during the year. The ity in Baldwin. Continued installation new washing machines in breathing bag company invested in a number of enerof LED lighting. Other measures that production. The move cut both water gy-efficient electric injection moulding contribute to more effective use of reconsumption and the use of silicone machines. First full year of purchasing sources include more efficient ventilarubber. fossil-free electricity. tion, closed systems for cooling water Nolato Gota in Götene reduced scrap and local cooling instead of a central and therefore the volume of waste. Poland cooling system. The company’s reservoir Nolato Lövepac in Fagerhult, Skåne, Health and safety improvements were was doubled in size to allow for collecexpanded capacity in the heat pump implemented via better lighting and tion and infiltration of a larger volume facility. noise reduction. of water. A more natural landscape at Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan installed a the production site attracts pollinating new ventilation system. It has enhanced Switzerland insects. Sand is used instead of salt as the work environment and improved enNolato Treff insulated piping for heating an anti-slip measure. Floors are now ergy efficiency. The company validated and cooling. A central facility for drycleaned without the use of traditional more bio-based products. New energying of plastic granules was installed. The detergents. A technique involving nanoefficient injection moulding machines measures improve the business’s energy technology is used instead. A primary were installed. Continued cooperation efficiency. healthcare centre is available for emwith schools and universities, including ployees (see page 23). Nolato Contour degree projects. Nolato Cerbo has been China continued with its social engagement, representing the Group in the Nordic Nolato Beijing (Mobile, Medical, EMC) with the aim of encouraging pupils and Bioplastics Association since 2018. was certified according to ISO 45001 students to apply for jobs at the compaNolato Plastteknik in Gothenburg com(health and safety). The company was ny or other companies in the region.  pleted tests using bio-based and recycled approved during audits relating to raw materials. Blasting with ice instead cleaner production, CO2 emissions and of sand has improved the work environhealth and safety. Exposure to dust in ment and reduced the use of chemicals. the mixing department was reduced by the introduction of technical measures. Hungary and Romania The company continued with its EmNolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár ployee Care Programme and e-learning continued working on the system to initiatives were developed with the adprovide quarterly monitoring of energy dition of a large number of modules. use and the volume of waste. The comContinued support for Building Hope Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 30 / 38 About this Sustainability Report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country Average Building Year Permits under Nolato’s Sustainability Report for 2019, number of area (m2) establisenvironmental employees hed legislation in accordance with GRI Standards and the Communication On Progress (Global Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 2,431 37,795 2001 Yes Compact), includes aspects relating to Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 6,168 2010 No the environment, health and safety, so153 cial responsibility and business ethics. Lövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 4,172 2018 No Our ambition is for this report, together Nolato Hungary, Mosonmagyaróvár Hungary 707 19,130 2000 Yes with supplementary information, to give Nolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 56 3,450 2010 Yes our employees and external stakeholders a transparent view of the company’s Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 88 11,100 1973/95 Yes corporate responsibility activities (CSR/ Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 46 4,200 1968 No CR/ESG) and how these interact with our business activities. Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 78 3,600 1995 Yes All units that were part of the Nolato Nolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 12,500 1999 Yes Group for the 2019 full year are included 293 in the report. One unit in Suzhou in China Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 6,000 1980 Yes is not included as it was in the start-up Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 142 11,000 1971 Yes phase in the second half of 2019, and simiNolato MediTor AB, Torekov Sweden 85 5,291 1973 Yes larly a company acquired in the US in December 2019 is not included (Ja-Bar SiliNolato Gota, Götene Sweden 256 26,485 1965 Yes cone Corporation). Data was contributed Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 276 11,397 1993 Yes by a total of 21 (21) production facilities. Nolato Plastteknik, Gothenburg Sweden 137 14,600 1980 Yes Reporting principles Nolato Treff Switzerland 228 13,000 1946 No Each production unit provides quantitaNolato Grizzly, Stargard Poland 121 4,587 1996 No tive and qualitative information in accordance with Nolato’s sustainability reporting Nolato, Penang Malaysia 136 3,350 2016 No form. The image illustrates the annual reNolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 11,132 1986 Yes porting cycle. The head of each company/ 249 unit is responsible for assuring the quality Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 4,790 1998 Yes of the information submitted. The year’s performance is compared and verified against information for previous years. Further quality controls are conducted in connection with interviews and site visits. Data reporting Questionnaire to all units Emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2 Quality assurance of data equivalents), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and Q4 Q1 Preparations for new report Sustainability section in Annual Report nitric oxides (NOx) from direct energy usage (Scope 1 according to GHG Protocol) are established using conversion factors. Q3 Q2 GRI/COP/CDP report These are based on the energy content and quality of the fuels used. Nolato also reports CO2 emissions from indirect energy consumption, which comprises electricity Follow-up and review of sustainability data and district heating (Scope 2 according to GHG Protocol). Emissions factors from purchased electricity in different countries are based on data from carbonfootprint. com (2018). Where energy suppliers provide specific information regarding the energy mix, the supplier’s calculation model is used. Information about VOC emissions (from solvents) is principally based on mass balance calculations.  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 31 / 38 GRI index 2019 The organisation behind GRI (Global Nolato has decided to report according to topics is reported, as well as in the table Reporting Initiative) has established volGRI Standards. The report has been predetailing the outcome of the group-wide untary comprehensive standards for how pared in accordance with GRI Standards: targets. The table below does not therefore companies and other organisations should Core option. provide specific references to Management report their sustainable development acThe indicators have been adapted in Approach for the material topics. Nolato tivities. Reporting in accordance with GRI line with the evaluation of the significant has chosen not to have the Sustainability should focus on sustainability aspects that sustainability aspects detailed on page 10. Report independently verified. The contact are significant to the organisation and its When it comes to Management Approach, for the Sustainability Report is Torbjörn stakeholders. the table refers to the overarching governBrorson (info@nolato.com). The reporting should provide a compreance principles detailed on page 9. BoundSR in the table refers to pages in the hensive, balanced, comparable, thorough aries, governance and evaluation of the Sustainability Report (this document), and credible presentation of the organisamaterial topics follow the same fundamenand AR to pages in the Annual Report for tion’s sustainability performance. It should tal principles, and comments on these are 2019.  include both positive and negative aspects. given where the outcome of the material General standard disclosures GRI indicator Description Page reference Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Nolato AB 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services AR 15–17 102-3 Location of headquarters Torekov, Sweden 102-4 Location of operations AR 28, 32, 36 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 40–41 102-7 Scale of the organisation SR 21 102-9 Supply chain SR 24 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain SR 30 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach SR 8-9 102-12 External initiatives SR 34 102-13 Membership of associations SR 29 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour SR 9 Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 9 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement SR 21 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 11 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 32 / 38 Reporting profile 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements SR 30 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR 30 102-47 List of material topics SR 10 102-48 Restatement of information SR 30 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period SR 30 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 30 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 31 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 31 102-55 GRI content index SR 31–33 102-56 External assurance None Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR 8–11 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 9 Topic-specific Standards GRI indicator Description Page reference Economic Material topic GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 26 Material topic GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 24 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None Material topic GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practices SR 24 Environment Material topic GRI 301: Material 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 17 301-2 Recycled input materials used SR 17 Material topic GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 15 302-3 Energy intensity SR 15 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 15 302-5 Reduction of energy requirements of products and services SR 19 Material topic GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR 17 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 33 / 38 Material topic GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 16 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2; energy) emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) SR 16 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 16 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 16 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SR 16 306-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions SR 16 Material topic GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 17 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 18 306-3 Significant spills SR 18 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SR 18 Material topic GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 14 Material topic GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 24 Social Material topic GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers’ representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committee SR 22 403-2 Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and work-related fatalities SR 22 Material topic GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 22 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes SR 22 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR 22 Material topic GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees AR 44–45, SR 21 Material topic GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken None Material topic GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of collective bargaining may be at risk SR 24 Material topic GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of child labour SR 24 Material topic GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour SR 24 Material topic GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 22 Material topic GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes SR 25 Material topic GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR 24 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 34 / 38 Global Compact Ten principles on responsible business practice In 2010, Nolato endorsed the UN initiative for responsible business, the Global Compact. This meant the Group joining a global network of more than 9,950 businesses in 161 countries. Roughly 13,000 organisations in total have endorsed the Global Compact, including around 300 in S­ weden. Nolato participates as a Signatory. Through the Global Compact, Nolato includes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is Global Compact must produce an annual endorses ten basic principles in the areas an important internal document, guiding Communication on Progress (COP) deof human rights, labour, the environment and coordinating employee activities in tailing how they meet the ten principles. and anti-corruption. These ten principles line with the ten principles. Group compaIn Nolato’s case, we use the information are based on various UN conventions, nies’ compliance with the Group’s Code provided in the Annual Report and the such as the Declaration of Human Rights of Conduct is evaluated on a regular basis. Sustainability Report. Together, these reand the Convention against Corruption. In the introduction to the Sustainability ports provide a fair presentation of NoThe Sustainable Development Goals preReport, Nolato’s CEO Christer Wahlquist lato’s support of and compliance with the sented by the UN in autumn 2015 are now comments on the company’s Global ComGlobal Compact principles. We use GRI also connected to the Global Compact. In pact work during the year. Standards in order to simplify Communi2016, Nolato linked its Group targets to cation on Progress, and the table of crossthe UN Sustainable Development Goals. Communication on Progress references below shows which indicators The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which Organisations that have endorsed the are relevant in the context.  Global Compact principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 103-2, 412-2, 413-1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 103-2, 414-1 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 103-2, 102-41, 407-1 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 103-2, 409-1 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour 103-2, 408-1 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 103-2, 102-8, 406-1 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 103-2, 102-11, 301-1 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 103-2, 301-1, 302-4, 302-5 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 103-2, 301-2, 302-4, 305-5 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 103-2, 102-16, 205-2, 205-3 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 35 / 38 Definitions and glossary 5S A Japanese method of organisation in countries. The term arose because of the Environment-related investments Investthe workplace. It involves sorting, systearmed conflicts in the region, where miments for preventing and reducing enmatising, cleaning, standardising and enning operations often contribute to convironmental impact from the organisasuring. 5S is an important element of lean tinued conflicts and lead to human rights tion’s operations. The same applies for manufacturing. abuses. investments to enhance the occupational environment. Carbon dioxide (CO2) CO2 is formed in all COP Communication on Progress is an carbon combustion processes, such as fosannual report submitted to the United ESG Stands for Environmental, Social and sil fuel combustion. Emissions of carbon Nations specifying how Nolato operates Governance. It is also referred to as ‘susdioxide increase global warming (the greaccording to the ten principles of the Glotainability’. enhouse effect). bal Compact. Extrusion A method for continuously maCDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is a CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ nufacturing products in strands, such as voluntary system for reporting the enCorporate Responsibility is a term that tubing. vironmental impacts caused by businesses. encompasses how companies handle isThe primary target group is international sues concerning the environment, social GHG Greenhouse gases. Nolato reports investors that can refer to information on responsibility, financial responsibility and emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon climate risks when making investment debusiness ethics. Often used in the same dioxide (CO2 equivalents) from energy cisions about companies. Nolato has been sense as the term ‘sustainable developmeconsumption, i.e. Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting according to CDP since 2015. nt’. according to the GHG Protocol. CFCs/HFCs Gases containing chlorofluEMC The shielding of electronics to achieve Global Compact A UN initiative for reorocarbons (CFCs), hydrofluorocarbons electromagnetic compatibility. sponsible business practice. Participating (HFCs) and pollutants containing fluoride organisations undertake to endorse ten have negative impacts on the environment The Energy Efficiency Directive The EU fundamental principles in relation to huas a result of their ozone-depleting properdirective that was introduced in 2015 and man rights, labour, the environment and ties and their effect on the climate. These that, among other things, covers energy anti-corruption. Nolato became a Signatogases are called F-gases because of the audits at large companies. Nolato is subry to the Global Compact in 2010. fluoride content and these types of gases ject to the directive and conducts energy have been regulated in the EU since 2015 audits. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has by the F-gas regulation. These gases may established voluntary comprehensive stanbe found in cooling and heat pumps, fire Energy consumption Nolato reports both dards for how companies and other orgaprotection equipment and circuit breakers. direct energy consumption (usage of fuel nisations should report their sustainability in own energy facilities) and indirect activities. CLP Classification, Labelling and Pacconsumption (purchased electricity and kaging is EU legislation that addresses district heating). HVO Hydrotreated vegetable oil. Fossil-free dangers posed by chemical substances and fuel that is largely made from waste and mixtures and how users should be inforEnvironmental aspects The parts of an orresiduals from the food industry. med about them. These regulations were ganisation’s activities, products or services introduced in 2015. that interact with the environment. Injection moulding A method for manufacturing polymer components. The maCode of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s Environment-related costs Costs attributaterial, such as a type of plastic, is injected employees, Board of Directors, suppliers, ble to measures for preventing, reducing under high pressure into a mould in which etc. regarding business ethics, the environor restoring environmental impact directly the component is formed. ment, labour relations and social responcaused by the organisation’s operations. sibility. The same applies for costs concerning the ISO 14001 International standard relating occupational environment. These costs into environmental management systems Conflict minerals Tantalum, tin, gold and clude administration, purchase of services that was introduced in 1996. Just over tungsten are referred to as conflict mineexternally, authority fees, environmental 310,000 organisations (450,000 plants) rals if they originate from the Democramanagement system maintenance, waste globally are currently certified according tic Republic of Congo and neighbouring and external inspections and audits. to ISO 14001. An updated version of the  Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 36 / 38 standard was published in 2015 (ISO OHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health Sustainable development Development that 14001:2015). and safety in the workplace. Will be con“satisfies today’s needs without jeoparverted to ISO 45001 by 2021. dising future generations’ possibilities to ISO 26000 International standard that satisfy their needs”. Sustainable developprovides guidance on how organisations PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group ment encompasses ecological, social and can deal with social responsibility issues. of industrial chemicals that are hazardous economic sustainability. This standard was introduced in 2010 and to health and the environment. The use of provides the backdrop to Nolato’s Code of PCB was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, Sustainable Development Goals At the UN Conduct. but the substance remains in the environsummit in 2015, the world’s heads of state ment due to its slow decomposition. adopted 17 Sustainable Development GoISO 45001 International standard relating als and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable to health and safety that replaces OHSAS PE Polyethylene plastic. Development. The Sustainable Develop18001. Around 15,000 plants around the ment Goals and the 2030 Agenda aim to world are certified. PLA Polylactic acid is a polyester made eradicate poverty and hunger, ensure the from lactic acid. Like many other therrights of all people are respected, achieve ISO 50001 An international standard remoplastics, it can be moulded to make equality and empowerment for all women lating to energy management systems. both film and fibres. It is biodegradable. and girls and ensure lasting protection for Around 50,000 plants around the world PLA is used to make food packaging, plasthe planet and its natural resources. The are certified. tic bags, single-use plastic glasses and plasUN Sustainable Development Goals are tic film for agricultural purposes. integrated and indivisible, and they baLean manufacturing A systematic method lance the three dimensions of sustainable for the efficient management of resources. Polymers Chemical compounds compridevelopment: economic, social and enLean manufacturing aims to identify all sing very long chains made up of small, vironmental. the factors in a production process that do repeating units (monomers). Plastic and not create value for the customer. rubber are examples of polymer materials. Sustainability report Under an EU Directive, the Swedish government has decided LWC Occupational accidents causing at REACH EU chemical legislation for the sathat as of 2017 it is mandatory for large least one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). fer handling of chemicals. Chemical subcompanies to publish a sustainability restances must be registered for a certain use port. The sustainability report should conNOx Gaseous oxides formed during comand particularly hazardous substances can tain the non-financial disclosures required bustion processes through the oxidation have restrictions imposed on them. to understand the company’s performance, of nitrogen. Harmful to health and the position, results and consequences of its environment and cause acid rain and eutRoHS EU legislation limiting the use of business operations, including information rophication. certain substances that are hazardous to on issues concerning the environment, health and the environment. personnel and social matters, respect for Occupational disease A work-related dihuman rights and the combating of corsease is a disease caused by long-term Scope according to GHG Protocol Reporting ruption. Nolato’s Sustainability Report is exposure to a particular factor in the occuof emissions of greenhouse gases exprescontained in the Annual Report. pational environment. Examples are noise, sed as CO2 equivalents. Scope 1: Combusdust and solvents. tion of fossil fuels (petrol, oil and coal), for TPE Thermoplastic elastomers. example production in owned factories Occupational injury A work-related injury or emissions from owned or leased vehicWater footprint The total volume of fresh is a sudden incident (accident) attribules/machinery. Scope 2: Combustion of water used to produce a company’s goods table to work that gives rise to a wound electricity, district heating and district cooand services. or other injury. Typical injuries in the ling. Scope 3: Emissions from purchase of polymer industry are cuts, falls and injugoods and services, for example logistics, VOC Volatile Organic Compounds. A ries caused by heavy lifting and repetitive flights, taxis, hotel stays and consumption group of organic compounds that easily tasks. Nolato reports occupational injuries of supplies. vaporise at room temperature. The conas an accident that causes more than one centration of volatile hydrocarbons in the day of absence (Lost Work Case). The rate SO2 Sulfur dioxide is formed in the comair has a negative effect on health and the is gauged by the number of occupational bustion of petroleum products. The gas environment, e.g. it contributes to the forinjuries per million hours worked. contributes to the acidification of watermation of ground-level ozone.  courses and soil. Large concentrations are harmful to human health. Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 37 / 38 Nolato Sustainability Report 2019 38 / 38 Nolato AB Nolato Gota Nolato Lövepac Nolato Silikonteknik SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Box 29, SE-533 21 Götene, Sweden Ringvägen 5 Box 62, SE-694 22 Hallsberg, Sweden Street address: Nolatovägen Street address: Alsborgsgatan 2 SE-286 73 Skånes Fagerhult, Street address: Bergsmansvägen 4 Phone: +46 431 442290 Phone: +46 511 342100 Sweden Phone: + 46 582 88900 Email: info@nolato.com Phone: +46 433 32300 Beijing, China Nolato Hungary Nolato Silikonteknik (Beijing) Co., Ltd Nolato Beijing Nolato MediTech Room 207, 2nd Floor, Building 208, 7# Jánossomorjai utca 3 402 Longsheng Industrial Park HU-9200 Mosonmagyaróvár, Hungary Box 93, SE-242 21 Hörby, Sweden East Rongchang Road, 7 Rong Chang Road East Phone: +36 96 578770 Street address: Medicingatan 4 Beijing Development Area Beijing Development Area Phone: +46 415 19700 Beijing 100176, China Negoiesti, Romania Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Beijing 100176, China DIBO Industrial Park, H13 Lomma, Sweden Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Negoiesti, Prahova Box 28, SE-234 21 Lomma, Sweden Suzhou, China Suzhou, China Romania, 107086 Street address: Koppargatan 13 Nolato Electronic Technology Co., Ltd Nolato Electronic Technology Phone: +46 415 19700 Plant E, No. 46 Chunxing Road (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. Nolato Jaycare Caohu Street, Xiangchen Building E Pingqian Industrial Park Nolato MediTor Suzhou 215100, China No. 46 Chunxing Road Portsmouth, UK Phone: +86 51 2693 90380 Xiangcheng District Walton Road, Farlington SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden New Jersey, USA Suzhou 215100, China Portsmouth Hampshire, PO6 1TS Street address: Nolatovägen Nolato Jabar Phone: +86 512 6939 0380 UK Phone: +46 431 442260 P.O. Box 1249 Phone: +44 2392 370102 Andover, NJ 07821, USA Nolato Beijing Medical Nolato Plastteknik 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Newcastle, UK Street address: 252 Brighton Road 7 Rong Chang Road East New York Way, New York Ind. Park Box 4123, SE-422 04 Hisings Backa, Phone: +1 973 786 5000 Beijing Development Area Newcastle upon Tyne NE27 0QF Sweden Penang, Malaysia Beijing 100176, China UK Street address: Exportgatan 59 Nolato EMC Production Center Sdn. Bhd. Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Phone: +44 191 296 0303 Phone: +46 31 588400 Plot 368, Kristianstad, Sweden Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 21, Lövepac Converting Nolato Polymer Penang Science Park, Krinova Incubator & Science Park Nolato AB 2022:210 Beijing, China 14100 Simpang Ampat SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Penang, Malaysia Stridsvagnsvägen 14 4th Floor, Building 3, Street address: Nolatovägen SE-291 39 Kristianstad, Sweden No. 21 Xingsheng Road BDA, Phone: +604 50 57 830 Phone: +46 431 442200 Phone: +46 708-74 41 70 Beijing, 100176, China Gyõr, Hungary Phone: +86 10 6780 5580 Ängelholm, Sweden Nolato EMC Production San Diego, USA Framtidsgatan 6 16208 Palomino Mesa Ct Shenzhen, China Center Limited Liability Company SE-262 73 Ängelholm, Sweden Bükkfa utca 10 San Diego, CA 92127, USA Lövepac technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd Phone: +46 431 442200 Phone: +1 858 859 5270 1st. Floor, No. 3 building, No.1 Lirong Rd. HU-9027, Gyõr, Hungary Changyi Industrial Area, Nolato Cerbo Xinshi Community, Nolato Stargard Dalang St. Longhua District ul. Uslogowa 1 Box 905, SE-461 29 Trollhättan, Sweden Shenzhen 518109, China Street address: Verkmästarevägen 1–3 73-110 Stargard Phone: +86 755 8610 6065 Poland Phone: +46 520 409900 Penang, Malaysia Phone: +48 91 573 6362 Paris, France Nolato EMC Production Center 15 Rue Vignon Plot 368, Nolato Treff FR-75008 Paris, France Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 21, Phone: +33 1 47 975284 Penang Science Park, Taastrasse 16, 9113 Degersheim 14100 Simpang Ampat Switzerland Nolato Contour Penang, Malaysia Phone: +41 71 372 55 55 660 VandeBerg Street Phone: +604 50 57 830 Baldwin, WI 54002, USA www.nolato.com Phone: +1 715 684 4614
