Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Contents 1.BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE .............................. 2 2. POLICY STATEMENT .............................................. 2 2.1 Business responsibility ......................................................................... 3 2.1.1 Overall ambition...................................................................... 3 2.1.2 Position of principles (business responsibility) ....................... 3 2.2 Social responsibility .............................................................................. 4 2.2.1 Overall ambition and strategy ................................................. 4 2.2.2 Position of principles (social responsibility) ........................... 4 2.3 Environmental responsibility................................................................. 5 2.3.1 Overall ambition and strategy ................................................. 5 2.3.2 Position of principles (environmental responsibility) ............... 5 3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES........................... 6 4. MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE ........................... 6 5. REFERENCES TO ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS ... 7 INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group 1. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Bazoco assumes far-reaching responsibility for its own operations and the impact they have on all people, the environment and wider society in a longer-term perspective. Obviously, all operations are based on compliance with applicable legislation, but in many contexts, Bazoco assumes greater responsibility than this. Bazoco’s Sustainability Policy defines the company´s view on and overall ambitions in the sustainability segment, which serves as a broad framework for the whole group. The Sustainability Policy includes health, safety, environmental and quality (HSEQ) issues. 2. POLICY STATEMENT Bazoco’s ambition is to continuously develop the business from a broad and long term perspective – to conduct a profitable and sound business today without compromising the opportunities to do so in the future. This means Bazoco strives to serve as a good corporate citizen, which not only takes responsibility for its own development, but also its impact on all people, the environment and society generally. Bazoco’s sustainability work is conducted from a triple bottom line perspective, which considers business, social and environmental aspects:  Business sustainability – striving for a stable and profitable progress over time and applying good business practice.  Social sustainability – acting as a responsible employer as well as contributing to improved social progress within the geographic´s we are operating.  Environmental sustainability–protecting the environment by actively strive to reduce our own and our customers’ environmental impact as well as optimizing the resource utilization. Within these areas, Bazoco has decided on some fundamental position of sustainability principles, described in this Sustainability Policy. INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group Largely, the services that Bazoco delivers are provided by its own staff, but some are also delivered by suppliers. Accordingly, Bazoco also applies it´s sustainability standards to the work of it suppliers. This means Bazoco strives for developing sustainable relations with it´s suppliers, and to actively make demands on as well as follow up significant suppliers in line with this policy. To understand how operations affect the business environment and the expectations on Bazoco, the company endeavor to maintain a structured and active dialogue with the important stakeholders in order to identify, analyze and manage their expectations, but also risks and opportunities that exist in our operations. This dialogue is summarized and reviewed in the Sustainability Committee. The risks and opportunities are annually summarized and reviewed in EMT. 2.1 Business responsibility 2.1.1 Overall ambition The overall ambition within the business area is to achieve long-term business sustainability by striving for a stable and profitable progress over time and by applying good business practice. In order to get there, Bazoco needs to provide a competitive, professional and valueadding service delivery based on continuously improved operations. This ensures good demand for our services and long-lasting customer collaborations. A sharp focus on results is also important, as well as respecting laws, and applying good business practice. This also applies to our suppliers. 2.1.2 Position of principles (business responsibility) Within the business area, Bazoco is focusing on the following:  Bazoco should conduct a professional operation, delivering value-adding and innovative solutions based on our customers standards of functionality, finances and reliability. o Bazoco should perform our duties professionally and in accordance with laws, regulations and sector practice, and actively endeavor to minimize the consequences of potential disruptions through good continuity planning. o Bazoco should add customer value by continuously develop, improve and adapt services delivered to changes in the customers operation. This is conducted through a pronounced improvement culture and structured work on innovations. INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group  Bazoco will progress stably and profitably proceeding from a good ethical and moral attitude By providing a value-added and competitive service delivery, Bazoco will safeguard its long-term customer relationships, which combined with a professional sales approach, sharp focus on financial results and cash flow, will provide stable financial progress. All operations will comply with good business practice, as stated in the Code of Conduct.  Bazoco will provide accurate and relevant information in a secure manner Bazoco’s corporate communication work should be conducted in accordance with its group-wide Communication Policy. To aid transparency and comparability, in its financial reporting, the group complies with accepted standards and principles where applicable. Information management will be secure, and in accordance with the group-wide information security policy. 2.2 Social responsibility 2.2.1 Overall ambition and strategy The overall ambition within the social area is to strive for a better society by acting as a responsible and respectful employer as well as contributing to improved social progress within the geographics we are operating. This will be achieved by Bazoco taking all people´s equal value and rights into account, and by providing all staff with a good, safe, fair, non-discriminatory work environment. In addition to this, employee development is a priority. We also make a difference by different kinds of local community involvement. Bazoco complies with the UN’s Global Compact, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998) and OECD Anti-Bribry Convention. This means focusing on occupational health and safety as well as management and employee development. 2.2.2 Position of principles (social responsibility) Within the social area, Bazoco is focusing on the following: o Bazoco actively work for well-being employees and a safe working environment o Bazoco should offer its employees a safe and sound working environment, which means a strong focus on occupational health and safety and a pronounced culture of continuous improvements. o Bazoco strives to minimize the sick leave by stimulating good health and the opportunity to achieve a good work-life balance. INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group o Bazoco pursues a clear vision of zero workplace accidents, which is achieved by a strong risk awareness and structured work with safety work.  Bazoco nurtures diversity, equality and a professional development of our employees o Bazoco pursues an including attitude and strive for a fair and equal treatment of all employees regardless of sex, age, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity or religion. o Bazoco offers all employees personal yearly appraisal interviews, and professional development through training and other measures to improve competence. A strong culture of continuous improvements also ensures all employees have the opportunity to influence their work and Bazoco delivery. o Bazoco should offer all employees fair and equal market terms and benefits.  Bazoco should contribute to social progress by local community involvement Our business and our way of working affects people in the locations and geographics we are operating. Bazoco has the possibility and interest to support the communities where we operate. 2.3 Environmental responsibility 2.3.1 Overall ambition and strategy The overall ambition within environmental responsibility is to protect the environment by actively trying to reduce our own and our customers’ environmental impact, as well as to reduce the resource utilization – both activites carried out in-house and by suppliers. In order to achieve this, we aim for improved environmental performance by acting as a green advisor to help clients reduce their environmental impact as well as actively reduce our own environmental impact, i.e. energy usage, waste management, chemical usage, carbon emissions from transports and resource efficiency. 2.3.2 Position of principles (environmental responsibility) Within the environmental area, Bazoco is focusing on the following:  Bazoco should actively endeavor to minimize its customers’ environmental impact, and not least, their energy consumption Bazoco should provide green advisory services, and contribute to customers fulfilling their environmental commitments – not least in the energy segment, but also in the waste, water and chemical segment. INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group  Bazoco should conduct structured and proactive internal environmental work Bazoco will work proactively to minimize the environmental impact arising from its own operations – as well as for purchased goods and/or services. All operations should be conducted in a manner satisfying the ISO 14001 international environmental standard. This will be achieved by: o endeavoring to minimize our own environmental impact, not least in terms of CO2 emissions from transportation, energy consumption, waste management, chemical handling and resource efficiency. 3. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The CEO, who is also the decision-maker on matters affecting Bazoco, bears ultimate responsibility for the company’s operations, including the sustainability. The CEO has delegated operational responsibility to dedicated functions and managers. As environmental and social issues are national and sometimes differ between countries, whith varying regulations and practices, the responsibility for sustainability work lies with the respcective countires. In order to ensure the necessary coordination and control, a Sustainability Committee is appointed to report directly to te Excecutive Management Team. The Sustainability Committee prepares proposals for policies, overall objectives and principles of sustainability governance for the entire group. The Sustaianbility Committee is also tasked with setting and monitoring the annual indicators and annually, based on a stakeholder and business intelligence perspective, propose specific measures in the area of sustainability for decision in the Excecutive Management Team. 4. MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE Bazoco is following up on KPIs within all sustainability areas, which are presented in a “Sustainability Report” each year. Bazoco´s Sustainability Report shall report Bazoco´s sustainability efforts and provide information to the extent necessary to understand Bazoco's development, performance, status and impact of its operations, at least in matters relating to environmental, social and human, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery. In order to encourage the suspicion of irregularities and infringements reported, Bazoco has introduced a specific whistle blower system, available at the intranet. INTERNAL INFORMATION Type of document Prepared by Valid from 1 Policy Sustainability Committee 2019 October, 23 Approved by Applies to EMT Bazoco Group 5. REFERENCES TO ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS Apart from this Sustainability Policy, Bazoco has a number of related group wide policy documents:  Group wide Code of Conduct  Group wide Code of Conduct for Suppliers  Group wide Communications Policy  Group wide Information security Policy  Group wide Procurement Policy INTERNAL INFORMATION
