TRIOPL A ST SUSTAINABILIT Y REP ORT 2019 WE ARE SUSTAINABLE 1 Trioplast Content Sustainability Report 2019 Statement from the CEO 5 Raw material 21 Business results 5 Recyclable material 22 Trioplast publishes an annual Sustainability Report, sustainable product offering for all market requirements which summarizes the sustainability work for the and focuses particularly on recycling and reducing Sustainability results 5 Sustainable product development 23 previous year. Transparent communication is important, consumption of raw material. Sustainability is an Support of UN Global Compact 5 Energy consumption 25 and this Sustainability Report includes Trioplast’s integral part of what Trioplast does – a strive to achieve sustainability progress and activities. a minimal impact on the environment; We Are There. About Trioplast 6 Waste and waste handling 26 Trioplast continuously works to provide a more Trioplast Divisions 7 Environmental legislation 26 Governance 8 Social responsibility 27 Significant sustainability Trioplast Vision, Mission and Core values 9 Employees 27 events in 2019 Supply Chain 10 Occupational health and safety 28 External initiatives and Membership Diversity, equality and non-discrimination 30  Launch of Trioplast sustainable product portfolio:  During the Agritechnica exhibition in Hannover 2019 Triogreen, Trioloop, Triolean and Triogreenway Trioplast presented a premium silage stretch film of associations 11 Community engagement 31  Implementation of SimaPro for calculation of for bale wrapping, with PCR (post-consumer resin) material. The use of PCR reduces the carbon footprint Management approach 12 About the Sustainability Report 32 carbon footprint for our customer’s use of Trioplast products. To be used to evaluate sustainability by 22 % compared to conventional silage stretch film Stakeholder analysis 13 Scope and boundary 32 performance for Trioplast in the future made from 100% virgin raw material. Trioplast has a patent pending for this innovation Risk analysis 14 Reporting principles 34  Development of non-food packaging film for tissue application, based on recycled plastic  First Trioplast site certified according to ISCC Plus Materiality analysis 15 Contact persons 35 for bio based polyethylene (PE). Code of Conduct 16 GRI Index 2019 36 Competition Compliance Policy 17 GRI Standards 36 Management systems 17 UN Global Compact and Communication Open communication 18 on progress 40 UN Sustainable Development Goals 18 Ten principles on responsible Economic responsibility 20 business practice 40 Financial value for stakeholders 20 Communication On Progress 41 Environmental responsibility 21 Definitions 42 2 3 Statement from the CEO Welcome to Trioplast’s Sustainability Report 2019, in a sustainability portfolio. Trioplast’s sustainable offering which we aim to present our results regarding sustainaconsists of three brands; Triogreen, Trioloop and Triolean, bility in an open and transparent manner. representing different sustainable technologies. In addiWe see real opportunities in continuing to develop our tion, we offer our customers consulting services business and products in a sustainable way, by coto help develop their sustainable offering through operating with partners such as customers, suppliers Triogreenway. Triogreenway includes for example a high and colleagues in the business. We expect increasing quality LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) customized for sustainability demands from legislation, customers and each customer’s needs to emphasis environmental and society in general and we are prepared to do the work economical benefits from using sustainable materials. – We Are There. BUSINESS RESULTS SUPPORTING UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 was a good year for Trioplast. During the year our Trioplast has since 2017 been committed to the UN work in strengthening our position as one of Europe’s (United Nations) Global Compact and continues to leading players in innovative and cost-efficient support this important, voluntary initiative. In our packaging solutions based on PE film continued, for Sustainability Report you will find more information on example by the acquisition of Apeldoorn Flexible PackTrioplast’s status and progress in the UN Global aging (AFP) in the Netherlands, but also by optimizing Compact’s ten principles. In 2019 we initiated an update our already existing production sites. of Trioplast Code of Conduct, in which we have stated During the year this meant moving volumes from for example Trioplast’s initiative on Human Rights, Trioplast Fjugesta AB, Sweden to other sister-companies Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. within the group, as well as moving volumes and The updated Code of Conduct will be implemented equipment from Trioplanex International AB in during 2020. Landskrona Sweden to Trioplanex France SAS in Saint Ouen, France. Finally, I would like to thank all employees, customers and other parties participating and helping Trioplast in SUSTAINABILITY RESULTS its sustainability journey – a journey that is an important We have, during the year, continued working with our part of our company’s strategy for the future. sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) – energy consumption and LTAR (Lost Time Accident Rate). In addition, we continue to support, for example, cancer research as a part of our social responsibility. Our largest impact on the environment is the use of raw material, and we work hard to introduce and increase the amount of recycled, and/or bio-based PE in our ANDREAS MALMBERG products. During 2019 we decided to gather them all in President and CEO Trioplast Industrier AB 4 5 ABOUT TRIOPLAST About Trioplast Trioplast Divisions Trioplast was founded in 1965 and is currently one of TRIOPLAST PRODUCED about 200 000 tons of PE During 2019 Trioplast had four divisions; Stretch Film, INDUSTRIAL FILM Europe’s leading players in innovative and cost-efficient film 2019 for customers all over the world (AFP excludIndustrial Film, Consumer Packaging & Specialty Films This division manufactures and markets packaging packaging solutions based on PE film. The production ed). The main market is however Europe. (former Hygiene Film) and Carrier Bags. AFP was introfilms, mainly for industrial and transport packaging. The sites and sales companies are subsidiaries to Trioplast duced on January 1st, 2020 and became a fifth division product range includes several industrial film products, Sales split 2019 Industrier AB, with head office is in Smålandsstenar, of Trioplast. Each division has its own unique conditions including shrink film, FFS (Form Fill Seal) and stretch Sweden. The production sites are in Sweden, Denmark Sweden 24 % in which to devolve and become financially sustainable. hoods. In addition, the Industry Division produces refuse Other 6 % and France, with customers on the global market. bags made from recycled PE. Rest of Europe 70 % Approved production 2019 Production sites in Denmark and Sweden. LATE IN 2019, Trioplast acquired Apeldoorn Flexible Total 198 000 tons a Asia Packaging (AFP) in the Netherlands, strengthening the eric STRETCH FILM Am rth No position in the market of load stability and food er ica  Stretch Film This division manufactures and markets packaging m packaging. Trioplast Industrier AB has at the end of ca stretch films for palletizing and for agricultural applicaAfri So uthA  Industrial Film 2019 ten subsidiary companies (production/sales sites)  Consumer Packaging tions such as bale wrap, silage film and net replacement Head Office a and additional three sales offices, located in Finland, Production/Sales company Oc ea ni & Specialty Films film. In addition, the Stretch Film division produces Sales comapny UK and Germany.  Carrier Bags refuse bags made from recycled PE. Production sites in France and Sweden. THE COMPANY STRUCTURE was altered in 2018, The slight decrease in volumes sold over the last years when the company was acquired by Altor Fund IV. This is mainly due to strategic decision to focus the business AFP (APELDOORN FLEXIBLE PACKAGING) Sustainability Report refers to Trioplast Industrier AB on premium products. This has resulted in closure/sale CARRIER BAGS – BENGT LUNDIN Dutch-based AFP started production of plastic films in and its subsidiaries, as well as the group parent of parts of the business. In addition, the successful work This division manufactures and markets carrier bags 1968 and is a leading producer and supplier of premium company Trioplast Holding AB (“Trioplast”). For more of down-gauging products, producing a product with the for the Nordic region. Functional, durable and ecoload stability film and food packaging film. AFP became information on the legal structure of the group, please same performance but with less material, naturally also friendly carrier bags are produced for grocery chains and part of Trioplast as of January 1st, 2020. The company see financial annual report of Trioplast Holding AB. reduce volumes sold. retailers. has a strong market position in Europe with global reach Production site in Sweden. in some segments. Production site located in the Netherlands. CONSUMER PACKAGING & SPECIALTY FILMS *Approved production = products produced, approved for delivery to customer » (FORMER HYGIENE FILM) This division manufactures and markets cast extruded film, embossed multilayer or breathable film, as well as Key figures for Trioplast Industrier AB, after blown film, that can be supplied with 8-colour printing » acquisition of AFP. and bag converting. The division also offers lamination capability for non-woven applications, including printing. Products range from hygiene and medical applications KEY FIGURES to diverse packaging for the hygiene and food segments. Production sites in France and Sweden. 1 200 15 1965 540 Employees Companies Founded Turnover of EUR Million 6 7 ABOUT TRIOPLAST ABOUT TRIOPLAST Governance Trioplast Vision, Mission and Core values Trioplast Group Management Team (GMT) is responsible GMT IS RESPONSIBLE for and setting the Trioplast RELIABLE LONG-TERM ACTIVE for the governance of the Trioplast. Trioplast is run common Vision, Mission, Core Values and any other through a decentralized organizational structure where common policies and targets, including updates. each division is having full responsibility for their The divisions are thereafter responsible for incorporating respective profit & loss and balance sheets. Divisional these in operations, and to align any other divisional/ presidents are members of GMT, together with CEO, local policies thereto. GMT will in this work benchmark CFO, HR Director and CPO. and discuss with any relevant stakeholders, including for example divisions and owners, to broaden SYNERGIES IDENTIFIED across divisional boundaries knowledge and experience. are captured through councils, in which each division is represented. The Vision is long term, while the Mission describes  We offer sustainable premium products and what Trioplast do each day to achieve the Vision. solutions with the highest possible service level Consumer The core values affects everyday work, for everyone  We do this by manufacturing and procuring StretchFilm Industrial film Packaging & Carrier Bags Council in Trioplast. They are incorporated in the company world-class raw materials and by having the Specialty Films culture and run as a common theme though the industry’s best value-based sales and marketing Trioplast organization as a reminder of the promise by far to customers of Trioplast. TRIOPLAST CORE VALUES TRIOPLAST VISION Reliable, Long-term, Active Driven by our customer’s present and future needs, Stretch division President (Chair), PRODUCT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT division Presidents and Sales managers we constantly strive to be the first choice in polyethylene film solutions. Industrial Division President (Chair) WORLD CLASS MANUFACTURING TRIOPLAST MISSION div Heads of Operations  We focus on our selected core markets with our core products PEAND INDIRECT SOURCING, INCL REG & WASTE CPO (Chair), commodity managers  We are a natural part of our customers’ competitiveness NET WORKING CAPITAL CFO (Chair), div CFOs FINANCE/IT/VERITAS CFO (Chair), div IT responsities 8 9 ABOUT TRIOPLAST ABOUT TRIOPLAST Supply Chain External initiatives and Membership of associations A global sourcing organization, together with a local SECURING SUPPLIES for the production sites is the Trioplast supports the UN Global Compact as well as as basis for Trioplast's updated Code of Conduct, see operative purchasing department in the divisions, work main task of sourcing, including finding alternative the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), see page 16. Many of Trioplast’s sustainability targets are in to supply the Trioplast production sites with products suppliers, qualifying, evaluating and auditing suppliers. page 18. These initiatives are both voluntary and used line with the SDG. and services needed. The global sourcing organization is Changing supplier is hence not unusual, but none of the responsible for supply of raw material as well as category contracts have been terminated during 2019 due to management of the major indirect categories, such as non-compliance with our requirements. for example energy, transport, additives, machinery etc. These suppliers are normally global suppliers. In addition, AN UPDATE of Trioplast Sourcing Guidelines local operative purchasing departments in the divisions describing the responsibility and process of sourcing and at the production sites, complete the sites’ needs, was started in 2019 and will be fully implemented in using mostly local suppliers for office material, services 2020. etc. In total Trioplast has more than 2 000 suppliers of materials and services. Trioplast also holds memberships and/or supports the following organizations: BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS RESEARCH PLATFORMS AND SUSTAINABILITY  EDANA (European Disposals and Nonwovens PROJECT Association)  Circular Plastic Alliance (CPA)  EUMOS (European Safe Logistics Association)  Normpack, Sweden  EuPC (European Plastic Converters)  SusChem (European Technology Platform for  Graphics Companies Sustainable Chemistry)  IK (Industrievereinigung Kunststoffverpackungen e.V.) SUSTAINABLE PLATFORMS  IKEM (Innovation and Chemical Industries in  Ecovadis Sweden)  SEDEX  SNIF (Swedish Industrial Association) STANDARDISATION BODIES In addition, Trioplast has several local involvements and  AFNOR (Association Française de Normalisation) memberships linked to specific production sites.  CEN (Comité Européen de Normalisation)  DS (Danish Standards)  ISO (International Organization for Standardization)  SIS (Swedish Standards Institute) 10 11 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Management approach Stakeholder analysis Trioplast frequently reviews and updates its staketo a workshop to share their experience, knowledge and CODE OF CONDUCT FOR GUIDANCE holder analysis. A selected group of participants, covering understanding about Trioplast’s stakeholders. different aspects and interests of Trioplast, are invited GROUP DIVISION/PLANT STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS VALUE CREATED BY TRIOPLAST Compliance with applicable legislation is a basic requirement Identify Identify Authorities Compliance with applicable legislation. for Trioplast. In 2019 no material breaches in environment or risks and risks and working environment legislation have been reported. Focus on most opportunities Focus on most opportunities Group common Division/Plant important important sustainability sustainability High quality products and on-time delivery, For customer satisfaction (as well as agents and distributers), sustainability sustainability targets targets in addition to proactivity and innovation of Trioplast has an active and supportive sales organization in areas areas Trioplast’s products. each division, to ensure timely and correct delivery to Customers, agents Increasing interest in sustainability. customers as well as any support needed. and distributers Support in questions arising when using To meet the increasing interest of sustainability Trioplast Trioplast’s products. launched the sustainable product portfolio in 2019, as Detailed described on page 24 Follow-up DivisionFollow-up targets and and specific and action plans Trioplast value creation for employees is described under communication sustainability communication at each Social responsibility, see page 27 Continuous targets Continuous production Health and safety are always in focus. Trioplast is committed improvements improvements site/group to ensuring that the workplaces are healthy and safe, as the Employee satisfaction, including health and employees and their competence are vital to the company’s safety, well-being, financial compensation for Employees and trade unions production and future. work and personal development. In 2019, an employee survey was conducted, with high Fair treatment and possibility to influence. participation. Results are discussed within each working group. Close cooperation with trade unions at the production sites is maintained. No discrimination reports were sent to HR during 2019. Systematic work through ISO 9001, 14001 etc. Life Cycle Perspective Frequent reports and meetings as needed to show status and Financial institutions Earn interest and security of the investment. progress of the company. and banks Long term sustainable business model. Financial stable performer in 2019, with a well anchored sustainable strategy and business model. Based on frequently reviewed and updated risk analysis,  Trioplast Code of Conduct describes the basis of how stakeholder analysis and materiality analysis, GMT Trioplast acts to ensure sustainable business. Strong focus on long-term sustainable growth, profitability and cash-flow, achieved by sets group sustainability targets. The sustainability  To avoid corruption and ensuring sound business continuous follow-up Maximize enterprise value by execution of the strategy was developed during 2019 and will be Owner business conducted in an ethical and fair manner ethics Trioplast has a Competition Compliance agreed strategy. knowledge in applicable and coming legislation implemented in 2020. Its implementation is managed Policy and clarifying documents, to be signed sustainable product development, to meet future demands by the Sustainability Development Director, who works of customers annually by employees, where relevant. closely with the divisions. The Sustainability Director is Trioplast supports, participates and in some cases leads Policies, targets etc. are applied in each division, via for Partners, Industry/ responsible for group sustainability activities and will set Standardization Experience, expertise and knowledge. several associations, where the knowledge, expertise and example applicable management systems. experience of Trioplast has been requested and is needed. A division specific targets. The divisions are responsible organizations list of such associations can be found on page 11 and 22. for the division targets, defining activities and plans to Trioplast aims to communicate openly regarding its susreach the targets, executing plans and reporting to the tainability work and progress, this Sustainability Report Contribution to national and global sustainable goals and to support initiatives, such as Examples of Trioplast work with society is described on page Sustainability Development Director. being a part of that strategy. Society charity. 27 and 31. Long-term employment possibilities. In addition to the sustainability targets, GMT sets group Trioplast’s sustainability is also aligned with SDGs, which policies, which are reviewed as needed. This is always are shown in the end of this section of the Sustainability Business conducted in an ethical and fair Suppliers are treated fairly and ethically, in accordance with manner. Trioplast’s Code of Conduct and Competition Compliance aligned with the Vision, Mission and Core Values of Report, see page 18. Profitable growth to maintain/increase busiPolicy described on page 16-17. Suppliers Trioplast, described on page 9. ness partnerships. Trioplast is a reliable and sustainable business partner. Input on future sustainable raw material Trioplast supports development of suppliers’ products, by development. sharing knowledge as applicable. 12 13 MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH Risk analysis Materiality analysis The risk analysis is reviewed frequently, in similar The risk analysis presented here focuses on sustainaIn the materiality analysis Innovative sustainable 2018. The materiality analysis is performed by GMT, manner as the stakeholder analysis and is based on their bility risks. products, Sustainability requirements from customers based on sustainability reporting standards (GRI, Global possible impact and their probability of occurring. and Climate change were identified as the topics of Reporting Initiative) as well as stakeholder and highest importance, which were similarly identified in divisional input. RISK RISK MANAGEMENT Health and safety are top priority for Trioplast and is first on the agenda at internal meetings. HIGH Injured/sick employees Action to improve the working environment is ongoing at the producThe production process can be dangerous for production employees, tion sites and knowledge can be shared within Trioplast WCM (World if instructions and procedures are not complied with. Class Manufacturing)-group. 1 In addition, for all employees, work related risks exists, for example Annual health and safety week is carried out, to raise awareness of 9 related to travels, well-being etc. health and safety. 5 Trioplast’s concern for its employees to improve well-being is also 2 1. Innovative sustainable products SIGNIFICANCE FOR TRIOPLAST‘S described in this Sustainability Report, page 27-31. 3 2. Sustainability requirements from customers 10 6 3. Health and safety 4 4. Attractive employer Trioplast closely monitors changes and updates in legislation at an Increasing environmental/regulatory demands early stage and adopts accordingly. 5. Legal requirements 8 12 Due to the on-going discussions in society about plastics and chemiIn addition, Trioplast will increase capacity on regulatory knowledge, 7 6. Sound business ethics cals, there is a risk that regulatory requirements increase in the future. to stay well informed about upcoming changes and to participate in 11 7. Littering caused by plastics products BUSINESS STRATEGY Changes in regulatory and/or legal demands in different countries, selected associations. 8. Energy-efficiency may cause an unfavorable market situation for Trioplast in compariTrioplast also proactivity adopts its production and products, for 13 9. Climate change son to competitors and/or competing products. example increasing the use of PCR in the products, as described in 10. Supply of materials and services this Sustainability Report, page 23-24. 15 11. Engagement in society 14 12. Sustainability requirements from owners 13. Diversity, human rights Loss of sales volume Trioplast has long-term relationships with many customers and good 14. Enviromental impact of transport Customer demands and/or regulatory changes may cause Trioplast market and regulatory knowledge, which enables product developdecreasing sales volumes. ment in accordance with customer and/or regulatory expectations. 15. Discharges to wastewater Raw material price increases MEDIUM Increasing prices of the raw material has a large impact on Trioplast Trioplast has created a sourcing and business model that is neutral to profitability. The price of the raw material is dependent upon world market price variations. MEDIUM SIGNIFICANCE FOR TRIOPLAST‘S HIGH market prices, which can vary largely. INTERESTED PARTIES Raw material supply Group sourcing has a group-wide strategy for raw material sourcing Trioplast is dependent on timely and correct delivery of raw material. and by close cooperation with the supplier the supply chain is kept Delayed delivery of material, or lack of material, causes production stable. Material planners at the production sites continuously monilimitations. tor the supply chain, to avoid and/or limit any effect of delayed (and/ or missing) material in due time. Un-ethical business behavior The Core Values, Code of Conduct and the Competition Compliance In business, there’s always a risk of un-ethical, un-fair or even corrupt Policy all work to avoid any un-ethical behavior in the business of situations arising. This would harm the reputation of Trioplast and Trioplast. They are all described in this Sustainability Report. cause large financial impact. In addition, Trioplast will in 2020 implement a Whistle-blowing function to enable anonymous reporting of un-ethical behavior. 14 15 MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH Code of Conduct Competition Compliance Policy Based on the Core Values, UN Global Compact, the giving guidance to the work on strategy. The message To ensure anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior and employees involved in purchasing and sales, and those Global Sustainable Development targets and Agenda of the code is that Trioplast is responsible and work in sound business ethics Trioplast has a Competition in the company’s executive positions. This also applies 2030 as well as other international agreements and accordance with sound business principles. The Code Compliance Policy, informing employees about a to other staff members who have regular external guidelines, Trioplast has developed a Code of Conduct. of Conduct states Trioplast’s take on, e.g. environment, zero-tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and other contacts. The process and the signed documents are The Code of Conduct is aligned with the mission, vision anti-corruption, labor and human rights, right to freedom irregularities. These documents provide guidance how handled by the managing directors of each Trioplast and core values of Trioplast, described on page 9. An of association and collective bargaining, elimination of to behave around business partners, such as suppliers legal entity. update of the Code of Conduct was initiated in 2019 and forced/compulsory and child labor and discrimination, and customers, but also competitors etc. Trioplast’s will be implemented during 2020. as well as emphases the precautionary principle in case Competition Compliance Policy and its clarifying NO BREACHES concerning corruption or competitive of environmental and health risks. Suppliers will also be documents are reviewed annually and signed by behavior were identified during 2019. THE REVISED Code of Conduct We are responsible” asked for compliance to the new Code of Conduct. is meant to be the basic policy document for Trioplast from which all other policies are assigned. The purpose THE DECISION to install a whistle-blowing function of the Code of Conduct is to show employees, suppliers, was taken in 2019, to enable employees and others to customers and other interested parties how Trioplast report irregularities anonymously, and will be MANAGEMENT APPROACH contributes to a sustainable development. “We are implemented together with the updated Code of responsible” will after implementation be available at www.trioplast.com. Conduct in 2020. Management systems THE NEW CODE of Conduct “We are responsible” will Management system for quality (ISO 9001) is applied be a guide for working at Trioplast as well as at all production sites. ISO 14001 (environment) is applied at most of the production sites, whereas the standard for social responsibility (ISO 26000) has provided guidance to the Trioplast Code of Conduct. Some production sites have in addition chosen to be certified according to ISO 50001 (energy) OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 (work environment), ISO 22000 (food safety) and ISCC Plus (sustainability). THE CERTIFICATES can be found at » trioplast.com/en/about-trioplast/certificates/ 16 17 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Open communication Trioplast has an impact on several of the SDGs and has chosen to focus on the following OBJECTIVES TRIOPLAST STATUS AND COMMENTS Trioplast production is fairly energy intensive. Energy consumption (kWh/approved producEnergy consumption is reported by each site and followed up on tion of PE) is to be reduced continuously. group level. It is shown on page 25. KPI for reduction of energy consumption will be set. Trioplast aims to provide stakeholders with relevant and bility report is included in the Financial Report 2019 for correct information on its work on sustainability and Trioplast Holding AB. This Sustainability Report is Employees of Trioplast are covered by collecprogress. The purpose is to share the knowledge as well available at www.trioplast.com and also with tive agreement. This, together with cooperaAll production sites work continuously to improve the working as strengthening confidence in Trioplast, internally and  UN Global Combat, see Communication On Progress tion with trade unions/work councils, ensure environment, as well as preventing accidents. externally. Trioplast’s website www.trioplast.com is the (COP) page 40-41. employees’ rights. LTA (Lost Time Accident) is followed at every site, in order to take Trioplast promotes a safe working environpreventive measures. LTAR is a group KPI and is shown on page 29. basis for most of Trioplast’s external communication.  Ecovadis ment. The vision is always zero accidents. Financial reporting is made in accordance with the  SEDEX Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The statutory sustainaTrioplast works to reduce raw material conIn 2019, Trioplast launched its sustainable product portfolio, sumption, increase use of recycled material described on page 23-24. and non-fossil polymer. KPIs will be set e.g. content of recycled material. MANAGEMENT APPROACH UN Sustainable Triogreenway is a part of Trioplast’s sustainable product offering, where Trioplast can support its customers with tailor made LCAs Trioplast will improve the climate by helping using software SimaPro. This gives Trioplast as well as the customcustomers to select feedstock and product ers the possibility to evaluate the environmental impact of different Development Goals alternatives with lower carbon footprint. feedstock alternatives. KPI will in the future be set for decreasing carbon-dioxide equivalents for Trioplast. In 2017 Trioplast decided to participate in Operation Clean Sweep, Trioplast supports reducing/deleting the litterIn September 2015, all 193 Member States of the useful framework for meeting global challenges and towards to goal of having Zero pellets loss, see page 26. ing of pellets during production and operation The focus is now on action and implementation on the sites and United Nations adopted a plan for the next fifteen years have made a considerable impact within society. At of the plastic industry. across divisions. to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, the same time, they serve to inspire innovation and and protect our planet. At the heart of “Agenda 2030” business opportunities in the area of sustainability. are the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals In addition, Trioplast actively works on several other SDGs. (SDGs). The SDGs provide a clear and OBJECTIVES TRIOPLAST STATUS AND COMMENTS Equality, not only gender based, is one of the Trioplast does not accept discrimination of any kind. This is stated corner stones for Trioplast. Everyone is considfor example in the updated Code of Conduct. ered equal, regardless of gender, age, political An update of the policy for equal treatment is planned for 2020, options, background, ethnicity etc. and will cover all kinds of equality, not only gender based. New Code of Conduct will be implemented in 2020, together with Trioplast does not accept corruption, bribery or a Whistleblowing function. In addition, for employees with frequent any kind of business-related misconduct. external contacts a Competition Compliance Policy applies. 18 19 Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Turning top nip FINANCIAL VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Trioplast produces polymer film products, both blown Web guide Trioplast’s group parent company is Trioplast Holding and cast. The film products can also be printed by AB, since the middle of 2018 when Altor Funds’ acquired Trioplast, depending on customer demands and Profile control Trioplast group. Prior to this the group parent company requirements. was Trioplast Industrier AB. This is shown in the diaMaterial feeding (Mixers & scales) gram for revenue and EBITA (Earnings Before Interest, Example of process for polymer production (blown). Taxes and Amortization), for the purpose of giving a Raw materials (polymer pellets and for the final product Air cooling comparable five-year overview of Trioplast’s financial necessary additives) are put into silos, and “melted” in (Blown up ratio ratio) extrusion machines. The melted polymer is blown into a development. Tool/Die bubble of polymer film. Once cooled off shaped to a film and rolled for further processes such as printing etc. Extruders Note; AFP is not included in the financial annual report of 2019. REVENUE HAS THE LAST FIVE years been on a stable RAW MATERIAL level, whereas EBITA in 2019 increased due to activities The main raw material for Trioplast products is polymer; in improvement program initiated when Altor acquired PE (and minor part polypropylene (PP)) granules. In Trioplast. addition, additives, compounds and masterbatches are added as raw material to the products. They too mainly DIRECT ECONOMIC value generated, defined as the consist of polymers. customer invoiced value less all direct costs incurred in the financial year adjusted for any significant non-cash The polymers are sourced directly from producers of items, and distributed in 2019 is shown below. The virgin polymers or recycled material. Trioplast is also major parts are operating costs and employees. sourcing waste as a feedstock for its own regranulation Trioplast has in 2019 invested MSEK 143 of the retained plants. The virgin polymers are traditionally fossil based, value in new factory equipment and machinery. but the origin might also be biobased, for example from sugar canes, palm oil or second-generation raw material. FOR MORE INFORMATION, please see Trioplast Holding AB’s financial annual report 2019. In addition to the polymers purchased, Trioplast recycles production waste. The purpose is to minimize any waste from the production site, which is favorable both from an economic and environmental point of view. The internal recycled material is recycled directly at the production line, or via a separate regranulating process. In some cases, the material is used at another Trioplast site. Continue on the next page » 20 21 » Continuation from the previous page The share of virgin polymers used varies with the  SIS, Sweden; Packaging and environment SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT material specification and for the individual production – standards for resource efficiency/optimization, The raw material is traditionally made from fossil-based sites and divisions of Trioplast. Some sites, divisions and re-use, recycling, energy recovery and biodegradation oil, a non-renewable resource. If incinerated after use, products have been very successful in reducing the of packaging one of the components created is carbon dioxide (CO2). share of virgin polymers. For example, a carrier bag can CO2-emissions increase the greenhouse effect the be produced with as much as 93% recycle material.  DS, Denmark; Environment and sustainability for In average during 2019, the total recycled content more CO2-emissions, the more CO2 is in the atmosphere plastics – standards for bio-based and biodegradable (purchased recycled material and waste as well as and more of the sun’s radiation is reflected at earth and plastics, carbon footprint, plastic recycling, resource internally recycled material) in products from Trioplast hence contributes to global warming and eventually a recycling etc. was about 26%. The trend of recycled content is potential risk of contributing to climate change. increasing over the last five years, where 2019 and  AFNOR, France; Recycling and waste management 2016 now have the highest average recycled content. – Household and industrial waste, recycling of paper, THE RISK OF climate change and global warming has Excluding production at Ekmans (2015 and 2016), which was metal, plastic, etc. The end-of-life stage of materials during recent years been intensified in public media. divested in 2016 and their reprocessing to create other materials is the Beside legislation making demands on reduction of subject of numerous normative documents. fossil raw material usage, Trioplast also has noticed an increased demand from owners and customers to find RECYCLABLE MATERIAL organization, with the purpose to drive the development IN ADDITION, Trioplast joined CPA (Circular Plastic and use more environmentally friendly raw material. The material produced by Trioplast is technically of new standards in order to enable an increased circuAlliance) in November 2019. CPA was launched by the To limit the use of fossil-based PE, Trioplast launched a recyclable; by collecting and cleaning the material all larity, with a focus on recycling. European Commission in September 2019, with the portfolio of sustainable products 2019. of Trioplast’s products can be recycled. However, the Example of working groups of standardization: aim to enable an uptake of 10 million tons of recycled recycled material must be of high quality, hence its GLOBAL plastics by 2025. CPA covers the full plastic value chain recyclability depends on the use of the product as well  ISO; Environmental and sustainability aspects and includes over 180 organizations representing the as the collection and cleansing system after use. There – standards for recycled plastics, such as but not industry, academia and public authorities. are many different polymers on the market, and they need to be sorted and segregated in the correct way to limited to bio-based plastics, biodegradability, Continue on the next page » achieve a high and consistent quality. environmental footprint, waste management etc. Trioplast is engaged in working group for Vocabulary TRIOPLAST PARTICIPATES in a number of wasteas well as Characterization of plastics leaked into the collection schemes across the regions and markets environment (including micro plastics) and is leading where Trioplast is active. the work for the working group Mechanical and chemical recycling (Convenor). TO SUPPORT recyclability, Trioplast is actively engaged EUROPE in several initiatives for recycling. In its Plastic Strate CEN; Plastic recycling – standards for plastic recycling gy, the EU Commission has defined standardization as in order to increase the use of recycled plastics. one of the most important ways to a circular economy. NATIONAL In order to stay informed and be able to influence the  SIS, Sweden; Plastic and environmental aspects future of the industry, Trioplast has broad engagement – standards for bio-based and biodegradable plastics, in standardization of environmental aspects. Trioplast’s carbon footprint, plastic recycling, resource recycling engagement is on all levels – local, regional and global. etc. The engagement in standardization is anchored in the 22 23 » Continuation from the previous page ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy is used within Trioplast for the production within Trioplast. Instead all electricity consumed is process as well as for heating of buildings etc. Producpurchased on the open market. Part of that electricity is tion of plastic products is fairly energy intensive. The from renewable sources as wind, solar or hydro-electric power, having as little impact on the environment as total consumption of energy varies from year to year, possible as they are not associated with high CO2depending upon volumes produced and major changes emissions. in manufacturing equipment and process etc. However, the average consumption (per kg approved film) for IN ADDITION to electricity, gas is used to burn gases the group has been stable for several years. Energy from printing lines, at some of the production sites. Gas consumption reviews are made on a regular basis to roughly corresponds to 2% of the Trioplast’s total energy consumption. facilitate improvement. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (kWh/kg approved MOST OF THE ENERGY used at Trioplast is electricity. production) is a KPI for each site and it is followed-up Trioplast does not produce any energy to sell or to use at group level. TRIOLEAN 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trioplast's downgauged products, with sustained or Having the same properties as fossil-based PE, it can be increased performance, sometimes with less than 50% used in all applications of films and products. of the original material weight and volume. Trioplast is Energy consumption (GWh) 187 187 185 181 174 In addition, for best service for Trioplast’s customers striving to reduce the amount of material used for an TRIOGREENWAY was created; A high quality LCA application, while still maintaining or even improving Energy consumption / approved customized for customers, to evaluate and show the 0,87 0,89 0,89 0,89 0,88 the performance of the product. Trioplast is constantly production (kWh/kg) benefits for the environment and economics. Trioplast working to reduce the environmental impact without has leading expertise in making the use of plastics circompromising the quality of its products. cular. Trioplast wants to help customers to minimize the TRIOLOOP carbon footprint. One way is to do this is the TriogreenTrioplast’s brand for PE film that contains recycled maway. Triogreenway also includes arranging workshops terial. Using recycled material reduces waste, improves with customers to revise current portfolio to enable a THE CONSUMER PACKAGING DIVISION uses the carbon footprint and closes the material loop. Leanchange to environmentally friendly products, through more energy per kg of produced material than the other ing on Trioplast’s extensive experience in working with design for recycling, carbon footprint optimization and divisions. This is due to a more energy demanding recycled PE, Trioplast has refined both the quality of the general guidance. process, since the product goes through additional material, and the processes used to produce high quality process steps before being shipped to the customers. film with stable properties. Trioplast work with sustainable product offering will be intensified over the coming years and sustainability TRIOGREEN targets for increased use of recycled material will be set Trioplast’s products, based on fossil-free green PE with a for 2021, as well as KPI for reducing CO2 emissions. very low carbon footprint. Trioplast's green PE is based on feedstock derived from various natural resources. Continue on the next page » 24 25 » Continuation from the previous page Social responsibility WASTE AND WASTE HANDLING By optimizing production and by that minimizing waste, is to reduce and ultimately avoid all littering of pellets Trioplast believes and supports social responsibility. in many cases a higher ambition for social responsibility. Trioplast uses as much of the raw material in its finished during production and operation of the plastic industry. Focus is mainly on Trioplast employees, but also on In 2019, Trioplast had no non-compliances regarding products as possible. Production waste is preferably This is done by ensuring pellets are not contaminating surrounding communities. Following the applicable laws laws and regulation in the social or economic areas. recycled in a closed loop at the production machine. the soil or the wastewater on the production site and and legislation is a minimum demand but Trioplast has Second best option is to make on-site recyclates, therefore not reach the ocean. When consumers take through a central on-site regranulation process. The their responsibility not to dispose any plastic material/ recyclates are used at the production site or sold products into the environment, seabirds, turtles, fish and to another production site. other wildlife, will be less likely to ingest this material Head counts per country 2017 2018 2019 that may cause malnutrition or starvation. Trioplast’s IN 2017 Trioplast decided to participate in Operation program for Zero pellets loss will continue to benchmark Denmark 169 165 169 Clean Sweep, an initiative aiming towards the goal of ideas during 2020. Finland 4 4 3 having Zero pellets loss. The purpose of this operation France 171 166 180 Germany 9 9 11 ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION Sweden 663 663 695 Trioplast production sites are following relevant such as REACH, energy efficiency and sustainability UK 2 2 2 environmental legislation of the country where the reporting. production site is located. In addition, the group Total 1018 1009 1060 IN 2019 no material breaches in environment or follow environmental legislation from EU directives, working environment legislation were reported to GMT. EMPLOYEES The majority of the work performed at Trioplast is in this Sustainability Report. In addition, the Trioplast performed by its own employees. In cases of vacation Industrier AB has four employees, and all sales offices and/or vacancies, employees normally stand-in for the a total of 15 employee full time equivalent (at three employee missing. In addition, production adjustments sale companies; Finland, UK and Germany). The rest of may be planned and executed. Therefore, temporary Trioplast’s sales employees are included in the producworkers are not normally employed. tion sites’ numbers. The human resources department is responsible for collecting and maintaining data for HISTORICALLY, employee turnover has been very the number of employees, employee turnover and new low. No measurements of employee turnover and new employees. recruitments have been carried out at group level during 2019. As Trioplast now is expecting an increase in TRIOPLAST DO NOT allow child labor, illegal labor or employee turnover due to many employees are getting any kind of forced labor. This is clearly stated in Trioplast closer to retirement, this may be of interest for Trioplast new Code of Conduct and applies also to the suppliers in the near future. to Trioplast, as they sign compliance to this document. THE NUMBER of employees at each production site can be seen in table “Production sites”, see page 33-34 Continue on the next page » 26 27 » Continuation from the previous page EMPLOYEES’ BENEFITS AND LABOR/ ments. Such collective agreements are valid both for OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TO CREATE AND MAINTAIN a healthy and safe MANAGEMENT RELATIONS full-time employees as well as all temporary or partHealth and safety are at the top of the agenda in working environment is key for Trioplast. LTA is All companies / production sites have an agreement time employees. Most employee benefits are governed Trioplast and two production sites have chosen to be measured and reported on each production site and with an external corporate healthcare service. Healthby central agreements. In addition there are several certified, see Management systems page 17. LTAR is calculated for the Trioplast group, in accordance care benefits are provided at most of the companies / local collective agreements at each company that Certification is voluntary for the production sites – to LTAR definition at page 43. production sites and for example massage and regulate additional employee benefits, such as for working with health and safety related issues is of recreational activities may be subsidized for the benefit example flexible working hours and bonus systems course not. and well-being of the employee. Trioplast provides where applicable. This includes for example regulation working clothing, including safety shoes and necessary of notice period. The right to exercise freedom of 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 protective equipment, computer glasses and medical association or collective bargaining is there fully covered examinations, where necessary for the employee. for Trioplast employees. For suppliers, this right will be emphasized in the updated Code of Conduct – We are LTAR (employees) 4,5 4,7 5,6 5,4 5,3 INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE review is conducted responsible, which suppliers will be asked to comply annually with all employees. This includes planning for with. This also applies to child labor and forced/ Number of fatalities as result of the following years, also regarding for example training/ work-related injuries 0 0 0 0 0 compulsory labor. education required, personal development targets etc. Each manager is responsible for arranging and docuTRIOPLAST COLLECTIVE agreements together with Number of worked hours 1 821 012 1 783 355 1 647 259 1 654 906 1 630 307 menting these performance reviews and to support the national legislation set the rules for cooperation with the employee’s development ambitions. When performance unions. Trioplast strives to have close cooperation with reviews were implemented some time ago, the share of the unions, based on honest and open communication THE INCREASE OF LTAR in 2017 is partly an effect of operational presidents. performed performance reviews were measured. This with regards to expected changes and current/future divestment of the production site Ekman in Jönköping, KPI is no longer in focus, as it was recurrently reaching operations and development within the company. Local EMPLOYEES ARE TRAINED in health and safety at its a site with few LTAs. This also effected the number of very close to 100%. Performance reviews are now a part trade unions are present on all production sites and are respective production site. worked hours, being the basis of the LTAR calculation. of Trioplast’s normal annual operation. represented on company boards of directors. WORK RELATED ILL HEALTH, i.e. employees work Trend after 2017 is slightly improving, with fewer actual ALL EMPLOYEES at the production sites in Sweden, LTAs in Trioplast. absence not related to an accident – such as but not France and Denmark are covered by collective agreelimited to stress – are in some cases not calculated as THE TARGET FOR each production site is zero LTAR. an LTAR. In many cases it is very difficult to determine On-going activities to support this target is e.g. focus on if the cause for the ill health is work related. The number 5S (Sort, Set in order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain) of employees and/or frequency of ill health is not public and weekly score card follow-up (including actions takinformation, on grounds of confidentiality and integrity en for incidents occurred). In addition, implementation of the employee. The manager of the affected employof safety observations in all sites will take place in 2020. ee is a key person in rehabilitating actions and local HR AN LTA NORMALLY creates an investigation of the supports and assists. Rehabilitating action depends accident; what has happened, how did it happen and on individual employee and specific situation; external what preventive actions should take place to prevent it counselling, job rotation, temporary part time employfrom happening again. This work is carried out at the ment for example. Trioplast also supports preventive affected production site and normally includes action for work related ill-health, for example by subsiemployees from the area of the plant in which the LTA dizing recreational activities, see Employees’ benefits at occurred. The results and learnings can be shared via page 28. Trioplast’s WCM-group, i.e. amongst the division Continue on the next page » 28 29 » Continuation from the previous page SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Trioplast follows and reports on employees’ absence, due to illness. The follow-up is divided into absence days 1-14 (short-term absence) and from day 15 and onward 4 3,5 Short-term absence (day 1-14) Community Engagement (long-term absence) and is calculated as a percentage 3 of employees on absent compared to total number of 2,5 % absence 2 employees. 1,5 IN GENERAL, short term-absence is constant from year 1 TRIOPLAST’S CAMPAIGN OF COLORED SILAGE OVER THE YEARS, the initiative has spread across the to year – normally a bit higher in the winter/early 0,5 BALES AND PRODUCTS world and charity work has contributed to much-needed spring months and lower in the summer months. 2019 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Trioplast proudly sponsors cancer research via the camfunds for cancer research. followed a similar trend. 2016 2017 2018 2019 paign of colored silage bales and products. The THE INITIATIVE HAS also attracted considerable initiative to highlight and support cancer research attention in the media, which has helped to create Trioplast has been successful in lowering long-time through silage bales in colored film was introduced in Long-term absence (day 15+) awareness of the significance of the brightly colored absence from 3% in 2016, to reaching a level of 2% by 2014 and focused from the start on breast cancer, as 4 bales. This means that the visual signaling value of the the end of 2019. The low rate of long-term absence the pink bales raised funds for breast cancer research. 3,5 bale colors is now very strong. Today the colors is partly due to early and regular follow-up meetings The idea of the pink bales came from a female 3 between HR, employee and the relevant manager. The symbolize the constant fight against cancer – a fight contractor in New Zealand, where the campaign also % absence 2,5 purpose of an early meeting is to find a way to have the that Trioplast is proud to be a part of. 2 started. 1,5 employee back at work as soon as they are fit to work, IN THE YEAR of 2019 the campaign for bales worldsometimes with altered tasks or reduced workload. REFUSE BAGS in the same color and for the same 1 wide (24 different countries participating) has cause, soon joined the pink bales. A yellow carrier bag 0,5 contributed by about MSEK 1,2 to cancer research. 0 was introduced the same year yellow being the symJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Additionally, about KSEK 45 has in total been raised by bol for the fight against childhood cancer. Also, a blue 2016 2017 2018 2019 the refuse sacks campaign in Sweden. silage film has been introduced, to support research against prostate cancer. The addition of yellow silage stretch film raised further funds for childhood cancer DIVERSITY, EQUALITY AND NONthat discrimination is not acceptable at Trioplast. In case DISCRIMINATION any employee experiences discrimination they should research. Trioplast strongly believes in and supports diversity contact the manager and/or local HR for support. and equality. This applies not only to gender, but also DIVERSITY STRUCTURE for Trioplast regarding age ethnicity, age, background etc. Trioplast do not accept and gender is shown below. According to Swedish law, any kind of discrimination. HR is available for support in diversity indicators other than age and gender are not the case of discrimination. In 2019, no such incidents allowed to be registered and therefore not followed up. were reported to group HR for corrective action. HowAge distribution is monitored on production site level, ever, when summarizing the all employee survey some in accordance with country requirements, but not employees claimed to have been discriminated against. consolidated at group level as the country requirements As the employee survey is anonymous, HR can not act OTHER COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT consumer for each plastic carrier bag purchased in are dissimilar. directly on these indicators, more than clearly stating Trioplast has in recent years also supported the Norway. This forwarded to Handelen’s environmental Rynkeby children’s cancer funding, making yellow foundation, using the donation for several projects NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES MALE/FEMALE REPRESENTATIVE plastic bags for a regional food store chain in Sweden affecting the environment. This was implemented as an FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (2019) (HEAD COUNTS) close to the manufacturing site of Bengt Lundin AB. alternative to a tax system, ensuring the investment to Board of directors 7 86% / 14% By purchasing the yellow plastic bags, the community better the environment. In 2019 this campaign raised Trioplast Industrier AB is supporting cancer research. In 2019 the campaign MSEK 217. contributed MSEK 2,2. TRIOPLAST ALSO PROVIDES an annual contribution GMT 8 88% / 12% BENGT LUNDIN AB also helps to administrate the to the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation, as an Norwegian initiative for Handelen’s environmental alternative to Christmas gifts for its customers. Trioplast* 953,1 80% / 20% foundation. A mandatory, additional fee is paid by the 30 * excluding AFP 31 About the Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordaims do describe Trioplast’s impact on the environment, Included in this Sustainability Report are production part of the fiscal year of 2019, whereas for example AFP ance with the GRI Standards: Core option. people, communities and the economic contribution to sites that have been owned by Trioplast for the majority that was acquired in December 2019 is not yet included. any interested stakeholder. TRIOPLAST ANNUALLY publishes a Sustainability PRODUCTION ADDRESS EMPLOYEE MALE/FEMALE COMMENT INCLUDED Report, with the purpose of providing a transparent overTHE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018, summarizing SITE FULL TIME REPRESENTATIVE IN THIS SUSEQUIVALENT (HEAD COUNTS) TAINABILITY view of Trioplast’s work on sustainability. Focusing on the calendar year 2018 was published in June 2019. (DEC. 2019) REPORT performance during 2019, but in some cases also some Financial reporting is made in accordance with the historical data is included. In addition, work to be Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The statutory sustainaDivision AFP performed during 2020 is in some cases described, bility report is included in the financial report 2019 for AFP Laan van Westenenk 11, 214,8 87% / 13% No1 especially for implementation and follow-up activities Trioplast Holding AB. 7336 AZ Apeldoorn The Netherlands for initiatives started in 2019. The Sustainability Report Division Carrier Bags Bengt Lundin AB Linbanegatan 2 94,9 62% / 38% Yes SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Jössefors The Sustainability Report 2019 covers performance on the operative work is carried out in the group. 671 60 Arvika environment, health, safety and social conditions at It also briefly gives an overview of the financial result Sweden Trioplast throughout the calendar year of 2019. Focus is at Trioplast. For more details, please see the annual Division Industrial film on Trioplast Industrier AB and its subsidiaries, where all financial report of Trioplast Holding AB. Ekoplast Emballage Hammervägen 7 26,2 83% / 17% Yes AB 432 32 Varberg Divisions Sweden CONSUMER PACKAGING STRETCH FILM INDUSTRIAL FILM CARRIER BAGS Mo Industri AB Stråkenvägen 3 26,0 69% / 31% Yes & SPECIALTY FILMS 565 76 Bottnaryd Product lines Sweden Pallet stretch film FFS film Embossed film Plastic carrier bags for food Agricultural film Stretch hoods Breathable film retailers Trioplast Fjugesta AB Fjugesta Byväg 5 1,0 0% / 100% The production in Yes, Refuse sacks Shrink film Laminates 716 30 Fjugesta Fjugesta was closed until closed Building and covering film Forest industry film Blown film Sweden during autumn 2019 Refuse sacks Film with high-quality printing and part of the producBags and sacks Bags for hygienic purposes tion was moved to Mo, Nyborg and Ekoplast. Units Trioplast Nyborg A/S Taasingevej 1 163,0 82% / 18% Yes 5800, Nyborg Trioplast AB Trioplast Nyborg A/S Trioplast Landskrina AB Bengt Lundin AB Denmark Trioplast France SAS Trioplast Sifab AB Trioplanex International AB Trioplast Fjugesta AB Trioplanex France SAS Ekoplast Emballage AB Mo Industri AB Trioplast Sifab AB Rasåsen Töva 34,0 91% / 9% Yes Sales companies (in addition to the sales offices at each factory) 853 59 Sundsvall Sweden Trioplast OY Trioplast LTD Trioplast GmbH Trioplast AS Finland UK Germany Norway AFP was acquired by Trioplast in late December 2019. Integration of AFP into Trioplast started in the » 1 beginning of 2020, but forms for now a division for itself. Continue on the next page 32 33 » Continuation from the previous page ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCTION ADDRESS EMPLOYEE MALE/FEMALE COMMENT INCLUDED Contact persons SITE FULL TIME REPRESENTATIVE IN THIS SUSEQUIVALENT (HEAD COUNTS) TAINABILITY (DEC. 2019) REPORT Division Consumer packaging and special purpose film (former Hygiene film) Please contact Sustainability Development Director Eva Hultén regarding questions about this Trioplanex France 80, Rue de la République 79,0 86% / 14% Yes SAS 80610, Saint-Ouen Sustainability Report. France Responsible publisher and contact person is Trioplanex Lodjursgatan 5 0 N/A In 2019, the production Yes, International AB 261 44 Landskrona was moved to Trioplanex until closed Andreas Malmberg, CEO Sweden France SAS. The producTRIOPLAST INDUSTRIER AB tion site in Landskrona Box 143 is now fully operated by Trioplast Landskrona AB. SE-333 23 Smålandsstenar, Sweden +46 371 345 000 Trioplast Landskrona Lodjursgatan 5 145,0 78% / 22% Yes www.trioplast.com AB 261 44 Landskrona Sweden Division Stretch film Trioplast AB Parkgatan 10 270,0 79% / 21% Yes 333 31 Smålandsstenar Sweden Trioplast France SAS 4 Rue de la Pidaie 95,0 85% / 15% Yes Pouancé 49420, Ombrée d’Anjou France REPORTING PRINCIPLES Production sites report on current sustainability KPIs A MORE DETAILED sustainability reporting data (energy consumption and LTAR) monthly, in Trioplast’s collection system was drafted during 2019. It is under financial reporting system Frango. This also provides development and will be implemented during 2020. information on number of employees and working hours The purpose is to collect information and sustainability etc. In addition, some information is collected from data in a more structured manner from each production the salary systems. The rest of the information in this site. Sustainability Report is from other available information collected by a reference group with collective insight into the organization. 34 35 GRI Index 2019 GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2018 AND GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) GRI STANDARD DISCOLURE PAGE NUMBER/URL GRI 102 General Disclosures 1 Organizational profile The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI economic, environmental and social issues. According Standards) are the first and most widely adopted global to GRI, sustainability reporting should provide a 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 16, 40-41 standards for sustainability reporting. GRI’s core balanced and reasonable picture of a company´s results 102-12 External initiatives 11 product are the Sustainability Reporting Standards. with regards to sustainability. Trioplast has used GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 11 They have been continuously developed over 20 years indicators since the Sustainability Report 2018. and represent global best practice for reporting on 2 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 3 Ethics and integrity GRI STANDARDS 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9, 16-18 This report has been prepared in accordance with the this GRI indicator is described. Management Approach 4 Governance GRI Standards: Core option. is described collectively for all Indicators, as described 102-18 Governance structure 8 in the table. THE FOLLOWING TABLE shows the GRI Standard 5 Stakeholder engagement Indicators that Trioplast has chosen. It also contains THIS SUSTAINABILITY Report has not been audited 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 references to where in the Sustainability Report by a third party, as has been indicated below. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 27-28 Trioplast’s efforts, progress and in some cases plans for 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13 GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2018 AND GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13-15 6 Reporting practice GRI STANDARD DISCOLURE PAGE NUMBER/URL 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 6, 20, 32-24 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 32-34 1 Organizational profile 102-47 List of material topics 15 102-1 Name of the organization 6-11 102-48 Restatements of information 6, 17, 20, 32-34 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6-11 102-49 Changes in reporting 15, 32-24 102-3 Location of headquarters 6-11 102-50 Reporting period 32 102-4 Location of operations 6-11, 33-34 102-51 Date of most recent report 32 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6-11 102-52 Reporting cycle 32 102-6 Markets served 6-11 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 35 102-7 Scale of the organization 6-11 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 36 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6-11, 30, 33-34 102-55 GRI content index 36 102-9 Supply chain 10 102-56 External assurance No, 36 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 6-11, 32-34 Continue on the next page » 36 37 » Continuation from the previous page GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2018 AND GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2018 AND GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) GRI STANDARD DISCOLURE PAGE NUMBER/URL GRI STANDARD DISCOLURE PAGE NUMBER/URL GRI 103 Management Approach 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 29-30 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 12-19 403-9 Work-related injuries 29-30 103-2 The management approach and its components 12-19 403-10 Work-related ill health 29-30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 12-19 GRI 404 Training and education GRI 201 Economic performance Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 28 career development reviews 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20 GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 205 Anti-corruption 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 30, 33-34, 40-41 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 16-17, 19 and procedures GRI 406 Non-discrimination 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 17 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 13, 16, 19, 30, 40-41 GRI 301 Materials GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 21-24 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 407-1 16, 28, 40-41 association and collective bargaining may be at risk 301-2 Recycled input materials used 21-24 GRI 408 Child labor GRI 302 Energy Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 408-1 16, 27, 40-41 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 25 of child labor 302-3 Energy intensity 25 GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 25 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 409-1 16, 27, 40-41 forced or compulsory labor GRI 306 Effluents and waste GRI 411 Rights of indigenous people 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 26 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 30 GRI 307 Environmental compliance GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 26 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 27 GRI 401 Employment economic area 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 27-30 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 401-2 27-30 to temporary or part-time employees GRI 402 Labor/Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 27-30 GRI 403 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 17, 29-30 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 29-30 403-3 Occupational health services 29-30 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occu403-4 29-30 pational health and safety 38 39 UN Global Compact and THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES TRIOPLAST APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATORS Communication on progress Labor 6 Business should work to eliminaWe eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and 102-8, 103-2, 406-1 te all discrimination in respect of occupation. employment and occupation. TEN PRINCIPLES ON RESPONSIBLE Rights and the Convention against Corruption and Environment BUSINESS PRACTICE covers areas of human rights, working conditions, the 7 Business should support a We support the precautionary principle to environmental 103-2, 102-11 Launched in 2000 by former UN Secretary-General environment and anti-corruption. In 2017, Trioplast precautionary approach to responsibility. Kofi Annan, the UN Global Compact was initiated to joined the UN Global Compact and currently holds a environmental challenges. bring business and the United Nations together to give learner status. By implementing the ten principles of UN a human face to the global market. UN Global Compact Global Compact into the updated Code of Conduct 8 Business should undertake We take initiatives to promote greater environmental 103-2, 301-1, 301-2, 302-4 is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, compliance is ensured for all employees. Code of initiatives to promote greater responsibility. environmental responsibility. now covering over 170 countries and more than 10 000 Conduct is a part of the introduction for new employees. voluntary CEOs’ commitments to implement ten 9 Business should encourage the We encourage the development and diffusion of 103-2, 301-2, 302-4 universal sustainability principles. For more information, TRIOPLAST’S APPLICATION of the ten principles is development and diffusion environmentally friendly technologies. see www.unglobalcompact.org. published on its official web-page www.trioplast.com. of environmentally friendly technologies. THE TEN SUSTAINABLE principles are based on variAnti-corruption ous UN conventions, such as the Declaration of Human 10 Business should work against We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 102-16, 103-2, 205-2, 205-3 corruption in all its forms, and bribery. including extortion and bribery. THE GLOBAL COMPACT TRIOPLAST APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATORS PRINCIPLES Human rights COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 Business should support and We support and respect the protection of international human 103-2 Organizations that have endorsed the Global Compact Trioplast provides this information using this respect internationally rights in the areas we can influence. proclaimed human rights must produce an annual Communication On Progress Sustainability Report. (COP), detailing how they meet the ten principles. 2 Business should make sure they We make sure our company is not complicit in human rights 103-2 are not complicit in human rights abuses. abuses. Labor 3 Business should uphold the We uphold the freedom of association and the effective 102-41, 103-2, 407-1 freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Business should work to We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 103-2, 409-1 eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5 Business should work for the We work efficiently for the abolition of child labor. 103-2, 408-1 effective abolition of child labor. 40 41 Definitions ISO 9001 International standard relating to quality management. ISO 14001 International standard relating to environmental management. ISO 22000 International standard relating to food safety management. ISO 26000 International standard that provides guidance on how organizations can deal with social 5S Sort, Set in Order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain responsibility issues. The standard has influenced Trioplast Code of Conduct, also the updated 5S is an important part of Lean manufacturing/WCM, originally developed by Toyota. It is defined as version that will be implemented in 2020. a methodology that results in a workplace that is clean, uncluttered, safe and well organized to help reduce waste and optimize productivity. ISO 45001 International standard relating to Occupational health and safety. Agenda 2030 (AFP) The UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a comprehensive plan that outlines how ISO 50001 International standard relating to energy management systems. poverty is eradicated and transform the world into a peaceful, sustainable environment for all – a Plan of Action to Change the World. KPI Key Performance Indicator. LCA Life Cycle Assessment. For Trioplast this normally means calculation of CO2eq. during the products CO2 Carbon dioxide is formed in all carbon combustion processes, such as fossil fuel combustion. life cycle from cradle to Trioplast end gate. CO2-eq. Carbon dioxide equivalent, the result in SimaPro software calculation for LCA, taking all GHG into LTA Lost Time Accident, a work-related where the employee has not been able to return to work the consideration and recalculating it to CO2. following day due to the incident Carbon footprint Total GHG emissions. At Trioplast, CO2-eq. is used for carbon footprint measurement. LTAR Lost Time Accident Rate, of Trioplast employees having a work-related accident. CEO Chief Executive Officer, Managing director. LTAR is calculated in the standardized calculation: CFO Chief Financial Officer, Head of finance. LTAR=(number of LTA × 200 000) Code of Conduct Behavior code of Trioplast. (number of labor employee hours) Competition Compliance Policy Trioplast’s policy for ensuring fair and legal competition compliance. Employees in critical positions, OHSAS 18001 International standard relating to Occupational health and safety. such as sales, sourcing and/or management team verify compliance annually. PCR Post-Consumer Recycled COP Communication On Progress An EU classification of recycled plastic, also called Post-Consumer Resin, that is recycled after Organizations’ annual report on how ten principles of UN Global Compact are progressing. being used for its purpose. Plastic recycled after not being used for its purpose is classified as PIR; Post-Industrial Recycled CPO Chief Procurement Officer, Head of sourcing. or Post-Industrial Resin. Global Compact An UN initiative in the area of corporate social responsibility. Participating organizations agree to PE Polyethylene, raw material used in Trioplast’s products. Traditionally, it is primarily produced from adhere to then principles in the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and crude oil, but is also produced from fossil free raw materials, such as sugar canes etc. anti-corruption. Trioplast’s interpretation of the Global Compact is reflected in Code of Conduct. SEDEX Sedex is one of the world’s leading ethical trade service providers, working to improve working conditions in global supply chains. GMT Group Management Team for Trioplast Industrier AB, see page 8 GHG Green House Gases SDG Sustainable Development Goals Gases being captured in the atmosphere, participating to the greenhouse effect by reflecting the Seventeen sustainable development goals for end of extreme poverty, fight inequality and sun’s radiation back at earth. injustice, and protect our planet, adopted by UN in 2015 under the umbrella of Agenda 2030. This includes water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and ozone (O3). SimaPro Computer software, to support in calculation of LCA. Triolean Trioplast’s downgauged products, with sustained or increased performance. GRI Global Reporting Initiative The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) are the first and most widely adopted Trioloop Trioplast’s brand for PE film that contains recycled material. global standards for sustainability reporting. Triogreen Trioplast’s products, based on fossil-free green/bio based PE with a very low carbon footprint. HR Human Resources Trio:Greenway Trioplast’s sustainable services, including tailor made life cycle assessment. ISCC Plus International Sustainability & Carbon Certification UN United Nations Globally leading certification system, contributing to the implementation of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable production and use of all kinds of biomass in global supply WCM World Class Manufacturing, Trioplast’s operational system for production, based on LEAN-principles. chains This work is led by division operational heads. 42 43 WE ARE THERE TRIOPLAST INDUSTRIER AB Box 143 · SE-333 23 Smålandsstenar · Sweden +46 371 345 10 · trioplast.com 44
