Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Page 1/13 About Lonza At Lonza, we combine technological innovation with world class manufacturing and process excellence. Together, these enable our customers to deliver their discoveries in the healthcare, preservation and protection sectors. We are a preferred global partner to the pharmaceutical, biotech and specialty ingredients markets. We work to prevent illness and promote a healthier world by enabling our customers to deliver innovative medicines that help treat or even cure a wide range of diseases. We also offer a broad range of microbial control solutions, which help to create and maintain a healthy environment. Founded in 1897 in the Swiss Alps, Lonza today operates in 120 sites and offices in more than 35 countries. With approximately 15,500 full-time employees, we are built from high-performing teams and individual employees who make a meaningful difference to our own business, as well as the communities in which we operate. The company generated sales of CHF 5.9 billion in 2019 with a CORE EBITDA of CHF 1.6 billion. Find out more at www.lonza.com and follow us on Twitter @LonzaGroup or Facebook @LonzaGroupAG. Statement of Continued Support from Albert Baehny, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer ad interim “Safety and sustainability are critical considerations in how we plan, execute and evaluate every aspect of our work. As a business that works to advance human health, it is also important that we take care of the environment, our communities and our own people. This enables us to build trust with all our stakeholders, including our employees, customers and investors. The safety of our people is vital to our ethical standing and operational effectiveness. This is why we strive to have zero accidents or incidents across our sites. We work in preventing accidents and incidents by involving everyone in hazard reduction, improving processes and upholding safe working practices. Managers in all our locations are expected to maintain safety, encourage employee engagement and to take corrective actions, which improve the working environment. Every site is developing a roadmap to achieve energy, CO2 and waste targets, and becoming more actively involved with their local communities. We measure our success not only by revenue and profit, but also by how much we are able to give back to our people and communities, as well as protecting our environment.” Page 2/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Human Rights Principle 1: In our global “Code of Conduct,” translated into all corporate languages, we have stated that all https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili Business should employees are expected to know the law as it applies to their sphere of responsibility; ty/ethics-and-compliance support and respect management is expected to provide appropriate training and guidance, especially relating to the protection of human rights and employment rights. See the “Employee Ethics and internationally Compliance” and “Due Diligence” proclaimed human We are committed to the highest levels of quality and operational excellence across the regions, chapters in the About Lonza section rights; and … functions and markets we serve every day. This commitment is driven by our passion for as well as the Economic and Social customer success, empowerment, trust and integrity. sections of Lonza’s Sustainability Report 2019: As part of this commitment, the Lonza Code of Conduct establishes the professional standards https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 for Lonza employees at all levels of the company – wherever they are in the world. It serves to 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus define how we do business and how we interact with each other. tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf As part of the commitment to sustainable development, the Supplier Code of Conduct sets high standards for our suppliers and provides a framework to evaluate their practices. It is referenced in the Purchase Order and contract received by each of our suppliers. In addition to carefully selecting and evaluating suppliers for security of supply and specifications of materials and services, we also monitor and audit our suppliers to improve performance and relationships. Included within this monitoring system are the principles of the Supplier Code of Conduct. We operate an automated anti-bribery and anti-corruption diligence, monitoring for high-risk vendors. This approach is run by our Ethics & Compliance Group and is integrated into the procurement and vendor management process through our ERP system (SAP). Relevant third parties are blocked in SAP until the diligence process is completed. Page 3/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE The process includes real-time corruption, trade sanctions, and adverse media screening for all third-party vendors with increased diligence for higher-risk third parties. The system includes mandatory completion of a diligence questionnaire in addition to Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption training. Third parties with higher risk profiles are then further reviewed and assessed by members of the Ethics & Compliance Group. Our third parties are continuously monitored and, as relevant, full due diligence is completed on a two-year automated cycle. Principle 2: Performing with integrity means setting the right priorities and delivering on our commitments https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili … make sure that while adhering to Lonza’s values and the standards set forth in the Code of Conduct. ty/ethics-and-compliance they are not complicit in human Our respect for human rights forms a foundation of the business in all our markets. As a See the “Employee Ethics and rights abuses. signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since March 2009, we support the Compliance” and “Due Diligence” protection of internationally agreed human rights and commit to ensure that we are not chapters in the About Lonza section complicit in human rights abuse. Being active in many parts of the world, we are present in as well as the “Non-Discrimination some regions ranking high on human rights risk indices. We see it as our responsibility to assess and the Protection of Human our own operations with regard to potential human rights violations. Therefore, we included Rights” chapter in the Social section this element in the survey initiated in 2019 across all sites. of Lonza’s Sustainability Report 2019: Our Code of Conduct requires all employees to comply with applicable laws and regulations at https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 any location where we have operations, including child labor and forced labor. We provide 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus annual training and self-certification to all our employees regarding compliance with our Code tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf of Conduct. We also provide additional training to our purchasing employees on the Supplier’s Code of Conduct. The Lonza Ethics Hotline provides a mechanism for employees and others to report potential violations of the Code of Conduct, any Lonza policies or procedures (including those related to ethical sourcing), or applicable laws on an anonymous basis, where allowed by law. Page 4/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Labor Principle 3: The Code of Conduct provides the basis for creating and maintaining the relationship of mutual https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili Business should trust, which is essential to business success. It explicitly expresses that we consider fairness in ty/ethics-and-compliance uphold the freedom our dealings with employees to be of paramount importance. It is our commitment to corporate of association and social and ethical responsibility and our respect for human rights and employment rights. See Disclosure 102–41 Collective the effective bargaining agreements in Lonza’s recognition of the Local management and human resources work closely together with employee representatives, Sustainability Report 2019: right to collective work councils and unions according to the specific laws and agreements. https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 bargaining… 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus In addition, our Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides rules against child labor at our tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf suppliers. Within Lonza, there are no employee organizations and representatives at a global level. Therefore, we are not collecting specific information about collective bargaining agreements in affiliates. Generally, the Lonza Group companies are established in countries where representation of employees is the rule, via work councils, unions and collective bargaining agreements. Local management is responsible for maintaining good labor relations according to legal requirements and agreements with unions, work councils and other employee representing bodies. We respect these relationships and work with these parties in a mutually considerate manner. In addition to the country-specific employee representation, we have also established a European Works Council that holds regular meetings to maintain a positive culture of information and communication. In the European Works Council, all European countries with more than 100 employees are represented by employee nominated delegates: Belgium, France, Germany, Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. The European Work Council is assisted and supported by a union secretary. Page 5/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Principle 4: Our Code of Conduct is applied to all actions and activities of Lonza in the pursuit of a high level https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili …the elimination of of social responsibility and as such is also a crucial element against forced and compulsory labor. ty/ethics-and-compliance all forms of forced and compulsory See the “Non-Discrimination and the labor; … Protection of Human Rights” chapter in the Social section of Lonza’s Sustainability Report 2019: https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf Principle 5: In our Code of Conduct, all managers are committed to act in compliance with the law. In addition, https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili …effective abolition Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct explicitly bans all forms of child labor at our suppliers. ty/ethics-and-compliance of child labor; and … See the “Non-Discrimination and the Protection of Human Rights” chapter in the Social section of Lonza’s Sustainability Report 2019: https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf Principle 6: Our Code of Conduct prohibits any form of discrimination. It states that we do not tolerate any https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili … the elimination of discrimination, harassment or bullying on the basis of ethnicity, national origin, color, religion, ty/ethics-and-compliance discrimination in sexual orientation, creed, age, sex, disability or any similar characteristic. respect of See the “Non-Discrimination and the employment and Lonza’s Ethics Hotline provides a mechanism for employees and others to report potential Protection of Human Rights” and occupation. violations of the Code of Conduct, any Lonza policies or procedures (including those related to the “Occupational Health and ethical sourcing), or applicable laws. Such reports may be made anonymously where allowable Safety” chapter in the Social section Page 6/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE by law. Any reports of alleged discrimination made through the Ethics Hotline or reported of Lonza’s Sustainability Report directly to Lonza’s compliance function in any other way, are reviewed by Lonza’s Ethics & 2019: Compliance Group. Any discrimination allegation received by Lonza’s Ethics & Compliance Group https://annualreport.lonza.com/ is reviewed in conjunction with in-house employment counsel and Lonza’s Human Resources 2019/servicepages/downloads/fil function. Any employee found responsible for any violations may face disciplinary action, es/sustainability_lonza_ar19.pdf including termination of employment. Lonza wants to ensure that every employee returns home safely at the end of the working day and in good health. We seek to provide a workplace environment that does not affect the health https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili or otherwise compromise the well-being of our employees. ty/performance/standards-andtransparency?cert_type_facet_sm=E We continuously monitor our operations regarding health risks for our employees. This includes HS (but is not limited to):  Job and technical hazard assessments, e.g. ergonomic hazards  Technical improvements  Training and education  Substance exposure monitoring for chemical exposures, according to the limit values set by the corporate toxicology group Page 7/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Page 8/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Environment Principle 7: At Lonza, we are committed to sustainable development in all its broad and diverse meanings. Sustainability website: Business should In part, this means striving to reduce our use of natural resources such as water and energy, our https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili support a carbon footprint and the generation of waste. ty precautionary approach to In our operations, we engage and empower our employees and teams to work towards our environmental Vision Zero – meaning zero workplace injuries, zero manufacturing process incidents, zero challenges; … emissions beyond regulatory limits and zero transportation incidents. In the workplace, we aim Performance: to protect our colleagues as well, by identifying and eliminating potential hazards. https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili ty/performance One of our long-term goals is to improve our sustainability performance and reduce our environmental footprint. In 2018, we reviewed our strategy and policy and updated our environmental goals to reflect specifically the longer-term greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction requirement from the Paris Agreement. The other targets focus on waste and energy efficiency. Lonza Safety and Sustainability Policy: For the required improvement toward the long-term target and the annual milestones, we are developing three-year rolling safety and sustainability roadmaps for our manufacturing sites. https://www.lonza.com/The site management teams are each developing a plan to drive the site towards compliance, /media/Lonza/Lonzacom/sustainabil efficiency and safety. Local goals are added according to the materiality analysis in the sites, e.g. ity/files/certificates/Lonza_Safety_a for water consumption and air impurities. nd_Sustainability_Policy.pdf Whereas our Safety and Sustainability policy defines the high-level principles, our corporate EHS management system supports their implementation. The process safety team – part of the corporate EHS group – is working closely with the sites in the implementation of rules and standards for safe processes. Our EHS group also oversees our company-wide sustainability efforts. EHS risk assessments serve as valuable tools in our business and operating practices and in our planning processes. We review new ventures, capital investments in production equipment and systems and other major projects not only for Page 9/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE the business opportunities they present, but also for their environmental, health and safety impact. Principle 8: At all facilities worldwide, Lonza promotes and lives the cycle of continual improvement for Sustainability Report 2019: …undertake environmental, health and safety issues. Providing transparent evidence of corporate https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 initiatives to sustainability practices is part of our commitment to excellence. Our latest step was to publish 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus promote greater the second Lonza Sustainability Report for 2019. In addition, we disclose sustainability-related tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf environmental information on our corporate website, within the CDP framework (former Carbon Disclosure responsibility; and … Project) and on two widely used webhosted platforms to exchange sustainability profiles and emissions data between downstream customers and upstream suppliers (Ecovadis and Ecodesk). We maintain an EHS Management System which has been adapted to the actual ISO 14001 and 45001 standards, and detailed guidelines for people safety. This program applies to all locations and all employees. Lonza supports ICCA's Responsible Care Global Charter and has signed their declaration of support. Regular internal audits of different functions (internal audit, EHS audit, loss-prevention visits, quality audit, authority inspections and other) deliver both oversight and governance. EHS audits are performed in a three-year cycle, and reports with findings are distributed to the senior management. To strengthen our commitment to sustainability and to better share best practices across the entire company, in 2018, a Sustainability Council was established by our Executive Committee. The cross-functional Council is headed by the Lonza Group General Counsel and includes members from Legal, Environment Health & Safety, Human Resources, Investor Relations and Communications. It directly interacts with the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. The ultimate responsibility for all sustainability-related matters lies with the Chairperson of the Board. Page 10/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Lonza’s largest site in Visp (CH) continues to address legacy mercury contamination along a former wastewater discharge canal, on surrounding soils and other areas where contaminated sediments were deposited. This issue dates back to when we used large amounts of mercury as a catalyst in chemical processes. The site discharged industrial mercury-contaminated wastewater into the canal between the 1930s and 1970s before the construction of the wastewater treatment plant. Since 2013, we have worked closely with local communities to finance and implement the required technical investigations in residential areas and agricultural zones between Brig-Glis and Niedergesteln (CH). By the end of 2019, 93 parcels of land in Visp and Raron (CH) were remediated and the work will continue in 2020 with further investigations being conducted on the agricultural and canal areas. Our progress in 2019 in relation to our 2030 Targets: Principle 9: Lonza participates in industry groups that promote sustainability. As participants in and See examples in the Environmental …encourage the signatories of the American Cleaning Institute® and the Sustainability Charter, we endeavor to section of Lonza’s Sustainability development and benefit society and improve the quality of life through hygiene and cleanliness by driving Report 2019: diffusion of sustainability improvements across our industry and throughout the supply chain. https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 environmentally 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus friendly Lonza is a member of a number of associations in the biopharmaceutical, chemical and the tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf technologies. personal care industry sectors, as well as in the business community in general. Associations Page 11/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE may serve a variety of purposes such as exchanging best practices, aligning on public policy issues or collaborating on advocacy activities. The list below details some of those associations: • Science Industries (https://en.scienceindustries.ch/ ) • Cefic, the European Chemical Industry Council (http://www.cefic.org/) • American Chemistry Council (https://www.americanchemistry.com/) • American Cleaning Institute (https://www.cleaninginstitute.org/ ) Page 12/13 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Lonza takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and is committed to acting https://www.lonza.com/sustainabili Business should professionally, fairly and with integrity at all times. Furthermore, the business implements and ty/ethics-and-compliance work against enforces effective systems to help prevent bribery and corruption. We uphold all applicable corruption in all its anti-bribery and corruption laws. See “Anti-Corruption” chapter in forms, including Economic section of Lonza’s extortion and Lonza’s Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy applies to everyone working for any company Sustainability Report 2019: bribery. within the Lonza group of companies. Lonza conducts business in countries around the world https://annualreport.lonza.com/201 and deals with many different cultures. Regardless of where Lonza is doing business, it will 9/servicepages/downloads/files/sus uphold its standard of conduct by acting ethically and responsibly and by complying with the tainability_lonza_ar19.pdf applicable laws of the countries in which it operates. Lonza has a dedicated Ethics and Compliance group which is charged with monitoring and promoting compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. In addition, we operate an automated interface for third party due diligence and monitoring. All employees have access to our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy via our intranet. New employees receive an induction on anti-corruption and anti-bribery via an online training module. Lonza’s Ethics Hotline provides a mechanism for employees and others to report potential violations of the Code of Conduct, any Lonza policies or procedures (including those related to anti-corruption), or applicable laws or regulations. A survey of our sites regarding anti-corruption, socioeconomic and environmental compliance has been completed in 2019 and resulted in no observations or risks. Page 13/13
