Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC Neuberger Berman BD LLC 1290 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10104 Tel. 212.476.9000 May 1, 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary General, I am pleased to confirm that Neuberger Berman supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our ongoing commitment to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Neuberger Berman will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in this important initiative is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes Neuberger Berman’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on our progress according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. This includes:  A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles.  Neuberger Berman’s 2019 ESG Annual Report (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption).  A measurement of outcomes showcased in our firm stakeholder metrics (pages 45-47) of the enclosed Annual Report demonstrating progress year over year (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). As a firm, Neuberger Berman will continue to value a principles-based approach to conducting business by providing disclosure on a number of targets and indiators to demonstrate our progress as a responsible corporate citizen across all facets of our work and operations. Sincerely, George H. Walker Chief Executive Officer, Neuberger Berman
