BraunAbility | The Braun Corporation 631 W. 11th Street, Winamac, IN 46996 www.braunability.com October 16, 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that BraunAbility reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Staci Kroon President & Chief Executive Officer BraunAbility Human Rights Assessment, Policy, and Goals: The core purpose of our business, mobility transportation products for persons with physical disabilities, supports and enhances human rights, as our products provide mobility and independence to wheelchair users around the globe, changing their lives for the better. Last year we highlighted that BraunAbility had initiated a global movement for accessibility called “Drive for Inclusion.” The goal of this initiative is to build a more mobility-inclusive society that makes it possible for people of all ability levels to fully contribute to the world around them. An Advisory Board was formed, made up of individuals from the disability community to guide the efforts of Drive for Inclusion. Implementation: The first-ever Drive for Inclusion report card was published in 2020 to provide a benchmark on the State of Inclusion, and to also uncover discrepancies between general population perceptions and the realities for those with mobility challenges. Topics and statistics covered included the need for better accommodations in workplaces, as well as for those with disabilities in the workplace, as well as the need for improving public policy and laws regarding accessibility. Measurement of Outcomes: • Over 4,000 BraunAbility employee volunteer hours, including: o 2,800 hours spent painting special markings on wheelchair-accessible parking spots o 640 hours spent building ramps to make homes accessible that were otherwise not accessible to the wheelchair user o 400 hours spent making “Save My Spot” cones for wheelchair users to protect the access to their vehicle. • 565 Media stories precipitated from Drive for Inclusion, promoting awareness of human rights of those with disabilities. Labor Assessment, Policy, Goals: Both our BraunAbility Code of Conduct and Partner & Supplier Code of Conduct highlight our commitment to the elimination of all forms of compulsory and child labor. In addition, our Employee Handbook makes clear that BraunAbility is an “employer at will”, meaning employees have the right to leave their employment at any time. In addition, our Employee Handbook and Code of Conduct include the right to collective bargaining, and the Employee Handbook also includes several prohibitions with respect to discrimination, including a commitment to a workplace free of all types of harassment and discrimination, as well as a zero-tolerance policy regarding workplace violence. In 2020 we had two focuses with regard to labor. The first was to continue the work that had commenced in 2019 around increasing employment of people with physical disabilities. As we noted previously, our outward focus has always been on those with physical mobility challenges, and our goal continues to be to ensure that those with physical disabilities are represented in our employee population, as well. Second, we also put a focus on other types of diversity within our workforce and, specifically, setting a path to build an even more inclusive workplace. We believe this will ultimately lead to even greater diversity within our workforce. Implementation: For the first focus around disability employment, we furthered our work with an existing summer intern program through Eskenazi Health. This internship partnership program recruits college students with physical disabilities and matches them with host companies. Through this program we were partnered with a student attending Ball State University, who is currently interning within our finance and accounting area. This student is also a user of our products. For the second focus, we began by establishing a roadmap towards greater inclusion. In 2020 this included holding a training session for our executive leaders around “Inclusive Leadership.” This session included an open dialogue with Kendall Wright, a well-known speaker and advocate in diversity and inclusion. This session helped our senior leaders better understand why creating an inclusive workplace is important and how to recognize their own unconscious bias. This inclusive leadership training is now being rolled out to people leaders across the BraunAbility organization, and an overall strategy and roadmap is being set around diversity and inclusion with the support of our Board of Directors. Measurement of Outcomes: • Regarding focus #1, BraunAbility is working towards the goals of: o An overall representation of 2% of our employee population being those with physical disabilities. o All job openings being sent to our network of disability referral sources. • For focus #2, the targeted outcomes are: o All people leaders participating in “Inclusive Leadership” training by the end of 2020. o Employees at all levels receiving inclusion training and support in Q1 of 2021. Environment Assessment, Policy, Goals: As part of our 2020 corporate compliance program, we were successful in maintaining our ISO 14001:2015 Certification. We reassessed our environmental aspects, impacts, and risks and found no change from 2019. Therefore, we continued with four reduction goals, that aimed for 5% reduction from 2019 on a per unit basis in the following areas: water consumption, waste disposal, electrical consumption, and natural gas consumption. Along with establishment of these reduction goals, reduction plans were developed, and monthly monitoring ensures our progress. Implementation: Reduction plans are managed by various members of management and implemented in multiple areas around the BraunAbility campus. Reduction targets are reviewed on a monthly basis and changes to reduction plans occur as necessary. Projects that have impacted our metrics include: • Replaced dock seals around our shipping docks • Increased our pulse welding operations • Introduced new robotic welders • Installed a new trash compactor Measurement of Outcomes: • Completed an Environmental Legal Compliance Audit and were found to be in compliance • Completed a management review of our Environmental Management System • Maintained ISO 14001:2015 Certification • 5% reduction targets for 2019 were achieved • On pace to reduce trash to the landfill by 28% in 2020 compared to 2019 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy, Goals: BraunAbility has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and procedure in which BraunAbility commits to conducting business in compliance with all laws and regulations. This procedure requires reporting of gifts given and received by BraunAbility employees, the input of which is monitored by management, in addition to preclearance procedures when giving gifts or other items of value. This procedure also addresses the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act. Additionally, BraunAbility updated its trade restrictions procedure to require a bi-annual screening against the export.gov search of all international entities and individuals BraunAbility conducts business with to ensure good trade standing. The revised procedure now also applies to BraunAbility’s European subsidiary, requiring searches of customers located outside of the European Union; with the depth of the searches dependent on the assessed anti-corruption risk in those countries. In 2020, BraunAbility also underwent an anti-bribery and corruption review with an outside consultant, which assessed anti-corruption elements including risk assessments, policies and procedures, training, leadership, third party due diligence, internal controls, reporting, and internal investigation and reactions to misconduct. Implementation: The results of the anti-bribery and corruption assessment were shared with the board of directors. Employee gift reports were reviewed by top management quarterly and a whistleblower reporting system continues to be available to all employees, vendors, customers, and other outside third parties. Anti-bribery and corruption were assessed in BraunAbility’s annual risk assessment process. A trade restrictions provision was added to BraunAbility’s standard terms and conditions of sale. Measurement of Outcomes: • Priority was assigned to the area anti-bribery and corruption on BraunAbility’s 2021 global compliance plan. • A bi-annual screening of our international customers list was conducted. • Quarterly reporting and tracking of all gifts given and received. • A whistleblower hotline is in place at our five subsidiaries.
