SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR COMMITMENT REGARDING THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS [2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 VISION OUR VALUES OUR PRINCIPLES 1 To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in RESPECT FOR OUR PEOPLE Greece and the wider region. INTEGRITY We recognise the value of our people • Respect for laws and regulations. and we promote their personal development, while offering competitive CORPORATE MISSION • Applying business ethics and the principles of corporate governance. terms of employment, within a working • Honest and open communication. environment of respect and mutual trust. TO CONDUCT our business operations We respect human and labour rights and • Credibility and respectability in all kinds so as to increase the company’s give priority to workplace Health and of business relations. corporate value for the benefit of all Safety assurance. stakeholders -shareholders, personnel, customers, suppliers, associates and partners, as well as the local and greater communityapplying 2 RESPECT FOR EFFICIENCY technological and commercial THE ENVIRONMENT innovations. • Achieving set targets. We recognise the value of our natural • Creating value for shareholders and TO MEET our customers’ needs environment and the necessity for society. responsibly and effectively, while sustainable development and commit • Servicing customers’ needs. expanding our share in the domestic ourselves to the implementation of • Providing a safe, stimulating and market. effective operational procedures and reciprocal workplace. technology for its protection. • Continuous improvement and TO FUNCTION reliably, swiftly and promotion of learning and innovation. flexibly in our relationship with employees, customers, suppliers, TRANSPARENCY 3 and the general public, by making use of practices that demonstrate We operate professionally and responsibility and integrity, as SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY responsibly, strictly implementing well as respect for people and the the principles of business ethics and environment. • Respect for all stakeholders. corporate governance. • Respect for the environment and commitment for sustainable growth. • Priority for Health and Safety. STRATEGIC GOALS • Ensuring that the companies of the Group are active and responsible MAXIMISING THE PROFITABILITY of all corporate citizens, respecting the local the companies of the Group and overall community and society as a whole. financial performance. MAXIMISATION AND OPTIMISATION OF SALES, by effectively marketing our products and exploiting opportunities in our three markets (domestic, aviationmarine bunkering, and export), for achieving the best possible profitability. STRIVING FOR THE HIGHEST STANDARDS of Health and Safety, Environmental protection and Quality, through the application of technical, operational and organisational innovations and improvements MOTOR OIL HELLAS 3 ] 1970 1980 1990 [ 1972 ] [ 1980 ] [ 1993 ] Commissioning of the refinery. Commissioning of the Catalytic ISO 9002 quality certification for It comprises a Crude Oil Distillation Cracking Unit (for converting the entire range of the company’s Unit, a base oils production unit fuel oil to higher added value commercial and manufacturing and port facilities. products). activities. [ 1975 ] [ 1984 ] [ 1996] Construction completion of Construction of a Power Purchase of 50% of the the 100,000 barrels/day Crude Plant, burning fuel gas. company’s shares by Saudi Distillation Complex. Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco). Construction completion of the 1.5 million cubic metres tank farm. Relocation of the Head Office to a modern Offices Complex in Maroussi. [ 1978 ] Commissioning of the Catalytic Reformer Unit for gasoline production. 48 YEARS IMPORTANT MILESTONES THE GROWTH OF [4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2000 2010 [ 2000 ] [ 2010 ] Construction of new units and upgrading Commissioning of the new 60,000 barrels/day of the Naphtha Reformer into a continuous Crude Distillation Unit, and of two additional 103-octane number catalyst regeneration unit Sulphur Recovery Units, of a combined 170 ΜΤ/ for the production of fuels conforming to EU day sulphur production capacity. specifications. Completion of the acquisition of the shares New Central Control Room and installation of the companies SHELL HELLAS S.A. (renamed of a Distributed Control System. to Coral S.A.), and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. (renamed to Coral GAS A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% of the Certification of the Environmental Management aviation fuels trading company. System, according to ISO 14001:1996. [ 2011 ] [ 2001 ] Completion of the construction of 5th gas turbine Increase of the company’s equity capital in refinery’s power cogeneration plant, which now through public offer of shares and listing on the has a total capacity of 85MW. Athens Stock Exchange. Upgrading of the Lubes Vacuum Distillation Unit. Construction completion of KORINTHOS POWER S.A. power plant, located in the MOTOR OIL refinery premises. [ 2002 ] Acquisition of 100% of the retail oil marketing company AVIN OIL. [ 2014 ] Acquisition of 100% of the retail oil marketing [ 2004] company Cyclon A.B.E.E. Commissioning of the new Truck Loading Terminal at the refinery. [ 2017 ] Recertification of the Quality Management [ 2005] System according to the new ISO 9001:2015, The Hydrocracker Complex is commissioned, of the Environmental Management System facilitating the production of “clean fuels” according to the new ISO 14001:2015 and of conforming to European Union specifications. the Health and Safety Management System, according to OHSAS 18001:2007. Repurchase of Saudi Aramco’s stake in the company. Certification of the MOTOR OIL Refinery according to the ISO 50001:2011 for Energy Management and according to ISO 18788:2015 [ 2006] for security. Certification of the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory, according to ISO 17025:2005. [ 2018 ] [ 2007] Acquisition of 90% of the electricity company Registration of the company in the Hellenic NRG TRADING HOUSE ENERGY S.A. Register of EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme). Issue of the first voluntary Environmental Statement, conforming with EU Regulation EMAS ER 761/2001. [ 2019 ] Expansion into the Renewables sector. [ 2008] Certification of Health and Safety Management System, according to OHSAS 18001:2007. [2009] Increase of the participation in the share capital of OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. from 28.0% to 92.06%. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 5 ] MANAGEMENT MESSAGE The MOTOR OIL Group Sustainability Report for 2019, The high degree of correlation amongst our refinery the 18th consecutive such report, details our strategy units, combined as optimally as possible with the and performance on significant issues related to distribution of our products in the markets in which sustainable development. The structure of the Report we have been traditionally active, allowed us to is based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines realise refining margins within the highest range in and the GRI Standards, as well as on the provisions the sector. Meanwhile, we continued with targeted of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals investments and laid the foundations for our entry into (SDGs). the Renewable Energy Resources sector to expand our energy portfolio even further. At the same time, this document serves also as our “Communication on Progress” prepared in On a consolidated basis, our operating performance accordance with the principles of the UN Global (EBITDA) reached 474 million euros, and our net Compact, which we endorse and support. earnings after taxes 224 million euros. Our sales amounted to 14.4 million metric tons, once again far The year 2019 was extremely satisfactory for us, as exceeding the refinery’s annual nominal production we successfully responded to a number of challenges, capacity. such as increased volatility in the international refining environment accompanied by the de-escalation The export orientation of the parent company was of margins in the last quarter of the year, and the reaffirmed in 2019 as well, as 82.1% of sales was implementation of planned maintenance works to directed to customers abroad. refinery units during September and October. [6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We have remained consistently committed to True to its values, our company immediately took all corporate responsibility. With more than 2,100 necessary steps to protect the health and safety of employees throughout the Group, we continuously its workers, its customers and its associates, while provide for their professional development with ensuring the smooth operation of its production extensive training programs that in 2019 exceeded network to supply the market without disruption. 37,000 hours. With a target of zero accidents, we strive daily to cultivate a safety culture in all of our activities Nowadays, it is clearer than ever that, at a time and particularly those related to the operation of of continuous change, addressing sustainable our depots and facilities. We consistently reduce our development as a key cornerstone of one’s business environmental footprint by using technologies that strategy is the only way to proceed, both for the lead to decreased emissions and to energy saving. company and for the community in which it operates. We at MOTOR OIL have always embraced that As we write this report, humanity is in the midst of an philosophy and believe it is the only road to success, unprecedented pandemic. Economies on a global both now and in the future. level are experiencing consequences of vast scope and intensity. The slowdown of the global economy will undoubtedly impact the economies of all countries, including the by-default internationalised refining industry. MOTOR OIL Group Management MOTOR OIL HELLAS 7 ] CONTENTS [8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Important milestones: The growth of MOTOR OIL 04 Message from the Management 06 MOTOR OIL Group Profile 12 The Refinery 13 2019 Results 14 Corporate Governance 15 Participation in International – National Agencies 17 10 and Networks IDENTITY AND Awards and Recognition 18 CORPORATE Managing Corporate Responsibility 19 RESPONSIBILITY Responsible Growth and Investments 20 Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety 21 Responsible Quality Management 22 Product Safety 23 Communication with Stakeholders 24 Identification of Material Issues 26 Human Resources Management System 30 28 Equal Opportunities and Human Rights 30 RESPONSIBILITY Labour Relations and Trade Unions 31 TOWARDS Basic Employment Data 31 OUR EMPLOYEES Remuneration System and Additional Benefits 33 Education and Training 34 Health and Safety Management Framework 40 Our performance on safety 41 38 Health and Safety Investments 42 Procedures 43 HEALTH REACH and CLP Regulations 44 AND SAFETY Emergency Response Plans 44 Safety of Port Installations 46 Safeguarding Workforce Health 46 Training on Safety Issues 47 Environmental Management 52 Environmental Investments and Expenditures 55 Implementation of Best Available Techniques 56 50 RESPONSIBILITY Energy-Saving 56 Air Quality Management 60 FOR THE Liquid Waste Management 63 ENVIRONMENT Solid Waste Management Recycling 63 Water Management 64 Noise Management 65 Protection of the Marine Environment 65 66 Economic Benefits to Society Social Product 68 SOCIAL Customer Service and Respect 69 RESPONSIBILITY Social Solidarity and Sponsorships 70 About the Sustainability Report 74 74 Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 75 SUSTAINABILITY and our contribution to the Sustainable REPORT FRAMEWORK Development Goals GRI Compliance Level 77 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 9 ] IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are a modern energy group that grows and creates value with consistency and responsibility. In all the years during which the MOTOR OIL Group In 2019, the value of refinery products production has been operating as an oil refinery and oil products amounted to 12.1 million MT compared to 13.3 million marketing company, it has always functioned with MT in the previous year. The decrease in production a strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming is due to the scheduled routine maintenance of the at sustainable profitability and development in a Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit that took place between socially responsible manner. It implements investment September and October 2019. programs aiming at the continuous development and optimisation of its productive activity, always bearing The company once again confirmed its export in mind the Vision and the corporate values that form orientation in 2019, during which overseas sales the framework of its operation and business activity. (including shipping and aviation) accounted for 82.17% of the company’s total volume of sales, compared to 2019 was a positive year for MOTOR OIL with 82.51% in 2018. reasonably satisfactory financial results, in spite of the adverse conditions in the industry in the second half of Regarding our financial overview, the creation the year, when international refining margins fell to low of positive cash flows allowed, on the one hand, levels. uninterrupted funding of the company’s turnover and operating activities, while on the other hand reducing In this context, company strategy focused primarily its net bank debt for the eighth consecutive year. on optimal distribution of products on the three main It should be noted that MOTOR OIL’s cash and cash markets in which it does business (domestic market, equivalents exceeded its loan liabilities at the end of exports and shipping/aviation), and on generating the fiscal year. positive cash flows. As a result, MOTOR OIL managed to achieve sales in the amount of 14.15 million MT, Finally, in 2019, the foundations were laid for the significantly exceeding the refinery’s annual nominal Group’s entry into the RES sector as part of its strategy production capacity. for diversification of its revenue. [ 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14.1 million tons Motor Oil sales 82.17% of sales are exports Constantly reinforced export orientation MOTOR OIL HELLAS 11 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1. MOTOR OIL Group Profile • The Group has a foothold in the power and natural gas market with the acquisition of 90% of NRG TRADING HOUSE ENERGY S.A. NRG offers electricity and natural gas The MOTOR OIL Group on average employs 2,153 people; programmes, and primarily aims to provide comprehensive it had a consolidated turnover in 2019 equivalent to 5% of services to home and commercial consumers through topthe Greek GDP and total assets of 3.47 billion euros on a level services that meet all energy needs. consolidated basis. The Group plays a leading role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector products in Greece, as well as the greater eastern through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which MOTOR Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake of 48.97% range of high-quality products. and 46.03% respectively. OFC is the company which constructed and operates the system for supplying aviation The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 and the fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, as well as refinery commenced operations in 1972. The company has the fuel storage facilities at the same airport. been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001. It is listed in the general index (ATHEX COMPOSITE INDEX), the high • The Group is also active in the aviation fuel market through cap index (FTSE/ ATHEX LARGE CAP), the new High Dividend its subsidiary Shell & ΜΟΗ Aviation Fuels S.A. Shell Overseas Yield Index and the international indices MSCI GREECE and Holdings Ltd and Coral S.A. have a 51% and a 49% holding, FTSE4Good Index Series. respectively. The Company provides aircraft refuelling services to 20 airports in Greece and in Sofia, Bulgaria. • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose refinery is • In 2019, the Group laid the groundwork for its entry into one of the most technologically sophisticated, complex and the Renewable Energy Sources sector through TEFORTO flexible (in terms of production processes) refineries to be HOLDINGS LIMITED (wholly-owned subsidiary of Sousaki found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. Electroparagogi), which entered into an agreement for the construction of 3 wind farms with a total capacity of • In the area of trade, the Group has a significant presence in 9.4 MW. The efforts to enter the RES sector continued in the domestic market due to the liquid fuel retail networks the beginning of 2020 with the acquisition by TEFORTO of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL and Coral (formerly SHELL HOLDINGS LIMITED of a portfolio of solar farms operating in HELLAS S.A.). Together, these networks consist of a total Greece with a total capacity of 47 MW. of approximately 1,400 service stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about 37% of the domestic market. Since • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing 2017, Coral has been active in Cyprus’ retail market through support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance plc, its subsidiary, Coral Energy Products Cyprus Limited, which a financial services supplier, IREON INVESTMENTS Ltd, a operates 32 service stations, 29 of which are under the Shell holding company, Corinthian Oil Limited, which is involved brand. Similarly, since 2018, Coral has been active in Serbia’s in the marketing of crude oil and oil products, and Building market through its subsidiary, Coral SRB d.o.o Beograd, Facility Services, which supplies facility management and which operates 4 service stations under the Shell brand. operation services. • In the lubricants sector, the Group is represented by its The following table sets out the major subsidiaries and subsidiary, LPC S.A. LPC is active in the industrial production affiliated companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, of basic lubricants, the production and trade of packaged as well as the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) lubricants and the sale of paraffin. The company exports by the parent company. More detailed information on the its products to more than 50 countries, and is the agent for companies can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2019. internationally known VALVOLINE lubricants in Greece. • The Group enjoys a strong presence in the liquefied gas sector through Coral Gas S.A. The company stores, packages and markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied gas for vehicles (autogas), and has a market share exceeding 27%. In 2017, the company established a subsidiary in Cyprus intending to expand its activities abroad. [ 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Name Activity Direct Indirect ΑVΙΝΟΙL SINGLE MEMBER S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% LPC S.A. LUBRICANTS & PETROLEUM Processing and marketing of lubricants 100% PRODUCTS and petroleum products NRG SUPPLY AND TRADING S.A. Power and natural gas sales 90% OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 48.97% 46.03% IREON INVESTMENTS LIMITED Holding Company 100% MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% CORINTHIAN OIL LIMITED Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% ELECTROPARAGOGI SOUSAKI S.A. Production and marketing of electricity 100% BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% SHELL & MOH S.A. AVIATION FUELS Marketing of aviation fuels 49% This Report includes results only for parent company MOTOR OIL and for subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC, NRG and OFC. 2. The Refinery The refinery is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe with a 11.54 rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. It has the capacity to process various types of crude oil and manufactures a wide range of oil products. It supplies commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the only refinery that produces base oils in Greece. The technical sophistication of the refinery allows MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with high added value, adjusting the final product mix to market needs, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving better refining margins than other composite refineries in the Mediterranean. Characteristics of the refinery • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per This certification meets the requirements of the biofuel mass stream day (BSD). balance and expires in 2021. The refinery has earned two new certificates, the ISO 50001:2011 for energy management, • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one of the and the ISO 18788:2015 for its security system. most advanced and complex in Europe, with Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an 11.54 rating on the • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing base Nelson Complexity Index. oils and finished lubricants, approved by such international agencies as the American Petroleum Institute (API), the • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive diesel) European Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA) in accordance with the EU specifications. and the United States Army and Navy. • It has ISO 9001:2015 certification for Quality, ISO • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, which 14001:2015 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 certification for the now has a capacity of 85 MW following the recent addition Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for Health of a fifth gas turbine. and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for its Chemical Labs and CE Marking certification for its asphalt products, • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 and the production of hydrogen. requirements of European standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This • It has a storage capacity of 2,600,000 m3 (Crude Oil: is a combination of standards found in very few European 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 1,600,000 refineries. m3). Also, MOTOR OIL applies the EI/JIG1530 standard in relation • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable for to the production, storage and distribution of Jet Fuel. tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can serve more In the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and than 3,000 vessels annually. the sustainability criteria laid down by the EU, our company • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve applies a control system for biofuels and the blending of 220 tanker trucks per day, which significantly strengthens fossil fuels with biofuels, having been certified with the the competitive position of MOTOR OIL in the southern 2BSvs Certificate since October 2016. Greek market. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 13 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3. 2019 Results MOTOR OIL Sales per market (thousand Μt) 2019, and especially its second half, was marked by lower 14,354 14,150 13,830 refining margins globally. Thanks to the refinery’s high 12,852 13,042 complexity index, our Group was able to make continual adjustments to the crude supply mix in order to respond to these circumstances in the best way possible. The company’s strategy in 2019 focused on the distribution of its products in the best possible way, and the creation of 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 positive cash flows. In 2019, MOTOR OIL’s refining margins Shipping -Aviation were higher than the benchmark for the sector. It should be External Market noted that the contribution of industrial activity in 2019 to the PPC Domestic Market company’s total sales was lower compared to 2018 (85.75% from 90.87%) due to the regular maintenance of refinery units that took place between September and October MOTOR OIL sales per product (thousand Μt) 2019. However, the company’s total volume of sales in 2019 once again significantly exceeded the refinery’s maximum 13,830 14,354 14,150 nominal capacity. Also within the year, the Group expanded 12,852 13,042 its portfolio of entrepreneurial activities by entering the RES sector. • In 2019, MOTOR OIL product sales reached 14.4 million MT*. Its products are delivered to the three markets in which it operates (domestic market, exports, and the shipping/ aviation sector) through a powerful sales network and with the help of long-standing relationships with customers. The quantities supplied to each of these markets are determined by the relevant demand, but also by the company’s aim of 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 supplying its products to the markets that offer the highest Others margins. The sales figures show the company’s steady Lubricants export orientation, based on which foreign sales, including Liquefied Petroleum Gas Gasoline shipping/aviation sales, to more than 45 countries (the main Aviation Fuel destinations being Saudi Arabia, the USA, the UK, Turkey, and Automotive Diesel – Heating Oil EU countries) accounted for 82.17% of all sales, compared to Fuel oil 82.51% in 2018. Exports are also beneficial to the company Asphalt on an operational level, allowing it to finance the purchase of crude oil at the current price levels and ensure a continuous • Group turnover stood at 9.37 billion euros in 2019 (down supply of raw material to the refinery. 1.54% compared to 2018). Contributing to this development was the decrease in the average price of petroleum products (in USD) by about 9.76%, and part of the decrease in the turnover was offset by a weakening in the dollar/euro rate of 5.2%. • The Group’s EBITDA amounted to 474 million euros in 2019 compared to 495.1 million euros in 2018, down by 4.27%. Similarly, the Group’s net results after tax for 2019 reached 224 million euros compared to 255 million in 2018, down by 11.9%. The above was mainly a result of the reduced refining margins during the second half of the year and the regular maintenance work, while the contribution of the commercial subsidiaries was particularly positive. • MOTOR OIL’s total domestic market share came to 29.7% from 31% This decrease is due to a slight drop in fuel oil sales. * 14,150 thousand ΜΤ sales and 258 thousand ΜΤ from the sale of crude oil to a third party. [ 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consolidated Financial Results (million euros) ΜOTOR OIL’s domestic market share 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 604 621 9,520 Fuels 35.2% 33.5% 28.4% 30.2% 29.7% 9,373 492 495 Shipping 7,843 474 Aviation 26.2% 25.8% 24.9% 32.2% 32.2% 7,060 6,357 Lubricants 40.4% 38.4% 40.6% 45.7% 68.0% Total domestic market 32.7% 31.4% 27.4% 31.0% 29.7% 298 314 255 224 205 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Turnover EBITDA Net profit after tax 4. Corporate Governance The management and control of MOTOR OIL are based on • the identification, reporting and control of all inherent risks. contemporary principles of good corporate governance, as The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and (CCG), which was prepared and approved by the Board by other international practices and auditing standards. of Directors. The CCG sets out the framework governing Corporate governance determines the company’s daily the company’s key operating areas, and includes the best operations with regard to issues such as: practices in corporate governance it has adopted. • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, The Code is revised as appropriate (amendment of articles • r espect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests of association, changes in the organizational chart, or in the and the rights of all shareholders, customers and suppliers, institutional and regulatory framework, etc.) and is always available in its current form on the company website. The • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, company’s most senior decision-making body is the Board • transparency in decision-making, of Directors, which is elected by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and which represents a broad range of • t he reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, knowledge, experience and qualifications, tailored to match regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its the objectives of the company while ensuring, as far as financial transactions, possible, a numerical balance between executive and non• t he management of personnel and remuneration matters, executive directors. and Composition of Board of Directors Name Board Position Member Identity* VARDIS J. VARDINOYANNIS Chairman and Managing Director Executive IOANNIS V. VARDINOYANNIS Vice Chairman Executive IOANNIS KOSMADAKIS Deputy Managing Director Executive PETROS TZANNETAKIS Deputy Managing Director Executive GEORGE ALEXANDRIDIS Member Non-executive THEOFANIS VOUTSARAS Member Executive MICHAEL STEIAKAKIS Member Executive DIMOSTHENIS N. VARDINOYANNIS Member Non-executive NIKI STOUFI Member Non-executive ANASTASIOS TRIANTAFYLLIDIS Member Non-executive/ Independent ANTONIOS THEOHARIS Member Non-executive/ Independent PANAGIOTIS KONSTANTARAS Member Non-executive/ Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 15 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Board Committees Control and Risk Management Systems Three committees operate within the framework of the In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal Control Board of Directors: Remuneration, Audit, and Organisation & and Risk Management ICRM Systems, in relation to the Corporate Governance. procedure for compiling financial statements, we should state that the MOTOR OIL financial reports system uses a The Remuneration Committee comprises four executive sophisticated software package to produce reports to the members of the Board of Directors and a company executive. administration and to external users. The chairman of the committee is P. Tzannetakis, and the other members are I. Kosmadakis, T. Voutsaras, M. Steiakakis, and I. Financial statements and other analyses are submitted to the Kioufis (Refinery Deputy General Manager). The Remuneration administration on a monthly basis, and compiled in simple Committee has been in existence since 1996 and serves in and consolidated form, in accordance with the International an advisory capacity to the Board of Directors, It deals with Financial Reporting Standards, for submission to the staffing issues and recommends policies on salaries, benefits administration and for general publication, on a quarterly basis. and incentives for management and staff, also overseeing Both reports submitted to the administration and financial implementation of the said policies. It should be noted that the information released to the public contain all the necessary company, in accordance with the provisions of Article 110 of information expected from an updated internal audit system, Law 4548/2018, has a Remuneration Policy for Members of the featuring analyses of sales, costs and spending, operating Board of Directors which was approved by the Annual Ordinary profits, and other details. General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2019 and is available All reports to the administration contain details for the current on the company’s website. period, for purposes of comparison with the corresponding The members of the Audit Committee are named by the Annual figures in the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors, Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance and with the figures for the same period in the previous year. All with the provisions of Law 4449/2017. The chairman of the published interim and annual financial statements are compiled committee is the non-executive member of the Board of in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Directors, P. Konstantaras and its ordinary members are G. Standards, contain all necessary information and opinions on Alexandridis (non-executive member of the Board of Directors), the financial statements, are reviewed by the Audit Committee and K. Thanopoulos (independent member of the Committee and approved in their entirety by the Board of Directors. according to Law 4449/2017). Alternate member of the Committee is N. Stoufi (non-executive member of the Board of Directors). The committee members are all well-versed in Policy on Corruption the sector in which the company does business. The Audit Combating corruption and preventing related incidents is a Committee has also been in existence since 1996, and is of priority for us and for our stakeholders. Corruption is directly considerable assistance to the Board of Directors in performing related to environmental degradation, the infringement its duties, acting as the recipient of all reports on audits carried of human and labour rights, and the violation of laws. Our out by the company’s Internal Audit Department. The statutory commitment to fight corruption is manifested in our adoption auditor or audit firm reports to the committee on all matters of the United Nations Global Compact, which explicitly refers to relating to the progress and results of the regular mandatory actively combating corruption (Principle 10 Businesses should audit, submitting a special report on any weaknesses in the work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and internal audit system. bribery) and in the fact that we have undertaken all necessary Since 1990, the company has had its own Internal Audit actions to prevent any such incidents. Just as in 2018, there Department, which reports directly to the Board of Directors were no confirmed incidents of corruption in 2019 involving our and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The company’s employees or our associates, nor were we fined or penalised independent internal audit system aims at ensuring compliance for failure to comply with related laws and regulations. with the company’s procedures for managing financial and Moreover, in 2017 we proceeded to draw up the MOTOR OIL operational matters, as well as ensuring that issues related to Group’s General Operating Principles, which include those the efficient management of business risks are given proper principles governing all of our activities and our transactions attention. Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also with internal and external stakeholders. Our principles have audited by independent chartered auditors, in compliance with been posted on the company website www.moh.gr and have its statutory obligations. been notified to all of our employees and associates. The Organisation & Corporate Governance Committee was formed in June 2017 and is charged with overseeing matters related to the company’s organisation which include changes in the organisational structure, as well as issues of complying with the mandates of the regulatory and institutional framework of corporate governance. The chairman of the committee is I. Kosmadakis, and the other members are P. Tzannetakis, T. Voutsaras and the non-executive member of the Board of Directors N. Stoufi. [ 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5. Participation in International – • Works with the Metallurgy Lab of the National Technical University of Athens, POWER MEDIA PRODUCTIONS and the National Agencies and Networks Municipality of Rafina-Pikermi to implement the European LIFE DIANA environmental project. LIFE DIANA involves MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support and constructing a pilot facility at the MOTOR OIL refinery maintain lasting relationships with international and national to exploit petroleum sludge in making new added value bodies, and are members of: materials. • The Global Compact Network Hellas. • Works with a consortium of 27 European bodies • The Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. (universities, research institutes, public organisations and private companies) as part of the European research • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV). project INFRASTRESS for the improvement of the security of • The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the critical national industrial facilities and infrastructure against Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well as cyber and physical threats. other regional Chambers. • Collaborates with the Institute of Geodynamics, the NKUA • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. Department of Geophysics-Geothermics, the Geophysics • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. and Seismology Lab at the Technical Educational Institute of Crete, and Satways Ltd in implementing the ARIS national research project to develop an integrated early warning and MOTOR OIL also participates in the following organisations: seismic risk management system in the refinery area. • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in Europe), • Cooperates with the NKUA Department of Biology and the providing technical support to European refineries on NTUA Biotechnology and Chemical Process Engineering Health, Safety and Environmental Protection issues. labs to implement the DeepDesOil national research project developing a combined chemical-biological process for • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), an hyper-desulphurisation of petroleum products. association of petroleum companies with an interest in promoting the safe and environmentally friendly marine • Works with the Laboratory of Environmental Fuels and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. Hydrocarbons at the Centre for Research and Technology and the ELPE refineries as part of the PROOFF national • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), the forum of oil research project developing innovative catalytic processes companies on issues of prevention and timely response to for the exploitation of low value oil fractions towards the sea pollution. production of upgrading fuels and petrochemical raw Moreover, we support the academic community in research materials. exploring refining industry issues relating to health, safety and • Avin Oil works with the NTUA Vehicles Laboratory, the environmental protection. Centre for Technological Research of Central Greece and It also takes part in a number of innovative research Real Consulting on the MOTIF national research project to programmes: develop and use smart applications and innovative systems • It works with the National and Kapodistrian University to optimise road transport safety in the liquid fuel sector. of Athens and the Department of Geology and • LPC works with the Foundation for Research and Geoenvironment to determine chemical conditions Technology and the Technical University of Crete on the prevailing in the refinery’s coastal zone. APOFASI national research project to develop a portable • Cooperates with 9 European universities, research institutes optical spectrometry system to detect contamination in and companies in the implementation of the DIRPIMCOAL liquid fuels. project which aims at the environmental optimisation of the liquefaction of coal from industrial and urban waste for the production of biofuels. • Cooperates with 14 European universities, research institutes and private companies in the implementation of the CARMOF pilot project focused on capturing CO2 at the refinery using innovative hybrid porous adsorbent materials. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 17 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 6. Awards and Recognition The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and Greek business communities. Such recognition highlights the excellent quality of the Group’s products and services, as well as the positive response from the public. CHRIMA Business Awards 1st prize in the “Investor Relations” category for MOTOR OIL. For the 9th consecutive year, MOTOR OIL was named the leading company  on the basis of specific criteria (profitability, increase in personnel, ICAP True Leaders leadership position in the sector and credit rating). OFC was awarded for the twelfth consecutive year with the JIG Joint Inspection Group Certificate of Excellence”, which none of the 550 companies inspected by JIG worldwide has achieved ever before OFC earned the Sustainable Performance Award for the excellent JIG Sustained Performance Award results it has shown during the period 2016-2018. Energy Mastering Awards CORAL was awarded the GOLD award in the Leadership category. LPC was awarded the BRONZE award in the Extrovert Manufacturing Manufacturing Excellence Awards Activity category. Manufacturing Excellence Awards CORAL GAS received the BRONZE award in the Innovative Products category for the Internal Leakage Limiter used in its cartridges. CORAL received the WINNER of the INDUSTRY award for establishing a Health & Safety Awards 2019 culture of safety among personnel. CORAL GAS was awarded the GOLD award for its road safety program. Health & Safety Awards 2019 AVIN OIL received the SILVER award for the expansion of its actions to strengthen the safety culture and increase personnel and contractor awareness of safety issues at retail stations. CORAL was awarded the Corporate Responsibility Excellence Award Corporate  Responsibility Excellence Awards by the Hellenic Advertisers Association in the Purposeful Communication category for its road safety campaign. [ 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7. Managing Corporate Responsibility The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. In implementing the principles of corporate responsibility, we seek: • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social and environmental impact of the Group’s operations, • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving the interests of other stakeholders, • to show concern for our employees and for society at large. We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues and demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our commitment to pursuing our business activities with due respect for people, the environment and society. Improvement Improvement of Conditions of Performance EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT • Best Available Techniques • Health and Safety • Energy Savings • Equal Opportunities • Reductions of Emissions • Competitive Remuneration System • Training & Development Corporate Responsibility Management Model Promotion of Responsible Improvement of Quality and Ethical Practices of Life SOCIETY MARKET • Contribution to Culture, • Corporate Governance Sports and the Environment • Quality & Reliability • Support of socially • Service vulnerable groups • Monitoring & Evaluation • Responsible Growth • Risk Management • Responsible Employment MOTOR OIL With Responsibility towards Society, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local With Responsibility towards its Employees, communities in which it operates, in a climate of trust and adopts the four-fold approach of attracting, identifying, respect. It supports these communities by participating in developing and retaining its human resources by investing programmes that enhance their economic, social and cultural in their training, securing a work setting where teamwork, life, and becomes involved in similar activities that benefit respect and initiative are key and where Health and Safety society as a whole. are of top-most priority and ensured by the most advanced infrastructure and administrative practices. With Responsibility towards the Market, respects market rules and produces top quality products; With Responsibility towards the Environment, it focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum and partners, and strives to ensure the best possible return impact on the environment, by having in place an effective for its shareholders without compromising its principles of Environmental Management System and implementing Best corporate responsibility and sustainable development. Available Techniques, and the most advanced systems for environmental protection, energy management and energy saving. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 19 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 8. Responsible Growth and Investments Responsible Management of the Supply Chain Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as a For us, the proper management of the supply chain is leading refining and oil products marketing company in the an essential component of our corporate responsibility. broader region in which we operate. In order to succeed in this We recognise that a sustainable supply chain not only objective, we focus on the following three key targets: minimises social and environmental risks but can also • Maximisation of financial returns and the refinery’s profit serve as a leading example of values and success for the margins. industry and the community. We thus carry out detailed • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively evaluation of our potential suppliers, on the basis not marketing the refinery products and exploiting opportunities only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and in our three available markets (domestic, aviation/shipping, environmental criteria. and exports), for achieving the best possible profitability. Would-be suppliers are asked to complete questionnaires • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, detailing their ability to safeguard the quality of the Environmental Protection and Quality, through the products and services they aim to provide, as well the application of technical and operational adaptations. environmental impact of their activities and the health and safety systems they employ. In respect of the contractors working at the refinery 1,946 and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive programme of safety training, the objective always being to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. For example, in 2019 we continued the programme whereby refinery contractors (1,117 individuals) underwent training with million euros Total investments exams and certification over a total of 8,936 hours. for the period 2000-2019 Detailed evaluation and training programs are also implemented in the tanker truck companies which meet our transport needs. We are aware that every day dozens Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period of tanker trucks are travelling the roads on our behalf, 2000-2019 amounted to 1,946 million euros, not including and are committed to minimising the risks inherent in capital used for acquisitions. road transport. For this reason, we have developed very The outlay for investments in 2019 amounted to 159 million detailed programmes in which transportation companies euros and, as far as the refinery is concerned, involved are assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if investments in large-scale projects, as well as the refinery’s they fail to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. As regular maintenance program which focuses on the a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the end revamping of the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit, the project of of 2019 our tanker trucks had travelled over 28 million km the new naphtha treatment complex, the upgrade of the port without a single accident. and the new anchorage, and the construction of new and modification of existing tanks inside and outside the refinery. The rest of our investment programme has been designed to upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, energy autonomy and environmental protection. The result has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the most efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind in Europe and the world. [ 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Responsible Growth of Group Value OBJECTIVE VALUE CREATION Maximizing Maximizing / Optimizing STRATEGY Financial Optimizing Sales Safety and Performance Environmental Protection Effective Transparency METHODS Targeted Cost Effective Dedicated / Corporate Investments Management Marketing Staff Governance BASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 9. Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety Ensuring health and safety and environmental protection constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive to conduct our operations without compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. The emphasis on management of Health, Safety and Environmental Protection, as well as our commitment to continual improvement of specific sectors, is reflected in a comprehensive management system that includes the Environmental and Energy Management System (ISO 14001), and the Health and Safety Management System (certified to OHSAS 18001:2007 standard since 2008), which translate this policy into programmes and quantifiable targets. Additionally, the Energy Management System is certified to ISO 50001:2011. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System that and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is takes Health, Safety and Environmental Protection factors committed to: into consideration when business decisions and plans are being prepared, and in the operation of its facilities. • Setting aims compatible with the continuous improvement of its Health, Safety and Environmental management • Offering information and training to its own employees systems. and to subcontractors and others working on its behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised awareness of • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of safe working practices. relevant legislation or other obligations. • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance environmental operating standards that set limits on with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental Protection waste and polluting emissions. specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use of raw materials, energy and technology. • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible Protection programmes that take into account the needs corporate citizen. of all parties involved. • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 21 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 10. Responsible Quality Management The Quality Control process meets the requirements of the ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic Accreditation System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s Chemical LaboraOur commitment to quality is a fundamental element of our tory as capable of conducting tests in accordance with the strategy. MOTOR OIL’s quality policy is summed up in two key requirements of the standard, and issuing Quality Certificates principles, to which both management and employees are endorsed by HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This fully committed: certification offers us an additional competitive advantage, • We produce and sell products that satisfy our customers, ensuring that the quality of our products is guaranteed. always taking into consideration all stakeholders’ interests. The refinery has also been awarded the CE Marking in accor• As we focus on our customers, we explore and evaluate their dance with standard ΕΝ 12591:2009 for asphalt products, the requirements and apply all necessary technologies and accertification remaining valid until 2020. The refinery earned tions, aiming at the provision of high quality products. two new certificates in 2017 ISO 50001:2011 for its energy management, and ISO 18788:2015 for its security system. For MOTOR OIL, the Integrated Management System used to implement our Quality policy is oriented to customers and All Management Systems are subject to audits by the certifitheir needs and systematically includes all quality-related cation bodies, in order to confirm their consistent implemenoperational and organizational processes. The System was retation, in line with the requirements of each one, and they are vised and re-certified in 2017 by Bureau Veritas, in accordance re-certified every three, four or five years, depending on the with the newly revised standard ISO 9001:2015, valid until 2020, System. while the first relevant certification dates back to 1993. The incorporation of the also newly revised and re-certified Certified Management Systems of the Group’s ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System and the Subsidiary Companies OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety Management System into the Integrated Management System confers the neces• AVIN OIL has in place a Quality Management System sary internal coherence and links these management systems certified to ISO 9001:2015, an Environmental Management with other related processes which affect them, thus maxiSystem certified to ISO 14001:2015 and a Health and mising their effectiveness. Also, for the thirteenth consecuSafety at work Management System certified to OHSAS tive year, the company voluntarily issued an Environmental 18001:2007 for its Fuel and Lubricant Storage, Trade and Declaration (EMAS) in accordance with EU Regulation (EC) No Distribution sectors. It has also been certified by Bureau 1221/2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1505/2007. Veritas with regard to the quality and quantity of fuel it delivers through its service stations, in accordance with the Since 2016, our company has also been certified with the new ISO 9001:2015 quality standards. AVIN OIL subsidiary 2BSvs certificate applying to the control of biofuels and blendMAKRAION is certified to the ISO 9001:2015 and OHSAS ing of fossil fuels with biofuels, and also meets the EI/JIG1530 18001:2007 standards for the establishment, management standard requirements in relation to the production, storage and operation of 11 stations selling liquid fuels located along and distribution of Jet Fuel. Specifically, it has received the major motorways (SEA Service Stations). distinction ‘GOOD’ from the inspectors of the JIG. Integrated Management System Quality Management HUMAN RESOURCES ISO 9001:2015 PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT Quality Control MANAGEMENT ISO 17025:2005 MARKETING PRODUCTION Marketing Sales Stock Operating System Management Environmental Management ISO 14001:2015 ISO 50001:2011 EMAS III ER 1221:2009 Delivery of Health and Safety Management Customer Service Products OHSAS 18001:2007 Security management ISO 18788:2015 Maintenance [ 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 • Coral has been certified across all its activities since 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and 11. Product Safety OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications were secured for Coral’s All MOTOR OIL Group companies believe that providing safe procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, loading, products and high-quality services is of topmost priority. In this transportation and delivery to customers of various area, lengthy experience and a high level of know-how, together fuels products, lubricants and chemicals. In 2018, Coral with consistent quality, guarantee that customers always receive subsidiary ERMIS S.A. was certified for the first time for the the product they need with the appropriate quality and safety operation of retail stations and trading fuels and chemicals specifications. in accordance with ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 27001:2013 standards for the quality of The Refinery Services, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety and The MOTOR OIL refinery adheres to a standing commitment to Information Security (the certification applies to 225 owndeliver to its customers products that are safe to use and comply operated service stations). It also has a Quality Control with the appropriate specifications established by Greek and Department accredited by the Hellenic Accreditation international legislation. Guardian of the procedure is our stateSystem (HAC) based on ISO 17025. of-the-art laboratory which is equipped with the latest technology. • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management System, The lab supports all of the refinery’s procedures, as well as those with ISO 14001:2015 certification, and a Health and Safety of the port and tanker loading terminals. It conducts lab tests Management System with OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, on both incoming products (crude oil, chemicals, additives) and for all its facilities and ISO 9001:2015 certification for its during the refining process, and naturally on final products before Quality Management System. It has also been certified by they are shipped off to customers. To that end, it carries out more Bureau Veritas with regard to the quality and quantity of than 25,000 lab tests a month, with the ultimate goal of ensuring autogas (LPG for vehicles) it delivers through its service the safe distribution of products until they reach end consumers stations, in accordance with ISO 9001:2015. and the products’ excellent quality, thus minimising any potential • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified to risks to humans and the environment. standard ISO 9001:2015, an Environmental Management Our Commercial Companies System certified under ISO 14001:2015 and a Health Our commercial companies have developed innovative programs and Safety Management System certified under ISO and integrated quality and quantity controls for their fuels which 45001:2018. These certifications relate to the main are implemented at all stages of transport from the refinery or activity of the company which is the delivery, storage, and facility to the service stations. With the support of our specialised distribution of aviation fuel, as well as the provision of laboratories and purpose-designed quality control mobile units technical consultancy services and training in aspects of (vans) which carry out spot checks at our service stations, we the refuelling of aircraft. In December 2018, a Fire Safety actively safeguard the quality and quantity of our products. In recertification was granted for the next five years. 2019, monitoring of Shell, Avin and Cyclon service stations was • LPC has a Quality Management System in place, certified to conducted with state-of-the-art vans, which carried out intensive the ISO 9001:2015 standard for the design, production, sale, quantity and quality testing throughout Greece. Such testing and distribution of base lubricants, antifreeze, greases, mostly takes the form of spot checks at all of the companies’ and chemical products. It has been verified in accordance service stations. In 2019, there were 2,600 inspections at our with the EMAS Regulation (EL 00051) and certified to ISO service stations all over Greece. 14001:2015 for the environmental management of the Additionally, the integrated quality and quantity control system waste lubricant oil regeneration process and lubricant and the groundbreaking “Shell DNA” molecular marker technology oil production and packaging. It has been certified to used in all differentiated Shell fuels mean that customers can feel ISO 5000:2011 for energy management, as well as to ISO absolute confidence both in terms of the service they receive and 45001:2018 for ensuring Health and Safety at work. the quantity and quality of Shell fuels. In the area of LPG, Coral Gas aspires to be the leading company in Greece and is continuing efforts to offer innovative products to its customers. It has introduced significant innovations, and it now distributes all its packaged products to the market with special safety valves (the traditional liquefied gas bottles with FLV, GoGas with triple security and the new container with an ILL Flow Limiter Valve) significantly raising the level of safety and protecting the consumer by applying the latest solutions for all domestic and professional liquefied gas applications. Furthermore, Coral Gas has introduced a special innovation in autogas. It introduced a molecular tracer to its autogas as part of an integrated quality and quantity assurance system. The molecular tracer is an addition to the work performed by Coral Gas mobile units, certified to quality standard ISO 9001, which conduct spot checks at service stations to ensure the quality and quantity of autogas. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 23 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 12. Communication with Stakeholders The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss that any arising issues can be handled in mutually acceptable ways. Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: Reference in Social Partner Identity Key Issues of Interaction Dialogue the Report Ongoing, two-way communication between employees and management through corporate announcements, Employees offer their labour, briefings, intranet, working groups Employees 2,153 knowledge and experience and various events. direct employees, in return for a safe working The refinery employees are with 50% of them environment, competitive and represented by their Trade Employees working in the refinery Chapter 2 fair salaries and additional Union and the Health and Safety (see Chapter 2). benefits as well as opportunities Committee. for professional advancement Official dialogue is regularly and personal development. conducted; employees are also encouraged to submit their individual proposals for improvements in working conditions. Long-standing and close relationships with our customers, The refinery is in continuous based on the quality of our The refinery, due to communication with its products, the service we offer, our the nature of its activity, customers in order to satisfy experience, and our reliability. has relatively their requirements and provide few customers. high quality products, and is We maintain ongoing The Group’s commercial duly rewarded with the income it communication with refinery companies have an receives. customers, and once a year Customers Chapters 1, 5 extensive network conduct a satisfaction survey. of customers, from The Group’s commercial industrial facilities and companies place customer In the commercial companies, commercial companies service at the very heart of the customer service departments to final consumers. their strategy, offering them and staff of our service stations products and services of the are the public face of the company. highest quality. We organize mystery shopping programmes for all our service stations and market surveys. Continuous communication and Our industrial activities interaction with local communities impact the local We closely collaborate through local councils and communities in the with the local and regional other agencies such as private vicinity of the refinery communities, whose key concern associations and organizations Local (Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth) is the creation of jobs and the (see Chapter 5). Our sustained Chapter 5 communities and the facilities of our return of the so-called social commitment and ongoing commercial companies product through the company’s communication (Perama, Kalochori social contribution. allow us to listen to the local Thessaloniki, Kavala, community’s needs and respond Hania, Alexandroupoli). promptly and meaningfully. [ 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Reference in Social Partner Identity Key Issues of Interaction Dialogue the Report We have long-standing We are closely collaborating and close relationships with with our partners and suppliers our partners and suppliers. for the provision of products There is a structured Suppliers of products and services based on rigid communication and training and providers of quality and safety criteria. programme at the refinery, as Partners and contract services at the Consequently, they are fairly well as all of our facilities, offering Chapters 1,3 suppliers refinery, at the other rewarded, without problems, for them appropriate information on facilities and at our the provision of products and health, safety and environmental service stations services, ultimately resulting protection issues, for which in contribution to economic compliance requirements are development. exceptionally strict and closely monitored (see Chapters 1 and 3). The company’s equity is held by private and The company operates a institutional investors, Shareholder Services Department. both Greek and foreign. Regular communication with At the end of 2019 the shareholders is conducted in Shareholders invest capital in main shareholder was various ways: MOTOR OIL, as in any other Petroventure Holdings roadshows 7-8 times a year; an Shareholders, company, in the expectation Ltd, with a stake of 40%. Annual Analysts’ Briefing once Investors and that there will be long-term Chapter 1 The free float a year; 4 quarterly teleconferences Analysts financial returns, including percentage was with financial analysts; on the dividends and an increase approximately 54%. company website; press releases in value of their shares. The business activities and announcements; the Annual of MOTOR OIL are Financial Report and Social monitored by both Greek Report, and regular attendance at and foreign financial investment conferences. analysts. We are in close interaction with We always operate within the the State and create revenues confines of the law. There is an Public authorities at through the payment of taxes open and honest, two-way a local and national and duties. Public authorities communication and cooperation State and public level, and authorities protect the public interest with with competent Public Authorities, Chapters 1, 3, 4, 5 bodies in other countries in laws and regulations, ensuring ensuring the supply of information which we are active or their enforcement, issuing required by each body, as well as conduct sales operating licences and providing documented discussion on any support in emergency situations. issues arising. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 25 ] IDENTITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 13. Identification of Material Issues The process was based on the principles of relevance, materiality and prioritisation, and included: The decision as to what should be included in our Report, and Step 1: Identification and prioritisation of main stakeholders the guidelines for our strategy and actions regarding corpowho were included in assessing material issues. The process rate responsibility, is based on the principle of “Materiality”, included groups such as employees, representatives of local which is one of the most important and fundamental guidecommunities, customers and sub-contractors/associates. lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Step 2: Identification and prioritisation of key corporate The principle of Materiality states that a company must reresponsibility topics (financial, environmental, labour port on the topics that significantly impact it and its strategy, practices, human rights, social, etc.) using the GRI Standards as reflected in the organisation’s significant (either positive or guidelines and additional GRI guidelines for the sector (Oil negative) economic, environmental and social impacts; and & Gas Sector Disclosures). Material issues identified in the on topics that substantively influence the assessments and corporate responsibility reports of other companies in the decisions of both its internal and external stakeholders. sector were also taken into account. Step 3: A materiality survey was conducted using a questionnaire to define issues based on the opinions of Process for Assessing Material Issues stakeholders and the company. A qualitative scale was The process for assessing material issues was updated in used for each question (Very important, Important, Not 2017 and includes the assessment of 29 topics related to very important, Not familiar with the topic). The company corporate responsibility. Of these, 18 were deemed material. responded to the same questionnaire. The answers were used Due to the nature of our activities, our Report places priority alongside the stakeholder results to identify material issues. on issues of safety and environment, financial results, and Step 4: A graph was created to visualise material issues. The on matters related to social contribution. In selecting and Y-axis represents the opinions of stakeholders and the X-axis prioritising material issues, we used the GRI Standards shows the weightier issues as assessed by the company. As guidelines, which are based on two key parameters: “impacts” a result, the issues of greatest importance (“influence”) to (assessment of the impact of each issue of our company’s stakeholders and/or the company (“impacts”) were included operation) and “influence” (assessment of how each issue in the Sustainability Report for 2019. influences our stakeholders and their relationship with the Group). [ 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Materiality Matrix Installation Waste Emergency Preparedness Management Security & Response Health & Product Safety Safety Environmental Compliance Materials/Raw Materials Legislative Compliance Employment Environmental Investments Presence in the Local Market Profitability Emissions Education & Training Personal Data Energy Consumption Protection of Biodiversity Quality of Products & Services Combating Corruption Anti-competitive Behaviour Stakeholders Indirect Economic Impacts Non-discrimination Water Consumption Local Markets Freedom of Diversity Procurement Practices Association Labelling & Marketing Supplier Evaluation Μateriality of issues Financial Issues Environmental Issues Social-Labour Issues The following topics emerged from the process as most material: Profitability, Presence in the local market, Anti-competitive behaviour, Materials / Raw materials, Energy consumption, Procurement practices, Water consumption, Emissions, Waste management, Environmental compliance, Environmental Investment, Employment, Health and Safety, Education and training, Product safety, Quality of products and services, Compliance with the Law, Emergency response, Safety of facilities. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 27 ] RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES Our people are the most important resource for our success. Our employees are our most valuable resource, We are committed to providing the best possible essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to working conditions, securing respect for human rights the implementation of our growth business plans and and for the freedom of association, in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. upholding nondiscrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. That is why we have established an organised and modern Human Resources Division for the MOTOR OIL During 2019, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average Group aimed at identifying, attracting, developing and workforce of 2,153 employees. We continued to retaining qualified employees and executives who can renew our workforce through 535 recruitments be utilised by all the companies. over the last five years, offering an extended training We aim to provide a safe and fair workplace, which programme and continuing the provision to our promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, employees of a structured discretionary benefits along with effectiveness. package. [ 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2,153 employees at Group level 535 recruitments over the 2015-2019 period 37,780 training hours in 2019 78.9% of the personnel received training MOTOR OIL HELLAS 29 ] EMPLOYEES 1. Human Resources Management • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to employee performance and consistent with prevailing System market conditions. The MOTOR OIL Group has grown significantly over the last • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for by few years and has adopted a contemporary, fully integrated law and by collective labour agreements. Human Resources Management System. The System is • A programme of targeted education and training, covering designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic development resources, with ongoing development and advancement of goals, and aiming at the effective and safe discharge of individual employees. duties. • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. Vision 2. Equal Opportunities and Human Rights All aspects of human resources management are pursued Principles Strategic with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We offer and Values Objectives a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity HUMAN is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, benefits, RESOURCES education and training, etc., are governed by the principles of MANAGEMENT our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any form of SYSTEM discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. In applying the aforementioned, we have ensured: • That the composition of management reflects the Identification composition of the workforce. • That education and training programmes are available to all personnel, in accordance with business needs. Retention Attraction • Equal pay for men and women. We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, in which people with disabilities can be productively integrated Development into the community. We ourselves employ 16 people with disabilities, who enjoy equal opportunities in employment and education. MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of human This system is founded on the principles and values of the rights, in particular those set out in the United Nations Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN Global Compact’s The purpose of the Human Resources Management System ten principles, to which we are signatories. The Group is to identify and attract the most talented executives on the is opposed to any practice which might encourage the market, develop them and retain them within the Group. imposition of any form of forced or child labour. All of the above are implemented by the Group’s HR Division In all countries where the Group operates, it complies fully with within the following framework: national legislation on child labour; there are no instances of • Compliance with applicable legislation, and universally forced or child labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor established principles of human and labour rights. would they be acceptable. • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. • Attracting competent young people with a professional approach to work, who share our values: reliability, dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the professional and personal development of employees. [ 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3. Labour Relations and Trade Unions Workforce per Company At MOTOR OIL labour relations are regulated by the 2018 2019 Employment Regulation which was drawn up in September MOTOR OIL 1,269 1,299 of 1974. It is extremely important to our Group – and AVIN 181 178 particularly to the refinery due to the complex nature of CORAL* 347 341 the work it entails – that employees can join unions and CORAL GAS 107 104 professional associations freely. Refinery employees are OFC 22 24 represented through their trade union and the Health and Safety Committee. The union has had a Collective Labour LPC 141 143 Agreement with the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises since NRG 48 64 1986. This agreement lays down the terms of employment and pay levels at the refinery. * In 2018, the employees of Coral S.A.’s subsidiaries that operate in Cyprus and Serbia were included. Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour Agreement between the company and the union, which is renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi Labour Inspection. Furthermore, since 2014 it has also been Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2019 an average of 1,050 submitted electronically to the Ministry of Labour. persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the refinery We, therefore, hold regular meetings with union personnel and 44% of its managers live in the greater region representatives, the common aim being to further develop of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is the biggest employer. relations and continue to achieve improvements in working conditions. Gender Profile We support equal treatment for men and women, with equal opportunities for all. However, owing to the nature of the 4. Basic Employment Data work and the skills required at the refinery, the percentage of women employees is relatively low. Thus, in 2019, on average, 17% of all employees were female, while at the Group Offices, In 2019, the size of the combined human resources of the the number of women rises to 36.3%. In 2018, women Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral in Serbia and Coral accounted 17% in the total workforce, whereas at the Group in Cyprus, Coral Gas, OFC, LPC and NRG) averaged over the Offices they represented 38.7%. year was 2,153 employees. In addition to personnel directly employed by the companies of the Group, a significant Among management, women made up 14% of the total, a number are indirectly employed through sub-contractors. satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of women in the total workforce, while in other office and technical jobs the percentage was 17%. Percentages in 2018 were 16% and 97% 17% respectively. Distribution by gender 2019 (%) of Group employees at the end of 2019 were on open-ended contracts 17 Women Workforce (yearly average) 2,115 2,153 1,983 1,928 1,924 1,925 1,974 1,834 1,800 1,797 83 Men 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 31 ] EMPLOYEES Workforce Breakdown and Professional Advancement Length of Employment and Turnover of Employees In 2019, managers continued to comprise 11% of the total Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 15.5 personnel of the Group, while technicians-operators and years. 71% of employees have been with the Group over ten administrative personnel accounted for 89% of the total years, while only 20% have less than five years of service. number of employees. In 2018, managers again accounted for 11%, technicians-operators accounted for 56% and administrative personnel accounted for 33% of the total Length of service 2019 (%) number of employees. 25.1 Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within 21.3 19.7 the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications 15.1 and performance, as the main objective is to fill vacant managerial positions from within the Group wherever and 9 whenever possible. In fact, each vacancy is first advertised 4.9 4.9 internally; the position is opened to external applicants only if no suitable internal candidate can be found. <1 year 1-5 years 5-10 years 10-15 years 15-20 years 20-25 years <25 years Workforce Breakdown 2019 (%) In 2019, staff mobility was 5.2% and is indicative of long11 Management term employment in our companies, which is rewarded by additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, at Coral and at Coral Gas commemorative gifts of value are made to employees completing periods of long service; these gifts vary from company to company and commensurate to the years of service. 35 In 2019, the permanent staff increased by 109 new employees Administrative while 113 persons left for various reasons. We ascribe great importance to attracting and hiring new management executives. In the last years, we have embarked upon new 54 collaborations with top universities around the world through Technical staff which we seek to attract new candidates. These candidates are assessed through a thorough and detailed process that includes behaviour and skills measuring tools, in-depth interviews and a final selection panel. Average Age Age Range The average age of the Group workforce is 44.1. It should be Staff mobility noted that, in 2019, 52% of the workforce were under 45. In 2018, the average age was 44.1 and 54% of the workforce 2018 2019 were under 45. Recruitments 147 109 Men 104 85 Age Range 2019 (%) Women 43 24 Staff departures (classified by reason) 1 <25 years old Retirement 19 29 Men 18 22 Women 1 7 Resignation 35 57 Men 30 47 Women 5 10 Various 15 27 47 52 Men 9 18 >45 25-45 Women 6 9 years old years old Total 69 113 Staff mobility* 3,3% 5,2% * Staff mobility = Departures/ Average number of employees x 100 [ 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5. Remuneration System and Breakdown of workforce remuneration expenditure 2019 Additional Benefits (million euros) One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, both to reward their contribution 28.4 Employer’s and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. contributions The system we implement in order to set, manage and review salary levels is in line with current company and sectorspecific agreements, and is consistent and transparent. 86.1 Gross pay not including additional 28.4 142.9 remuneration Additional remuneration million euros total workforce remuneration expenditure in 2019 Breakdown of workforce remuneration expenditure 2018 (million euros) Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration 27.3 system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the Employer’s same work, and rules out any other form of discrimination. contributions The factors determining wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s grade and performance, the responsibilities and 80.6 accountabilities of the position held, the educational level and Gross pay the seniority/ length of service. not including The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in 2019 additional 29.7 remuneration amounted to 142.9 million euros. This includes pay for regular Additional and overtime work, mandatory employer contributions remuneration to social security funds and other additional allowances over and above those laid down in either labour legislation or collective agreements. These additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary payments to employees Additional Discretionary Benefits intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the The Group introduced many years ago a wide range of contribution of individuals to the Group’s performance. supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance benefits for employees and their family members. Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, schemes helping employees with the costs of their children’s education, Christmas parties for employees’ children, longservice awards, support for employees participating in sporting activities, etc. 10 million euros the Group’s budget for discretionary benefits to employees and their families in 2019 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 33 ] EMPLOYEES Voluntary Blood Donation 6. Education and Training Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have become a tradition, now with a 30-year history. The programmes Investment in ongoing training for our employees is a are run in association with the Corinth General Hospital (for strategic choice and a key element in the process of aligning employees at the refinery) and the Metaxa Specialist Cancer our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and Hospital (for employees at the MOTOR OIL head offices). ambitions of the Group. Overall, the resulting blood reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood donors themselves, their families or close Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the relatives, and other people, in the event of an emergency. MOTOR OIL Group designs and implements each year, a Throughout the blood bank’s operation, more than 3,900 comprehensive programme of education and in-house units have been collected. training for employees. The basic objective served by this programme, is to continually enrich the vocational knowledge of our employees, expanding their range of skills, while also Sports Activities for Staff upgrading their level of technical training, allowing them to To promote and improve team spirit and a healthy lifestyle, carry out their everyday and more long-term tasks. we encourage their participation in a number of sporting activities. 7.7 million euros for education Athens Classic Marathon and training programmes over For the fifth consecutive year, MOTOR OIL supported emthe period 2015-2019 ployees from the entire Group taking part in the biggest sports event in Greece the 37th Athens Classic Marathon, which took place on November 9th & 10th. To help the Education and Training Programmes entrants better prepare, training sessions were held a few months before, at Andreas Sygros Park and the municipal The parameters determining the planning and track of Corinth with the help of a trainer. On the day of the implementation of the education and training programmes race, 95 people took part in the 5K, 75 people in the 10K, and are the educational needs of the workforce as identified in the 35 people ran the 42K Classic Marathon, all finishing in the working environment each year. packed Panathenaic Stadium. It is worth noting that MOTOR The education and training programmes cover the following OIL secured 105 of the 205 entries through the “SCHEDIA” areas: Non-Profit Organisation that supports the integration of the • Training in business and administrative skills, computer skills, unemployed back into society. as well as personal development issues. • Introductory training for new operators and maintenance technicians, and for new engineers. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas of employment, as well as in use of personal safety equipment Football and Basketball Teams and working machinery/equipment. In 2019, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team performed • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental Protection exceptionally well, winning 1st place in the 20-team and Quality, with an emphasis on the special features of corporate league in the “COMMERCIAL LEAGUE” category. each workplace. Furthermore, in 2019 the MOTOR OIL employees’ basketball • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety team won 1st place in the 3 on 3 tournament and 3rd place in regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid the second league from a total of 50 teams. provision. • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the procedures for the safe loading, unloading and transport of fuels. • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled or unscheduled drills. [ 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The education and training programmes are implemented The other education programmes were designed to provide through in-house seminars, by attending domestic or the existing technical staff with further training, in order to international seminars run by internationally recognized develop and further improve their skills in various specialized educational centres. Also, Group managers attend technical areas, and to train staff of the commercial conferences both in Greece and abroad, participate in companies on issues of climate change, personal data undergraduate and postgraduate courses and are kept up protection, taxation, management and leadership, internal to date through the purchase of books and subscriptions to audit, human resources management and evaluation, sales, IT, specialist technical journals and professional associations. creating a safety culture, accounting, procurements, finance, customs policy, customer service,marketing, communication and law. Training in 2019 The contribution of Group executives in the in-house training In 2019, 37,780 man-hours were devoted to education and and education programme was also very important. In 2019, vocational training -at an overall cost of 2.2 million eurosthis involvement accounted for about 7,300 hours. Moreover, involving the participation of 1,640 employees (78.9% of the during 2019, in line with the policy on reimbursement of tuition total workforce), of which 169 were managers and 1,471 other fees, 10 employees were assisted in their efforts to specialise personnel. The figure of training man-hours includes training in particular subjects, or achieve postgraduate qualifications related to fire safety, use of Personal Protective Equipment in areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. and other related subjects throughout the refinery and the other Group facilities. However, it does not include training hours associated with Average Number of training hours per trainee emergency preparedness exercises. The corresponding figures for 2018 were 33,850 manhours, at a cost of 1.8 million 28.6 euros which were attended by 1,547 employees, 158 of which 23 were managers and 1,389 other personnel. 21.9 20 15.2 78.9% of our personnel received 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 training Percentage of trainees over the Total Workforce (%) Occupational health and safety, environmental protection and quality were the principal subjects covered by training 76.2 78.9 activities in 2019. In these areas training was provided to cover 72.4 74.1 74.7 the relevant management systems, preventing sea and air pollution and avoidance of related incidents, process safety, occupational health, fire safety, the use of Personal Protective Equipment, rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK), safe driving and fuel transport, the provision of first aid and other more specialized topics. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 35 ] EMPLOYEES Management and Employee Training in 2019 Man-hours devoted to each educational training area (%) We strive to continually develop our management staff Total hours: 37,780 by offering innovative skills development programmes in cooperation with top educational institutions and bodies. 11.1 Management The following programmes were held, with certification by 0.7 IT Harvard University, to teach leadership skills: Leadership Academy Step 1: The objective of this training was 1.1 Finance to develop the skills necessary for all new managers to enable them to lead their teams and cultivate relationships with their 40.6 colleagues and supervisors. Technical matters Leadership Academy Step 2: The purpose was to further develop the skills required of every manager in order to handle a variety of business challenges that have a direct impact on the success of their work. 46.5 Health, Safety Man-hours of training per subject and the Environment 21,141 2018 2019 Training Subjects at the Refinery in 2019 17,539 In 2019, we reorganized the refinery Training Department with the aim of providing the most up-to-date and effective 15,352 training to our employees at all levels of employment. To this end, we sought the assistance of consultants from internationally acclaimed training and development institutions. The development of the new training and development system comprises of three phases: A. The evaluation of the existing system and identification of 5,736 5,775 required improvements. 4,196 B. A job analysis by position, the mapping of necessary skills and the creation of development plans. 919 434 263 258 C. The development of training material as well as Technical Health, Safety Finance IT Management development of internal trainers (train the trainer). matters and the Environment By the end of 2019, the second phase regarding the technical staff was completed, and in the 1st quarter of 2020 the second phase will be completed and the third phase will begin, with an expected duration of 3 years. Following the completion and implementation of the new training system the company will provide a modern and effective program based on international standards. In 2019, the main training areas were as follows: • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting equipment and Personal Protective Equipment, with weekly drills. • Training in the use of fire-fighting equipment and breathing devices at the refinery drill field. [ 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 • In-house training in the issuance of Work Execution Permits, Training Tools at the Refinery as well as the use of gas detectors and breathing equipment. Production unit training simulators are used at the refinery • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster Response to train control room operators, helping them develop and Team in the rescue of persons at risk in inaccessible parts of maintain their skills. In 2019, the upgrade of the existing the refinery, at a great height from the ground. operation simulators at the Hydrocracker, Fluid Catalytic • Extensive training of the safety staff in first aid with relevant Cracking and Crude Distillation Units began. At the same time, certification-, in rescue methods in cooperation with the new simulators are being developed for the catalytic steam Disaster Response Team (EMAK) and the Hellenic Police and reforming of naphtha. Furthermore, a general use simulator in safe and fast driving techniques for cars, motorcycles, has also been delivered and is being used for the training ambulances and fire engines. of field operators for chamber positions, and to assist field operators in understanding fundamental concepts. Its use is • Training of fire safety crews for combating forest fires. accompanied by training material for the use of machinery • Theoretical training on scenarios of security breaches at the throughout the installation. refinery by the commander of the Special Police Unit (OPKE) The online educational material, which is updated with of the Hellenic Police. e-books, conference presentations, educational videos, • Seminar on the management of suspicious explosive etc. is also an important tool. Technical Training Manuals objects by the Engineer Directorate of the Hellenic Army, as are also available, which are written to reflect the current well as training in combat rescue and first aid in a possible structure of the refinery and meet its current production terrorist attack. needs. Furthermore, as part of the effort to raise awareness in security issues, short videos with targeted content are • Training and periodic re-certification of stationary systematically shown at buildings used by field operators. equipment Technical Inspectors in all applicable control methods (radiography, ultrasound, magnetic particles, penetrant fluid test, visual inspection, thermography etc.). • Training in rotating machinery monitoring through vibration analysis for preventive maintenance. • Training of newly-recruited personnel (engineers, operators, technicians) in the classroom, in the field and with drills. • Participation of refinery engineers in international conferences, seminars and visits to other refineries. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 37 ] HEALTH AND SAFETY Ongoing improvements in the area of Health and Safety are consistently our main priority The nature of the Group’s business operations • I nvestment in new technology equipment and control refining, storage, transportation and marketing of measures. fuels combined with our corporate principles and •R  isk assessment of critical tasks, in order to ensure values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter that the proper precautions are taken before tasks of material importance, and a priority to which our are carried out. commitment is absolute and permanent. In order •F  ostering a culture of safety across the whole Group, to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve with presentations of relevant material to the entire ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety workforce. conditions, we implement a rigorously structured Management System, fully aligned with European In 2019, investments continued in order to improve Union Directives and other, additional measures. both the operational and personal safety of employees, with the aim of consistently improving our In pursuit of our established objective of “Goal performance in Health and Safety and strengthening Zero” Accidents, we reinforce and safeguard our the organisation’s safety culture. management system with: • Continuous training and presentations on safety Moreover, a range of investments were made on issues, involving the entire workforce. projects that reduce the possibility of an accident and • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it upgrade the fire safety equipment. functions properly and safely. [ 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1.2 The Group’s injuries frequency index 38.3 million euros spent on safety in 2019 (investments and operating expenses) ΜΟΤΟΡ ΟΪΛ ΕΛΛΑΣ 39 ] HEALTH & SAFETY 1. Health and Safety Management The MOTOR OIL refinery’s Health, Safety and Environment Department is responsible for the operation of the Health Framework and Safety Management System. Moreover, the health and safety organisation includes in-house safety engineers, Health and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational physicians and nursing staff both at the occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office at a level that goes necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple beyond the requirements of the relevant Greek legislation. legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, and implement projects and programmes, to ensure we There are also two statutory committees: attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and • The Safety and Environment Committee, made up of safety, which can be formulated as follows: the refinery section heads which represents the entire •T o reduce the risk of major technological accidents to the workforce. lowest possible level. • The five-member Employee Health and Safety Committee, •T o eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. whose elected members are appointed every two years by the refinery employees. •C ontinuous monitoring and upgrading of the quality of equipment to ensure that conditions conducive to safe work The above Committees are intended to oversee control of operations are continuously improved. health and safety conditions, making recommendations for changes and improvements as necessary. •E ffective protection of people (our personnel, contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates and site visitors), Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of as well as the environment and our installations, from the the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular hazards that may arise from the company’s activities. conditions of each workplace. •C ontinuous training of personnel and briefing on health Steps aimed at achieving the Health and Safety targets and safety issues in order to prevent accidents and mainly involved developing a culture of safety and are based occupational health problems. on the following actions and tools: •F ull compliance with regulatory requirements. 1. Toolbox meetings: brief meetings, either scheduled or ad hoc, where predetermined topics on safety are discussed. •A ctive involvement of all employees in finding acceptable They highlight important issues, gather recommendations and effective solutions for protection and safety, as well for improvement and facilitate two-way communication as in establishing regulations, identifying hazards and amongst personnel at all levels. As topics and suggestions assessing risk. are recorded, safety issues are continually reassessed and •F rank and open communication between workers and actions for improvement are set in motion. management in health and safety issues. 2. Safety observations: field inspections by all employees At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on the with the aim of identifying unsafe behaviours. These effective operation of the integrated Health and Safety observations do not focus on equipment but on human Management System, which is certified compliant -since behaviour and involve dialogue about safety and good 2008with the internationally recognised Health and Safety practices. Employees assume an active role through standard OHSAS 18001:2007. The same certification has been continuous observation and dialogue in the field that secured by OFC (in 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (in 2013). provides them with training but also enables them to train others. Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) ΟΗSAS 18001:2007 Health, Management Safety Commitment and Environmental Protection Policy Equipment Continuous Integrity HSMS Procedures improvement Design Implementation Personnel Compliance and Operation Participation monitoring and corrective actions [ 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Employees develop a responsible attitude and are entitled 4. Daily communication between the responsible contractors to stop a particular task in the event they identify unsafe and the company aimed at taking preventive measures, conditions. Continuous inspections by personnel result in and the coordination and safe execution of work. raising awareness of all risks inherent in operations and in 5. Continuous evaluation of the performance of contractors the improvement of the culture of safety. Additionally, the in the management of safety issues. Specifically for findings are recorded electronically via a special form. It is, 2020, a pilot program has been approved and scheduled therefore, possible to search and display a detailed report involving the evaluation of contractors by an independent based on several criteria and to export statistical data to third-party, who shall examine their health and safety identify sectors with room for improvement. management systems and safety performance. The 3. Operator Care Program: the aim is that all employees will evaluation is intended to be the starting point for achieve the same level of knowledge . There are defined continuous improvement aimed at surpassing the training objectives for each job position focusing on company’s requirements and standards. Upon completion equipment, processing and area of responsibility from the of the program the new way of evaluation, which will apply aspect of safety so that unsafe conditions can be identified to all contractors, will be introduced. in time. Experienced department staff conducts training sessions, in a room with appropriate training materials and, more importantly, in the field. The trainer may also come from another department or an external partner, 2. Our performance on safety depending on the need. 4. An essential tool which was developed to raise employee All of the Group’s companies regularly report, record, awareness of safety issues is Time Out for Safety (TOS), investigate and analyse incidents (fires, accidents, nearwhich involves convening ad hoc meetings on safety misses) using internationally recognised indices in order to issues. It is used in cases where a particular observation take the appropriate corrective and preventive measures. We has been made or some unsafe condition has been also enhance our experience by monitoring investigations identified in the field. of serious accidents at comparable facilities abroad and incorporating their findings into our own practices. 5. Weekly fire safety drills which take place at the refinery where a scenario is developed and supervisors and facility During 2019 we recorded six (6) lost time injuries at the facilities personnel hold discussions to encourage employee of the MOTOR OIL Group. Two occurred at the MOTOR OIL proposals for improvements. refinery, three at LPC and one at AVIN. 6. The refinery’s General Manager holds safety meetings with employees to provide guidance and exchange views on Motor Oil Group: Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTI)1 safety issues. The development of a strong safety culture is not limited to 9 our employees but also includes our contractors’ employees 8 who work at our facilities. 6 5 5 To this end, there is continuous cooperation and two-way communication, with actions that include: 1. Safety observations, with contractor companies receiving reports with observations on a daily basis, with a view to monitoring their performance as regards safety, rewarding 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 good practice, and immediately implementing corrective actions. 2. Workshops aimed at raising contractor awareness for their There were no fatal accidents or serious incidents during the active involvement in safety issues. course of our activities. 3. Meetings before critical projects with the participation of The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) came to 1.2. At the safety engineers and technicians of all contractors with MOTOR OIL, the LTIF was 0.7, which historically is the secondthe aim of informing them on safety issues. lowest value for the company. The index was 8.7 at LPC and 1.9 at AVIN. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 41 ] HEALTH & SAFETY Motor Oil Group: Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) 1 3. Health and Safety Investments Improvements in safe working conditions are achieved by 2.1 making the necessary investments in equipment, through the 1.7 upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and Safety 1.2 1.1 1.2 inspections. An investment programme is constantly active at the refinery and other facilities to ensure proper maintenance of electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment and to 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 provide technical upgrading and renewal of that equipment to stay abreast of developing technology and to maintain the Frequency Index = Number of accidents per million man-hours highest possible safety and accident prevention standards. The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) recorded a value of 0.3 across the whole Group, with a value of 0.3 for MOTOR Health & safety investments and operating expenses OIL. The LTIS was 1.4 at LPC and 0.2 at AVIN. (million euros) 38.3 32.9 28.4 Motor Oil Group: Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) 1 24.9 15.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.2 In 2019, the total cost of the capital investment program of all 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group companies on projects to improve health and safety Severity Index = Number of lost work hours per 1,000 man-hours and to procure safety equipment amounted to 30.4 million euros, while the cost of operational expenses in this area was 1 Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, Avin Oil (since 2006), Coral and 7.9 million euros. Coral Gas (since 2010), OFC (since 2012), LPC (since 2015), Coral Cyprus and NRG (2018). The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as well These values, in combination with the constantly increasing as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures at our refinery production and the higher volumes handled by our facilities. commercial companies, continue the steady downward trend In the autumn of 2019, a major project was completed of the last twenty years, demonstrating the ongoing effort to regarding the maintenance and upgrading of equipment of reach our Zero Accident target. the units of the catalytic cracking, dimersol and alkylation In this context, the Group’s management is offering its steady complex. The primary purpose of the project was to improve support to programmes aimed at training and informing the process safety while increasing productivity. The project’s workforce and strengthening technical and organizational total duration was more than 45 days, and it involved a large measures, remaining committed to our ‘Zero accidents’ number of contractors, as well as many employees who objective. The LTIs have been analysed in depth to identify worked intensively and performed extensive work. their causes and establish the most appropriate corrective The goal of zero accidents during work was achieved through measures, which were then communicated to personnel increased safety measures as well as continuous supervision through training sessions and briefings. by an experienced Safety Technician team around the clock. Recommendations for equipment improvements, arising In 2019, the upgrade of the sprinkler system at the alkylation from an investigation of LTIs, were implemented immediately. unit continued, along with replacement of the main fire These statistics relate to accidents involving the Group’s own safety valves in the refinery’s fire suppression system and in employees and do not include lost-time accidents involving segments of the network towards the flares. subcontractors’ employees, the level of which remains very Works to improve the refinery loading dock were completed, low. Accidents involving contractors’ employees amounted and included replacement of pretensioned beams at the to 3 in 2017, 2 in 2018 and 3 in 2019. Finally, we should note dock and upgrading of materials in equipment and piping at that, as in previous years, no case of occupational illness was the production units. recorded. The upgrade of personal protection equipment continued, and new fire extinguishing equipment was purchased. [ 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Additionally, all our commercial companies proceeded Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire to investments for improvements of the safety systems safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared and in service stations and their facilities. These included communicated for approval and registration as appropriate maintenance and upgrade of facility equipment, automation, with the competent authorities. installation of cameras at services stations, lighting Special focus is placed on the analysis of near misses, which improvement, maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment are classified depending on the severity of the consequences and others. At the same time, significant investments were and the probability of their occurrence (RISK= PROBABILITY made, applying the provisions of Law 4439/2016, at our x SEVERITY). Near misses are discussed with the entire commercial companies’ service stations located on the workforce in order to cultivate a culture of safety and to ground floor of buildings and less than 30 meters from public generate proposals for improvement through the exchange gathering spaces. Investments included the installation of a of information. In 2019, the written procedure for reporting stage II vapor recovery system, a permanent hydrocarbon and investigating incidents and near misses was revised. The detection system, etc. These investments amounted to 3.6 revised procedure introduces changes to the categorization million euros. and recording of incidents, defines crucial terms more clearly and is in line with international good practice and modern standards. 4. Procedures In respect of health and safety equipment (personal Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with protective equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) rigorous international standards/regulations and safe working specifications based on recognized European standards are conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety implemented. in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals In addition, safety equipment specifications are monitored behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees can continuously so that they can be updated in line with the new perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict technological developments. work procedures they are required to follow and because they have been provided with the appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. Indicative Activities in 2019 in the area of Procedures Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Control •W e reviewed procedures in the Health and Safety Across the whole range of refinery activities, studies have Management System. been conducted to assess risk for each work station and •A new form was drawn up and the process for issuing Work task; the necessary measures have been taken to eliminate Permits was revised. or minimize all risks identified. Moreover, in the context of the •T he procedure for reporting and investigating incidents requirements of OHSAS certification the whole monitoring and near misses was revised. process of our procedures has become fully systematic. •P ersonal detectors for 4 gases (H2S, LEL, CO & O2) for use Within each refinery section, risks identified are classified into in enclosed spaces were increased. three categories according to the hazard level: low, medium or high. For each category of risk, we prepare a timetable for •A new general safety regulation for contractors has been taking action to eliminate or reduce the risk and appoint a adopted, which summarizes all pre-existing regulations manager to be responsible for the necessary action. and sets new requirements regarding occupational safety. Of particular importance during maintenance and repair •W e continued implementation of the programme to work is the procedure for issuing Work Permits, within a monitor and assess contractors in respect of their stringent statutory framework of rules and procedures. For compliance with health and safety rules when working in this reason, the issuing of these Permits is the subject of the refinery facilities. continuous training activity, covering both those who issue •A pilot program was approved introducing a new way them and those who receive them, both company employees of evaluation of contractors with respect to health and and any sub-contractor personnel who may be involved in safety by a third, independent body, according to stringent work activities on the refinery site. In 2019 the revision of the criteria based on international practices and standards. Work Permit form was completed, as was the related process •W e continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for aimed at the modernisation of the permit issuance system refinery products, adding new information, as part of our and the transition to an electronic issuance platform. implementation of the provisions of the European REACH In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational and CLP Regulations. risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is used •P articipation continued in international organisations to analyse risk and operability in all new units or whenever dedicated to exploring and achieving continual changes are made to an existing unit, and a five-year revision improvement in rules and practices. programme is implemented. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 43 ] HEALTH & SAFETY Protection (Security) 6. Emergency Response Plans We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our installations against possible malicious or not security threats. The security system is fully automated and includes The emergency response arrangements at all Group an automatic identification system of incoming employees company facilities are based on the Emergency Response and vehicles with the issue of RFID cards during entry, Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take security cameras in the perimeters of the refinery and account of changing legal requirements and revised “best the port, a motion detection system at the enclosure and practices” resulting either from technical advances or an automatic monitoring and notification system (video experience gained by others in dealing with major or minor analytics) in case of breach of the refinery’s perimeter. accidents. Additionally, we have prepared and submitted studies to the competent authorities in accordance with the Those of our personnel responsible for this protection are EU Seveso III Directive which covers the most likely accident suitably trained, both in security and safety matters, so as scenarios, and relative prevention and response measures. to be able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their responsibilities, while at the same time fully respecting individual freedoms The Emergency Response Plans describe, with particular and fundamental human rights. reference to a major accident situation, the public health protection measures -including warnings for neighbouring communities, and related advicethat would be put into effect in the event that the Major Technological Accidents 5. REACH and CLP Regulations Response Plans were activated; these plans are drafted by the competent authorities and determine how the state might intervene in emergency situations. REACH Regulation concerns the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals manufactured in The purpose of the Emergency Response Plans is to provide the EU or imported in quantities reaching one tonne or more the personnel involved with a comprehensive response plan per year. The purpose of the Regulation is the protection of to address emergencies which may arise from the operation the environment and human health and it affects producers, of every installation. The plans provide the necessary importers and downstream users of chemicals and guidelines for taking and executing the correct decisions and preparations within the EU. actions, providing information for: Since 2008, MOTOR OIL has been participating, together with • the operational organisation for addressing the event / other companies in the industry, in the respective Consortia emergency. and Substance Information Exchange Fora (SIEFs) for the • the Action Plans. substances it manufactures/imports, so that it can be kept • communication with the company’s staff and the Public up to date on REACH developments and be prepared to Authorities and/or other competent services that must be meet any legal and scientific requirements. In the past year notified in each case. the company has updated certain registration dossiers, as required by the Regulation (i.e. keeping up-to-date • the communication actions with the other stakeholders. information on registered substances) and will continue In 2019, a program for the inspection and evaluation of updating the rest in 2020. fire protection equipment, the fire safety network and the The CLP Regulation deals with the classification, labelling operational organization for emergency response was and packaging of chemicals, ensuring that the risks involved implemented by an internationally recognized company. are clearly communicated to employees and consumers in Starting from the results of the evaluation, immediate and order to ensure their safe use at all times. MOTOR OIL has long-term actions were launched to improve the means completed the above process of labelling all its products and preparedness for handling major incidents. At the same and classifying them in all safety data sheets and regularly time, actions are being implemented in line with existing updates them each time new information is available. programming to optimize the means available to prevent and respond to such incidents. The supply of 2 new fire rescue pick up trucks and 3 new ambulances has been completed. [ 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 As regards the refinery specifically, the plan includes: Our commercial companies • The Mutual Aid Agreement, whereby all Greek refineries Coral and Coral Gas conduct scheduled and unscheduled co-operate in the event of an emergency. The effectiveness drills at their facilities and offices in which all personnel take of this collaboration plan is ensured through joint exercises part. The Emergency Response Plans are activated during involving the local fire brigade and the refineries. the drills. The two-fold aim is to provide ongoing training and • A Corporate Contingency Plan for reciprocal assistance ensure personnel preparedness and to verify that fire safety between Group companies in the event of an emergency. equipment is up to par. The drills are designed to respond to This has also been integrated into the Emergency Response a variety of potential scenarios and the Fire Brigade takes an Plan of each individual company. In this context, MOTOR OIL active part in some of these. An evaluation follows each drill participated in fire safety drills at the facilities of DESFA. and the findings are promptly addressed. • Drills carried out every week and major industrial accident Specifically in 2019, 6 emergency response drills were response drills carried out regularly during the year, during conducted at the Coral Gas facility in Aspropyrgos. One which the Major Incident Response Procedure is activated. of these was a joint drill with the Fire Brigade, based on a In cooperation with the Demokritos Research Centre, a scenario of “fuel leakage outside the petroleum and liquefied study on risk analysis and the improvement of methods gas facilities”. 7 drills, including a joint fire safety drill with the for response and management of emergency scenarios is Fire Brigade were held at the Thessaloniki facility, based on underway. a scenario of a gas leak at the tanker loading terminal, in which 3 Fire Brigade vehicles, 10 firefighters and all facility • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and personnel took part. Furthermore, an emergency drill was fire-fighting, are upgraded according to a regular annual held in the framework of the SEVESO Directive, based on a investment plan. scenario of a leak with fire in a tank. • The availability on the refinery site of 6 fire engines and Similarly, 5 drills were held at the Coral facilities in Perama, one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, which are available on one of which was held at the new petroleum product pier 24-hour standby. In 2019, the modernization of the fire truck based on a scenario of an oil spill during the unloading of a fleet continued with the receipt of the upgraded fire truck tanker, with the participation of the Piraeus Port Authority. 4 No.5 and the commencement of the upgrade of fire truck drills were held at the Ikonio facilities. 4 fire safety drills were No.3 by an external associate. A pick-up truck with capacity held in Thessaloniki, as well as a fuel leakage drill, a safety for immediate response and fire suppression using water drill, and an earthquake drill. 4 fire safety drills were held at and foam was added to the fleet of fire-fighting vehicles. the Chania facilities, as was a drill based on a scenario of a • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident leak during the unloading of a tanker with the participation of Control Room at four different strategic points on the the Port Authority, and 2 earthquake drills. Furthermore, a fire refinery site, and the availability of an automatic call system safety drill was held at the Nerokouros facility in Chania, and and an automatic messaging system that enables contact a tanker spill drill at the Gouves facility in Herakleion. with refinery staff in an emergency. The drills were successful and both fixed and portable • The introduction of satellite phones at the refinery itself equipment functioned effectively. Fire Safety Team personnel and in the administration offices. These phones make responded in accordance with the Emergency Response communication possible and allow coordination even in Plan. Evaluations were subsequently conducted with the Fire extreme circumstances, such as a natural disaster, when Brigade’s participation. ordinary landlines and mobiles may be rendered useless. Avin conducted three fire drills at the tanker loading terminal in Ag. Theodoroi. All personnel and firefighting crews at the terminal and refinery took part in the drills, during which the Emergency Response Plans were activated. Drills are designed for a range of alternative scenarios. Furthermore, a drill was run for responding to earthquakes and another for responding to spills occurring during fuel transfer (using a special vehicle made for this purpose). The LPC facility also maintains an emergency response system. The system includes an emergency response study, procedures and plans for various situations (fire, earthquake, terrorist act, flood, etc.), team organisation (fire crews, evacuation teams, and others), a training programme and training and preparedness drills. LPC is not required to have a Response Plan for Large-scale Industrial Accidents (SATAME). In 2019, 19 fire safety drills were conducted at the production facilities, as was 1 evacuation drill. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 45 ] HEALTH & SAFETY 7. Safety of Port Installations 8. Safeguarding Workforce Health Safety measures at port facilities are of great importance The health of our workers is a key area of care and concern. since they ensure the smooth flow of the works in the refinery, Therefore, the personnel at the refinery and the facilities as well as the protection of the marine environment from any undergo regular check-ups, while all Group employees are pollution. covered by group hospital care programs. It should be noted that MOTOR OIL became the first Greek The refinery provides full coverage to personnel and company to be certified by the Ministry of Mercantile Marine infrastructures for the provision of medical services and for compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility first aid, which includes a central clinic staffed by doctors Security (ISPS) Code, which is applied according to the and nursing personnel equipped with essential supplies, requirements of chapter XI-2 of the International Convention defibrillators, medicinal and other specialised materials for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation (bandages for burns, neutralising chemicals) to treat is reviewed each year, in accordance with the existing emergency cases. legislative provisions. There is also a fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation In all areas of the port facilities security checks are carried Unit, with a nurse on 24-hour call, as well as three properly out on crews and supplies, as well as checks on access. equipped first aid stations and five ambulances. In 2019, 8,716 people and 1,544 vehicles entered the port In addition: facilities, after passing security checks. The security checks • Rescue crews receive continuous training in rescue practices are conducted with the permission of the Port Authorities, and first aid. A “First Aid Guide” had been published and is pursuant to the terms laid down in the approved Port Facility systematically used for training needs, and first aid courses Security Plan, which is based on the International Ship and were conducted. Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code). • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal The Code requires that drills be held at least every sixteen protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in months, using security scenarios that are often combined line with technological advances and changes in European with sea pollution and/or fire scenarios, with the cooperation specifications. and participation of the local Port Authorities. 1,577 ships berthed at the quays of our port facilities in 2019. • The quality of drinking water is tested through analysis by independent laboratories. • The restaurant staff undergoes medical checks in accordance with the requirements of the law. • Measurements are taken to establish levels of concentration of chemicals in the workplace, in line with the requirements of the relevant legislation. Over the last 10 years, the company has conducted a special study demonstrating that concentrations of all chemical substances were below the limit values for exposure. A study was conducted in 2017 confirming once again that the levels of chemical substances in work areas were almost nil and well below the limit values. Furthermore, measurements were taken to determine the inhalable and respirable fractions of airborne particles in the atmosphere of the main warehouse, where it was ascertained that average concentrations for an 8-hour work day are clearly lower than the statutory exposure limit values. N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) levels in the work area of a lubricant production unit were also measured, and found to be much lower than the respective occupational exposure limit value. A well-equipped doctor’s office also operates at the Head Office, prepared to respond to acute cases, manage chronic illnesses, provide information on health issues and organise blood donations. Finally, occupational physicians and arrangements for general medical procedures and screening examinations are also in place for the benefit of all subsidiary companies of the Group. [ 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9. Training on Safety Issues The continuous training of our employees and the creation of Safety Day 2019 Dilemmas-Care-Risk Acceptance a high level of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, form the essential pillars for In recent years, the Safety Day has been organised on an accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work annual basis in the Group. In 2019, Safety Day took place environment. on the 8th of May with the theme ”Dilemmas-Care-Risk We also see that our contractors’ employees are kept Acceptance-Care”, featuring a more in-depth look at certain aware of health and safety issues, with the emphasis on concepts and the way in which they are interconnected. This general principles of accident prevention and the company’s year the aim was the evaluation of the progress made to procedures ensuring safe execution of the work they date. Safety Day is organised simultaneously throughout the undertake. Visitors are given safety instructions in the form Group, in all the companies, the refinery, offices, facilities and of a special leaflet, while a special briefing film is screened for service stations, and the workers and associate contractors them on entry to the refinery facilities. dedicate more than an hour from their work to participate in scheduled meetings. The general content of health and safety training includes the following subjects: In 2019 there were more than 120 meetings with the participation of more than 1,500 workers and contractors. At • Fire safety use of fire extinguishing means. the meetings, videos and slides are shown, on-the-job risks • Work Permits. are identified and recorded, and employees themselves propose solutions for addressing such risks. • Work in confined spaces. The main component of these sessions is the open and • Identification of occupational hazards and risk evaluation. honest discussion about how each individual handles the • Personal Protective Equipment. dilemmas, and how to take steps to protect the people • Material Safety Data Sheets. around them and contribute towards the Zero Goal: Zero Accidents and Zero Lost Time. • Emergency response procedures and participation in relevant drills. As a result, the participants show great interest and make personal commitments to CHANGE their BEHAVIOUR with • First aid. safety in mind. These Safety Days have the broad support • Presentations analyses of Major Technological Accidents. and the participation of the Group’s leadership, and they play an important role in raising awareness and forming a • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial uniform culture regarding the importance of Safety. companies). Figures for health & safety training MOTOR OIL Other companies in Group1 2018 2019 2018 2019 Total workforce 1,269 1,299 846 854 Workers undergoing training 1,054 1,051 622 626 Man-hours of training 15,032 14,067 3,336 3,472 Contractors undergoing training 570 1,117 2,741 2,986 Man-hours of training 4,560 8,936 5,893 6,463 1 Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC MOTOR OIL HELLAS 47 ] HEALTH & SAFETY Workforce Training As part of encouraging a culture of safety among personnel, information on safety topics is regularly disseminated, while safety messages and posters, the results of accident and Training in Fire Safety near-miss investigations are posted on notice boards at all of In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to our facilities. respond to emergency situations, as well as to rehearse the In 2019, refinery personnel were trained, certified and procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and check the recertified in the issuance of work permits, which stipulate the operability of equipment, regular emergency preparedness work safety procedures in place at the refinery. As they do exercises are carried out. In 2019, 48 drills were conductevery year, the rescue crews received training at the Elefsina ed, of which 8 were held on the drill field, 3 were based on Search and Rescue Team (EMAK) facilities in techniques for large-scale personnel evacuation scenarios, 3 on forest fire rescue from a height in an industrial setting and they carried scenarios and 3 were carried out in cooperation with AVIN’s out related drills. Furthermore, training on issues related to loading terminal. security in the refinery area was conducted by Specialised In addition, in 2019: Hellenic Police personnel, as was training of shift workers in the use of Personal Protective Equipment, with weekly • Personnel of the fuel distribution department and the drills. Extensive training of the safety staff was conducted safety service were trained in the use and operation of the in first aid with relevant certificationand in safe and fast fire-fighting equipment of the fire rescue pick up trucks. driving techniques for cars, motorcycles, ambulances and fire • Safety service personnel were trained in driving fire truck engines. No 4. A seminar on the management of suspicious explosive • Crews were trained in the operation of upgraded fire truck objects was conducted by the Engineer Directorate of the No 5. Hellenic Army, as well as training in combat rescue and first aid in a possible terrorist attack. • New operators were trained in fire safety equipment and fire-fighting. In addition, the structured efforts to educate the technical staff of our facilities were continued through films and • New engineers were trained in basic fire fighting principles presentations on incidents, analysing causes, effects and and the use of fire extinguishers. the corrective measures taken. Intensive training was • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of also offered in 2019 for new employees (technicians and Respiratory Protective Equipment. operators) in key topics affecting their area, most of which • The personnel of the fire safety service and the mechanical were related to the safety procedures at the refinery and and general maintenance department were trained in the the particular units where they will be working. Lastly, 12 new use of a special welding helmet which provides breathing engineers were trained in the Emergency Response Plan, as air through filters. part of assuming duties of the on-duty engineer. • Rescue team training continued while selected members attended advanced rescue training by EMAK trainers. Training for Contractor Employees • Fire safety crews received training in combating forest In 2019, contractor personnel working at the refinery also fires. received intensive training from an independent organisation on safety-related issues. A total of 1,117 workers received training on key safety issues and best international practices from trainers with extensive experience in the refinery sector. At the end of the training the participants sat for examinations, and only those who successfully completed the course could now receive an entrance card and work at the refinery. It is worth noting that the contractors’ employees that worked at the refinery in 2019 were almost twice as many as they were in 2018 due to a significant increase in maintenance work. Intensive training was conducted at our commercial companies for personnel working at our own-operated retail stations and for contractors at our facilities. A total of 2,741 people received training; 2,550 of them were at service stations and 190 at our facilities. The main training topics covered safe operations, safety check-lists, and others. [ 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Road Safety Road tankers undergo multiple thorough safety checks every year in accordance with the «Regulations on Safety 2019 was another year without any road accident for our of Loading of Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum commercial companies. Road safety is a priority for these Facilities». This check extends to the full compliance with the companies, which every day transport more than 8,000,000 terms included in the European Agreement concerning the litres of liquid fuel and 520 metric tons of gas across Greece Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). and the Balkans. On an annual basis, they travel more than 28 million kilometres delivering fuel in Greece and abroad There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on without accident or injury to drivers or others, demonstrating defensive, fuel-efficient and safe driving, loading/unloading in practice our commitment and dedication to road safety, procedures and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll and our contribution to the common good. In 2019, more than over manoeuvres, fuel chemistry, handling of customer 390 drivers of private and public use tank trucks received complaints, vehicle safety equipment, fume recovery, training in their special skill areas. security, etc. Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their safe In recent years the programme has also incorporated a transport requires precautionary measures to be taken at detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, three levels: so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. GPS tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to allow • The maintenance of a high technical standard of transport closer monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route taken, equipment, i.e. road tankers. stops etc.). • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the constant monitoring of their implementation. • The ongoing updating and training of drivers. The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out their activities with a keen sense of responsibility, are continually engaged in striving to meet the above requirements, in the context of the rules laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum industry, and their own company policies and procedures. To succeed in this objective they operate integrated systems for recording and monitoring of road tankers carrying out transport operations on their behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner companies), as well as training programmes for drivers, while also undergoing tests and certification from external accreditation agencies under the standards ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety Management). MOTOR OIL HELLAS 49 ] RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. Respect and care for the environment is a common Our commitment to continuing to decrease our denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. environmental footprint, as seen in the diagrams We operate as a responsible corporate organisation of the related indicators, remains consistent and and espouse the principles of sustainable development, uncompromising. In 2019, the specific values for which is based on environmental protection, mutual energy consumption, carbon dioxide and sulphur respect and a sense of duty towards future generations. dioxide emissions, and water consumption were For these reasons, we continue with investments aimed slightly higher than in 2018 due to the regular at the steady improvement of our environmental maintenance of the units which led to the less performance. In 2019, we spent 31.2 million euros in our efficient operation of the refinery. investment programme with both large and smaller scale projects, making a direct or indirect contribution As part of ongoing improvement and review of the to environmental protection. environmental management system, as certified under the ISO 14001 standard, two communication In 2019, we continued with investments at the procedures were revised in 2019, and the annual refinery to upgrade and replace furnaces in the Environmental Statement 2018 was issued in Lubricant Vacuum Distillation Unit to further enhance accordance with the EMAS III ER122/2009 regulation. energy savings. We completed the application of In compliance with provisions of Law 4403/2016 the Advanced Process Control (APC) system to the requiring corporate groups to publish non-financial lubricant unit with the aim of maintaining consistent information, as well as the requirements of Circular product quality, efficiency and safety. In addition, we 62487/07-06-2017, we have included data on the continued to upgrade the desalination units and as environmental performance of MOTOR OIL and part of general equipment maintenance, we completed subsidiaries CORAL, CORAL GAS, AVIN OIL, LPC and projects to reduce energy consumption and emissions. OFC in this report. These data reflect energy and fuel consumption, along with greenhouse gas emissions related to this energy and fuel consumption. [ 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We use best available techniques and state-of-the-art anti-pollution technology 31.2 million euros Investments and operating costs related to the environment in 2019 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 51 ] ENVIRONMENT 1. Environmental Management • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the consumption of energy. The company’s primary goal to minimise the environmental • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, minimizing impact and energy footprint of its operation, as part the probability of environmental accidents, and preparing, of sustainable development strategy, is based on the implementing and testing appropriate emergency Environmental and Energy Management systems, according intervention procedures. to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 respectively. • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our personnel The Environmental and Energy Management systems are and contractors’ employees who work on our premises, on part of the Integrated Management System and serve the implementation of our environmental protection policy. as effective management tools for implementing our • Evaluating our environmental performance and environmental protection policy objectives, which are: continuously improving our Environmental Management •C  omplying fully with all Greek and EU environmental System. protection legislative requirements. • Developing communication and dialogue with all •O  perating the refinery facilities in accordance with stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas approved environmental conditions. around the company’s facilities. •D  istributing products that comply with the European quality The Environmental Management System ensures that and environmental protection norms, by taking steps to suitable procedures are in place to identify and evaluate upgrade production processes accordingly. the significant environmental impacts of our activities, and forms the basis for drawing up strategies and implementing •P  lanning and implementing projects with minimized technically feasible and financially viable programmes to environmental impacts. protect the environment. • Implementing Best Available Techniques. The company’s Environmental Management System was •M  onitoring and continually minimising the emissions of first certified in 2000, in accordance with the ISO 14001:1996 greenhouse gases, as well as those of other gas pollutants, standard. and reducing solid and liquid waste as far as technically and economically feasible. Environmental Management System Planning Health, Safety and Environmental aspects Statutory and other requirements Environmental Policy Goals and objectives Environmental programmes mprovem ous I en inu Implementation and ΙSO 14001:2015 operation t t ISO 50001:2011 Structure and responsibilities n EMAS III ER 1221/2008 Education – awareness raising Communication Documentation Document inspection Co Operational control Emergency response Management Review Control Improvement Proposals Monitoring and measuring Implementation commitment Non-compliance Corrective and preventive action Records Inspections [ 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 This was followed by re-certifications, and in 2017, The refinery facilities also fall under the greenhouse gas certification was expanded to include the production, trade emission allowance trading scheme within the European and delivery of fuels, biofuels, basic lubricants, lubricants, Community aimed at promoting efficient and cost-effective paraffins, asphalt, sulphur and special petroleum products reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. with the new re-certified ISO 14001:2015 standard. Prior-period reports are submitted to competent authorities Additionally, in 2017, MOTOR OIL certified its Energy annually, outlining: Management System at the refinery to the ISO 50001:2011 • Emissions and plan for monitoring carbon dioxide standard, which binds the company to using energy emissions. In 2019, an emission data report was also efficiently with the aim of conserving natural resources, submitted to the authorities for the years 2014-2018, in order reducing greenhouse gas emissions and helping to alleviate for the facility to revise its emission permit for the 4th period the effects of climate change. of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme The Environmental and Energy Management Systems (2021-2030 period). are part of the company’s Integrated Management • Quantities and type of produced solid waste and its System, which has also been recertified to the revised management. ISO 9001:2015 standard for quality. Therefore, the various internal operations and procedures of the Environmental • Quantity and quality of liquid waste. Management System are themselves subject to the rigorous • Results of monitoring and recording environmental quality. documentation imposed by the standard. • Emissions from main combustion plants. In 2019, as part of efforts to ensure the ongoing fine-tuning • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and and improvement of the Environmental Management System, Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Regulation two communication procedures were reviewed in regard to: (EC) No 166/2006. 1. Procedure for monitoring and reporting related to CO2 • Quantities of ship-generated waste offloaded at MOTOR emissions from combustion/processing. OIL’s port facilities. 2. Operation of the wastewater biological treatment unit. In addition, the annual Environmental Statement is Our commitment to publish our environmental performance filed in accordance with the requirements of EMAS ER figures and the impact of the operations at our facilities, as 1221/2009. The company is registered with the European explicitly set out in our Policy on the Environment, led to our Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in the voluntary adoption and implementation of the Community corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL 000067. Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for by Similarly, LPC submitted: European Regulation 1221:2009. • Annual statements to the Electronic Waste Registry Within the framework of EMAS, the company is required regarding waste collection and transport activities to publish, on an annual basis, information about its (Reg. No 15-1) and waste generation (Reg. No 15-2) for the environmental performance in the form of an Environmental year 2019. Statement, allowing it to remain in the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, by the decision of the Ministry of • Annual statement to the Electronic Waste Producers Environment and Energy renewed annually. In 2019, MOTOR Registry (EWP Reg. No 616) for 2019 (Hellenic Recycling OIL issued its BVQI certified Environmental Statement 2018, Agency-ΕΟΑΝ, alternative management of waste its thirteenth such annual report. It is available on the website, lubricating oils). www.moh.gr. • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Regulation (EC) No 166/2006, for 2019. Compliance with Environmental Legislation • The verified annual Environmental Statement (BV) in The key element of MOTOR OIL’s environmental policy, accordance with the requirements of EMAS ER 1221/2009. which is applied to all company activities, is to comply with The company is registered with the European environmental legislation. Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in the Our commitment to rigorous adherence to Greek and corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL 000051. European legislation is reflected in our environmental performance indicators, which are reported to the competent authorities and stakeholders. The refinery facilities operate under the terms and conditions described in detail in the Decision Approving Environmental Conditions for the refinery’s operation pursuant to Directive 2010/75/EU (IED) on the prevention and control of emissions into air, water and soil. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 53 ] ENVIRONMENT Refinery/facilities communication with local • They are related to the company’s environmental policy or stakeholders some predetermined purpose or objective. All of our companies maintain open channels of • An objection or complaint has been expressed or is communication with local administration authorities and considered vital following evaluation of stakeholder views. other stakeholders, either by sending representatives to conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment plans and its programmes Environmental impact evaluation relating to environmental protection. YES Legal requirement Besides briefing local authorities, the company also maintains open communication lines with refinery YES Purpose/goal neighbours, listening and responding to any complaints they may have. Recording, investigation and evaluation N O N S I G N I F I C A N T I M PAC T YES Objection of complaints from residents are all covered by a specific S I G N I F I C A N T I M PAC T procedure to ensure the appropriate immediate or longYES 3 complaints/year term corrective action is taken, in line with the causes of the nuisance. YES Stakeholder opinions The fact that in recent years the number of complaints Founded from the local community has been kept at low levels YES Indirect demonstrates the efficacy of the measures described NO above. Specifically, for 2019, we received 11 complaints Irregular circumstances by neighbours, with two of them concerning nuisance Accident NO from emissions, 8 from noise and 1 from odours. Of the 11 Emergency complaints, 5 were determined to be groundless and no corrective measures were necessary, while 6 were deemed High Low Impact severity justified, but not significant, as they were related to essential processes or matters of unit operation which were promptly High Low Frequency of appearance addressed. No complaints were received in 2019 from neighbours of the Coral, Coral Gas and LPC facilities. The assessment mentioned above is a dynamic process that monitors changes to the refinery’s configuration and redefines the significance and classification of impacts. Environmental Impact Assessment The company’s environmental records are reviewed In striving to consistently improve its environmental regularly; where new activities or changes have been performance over and above what is legally required, MOTOR introduced, such review seeks to identify any new OIL identifies and assesses the environmental aspects environmental aspects / impacts that may arise from: and unavoidable impacts of its operation and implements programmes to prevent and mitigate them. • New compliance requirements due to changes in legislation. An important tool in this endeavour is the identification of • New activities, products or services, or changes in existing environmental aspects and the systematic assessment ones. of environmental impacts at all stages of the production • Objections from or the views of stakeholders. process. This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts The following are taken into account when identifying associated with the refinery’s operation, and their environmental aspects: significance classification, has led to the following impacts • Current legislative requirements and their amendments being classified as significant, therefore constituting the challenges we are called upon to manage: • Stakeholder views • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from the • The refinery’s operation under normal and abnormal refinery’s production processes. conditions, and potential emergency situations. • Energy and water consumption. The assessment of impacts and their classification as significant or non-significant is based on a number of criteria. • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. Specifically, impacts are considered significant when: • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. • They constitute legislative requirements for the facility. • Noise. [ 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The above environmental impacts are monitored regularly In 2019, the upgrade of the lubricant vacuum distillation unit using suitable environmental indicators, based on which continued with the replacement of the 3 old furnaces with 2 targets are set to address, properly manage and improve new, technologically advanced and more efficient ones with environmental performance by implementing programmes. a shared system to preheat combustion air and increase thermal efficiency. Regarding the above project, it is important When new projects are being planned, alternative designs are to note that it is a project for the improvement of our evaluated taking account of their respective environmental environmental performance, as it is aimed at the optimization impacts, with the aim of minimising these impacts as far as of energy efficiency and reduction of emissions. The enhanced practicable, incorporating Best Available Techniques and energy efficiency has a direct impact on reduction of choosing the most environmentally friendly solution. atmospheric emissions (because of the improved combustion process and reduction in use of fuel). The burners in the new furnace are low NΟx burners, which also helps reduce the quantity of NΟx emitted in the furnace fumes. 2. Environmental Investments and Also as part of decreasing our energy footprint, in 2019 the Expenditures upgrade of the seawater desalination units continued, which involved the addition of a new reverse osmosis unit, which will The company’s investment policy is oriented towards reduce energy consumption for water production. The new producing products that comply with European quality unit will replace the older water production unit which used specifications, using modern technologies to ensure a high multi-stage flash technology. level of environmental protection and improve the quality of At the same time, the collaboration for the implementation of the environment, and towards capital investments aiming the European LIFE DIANA environmental programme aimed at at improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental installing an innovative pilot facility at the refinery to stabilise performance. residual petroleum sludge continued. Furthermore, we took Between 2000 and 2019, the Group realised an investment part in research projects aimed at environmental protection, programme totalling 1,945.9 million euros (as shown in the specifically: the DIRPIMCOAL project to produce biofuel from relevant table). From 2000 to 2019, investment related to the industrial and urban waste; the CARMOF project to capture environment amounted to 872.4 million euros, i.e. 44.8% of CO2 at the refinery production facilities; and the DeepDesOil the total investment programme. In 2019, total investments project to develop a combined chemical-biological process amounted to 159 million euros, of which 31.2 million euros for hyper-desulphurisation of petroleum products. concerned investments and operating expenses to improve 872.4 and protect the environment. In 2019, the installation of the Advanced Process Control (APC) system for the lubricant vacuum distillation unit (U-200) was completed, and will ensure optimal control and ongoing million euros automated regulation of its operation. The design of the new Diesel Optimizer program for existing APCs (fractional environmental investment distillation and hydro-desulphurisation) also began, aimed at and operating expenses the optimal management of diesel currents. There are multiple from 2000 to 2019 benefits from the operation of the new system, in terms of both process safety and environmental savings, due to the significant savings of energy and the consequent reduction of the carbon footprint in the production process, as well as the optimization of the specifications of the products produced. Environmental Investments and Operating Expenses 2000 2019 (million euros) Year 2000-2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Total level of investment 1,237.6 55.3 68.7 54 42.4 86.4 107.3 135.2 159 1,945.9 Investment relating to environment 660.2 16.4 18.7 11.0 8.4 18.9 18.7 20.6 26.2 799.1 Environmental operating expenses 35.3 3.3 4.0 4.5 5.7 5.1 4.9 5.5 5.0 73.3 Total environmental investments 695.5 19.7 22.7 15.5 14.1 24.0 23.6 26.1 31.2 872.4 & operating expenses MOTOR OIL HELLAS 55 ] ENVIRONMENT 3. Implementation of Best Available 4.1. Energy Efficiency Improvement Techniques Our “energy footprint” is an important consideration that leads us to actively identify areas with potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate Best Available Techniques (BAT) are techniques that can projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or prevent (primary prevention measures that are intrinsic equivalent technologies. to the production process itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” techniques) in the most efficient The MOTOR OIL refinery has drawn up and is implementing manner the pollution caused by an industrial activity, while an investment programme aimed at improving energy being economically feasible and technically practicable. efficiency, primarily in the older units which were less energy-efficient due to their design. Thus, in recent years, Best Available Techniques per sector are described in the one additional power-steam cogenerator was installed corresponding Reference Documents (BREFs). These include to minimise boiler use; the thermal pyrolysis furnace was the best available techniques and information on their upgraded; the air preheating furnace of the Crude Distillation feasibility, emissions levels, related monitoring, consumption Unit was replaced, while additional heat recovery exchangers levels and measures for site remediation once the facility has were installed in the Thermal Pyrolysis Unit. The project to ceased operation. upgrade the furnaces at the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation In the context of its environmental permit MOTOR OIL Unit into forced draft furnaces continued, and in 2019 the uses the Best Available Techniques in order to optimize its upgrade of the furnace in the Lubricant Extraction Unit was environmental and energy efficiency. completed, with thermal efficiency now reaching 90% (~ 7% benefit), while giving a boost to supply. The application of BAT at the refinery includes: In 2019, the installation of the Advanced Process Control • measures to prevent or reduce emissions during the (APC) system for the lubricant vacuum distillation unit facility’s operation; (U-200) was completed and will ensure optimal control and • automations and control systems that contribute to the ongoing automated regulation of its operation. The design efficient management of raw materials and energy, while of the new Diesel Optimizer program for existing APCs ensuring high levels of reliability and safety in the units; (fractional distillation and hydro-desulphurisation) also • emissions monitoring; began, aimed at the optimal management of diesel currents and minimization of downgrades to critical product features. • incorporation of BATs either into the initial design of a unit, There are multiple benefits from the operation of the new or when existing units and processes are expanded or system, in terms of process safety and environmental modified. protection, due to the significant savings of energy and the consequent reduction of the carbon footprint in the production process. In the past, APC systems had been installed in almost all 4. Energy-Saving production units, and this year marks the twelfth since natural gas was introduced. As part of optimising operations, in 2019 extensive revamping took place at the Fluid For us, the rational use of energy is an important parameter Catalytic Cracking (FCC) unit, and the catalyst of the gasoil in conducting responsible business activities and is indicative desulphurisation unit’s reactor was replaced. An extensive of our commitment to the principles of sustainable growth. turnaround of gasoline production units was also completed. Thus: Energy consumption and the overall performance of the • Our goal is to measure and improve, on a continuous basis, facilities is systematically monitored with the application of our performance with respect to the use of energy and the an integrated Energy Management System. It is noted that reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. energy consumption for 2019 in absolute numbers showed • We invest in the application of economically feasible an increase from 2018, due to extensive maintenance technologies that contribute to the reduction of emissions. work. Nevertheless, per-unit energy consumption showed Cooperating with the competent state authorities and other an increase and amounted to 2.18 TJ, up 2.3% from 2018. agencies in planning and implementing technologically This increase is due to the fact that, as a result of extensive feasible and financially viable environmental protection maintenance work, the refinery could not operate at optimal policies. energy efficiency. Our long-standing commitment to continue to reduce energy consumption is depicted in the diagram • We report our actions and results to all stakeholders. below. [ 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In addition, the Power Management System (Best Available Energy consumption Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown owing to a failure of the 30,707 internal or external power network, significantly increasing the level of safety and reliability and thereby improving 29,444 environmental efficiency. 29,183 Avoiding CO2 (tn) by cogeneration of electricity and steam 27,600 27,298 2.48 2.26 2018 2019 2.15 2.18 2.13 385,448 370,513 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption (TJ) Specific energy consumption (TJ/thousand ΜΤ of raw materials) Upgrading of Preheating Furnaces and Boilers The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure more effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, thereby Use of Natural Gas reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions and emissions of other atmospheric pollutants. A rolling programme is Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in 2008 was underway to upgrade the refinery furnaces, introducing an important step towards reducing its energy footprint, while forced draft technology – which increases the efficiency of a also improving financial and environmental results, given that furnace by more than 6% – and replacing the existing boilers the use of natural gas usually reduces CO2 emissions and with new, more energy-efficient boilers emitting fewer NOx. is for the most part the economically most efficient way of With the completion of the upgrade of the visbreaker unit, a generating electricity and producing hydrogen. new improved-efficiency pre-heating furnace was installed, Natural gas is used: allowing a savings of up to 30% in fuel use compared with previous years. Furthermore, the project to upgrade the • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen production furnaces at the vacuum distillation unit began and in 2019 the unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which allows the quantities upgrade of the furnace in the Lubricant Extraction Unit was of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduced by approximately completed. A study is underway on the further upgrade of 8% and 19%, respectively. the furnace of one of the two crude distillation units and the • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant gas reconfiguration of its preheating exchangers, which, together turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, achieving a with new equipment, will help achieve even greater energy reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 16%. savings. • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the refinery’s pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers, thus both increasing Recovery of Gases and Condensates energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. The recovery of condensates, which are then used in the steam boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high levels. Using the energy content of the condensates means Power and Steam Cogeneration Plant reducing the gas and liquid fuel required to generate steam The Cogeneration Plant now includes five gas turbines, with in the steam boilers. Continual care is also taken to maximise a total active power of 85MW, and three boilers recovering recovery of gases, so that they can be used as fuel and their heat from the exhaust fumes generated. These boilers combustion in the flare minimised. generate about 140 tons of high and low pressure steam per hour, making the refinery self-sufficient in electricity – as it eliminates the need to draw power from the Public Power Corporation grid – and meeting most of its need for steam. The operation of the plant also contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions on a national level by drastically reducing electricity consumption from the national grid, the production of which would require a different fuel mix. Moreover, heat recovery and steam generation at the refinery reduce the use of boilers. The resulting benefit for the environment in terms of lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is indicated in the following table. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 57 ] ENVIRONMENT Desalination With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance programme provides for: Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis technology is the most energy-efficient method. This technique is being • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat widely used and a project is underway for the upgrade of exchangers and air coolers in order to maximise heat recovery an array of units providing a total capacity of 500 m3/h, and reduce consumption. with a view to making the use of thermal desalination units • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline and completely unnecessary. equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the environment. • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating equipment, Monitoring and Daily Practice whose energy performance has fallen below specified levels, as a result of length of use. The energy performance of production units is constantly monitored, to correct any malfunctions that come to light. • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, burners The Advanced Process Control system, through continuous and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. monitoring, achieves the optimisation of energy use in the units where it has been installed. The APC system is fully operational Our commercial companies for the crude distillation units, the Vacuum Distillation units, the Hydrocracker and Hydrogen Production units and the Diesel Energy consumption and related emissions by the subsidiaries Hydrodesulphurisation and Lubricant Vacuum Distillation units, are not considered substantial for us, since the most significant making a significant contribution to optimising operations and environmental impact derives from the operation of the refinery. providing direct control of their most important operational That is where we focus the majority of actions as part of our parameters. Automated sulphur and distillation analysers strategy. Nevertheless, we commenced documenting our have also been installed and are used by the APC to adjust the performance to meet the requirements to publish environmental processes and minimise energy consumption accurately. data of Law 4403/2016, which was adopted to incorporate European Directive 2014/95/EU into national legislation. Energy consumption for buildings and facilities of our commercial companies 2018 2019 Company Type of energy MWh ΤJ MWh ΤJ CORAL GAS Electrical power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori, Marousi, Perissos)) 1,347 4.85 1,458 5.25 CORAL CORAL GAS LPG (Kalohori) 153 0.55 135 0.49 GAS Natural Gas (Perissos) 39 0.14 CORAL Electrical power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, 3,762 13.54 3,793 13.65 Kavala, Alexandroupoli Marousi, Perissos) CORAL Heating oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 4,974 17.91 48 0.17 Natural Gas (Perissos) 94 0.34 AVIN OIL Electrical power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 1,738 6.26 1,575 5.67 ΑVIN OIL Heating oil (Kavala) 17 0.06 0 0 Natural Gas (Perissos) 45 0.16 LPC Electrical power 6,142 22.11 6,302 22.69 LPC Natural gas 56,825 204.57 64,369 231.73 Fuel for own use 8,324 29.97 0 0 OFC Electrical power 571 2.05 644 2.32 OFC Heating oil 94 0.34 86 0.31 Automotive diesel 76 0.27 69 0.25 NRG Electrical Power 397 1.43 Energy consumption by privately owned fleet of our commercial companies 2018 2019 Company Τype of energy Lt MWh/lt MWh TJ Lt MWh/lt MWh TJ CORAL GAS Automotive diesel 108,804 0.0119 1,295 4.66 111,927 0.0119 1,332 4.79 GAS LPG (Autogas) 832 0.0071 6 0.02 1,494 0.0071 10,578 0.04 CORAL Automotive diesel 407,169 0.0119 4,845 17.44 339,344 0.0119 4,038 14.54 AVIN OIL Automotive diesel 404,000 0.0119 4,808 17.31 356,896 0.0119 4,247 15.29 LPC Automotive diesel 134,490 0.0119 1,600 5.76 133,177 0.0119 1,585 5.71 Automotive diesel 5,260 0.0119 63 0.23 4,952 0.0119 59 0.21 OFC Petrol 1,398 0.0097 14 0.05 1,896 0.0097 18 0.07 [ 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4.2. CΟ2 Emissions Total CO2 emissions for the refinery in 2019 were at 2,004 thousand tons. There was a drop in overall emissions in The year 2019 was the seventh year of implementing the new 2019 over 2018, due to reduced production as a result of system to monitor greenhouse gas emissions for the period maintenance works. The specific value remained at the same 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce CO2 emissions, level as in 2018. this phase of application will also be subject to rigorous specifications relating to accuracy of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. CO2 Emissions In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: 2,216 2,164 2,158 2,162 • Uses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO2 2,004 emissions from its facilities, the methodology resting on methods of calculation based on flow analysis measurements and analyses of fuel quality. • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of carbon contained in the refinery gas fuel using the gas chromatography 0.178 0.179 0.159 0.156 0.158 method. • Submits to the competent ministry annual reports on CO2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 emissions, which are verified as to their reliability and validity Annual emissions (thousand ΜΤ) Specific annual emissions (ΜΤ CO2 per MT raw material) by a certified external agency. ΟιEmissions εμπορικές of CO μας2 in MT from energy consumption for buidlngs and facilities of our commercial companies εταιρείες 2018 2019 Αναφέρουμε εδώ την καταγραφή της επίδοσής μας για τις εμπορικές μας εταιρείες, σύμφωνα με τις απαιτήσεις δημοσιοποίησης Company Type of energy περιβαλλοντικών στοιχείων του Νόμου 4403/2016. tn CO 2 eq tn CO 2 eq CORAL GAS Electrical power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori) 850 930 CORAL LPG (Kalohori) 35 31 GAS Natural Gas (Perissos) 8 CORAL Electrical power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 2,373 2,420 CORAL Heating oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 1,321 13 Natural Gas (Perissos) 20 AVIN OIL Electrical power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 1,097 1,005 ΑVIN OIL Heating oil (Kavala) 4 0 Natural Gas (Perissos) 10 Electrical power 3,875 4,021 LPC Natural gas 12,223 13,846 Fuel for own use 2,349 0 OFC Electrical power 348 411 OFC Heating oil 25 21 Automotive diesel 19 18 NRG Electrical Power 253 Emissions of CO2 in ΜΤ from energy consumption by privately owned fleet of our commercial companies 2018 2019 Company Type of energy Lt tn CO2 eq/ tn CO2 eq Lt tn CO2 eq tn CO2 eq 1.000 lt 1.000 lt CORAL GAS Automotive diesel CORAL 108,804 2.639 287 111,927 2.639 295 GAS LPG (Autogas) 832 1.519 1.26 1,494 1.519 2.27 CORAL Automotive diesel 407,169 2.639 1,075 339,344 2.639 896 AVIN OIL Automotive diesel 404,000 2.639 1,066 356,896 2.639 942 LPC Automotive diesel 134,490 2.639 350 133,177 2.639 351 OFC Automotive diesel 5,260 2.639 14 4,952 2.639 13 OFC Petrol 1,398 2.270 3.17 1,896 2.270 4.16 Emission factors of electrical energy and fuels were taken from the National Inventory Report (NIR 2018 and NIR 2019). MOTOR OIL HELLAS 59 ] ENVIRONMENT 5. Air Quality Management Emissions Monitoring The assessment of air quality, for the purpose of protecting Ensuring air quality for the purpose of protecting the and improving the quality of the atmosphere, is based on a environment of the wider area around the facility is a key measurement program that covers the facility’s emissions pillar of our environmental policy. The achievement of (point source and diffuse), as well as the air quality around the ongoing improvement in this area is not just a response to refinery and at the nearest populated area. All measurements legal requirements; it is also due to our commitment to the are performed using state of the art equipment and are principles of Corporate Responsibility, according to which we based on international standards. regard air quality as a material issue. A) Air quality monitoring The facility’s emissions are summarized in the figure below: In the peripheral zone of the refinery air quality is monitored at four stations which are equipped with contemporary, automated tools with multiple measuring and monitoring abilities: CO2, NOX, SO2 Suspended particles. • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of continuously Furnaces measuring the concentration of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) Boilers – Burners Gas emissions from focal combustion and sulphur dioxide (SO2). sources • A mobile station which can perform continuous measurement of meteorological parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature and relative humidity), and Gas Wash down Unit concentrations of nitrogen oxides (ΝΟ, ΝΟ2 and NOx), Sulphur Recovery Units sulphur dioxide (SΟ2), hydrogen sulphide (Η2S), carbon (Catalytic conversion SO2, H2S monoxide (CO), methane, hydrocarbons excluding methane, of hydrogen sulphide gas emissions are and total hydrocarbons (CΗ4, ΝΜΗC, ΤΗC), benzene and into sulphur and then very low due to their particulate matter ΡΜ10 and PM2.5 (particulates with an burning of the flue complete conversion aerodynamic diameter of <10 μm and <2.5 μm respectively), gases) into solid sulphur. as well as meteorological parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature and relative humidity). Fuel storage Emissions VOCs Emissions of organic B) Monitoring of point source emissions API oil separators volatile compounds Gaseous emissions from the stacks of the main combustion come from fuel plants of the Combustion, Lubricant, and Hydrocracking Loading-unloading storage tanks, the and complexes and the electricity generation units are of raw materials and operation of the API oil continuously monitored by online analysers, which are products separators as well as controlled and calibrated to the EN14181 standard. In addition the leaks there may be to pollutant concentrations, the oxygen concentration and Leaks from from the distribution temperature, flow, humidity, and pressure of flue gases are distribution network of the fuel within the also monitored. The gaseous emissions of the Fluid Catalytic refinery. Cracking unit are also monitored on a continuous basis. Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every three months by a suitably accredited external organisation. Moreover, in conformance with the refinery’s environmental terms, the supply of gases to the flares in the Combustion, Lubricant and Hydrocracking units is also constantly monitored. It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a configuration that allows for complete control. [ 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 An automated performance control system operates at Minimizing Emissions the Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously monitors Apart from the measures to control concentrations of and records H2S concentrations at the entry points, and H2S airborne pollutants, a range of measures has been taken and SΟ2 concentrations at the exit points of these units. The within the refinery to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: H2S/SΟ2 ratio is also continuously measured, recorded and adjusted to ensure maximised recovery performance (which •O  peration of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the is >99.5% in the case of the new SCOT-type units). The smooth Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions of operation of the afterburners (incinerators) associated suspended particles from the catalyst. with these units is achieved through continuous monitoring •D  esulphurisation of gases used as fuel in the refinery before of SΟ2 and Ο2 at the exit points, and of the temperature at they enter the gas fuel system, reducing emissions of sulphur the radiant section of the furnaces. Operation of both the dioxide. Sulphur Recovery units, and the afterburners, is automatically • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in the controlled via the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old ones, in order to reduce their emissions. Clean Fuels • Furnace cleaning while in operation, aiming at increasing Integrated Sulphur Management System heat induction, saving fuel and decreasing flue gas temperature. Refineries face the following challenge: the amount of sulphur in the available crude oil types is increasing over time, • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, relieving while the specifications for allowable sulphur content pressure of gases by safety valves to the flares, placing of in the fuels produced have reached extremely low levels second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, placing of floating (e.g. for petrol and automotive diesel, the 2009 specification tops on the oil separators and operation of a steam recovery for sulphur content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the system at the Tanker Loading Terminal, as well as measures equivalent of 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum acceptable to reduce emissions of hydrocarbon gases, in tandem with level of sulphur emissions is also low (<660kg/h), and the the implementation of the system of bottom-loading tankers. concentration of sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere around • Operation of steam recovery units for loading of petrol at a refinery, on an hourly basis, should not exceed 350 μg/m3. all AVIN OIL and Coral facilities, as provided for in legislation, In this context, the removal of sulphur coming into the refinery and at all service stations for use in unloading of petrol with crude oil at a concentration which in 2019 ranged from tankers to tanks (in accordance with the provisions of between 0.14% and 4.2% is a significant challenge. Directive 94/63 [Stage I]). MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with respect for the environment, has in place a particularly effective system which incorporates Best Available Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and minimizing the amount of Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) energy consumed. At modern refinery which comprises many different types In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, MOTOR of installed equipment, through which large quantities of OIL produces and markets petrol and automotive diesel raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and final with a sulphur content below 10 ppm. Furthermore, Sulphur products, it is to be expected that there will be particular emissions from the refinery are minimized if the overall rate points with a higher risk of hydrocarbons being accidentally of hydrogen sulphide conversion into elemental sulphur in released into the atmosphere. In order to check and limit the new SCOT-type Sulphur Recovery units is in the order of fugitive emissions from the equipment, a programme has 99.95%. been implemented featuring regular controls at selected Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which by points (better known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) cooling and appropriate processing, is converted to a solid in order to identify and repair possible leaks. granular form, stored in silos for sale as a raw material for the There are 6,171 inspection points, covering all production production of sulphuric acid and fertilisers. The whole process units, the truck loading terminal, port facilities and storage is carried out in a completely closed circuit, thus avoiding the tanks. Checks are carried out by refinery staff at least once dispersing of sulphur particles in the air. a year, using portable equipment to measure volatile carbon concentration. In the event that concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the equipment checked is issued. In 2019, there were 17,776 checks. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 61 ] ENVIRONMENT In Numbers Average annual concentration ΝΟ2 The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In 2019, 250 there was a slight increase both in the total emissions and Hourly limit value emissions per ton of raw material (by 9%) compared to 2018 200 due to a slight increase in the use of fuel oil in production. 150 μg/m3 Sulphur dioxide emissions 100 3.5 3.2 50 3.1 2.7 2.8 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average annual concentration of suspended particles PM10 0.28 0.27 Daily limit value 0.23 0.20 0.22 50 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 40 Annual emissions (thousand ΜΤ) Specific annual emissions (kg SO2 per MT of raw material ) 30 μg/m3 20 As far as air quality during 2019 is concerned, the processing 10 of the recordings at the four air quality monitoring stations, in the context of the emissions monitoring programme, has 0 shown, as in previous years, that air quality in the vicinity of 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 the refinery remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for the last five years show that there has been no exceeding of the hourly limit values and daily levels permitted by legislation, Further information on MOTOR OIL results for 2019 is and the recorded values are much lower than the limit values available in the Environmental Statement 2019, which allowed. presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. The following diagrams show the average annual values of the See the following link: www.moh.gr/Default.aspx?a_id=10492 last five years for SO2, NO2 and suspended PM10 particles. In Similarly, more information about LPC is available at the 2019, no limits were exceeded. following link: http://lpc.gr/perivallongr/perivallontikesdiloseis/ Average annual concentration SO2 Daily limit value 120 100 80 μg/m3 60 40 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 [ 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6. Liquid Waste Management • Sampling and measurements continued in 2019, to check and monitor the quality of the seawater and to determine the conditions prevailing in the coastal zone near the Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall refinery port facilities. The study was conducted by the into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. The Geochemistry section of the Faculty of Geology and management and processing of liquid waste is a material Geoenvironment at the University of Athens. issue for the company, which incorporates Best Available Techniques, while due to their different pollutant load, the industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types of processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid 7. Solid Waste Management waste is pre-processed and then taken to the Liquid Industrial Recycling Waste Treatment Plant, while urban waste is removed to the Urban Waste Treatment Plant. Solid waste management is a material issue for the company. The effective operation of the Industrial Waste Water Waste management is based on an integrated process Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that concentrations covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste and includes of various pollutant substances at the plant outlet are clearly the following methods: processing and reuse, recycling, below relevant limit values. recovery and final disposal. The main aims of the solid waste In the case of some substances (including benzene, toluene, management programme are: ethyl benzene, xylene and a number of heavy metals), their • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, concentrations are very much below corresponding limit values, approaching the limit of detection in some cases. • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at source, Supply and Concentrations of Pollutant Parameters • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through at Outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or (average annual values) regeneration, and finally, • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at risk Parameter Average Value Limit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 value human health or the environment. Supply Solid waste management is handled by appropriately 10,070 9,592 8,323 9,133 9,479 (m3/day) licensed, specialised companies. Spent catalysts, which, pH 7.6 7.1 7.4 7.3 7.3 6-9 depending on the particular case may be classified as Temperature hazardous solid waste, are disposed of in a number of ways 27.5 30.2 29.8 29.0 30.2 35 (either exported, or regenerated for re-use by specialized (οC) Hydrocarbons firms abroad, or used in cement manufacture). Empty 2.1 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.6 10 hazardous substance containers are also disposed of by (mg/l) licensed companies. BOD5 (mg/l) 23.8 24.6 24.4 24.5 25.0 40 COD (mg/l) 105.3 106.0 106.3 106.1 115.6 150 Specifically, as part of the integrated solid waste management programme, the MOTOR OIL refinery has NH (mg/l) 3 13.4 13.5 13.5 13.5 13.5 15 already implemented bio piling technology for processing Phenols (mg/l) 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 contaminated soil and installed a bioremediation facility. Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.3 2 The company electronically submits an annual report to the Suspended competent departments of the Ministry of Environment and 19.0 19.6 20.1 21.1 22.0 40 solids (mg/l) Energy which lists all types of solid waste generated by its operations and outlines how solid waste is handled and who the recipients are. • Monitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, based on hydro-geological studies submitted to the Ministry of As far as used lubricants and their packaging is concerned, Environment and Energy, takes place at ten boreholes. contracts are in place with a firm specialised in used mineral According to the approved environmental terms, during oil recycling and with a firm specialised in handling packaging 2018, two sets of samples were taken at these boreholes materials. These two contracts provide for recycling of – one every six monthsin order to determine the value of used lubricants and their packaging, thus contributing to a number of parameters, such as concentrations of heavy the protection of the environment and the rational use of metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which were found to raw materials. We also collaborate with accredited firms for meet legislative requirements. recycling other categories of solid waste. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 63 ] ENVIRONMENT Our commercial companies work with the Alternative Recycling Solid waste disposal (MT/year) Management of Waste Lubricating Oil company (ENDIALE S.A.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to collect used internal combustion engine lubricants. Waste lubricating oils are a particularly hazardous type of waste Batteries 1.04 5.32 9.12 1.3 20.78 because they contain heavy metals, chlorinated compounds Tyres 0.7 5.0 9.0 5.4 10.0 and sulphur and must not escape into the air or into aquifers. Lubricants 1.4 82.8 201.0 122.6 73.8 In 2019, through this management programme, 89,542 litres Wooden packaging 115.7 130.1 107.3 249.3 261.5 were collected from Coral service stations and 14,589 litres Paper and paper from Avin’s. Coral Gas participated in a programme to recover 203.0 167.2 88.6 103.6 104.5 and recycle gas cartridges. packaging1 Plastic and plastic 214.8 215.7 41.6 35.2 35.8 packaging Metal (scrap) 2,198 2,205 2,352 2,120 1,932 8. Water Management Electrical/electronic 1.9 1.2 10.2 13.9 4.5 equipment MOTOR OIL views water resource management as a material Remediated soil 403.4 567.0 446.0 545.8 423.3 issue and has consistently implemented measures to reduce Contaminated and rationally manage water consumption at its refinery. 8.7 16.8 27.0 6.9 11.4 packaging The water used in the various parts of the refinery originates Asbestos-containing 100% from sea water processed at desalination units. 12.7 17.8 0 0 8.0 materials As part of decreasing our energy footprint, an upgrade Printer cartridge 712 494 472 1,333 541 of the seawater desalination units was completed, which packaging (units) involved the addition of a new reverse osmosis unit. The new Spent catalysts 2,747 2,129 2,767 2,363 3,089 unit, which is the preferred method from an environmental for recycling and economic perspective, replaced the desalinated water Mixed packaging 393 220 919.5 824.3 1,074 production system which used multi-stage flash technology. The older system is now used only as a back-up when the 1 In  all the companies of the Group, recycled and non-chemically bleached paper is used. osmosis units are undergoing maintenance. The new, state-of-the-art osmosis unit will achieve a reduction in energy consumption for water production, Recovery and reprocessing of raw materials rendering its operation more environmentally friendly. The main product traded by Group companies is fuel burned Meanwhile, the replacement of the older unit improved the in various types of combustion engines in industry or by our reliability of existing desalination units and contributed to the final customers/consumers. Nevertheless, in view of our acute refinery’s smooth operation, while the use of seawater with environmental conscientiousness, we endeavour to recover the capacity for incorporating the cooling water recycling whatever is feasible at the various stages of our activity. system to meet the unit’s needs is the best solution in terms At the refinery, the stages of refining create by-products with of energy efficiency. specifications that deviate significantly from the desirable ones, making reprocessing necessary. The effort made is Annual water consumption towards the direction of utilising them, as much as possible in later stages of refining, in order to minimise the consumption 4,089 4,089 4,077 4,077 3,932 3,932 of energy and the capacity that is committed for reprocessing. 3,658 3,658 The goal is to restrict the overall reprocessing to the crude oil units. The quantities that were reprocessed are presented 3,576 3,576 0.322 below and were increased in 2019 as a result of extensive 0.303 0.296 suspensions of operation for maintenance works. 0.289 0.290 Recovery of raw materials (ΜΤ) 2018 2019 77,790 92,933 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incoming water (thousand m3) Desalination (thousand m3) Total consumption (thousand m3) Specific water consumption (m3/ΜΤ of raw material) [ 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In 2019, total consumption decreased slightly due to the Average measurement (DBA) extensive maintenance work at the units. On the other hand, there was an increase in the quantity of water consumed per Jan. Jan. Jul. Jun. Oct. Oct. Legal Limits ton of raw material, which at the end of 2019 was 0.322 m3. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 (DBA) This was higher (by 8%) than in 2018 (0.296) and is due to the Perimeter of maintenance of units requiring water without contributing to 54.8 55.5 54.8 55.5 55.2 55.1 65.0 refinery facility production. The effort to reduce the quantity of water used per Southern ton of raw material is part of our primary goals and a number Refinery 52.3 52.4 52.1 52.4 52.7 52.4 55.0 of actions and investments have been made in this regard with Perimeter projects to improve energy efficiency at the refinery (reduced steam consumption, operational improvements, etc.). Re-use and Recycling of Water One of the important processes at the refinery is the 10. Protection of the Marine processing of the acid water flows generated in different Environment phases of the production process. About 46% of this water flow is recycled to feed the crude oil desalinators, while the The operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery and several of the rest is channelled to the Industrial Wastewater Treatment facilities of our commercial companies are fully integrated Plant, allowing a proportional reduction in consumption of with the marine environment. Owing to the impacts of a fresh water and in the volume of wastes needing treatment. potential pollution incident, extensive prior planning and preparation is imperative, particularly to prevent but also to effectively respond to such events. It should be noted that no parts of the refinery or of our other facilities abut on natural 9. Noise Management habitats or protected areas which might be affected by their operation. Every feasible effort is made at both the refinery and all In this area, MOTOR OIL and our commercial companies: Group facilities to minimize environmental noise levels. • Implement all necessary active and passive protection In order to mitigate any potential nuisance, regular measures to minimise the risk of oil spills within the measurements are made at set points on the refinery’s boundaries of the refinery. In 2019, not a single leak was perimeter and additional measures are taken, such as the reported. use of noise barriers or closed sound insulation systems and other technical means, where required. Results of • Implement all necessary measures and provide all measurements for 2019 as set out in the following table show equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at their that noise levels are lower than the legal limits laid down in port facilities, as well as for their safe loading/unloading. the environmental operating conditions of the refinery. • Keep on hand all necessary equipment for response to a Noise levels are also measured in the work areas (platform, small or medium-scale local contamination incident loading stations, etc.) at our commercial companies’ facilities (Τier-1/2). They also keep on hand a stock of oil slick and noise emissions are found to be low. dispersant, which can be used only with the consent of the Port Authorities. Particular care is taken when upgrading equipment or building new units by applying evaluation criteria and criteria • Check the readiness for implementing the existing antifor the use of equipment with low noise emissions, while contamination plans and maintain a high degree of during the maintenance period the duration and intensity readiness among staff in the use of necessary equipment, of exposure is limited through proper planning, design in cooperation with internationally recognised companies and organization of the works, so that the least possible such as Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), with an annual disturbance can be ensured. programme of drills and training. • Have in place a reception and handling plan for shipgenerated waste and cargo residues. • Are members of international and regional organisations whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil spill incidents. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 65 ] SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our standing objective is to follow a course of In this context, in 2019 we spent 6.2 million euros on constant growth and creation of value for all Social Solidarity projects and various sponsorships. stakeholders, effectively playing our social role, and It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring increasing our contribution to society. It is of vital prosperity to the communities around or in the importance to us that our activities should benefit general area of its refinery and the facilities of the society in general, by way of direct and indirect its commercial companies through job creation, job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity support for the local market, and general social and purchasing goods and services from domestic care. and local suppliers. Finally, according to the supplementary indices of Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate interact positively and productively with the social in areas where there are native populations, or environment in which we operate. It is for these where such populations might be affected by our reasons that the Motor Oil Group implements activities, nor were there any significant disputes, a programme of donations and sponsorships, involuntary movements of personnel or other addressed mainly to local communities and impacts on local communities or native populations designed to help improve the quality of life, protect in 2019. the environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life. [ 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 689 million euros the social product in 2019 36.5 million euros Social solidarity projects and sponsorships in the past 10 years 6.2 million euros in 2019 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 67 ] SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. Economic Benefits to Society It also encompasses the cost of securing operations, including expenditure for Health, Safety and the Environment, Social Product insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive maintenance. The scale of the Group’s operations, combined with Based on the above, the Social Product returned to its consistent focus on steady growth, resulting in a stakeholders in 2019 amounts to 689 million euros, compared very significant contribution to the country’s economic to 757 million euros in 2018. development. This contribution, based on our successful activities, is made through the generation of value for our shareholders and other stakeholders, the creation of jobs Allocation of social poduct 2019 (%) and our contribution to the broader social progress. Total: 689 million euros Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders creates primary value for their benefit and secondary value too, in that 22.3 it contributes to the value they in turn generate for the economy and the society as a whole. In 2019, the Group’s total revenues from economic activities amounted to 9,467.9 million euros. Out of these, 7,747.5 11.4 million euros were used to purchase crude oil and other raw materials. This represents 82% of revenues, a justifiable 27.3 amount given the nature of Group activities. 689 million euros the social 10.8 0.9 6.7 20.6 product in 2019 Staff: Gross remuneration, other fees, insurance contributions (own and employer’s) Public Sector The Social Product is that part of our income allocated to Shareholders selected stakeholders, which include: the workforce, the Banks Sponsorships/Donations state, shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers Assurance costs (Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums) of crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), as Other purchases well as society at large (donations and sponsorships). Social Product 2019 (million euros) Revenues from customers Stakeholders Balance and other sources 9,467.9 8,436.6 1,031.3 Suppliers Raw Materials Investments for 269.3 7,747.5 Development, Health, Safety and Environment Staff: Gross remuneration, 153.6 Payments of 64.7 other fees, insurance contributions Obligations (own and employer’s) Society: Donations – Sponsorships 6.2 Cash 697.3 Public Sector: Taxes and Duties 78.5 Shareholders: Dividends 141.8 Other Purchaces 189.1 Banks: Interest 45.9 Assurance: Health & Safety, 74.1 Environment, Maintenance, Premiums [ 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Support of Local Entrepreneurship The scheme evaluates the level of service and customer satisfaction using a questionnaire covering such areas as As the largest enterprise and employer in the Prefecture efficiency, service, cleanliness and speed of transactions. In of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes a direct or indirect financial 2019, about 2,860 secret visits were carried out at Shell service contribution to a large number of businesses and families stations and 1,150 visits at Avin service stations. The results in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live were presented to the companies’ Retail Sales divisions, which in neighbouring municipalities). Moreover, the company in turn discussed them with the retail station managers and to supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. take corrective measures where necessary. We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it Shell retail station customers can now express their opinion comes to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, through the Voice of Customer tool, an innovative online food, etc. even when there are financially more consumer survey application for PCs and mobile phones, advantageous offers from outside the area. In 2019, we spent through which customers can register their opinions after a 26 million euros, thereby providing further support to the visit to a retail station. This platform generated more than economy of Corinth and the surrounding region. We further 173,000 completed questionnaires in 2019, giving us the paid roughly 1.2 million euros in municipal and property taxes. opportunity to quickly analyse the results and resolve any problems our customers may encounter. Finally, significant steps were taken in recent years in order to improve the level of service for our final consumers and 2. Customer Service and Respect corporate customers. As part of updating its systems and to improve its shipping customer service, Coral launched the Coral Marine Portal, which facilitates monitoring of fuel All the Motor Oil Group companies operate having customer delivery (e-vessel) to ships, amongst other things. service as a top priority. The Group’s long experience in combination with a high level of expertise, and its rigorous Avin made use of the new state-of-the-art call centre, and insistence on quality, guarantee comprehensive, integrated established procedures and monitoring systems to automate service and ongoing development of relations of trust with and quickly respond to customer requests. It also joined customers and associates. the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service with the aim of optimising the quality of its customer service and provide ongoing training of employees working in the sector. The Refinery Lastly, the Coral NET, Avin Portal and Cyclon Portal online MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative customer platforms are used by most of our corporate customers, satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum of its clientèle. providing faster and better service. Survey data are evaluated, with a view to building on the company’s strengths and to detecting in particular the company’s weaknesses and taking appropriate corrective action. Over time this process has led to a reduction in the number of complaints about the refinery; in 2019, there were no complaints, while in 2018 there were just 2 complaints AVIN launches pioneering “AVIN Win” about delayed deliveries which were successfully resolved. loyalty program Wishing to reward customers for their trust, AVIN launched Our Commercial Companies the new “AVIN Win” loyalty programme in 2017. The Group’s commercial companies have integrated systems Through this program, customers can collect points each for serving the thousands of customers who place their trust time they purchase fuel, lubricants heating oil or Agora in them every day. Shop products by using their “AVIN Win” card or app. Once More specifically, a number of market surveys are carried out they have 250 points, they automatically win a 3-euro to collect and evaluate data on levels of service, fuel quality, coupon, which they can redeem the next time they buy customer selection criteria, etc. something at the service station. A market survey is conducted each year through a worldwide The programme was a great success in 2019, with more programme aimed at systematically monitoring customer than 750,000 members and the issuance of over 1.4 million perceptions of Shell service stations. Our service stations gift certificates. are also subject to inspection by unannounced visitors in the Mystery Motorist programme. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 69 ] SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 3. Social Solidarity and Sponsorships 3.1 Social Solidarity Our company’s objective is to promote and support actions designed to relieve the needs of disadvantaged social Through our social responsibility projects, we endeavour to groups. As we have been doing through the years, in 2019, provide ongoing, consistent support for the community and we supported many community actions, provided food for particularly for those pillars that improve the community’s the indigent through municipal and church organisations, quality of life: education, healthcare, culture, sports and supported the work of charitable organisations and entrepreneurship. foundations, supported actions for health and supplied large quantities of heating oil to the municipalities bordering on our In 2019, as in previous years, our Group’s social actions refinery facilities and other selected areas across Greece. focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programmes across the country, though our primary focus was mainly on organisations and agencies based Fighting Poverty in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. Our key The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last decade objective was to provide relief to the most vulnerable social has directly resulted in a dramatic increase in cases groups and to meet their basic needs. To this end, we have of poverty. In response to this need, our company has promoted actions designed to assist our fellow citizens, while undertaken to support the most vulnerable social groups, also supporting cultural agencies, educational institutions, both by supplying the neediest with staple goods and by organisations engaged in charitable and humanitarian work, offering financial assistance. as well as local government agencies. Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, The actions we supported are in line with the following key the final recipients included the Municipality of Loutrakiaxes: Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality of Corinth and bordering • Social solidarity communities, members of low-income families, associations, • Culture agencies providing support services, and so on. • Youth – education Allocation of social responsibility funds 2019 (%) The Food Bank 15.9 Culture The MOTOR OIL Group has supported the food bank operating in the municipalities of Loutraki, Corinth, Perama 33.8 and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, playing Youth (education, an active part in meeting the basic needs of families in sports) financial difficulty. Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation of an institution responding to the difficult social and economic challenges of the present day. 46.4 The donation by the MOTOR OIL Group has helped the Social 3.9 Solidarity Heating oil endeavour, through which more than 1,200 indigent families have found relief. Allocation of social responsibility funds Additionally, in an effort to help families facing financial (thousand euros) difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding region during the 2018 2019 Christmas and Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed 1,240 Social solidarity 2,666 2,865 food stamps to help them meet nutritional needs and put Culture 685 978 food on the holiday table. During the holiday period, the company financially supported, through donations, the Region Youth (education, sports) 1,053 2,082 of Peloponnese, the Municipality of Corinth, the Municipality Heating oil 208 240 of Loutraki, the Kivotos tou Paidiou children’s charity, Total 4,612 6,165 churches, etc. The company has also supplied foodstuffs to the food and clothing bank set up by the Metropolitan Church of Corinth and to the Church of the Annunciation of the Theotokos and helped provide meals to students in the Agioi Theodoroi area. [ 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Donation of Heating Oil and Lubricants In 2019, the company provided around 228,000 litres of free heating oil, worth approximately 240,000 euros, through the free heating oil budget. Support for the Elderly This programme is intended to help with the cost of heating For more than ten years, MOTOR OIL has been continually orphanages, kindergartens, municipal childcare centres, engaged in a very important social initiative in collaborasecondary schools, elderly people’s homes, churches and tion with the Open Care Centres for the Elderly (KAPI) of the church foundations located in municipalities bordering on our Municipalities of Corinth and Agioi Theodoroi. The initiative facilities, as well as other recipients in other parts of Greece. involves the provision to elderly people of a full lunch and Among the recipients were the “Smile of the Child” charity milk and yoghurt for supper – offered every day, all year for the protection of minors, the “Amalieion” Girls Boarding round. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen and is Home, the “Strofi” Therapy Center for Dependent Individuals the same meal as the one offered to employees. , the Student Dormitory of Rethymno, the Public Library of In 2019, the refinery canteen provided meals for 116 elderly Rethymno, the Atalanti Healthcare Center, the Corinth Judicial people at the Corinth, Agioi Theodoroi and Examilia KAPI. Prison, the Corinth General Hospital, numerous monasteries and churches, such as the Monastery of Agia Eleni in Loutraki which houses a nursing home, the church of Panagia Giatrisa Support for Local Authorities and other agencies in Loutraki, and others. Other recipients included all schools The Group has traditionally supported the local communities in the municipalities of Corinth, Loutraki and Perama and in which it operates. To this end, we do our best to provide the municipal communities of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, effective assistance to meet the needs of local authorities and Saronikos, Solygeia, and others. We also provided lubricants to actively help them in their work. a number of government services, such as the Attica Tollway Traffic Police, the Corinth Port Authority, the Regional Fire For example, in 2019 the Motor Oil Group donated to the Administration of Peloponnese, and others. Hellenic Disabled Children’s Society (ELEPAP) of Chania a school bus specifically tailored to the needs of children with disabilities to help support the foundation. It also made a Supporting Charitable Organisations and Institutions donation for the repair of damage sustained by more than Our objective is to make a contribution to improving living 60 households affected by the unprecedented storm that conditions for people with problems, helping organisations and hit Western Crete in February 2019. Furthermore, it donated foundations which offer high-quality services to assist them in 1 outboard engine to the Port of Rethymno and 1 to the Port their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community. of Corinth to ensure the operational readiness of their ships. It donated 24 traffic cameras to the Greek Police, as well as Specifically: firefighting equipment to the Poros, Nafplio and Corinth Fire • We have supported the activities of the Marianna V. VardinoyDepartments, and it provided spare parts for the repair and annis Foundation. Set up by its president, UNESCO Goodwill maintenance of earthmoving machinery of the Engineer Ambassador Marianna V. Vardinoyannis, the Foundation seeks Directorate of the Hellenic Army General Staff. to promote issues related to protection of children’s rights Moreover, in 2019, our company also provided financial while improving living conditions for children in all areas. assistance to various agencies, including the Federation of • We supported the non-profit organization “Desmos” in the Local Improvement Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the local important work it performs, by connecting the needs of charimprovement societies “Glykia Zoi”, “Klara Elias” of Sousaki, ities and public organizations with the desire of individuals Corinth, the improvement society of Ano Sousaki, the and companies to help. “Psiloritis” Cretan Society of Corinth and others. • We have supported the humanitarian agency “Lifeline HelThe financial aid we provided comprised donations for las”, helping with the organisation of an event, the revenues operating needs, indoor and outdoor revamping projects, of which will be used to support neonatal units at state building maintenance, road completion and clearing, road hospitals. surfacing, lighting, water supplies and rainwater drainage pipes, cement laying, covering fixed expenditures, creation of • We have provided financial support to associations and children’s playgrounds, and so on. agencies involved in community work, such as the Women’s Association of Agioi Theodoroi, the “Child’s Heart” Panhellenic Association for the Protection & Help of Children with Environment Congenital Heart Disease, the “Agapi gia zoi“ (Love for life) national association to prevent traffic accidents and support We support activities and programmes which make an active for persons with disabilities, the union of persons with disabilcontribution to improving infrastructures and raising public ities of the Prefecture of Corinth, etc. awareness of environmental protection issues. MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental associations and • In the field of healthcare, we have offered a new digital raorganisations, such as MEDASSET (Mediterranean Association diography machine to the Kouloureio Hospital of Hydra and to Save the Sea Turtles), PAKOE (Panhellenic Center of we supported the burn unit of the General Hospital of Corinth Ecological Research), and others. with medical supplies and equipment. We also offered support to the Hellenic Institute of Cardiology and the Agioi Theodoroi regional section of the Greek Red Cross. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 71 ] SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2019 we supported the Hellenic Society for the Protection of 3.3. Education and Youth Nature in the important work it has been doing on the island of We support education because we believe in the power of Kythira for the conservation of the unique flora of the island, knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters and shape with projects such as the Botanical Garden and the Seed Bank us into active and conscientious citizens. That is why we take with seeds of rare native plants. such a keen interest in assisting and promoting the work of MOTOR OIL has also consistently provided support to the “Agioi education, research and technology. Theodoroi” Forest Protection Society, which plays an important In 2019, the MOTOR OIL Group: role in forest protection, security and fire-fighting within the Municipality of Agioi Theodoroi and beyond. • Provided snacks to 115 students from financially vulnerable families attending all schools in Agioi Theodoroi. In respect of water supplies, the company this year met the water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. The water, • Supported the 1st Corinth Primary School, the Corinth Special produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, is used to water Primary School, the 1st and 3rd Corinth General Upper gardens and for cleaning purposes. The supply of water to Secondary School, the Vrachati Kindergarten and Primary these houses, which are not on the Agioi Theodoroi water School, the 2nd Kindergarten, the 1st and 2nd Primary School system, relies on the network of pipes laid and maintained by of Agioi Theodoroi, as well as numerous schools in the MOTOR OIL. greater Corinth area, in meeting their operational needs. In 2019, 85,000 cubic metres of water, worth more than 85,000 • Moreover, it provided equipment, such as computers, euros, were supplied free of charge. interactive boards, projectors and printers, to a significant number of schools in the Prefecture of Rethymno and Corinth, as well as in the cities of Ermioni and Kranidi, helping 3.2. Culture the schools to provide more effective teaching for their We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history as key students. components of healthy social development. We strive to offer • Financially supported the school trip program of the 1st support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural Lower Secondary School of Rethymno, the 14th Primary and historical heritage. School of Rethymno, the Episkopi Upper Secondary School, Specifically, the Group: the Ermioni General Upper Secondary School, etc. • For yet another year sponsored the Botsis Foundation for the • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, Perama, Promotion of Journalism, providing financial support for its Loutraki, Ermioni, as well as other areas in Attica and across invaluable work. Greece, helping schools to run smoothly and providing better conditions for learning. • Covered the cost of filming the wreckage of the submarine “Katsonis” as part of a documentary about its role in World War II. • Provided support to the Navy History Service for the purchase of new printing machines. Scholarship programme in association with the • Supported KOLECTIV 8, a cultural organisation, to host the 3d Athens School of Fine Arts Mediterranean Photography Festival. In 2012, Motor Oil embarked on a strategic collaboration • Once again endorsed the “Friends of Music” Association of with the Athens School of Fine Arts, in an effort to support the Municipality of Loutraki Perahora, which staged the the arts and to help young people wishing to continue their Loutraki Festival 2019, featuring many young musicians. studies abroad. • Provided support to the intellectual foundation “Cretan The collaboration involves granting a 12,000 euros Centre” for the publication of a book on the Cretan dialect scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to cover (Kritiko Lalologio). the costs of postgraduate studies in the visual arts at a • It also supported the journal Periplous Naftikis Istorias [A foreign university and 2 additional awards of 4,000 and Voyage through Maritime History], published quarterly by the 2,000 euros each. The successful candidate is chosen by Greek Maritime Museum, and assisted the Hellenic Maritime a six-member panel assisted by a well-known art curator, Association in publishing its journal Naftiki Ellas [Maritime and the award-winning work becomes the property of Greece], a traditional maritime magazine published monthly MOTOR OIL, the hope being that over time a permanent by the Naval Print Shop since 1928. collection of works can be built up for display at the company’s premises. Lastly, the MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for cultural associations and agencies not just in communities At the same time, along with their portfolios, the near its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as well. candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an exhibition at the Group’s head offices for a period of a year. [ 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Vardinoyanneion Foundation It also supported the 5th Authentic Phidippides Run (Athens Sparti Athens), with a distance of 490 km. The Vardinoyanneion Foundation was established in 1989 to provide scholarships and grants to candidates who have Finally, AVIN OIL S.A. was the golden sponsor of the Rethymno distinguished themselves academically or who need financial Cretan Kings Basketball Club, once again supporting it during support for undergraduate studies at colleges and universities the 2019-2020 season. in Greece or abroad. The areas of study and the scholarships available are not fixed, but change each academic year, by decision of the board of trustees. For the 2019-2020 academic year, support was given to 73 students in the following areas: Economics, Psychology, Shell Eco-marathon Law, Chemistry, Mathematics and Medicine. Undergraduate scholarships were also given to 2 students in the areas of IT Coral actively supports the Shell Eco-marathon, a global and Chemical Engineering. Since the Foundation began its initiative whose main aim is to promote sustainability in scholarship programme, 179 scholarships and 1,992 bursaries transport, innovation and energy efficiency. Coral invites have been granted. university students from Greece to compete in this leading educational programme organised by Shell and including teams from all over Europe and beyond to construct Educational Visits to the Refinery energy-efficient vehicles. The winning team will be the one Every year, we arrange visits to the refinery and our facilities for travelling the greatest distance with the equivalent of 1 litre students at universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces of fuel of its own choice: Traditional internal combustion academies and secondary schools. Through presentations and engines running on petrol or diesel, biofuel engines, electric a guided tour of the production facilities, the idea is to provide motors, hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed visitors with information on the company’s environmental beneath the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which protection programmes and its safety and protection actions, cut a striking figure on the race track. amongst others. As part of the 2019 programme, around 445 Greek teams from leading universities and technical persons visited the refinery and the facilities of our commercial colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the country, companies. have been participating since 2004 in the Shell Ecomarathon. For yet another year, Greek participation was strong. Their results were once again notable, despite Student Internships competing on a new track, which forced them to revise and Every year, the company takes on a number of students for adjust their strategy. paid summer internships, lasting from one to two months. Team “Poseidon”, from the departments of Mechanical The students fill various positions in the refinery, the facilities Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Automation and head offices. In addition, we give a number of students Engineering and the School of Management and Economics the opportunity of a six-month internship, when this forms at the University of Western Attica, was entered in the part of the degree course they are taking. We also provide Prototype (Battery Electric) category with the prototype positions for international students to gain work experience, electric vehicle “Trireme” and won 18th place, achieving in collaboration with the International Association for the a rate of 407 km/kWh. Team “Prometheus”, from the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). National Technical University of Athens School of Electrical As part of this activity, in 2019 we filled 137 trainee positions of and Computer Engineering, was entered in the Prototype 1-2 months, and 40 positions of over 2 months, at a total cost (Battery Electric) category with the prototype electric of more than 294,000 euros. vehicle “Pyrphoros” and won the 25th place, reaching 280 km/kWh and significantly improving last year’s performance. Team “TUC Eco Racing” from the School of Sports Production Engineering and Management of the Technical We offer our support to athletics and competitive sports and University of Crete, with the advanced city vehicle “Spyros provide assistance to smaller clubs and sporting associations Louis”, entered in the Urban Concept (Hydrogen) category in the amateur sector. During 2019, our Group supported and became a point of reference in the field of organization the Episkopi Sports Club in Rethymno, and the Rethymno and safe work for both the organizers and the other groups. Wrestling Club. It also supported the Isthmia Sporting Club, the At the same time, it successfully completed all technical Kranidi Sporting Club, the Agioi Theodoroi Sporting Club , the and safety checks, ensuring the possibility to compete Spilio Sporting Club, the Corinth Sporting Club, the Ermionida on the track. The serious malfunction of the power supply Sporting Association, the Corinth Sporting Club 2006, etc. (hydrogen cell) during the race did not prevent the team’s As it does every year, the company assisted in the staging of vehicle from completing 10 of the 11 rounds, without, the famous “Spartathlon” long-distance race by providing unfortunately, being able to finish the race. a doctor and equipped ambulance, and also supported the Control and Aid Centre located in front of the refinery. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 73 ] SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FRAMEWORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FRAMEWORK UN Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable Development Goals The Report underlines the Group’s The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2019 commitment to a responsible and was based on the “GRI STANDARDS” guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the Oil & Gas sector supplement sustainable growth. and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. As an active member of the At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching community, the MOTOR OIL Group the contents of the current Report to the GRI indicators and strives to achieve sustainable Global Compact principles. In this sense, the Sustainability Report 2019 also serves as a “Communication on Progress” development by responding to the for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. environmental challenges deriving Furthermore, through this Report we testify our commitment from its operations while at the same to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for time trying to meet the needs of the 2030 by noting the specific Goals which are relevant to us and to which we contribute through our corporate responsibility local and wider society. strategy. At the end of the Report we present a detailed link of our programs, actions and material issues with the Goals relevant to our operations. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2019 and the Environmental Statement 2019, as well as at the companies’ websites, www. moh.gr, www.lpc.gr, www.avinoil.gr, www.coralenergy.gr, 1. About the Sustainability Report www.coralgas.gr, www.nrgprovider.com, www.ofc.gr. This Sustainability Report of 2019 is the eighteenth such record Communication of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2019 has been edited 2019 31 December 2019). The primary goal of the Report is and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and investors, creditors and local communities. Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to The structure of the Sustainability Report 2019 complies with produce a comprehensive Report. the totality of aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, We welcome all views and observations on the structure and therefore, on actions that demonstrate respect for human content of the report – your input will help us to keep improving values and the environment, the implementation of an its quality. effective health and safety policy and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development. The various sections Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with comments to csr@moh.gr presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC, NRG and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however – including OFC. [ 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2. Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 and our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, We are committed to these principles, which we have integrated which constitutes the biggest Corporate Responsibility in the policies and processes of the company. MOTOR OIL’s initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became Sustainability Report 2019 contains information relating to our a signatory of the UN Global Compact; at the same time social and environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, the company became a member of the Global Compact which underline our commitment to the Global Compact. The Network Hellas. The Global Compact incorporates ten following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, Global Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant environmental protection and anti-corruption. chapters of the Sustainability Report 2019, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in compiling the Report. Reference in the Sustainability The 10 Principles Sustainable GRI Standards Material Issues Report or Description on the of the Global Compact Development Goals indicators Implementation Approach HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 102-8 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should Health and Safety GRI 102-41 Chapters 2 and 3 support and respect the protection of employees GRI 403-2 Full compliance with relevant of internationally proclaimed GRI 403-3 Greek legislation and human rights. Human Rights GRI 403-4 international conventions. GRI 407-1 Chapter 2 PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should Full compliance with relevant make sure that they are not Human Rights GRI 407-1 Greek legislation and complicit in human rights abuses. international conventions. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association GRI 102-41 Chapter 2 and the effective recognition of the GRI 407-1 right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should Chapter 2 uphold the elimination of all forms Full compliance with Full compliance with relevant of forced and compulsory labour. relevant legislation Greek legislation and and conventions GRI 419-1 international conventions. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should (Social-economic Cases of forced, compulsory or uphold the effective abolition of compliance) child labour do not exist and are child labour. not accepted in any way. Presence in the local marketplace GRI 202-2 PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses Labour GRI 401-2 should uphold the elimination GRI 403-1 Health & Safety of Chapter 2 of discrimination in respect to GRI 403-4 employment and occupation. employees GRI 404-1 GRI 404-2 Education and Training MOTOR OIL HELLAS 75 ] SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FRAMEWORK Reference in the Sustainability The 10 Principles Sustainable GRI Standards Material Issues Report or Description on the of the Global Compact Development Goals indicators Implementation Approach ENVIRONMENT GRI 301-1 Materials and GRI 301-2 Resources GRI 301-3 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should GRI 302-1 support a precautionary approach Water Consumption GRI 302-2 to environmental challenges. GRI 302-3 Energy Consumption GRI 302-4 GRI 303-1 Emissions GRI 303-2 GRI 303-3 Chapters 1 and 4 PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses Effluents and Waste GRI 305-1 MOTOR OIL Environmental should undertake initiatives to GRI 305-2 Report 2018 and LPC promote greater environmental Compliance with GRI 305-4 Environmental Report 2019. responsibility. the Environmental GRI 305-5 Legislation GRI 305-6 GRI 305-7 Safety and Security GRI 306-1 of depots and GRI 306-2 PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should installations GRI 306-3 encourage the development and GRI 306-4 diffusion of environmentally Emergency Response GRI 306-5 friendly technologies. Plans GRI 307-1 OG13 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should Chapter 1 work against corruption in all its Anti-corruption and GRI 205-3 forms, including extortion and mechanisms www.moh.gr bribery. [ 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3. GRI Compliance Level The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been The Sustainability Report 2019 has a similar structure published every year since 2002, is the main tool available to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s performance over time. The compilation of the Sustainability efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development Report 2019 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) through the application of the principles and objectives of guidelines, just as in the six previous editions, and specifically Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important of the new GRI STANDARDS edition. The GRI guidelines have facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social provided a sound basis for the selection of the material and environmental performance. issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. The Sustainability Report 2019 is not certified by an external certification authority. Boundaries and limitation of material issues Boundaries Limitations Material Issues Within the Outside the Within the Outside the Organization Organization Organization Organization Financial Performance Shareholders, investors analysts, Partners MOTOR OIL GROUP (Profitability) and suppliers, Customers. Presence in the local MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and Suppliers Marketplace Shareholders, investors, analysts, Partners, Anti-Corruption MOTOR OIL GROUP suppliers, Customers, Public authorities. Materials and Resources MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities, Suppliers, Public authorities. Energy Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities Water Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP Local Communities Waste Management MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities and public authorities. Emissions MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities and public authorities. The management of material issues and Environmental Shareholders, investors, analysts, Public MOTOR OIL GROUP the selected performance Compliance authorities. indices concern the parent Environmental MOTOR OIL GROUP Shareholders, investors, analysts, Local company MOTOR OIL Investments Employees communities, Public authorities. and its subsidiaries MOTOR OIL GROUP AVIN OIL, Coral, Employment Local Communities Coral Gas, LPC, NRG Employees and OFC which are MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff controlled by MOTOR Health and Safety Employees and tank lorry drivers. OIL except is otherwise MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff indicated in specific Training and Education indices. Employees and tank lorry drivers. MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities, Public authorities, Product Safety Employees Customers. Service and Product MOTOR OIL GROUP Local communities, Public authorities, Quality Employees Customers. Investors, Shareholders, Local communities, Compliance with laws MOTOR OIL GROUP Public authorities, Partners and suppliers and legislations Customers. Local communities, Public authorities, Emergency Response MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff and Plans Employees tank lorry drivers. Local communities, Public authorities, Safety and Security of MOTOR OIL GROUP Partners and suppliers, Contractors’ staff depots and installations Employees and tank lorry drivers. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 77 ] SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FRAMEWORK Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data The symbols used in the table are: or performance indicators are presented, the method of 📄 Indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2019 that data collection and calculation of results is also stated. The include information on the indicator. Environmental and Health and Safety performance indicators are specifically calculated according to internationally 📓 Indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2019. accepted procedures. 💻 Indicates reference to the company’s website. The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the column headed “Reference” the source of information relating to each indicator is given. GRI INDEX GRI Standards: Core option General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Description Reference ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Back Cover GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 📄 p. 11-13 📓 p. 11-14, 20-33 💻 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Back Cover GRI 102-4 Location of operations 📄 p. 12 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 📄 p. 12-13, 15-16, 25 📓 p. 34, 47-51 💻 GRI 102-6 Markets served 📄 p. 12-14 📓 p. 11-12, 20-33 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 📄 p. 11-15, 20, 31-36, 68-69 📓 p. 9-20 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 📄 p. 31-32 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 📄 p. 20, 22-23-33 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 📄 p. 4-5, 12-13, 20 📓 p. 18-33 GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 📄 p. 14, 21-23, 40-41, 44-49, 52-55 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 📄 p. 17, 70-73, 74-75 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 📄 p. 17 STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 📄 p. 6-7 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 📄 p. 6-7, 27, 28-29, 38-39, 50-51, 66-67 📓 p. 35-39 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 📄 p. 2-3, 19 GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure 📄 p. 15-16 📓 p. 47-51 💻 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 📄 p. 24-25 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 📄 p. 31 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 📄 p. 24-25 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 📄 p. 24-25 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 📄 p. 24-25 REPORT PROFILE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 📄 p. 12-13 📓 p. 20-33 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 📄 p. 26-27, 74 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 📄 p. 26-27 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information There were no significant updates. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes. [ 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX GRI Standards: Core option General Standard Disclosures Disclosure Description Reference REPORT PROFILE GRI 102-50 Reporting period 1/1/2019 – 31/12/2019 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 📄 p. 82 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 📄 p. 74 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 📄 p. 77 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 📄 p. 78-81 GRI 102-56 External assurance 📄 p. 77 GRI INDEX GRI Standards: Core option Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic Indicator Description Reference ECONOMY GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 12-14, 20-23 📓 p. 47-51 💻 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 📄 p. 12-14, 68-69 📓 p. 9-10 Climate change impacts regarding the Economic possible financial implications, risks or Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities, constitute parameters (Profitability) GRI 201-2 opportunities due to climate change thoroughly taken into account in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other initiatives. Financial assistance received from the MOTOR OIL has not received financial GRI 201-4 government assistance from the government. GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 15-16, 29-31, 33, 66, 69 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Market Presence GRI 202-1 📄 p. 33 compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired GRI 202-2 📄 p. 15-16, 31 form the local community GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 15, 29-31, 33, 66, 69 Procurement Practices GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 📄 p. 69 GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 16 Anti-corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption GRI 205-3 No such incidents. and actions taken GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 15-16 Anti-competitive Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, GRI 206-1 No such incidents. anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENT GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 13, 63-64 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 📄 p. 13-15 Materials GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 📄 p. 63-64 GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 📄 p. 64 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 79 ] SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FRAMEWORK GRI INDEX GRI Standards: Core option Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic Indicator Description Reference ENVIRONMENT GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 56-58 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 📄 p. 56-58 Energy 📄 p. 56-58 10,593 MWh from GRI 302-2 Indirect energy consumption the Electricity Market. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 📄 p. 56-58 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 📄 p. 56-58 GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 64-65 GRI 303-1 Total water usage 📄 p. 64-65 Water GRI 303-2 Impacts from withdrawal of water 📄 p. 64-65 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 📄 p. 64-65 GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 50-56, 59-62 GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 📄 p. 59 GRI 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 📄 p. 59 Emissions GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 📄 p. 59 GRΙ 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse emissions 📄 p. 59, 61 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances Νon existent. GRI 305-7 Emissions of NOx, SOx etc. 📄 p. 60-62 GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 63-64 GRI 306-1 Water discharge 📄 p. 63 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 📄 p. 63-64 Effluents and Waste GRI 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills. GRI 306-4 Hazardous waste 📄 p. 63-64 Water bodies affected by water discharges GRI 306-5 📄 p. 65 and/or runoff GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 50-65 Environmental Compliance Significant fines and sanction for non-compliance GRI 307-1 No such fines. with environmental laws and regulations SOCIETY GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 29-32 Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 📄 p. 32 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employees 📄 p. 33 GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 38-41 Employee representation in formal joint GRI 403-1 management-employee health and 📄 p. 40 safetycommittees Occupational Health Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational and Safety GRI 403-2 📄 p. 41-42 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism Employees with high incidence or high risk of GRI 403-3 📄 p. 41-42 diseases related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal GRI 403-4 📄 p. 31, 40-41, 46-49 agreements with trade unions GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 35-36, 46-49 Training and GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 📄 p. 35-36, 47 Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 📄 p. 35-37, 47-49 [ 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI INDEX GRI Standards: Core option Specific Standard Disclosures Material Topic Indicator Description Reference SOCIETY GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 31 📓 p. 40 Freedom of Association and Collective Operations and suppliers in which the right Bargaining GRI 407-1 to freedom of association and collective No such operation. bargaining may be at risk GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 23, 44 Customer Health and Assessment of the health and safety impacts GRI 416-1 📄 p. 23, 44 Safety of the organizations products and services Incidents of non-compliance concerning the GRI 416-2 health and safety impacts of products and No such incidents. services GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 22-23, 44 Product Labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning laws GRI 417-2 No such incidents. and regulations about product labelling GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 15-16, 19-23, 75-76 📓 p. 47-51 💻 Socioeconomic Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the GRI 419-1 No such fines. social and economic area GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 38-46 Emergency Mechanisms used to involve local communities in Preparedness the development of emergency plans for existing and new operations (e.g. risk communication, preparation, rehearsal, regular review and 📄 p. 40-49 modification, arrangements for the management of crises, timely and transparent incident communication) GRI 103 Management Approach 📄 p. 40-49 Safety of Processes’ and Facilities Number of process safety events, OG 13 📄 p. 40-43 by business activity MOTOR OIL HELLAS 81 ] SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS OF PREVIOUS YEARS All the material used for printing the Motor Oil Sustainability Report are friendly to the environment. Headquarters Irodou Attikou 12A 15 1 24, Marousi Τ +30 210 8094000 Refinery PO Box 23 20 100 Korinthos Τ +30 27 410 48602, 48702 www.moh.gr
