Temenos AG Annual Report and Accounts 2019 Temenos at a glance THE WORLD’S #1 BANKING SOFTWARE COMPANY Our vision is to provide financial institutions, of any size, anywhere in the world, the software to thrive in the digital banking age. ONLY FOCUSED ON BANKING, 3,000+ BANKING CLIENTS Temenos software is proven to enable its top-performing clients to achieve cost-income ratios of 26.8%, half the industry average and returns on equity of 29%, three times the industry average. 93 New customer wins in 2019 LEADING FUNCTIONALITY, LOCALIZATION AND ADVANCED 330 Successful deployments in 2019 TECHNOLOGY #1 Best-selling core banking system Temenos winning combina in the IBS League table for the cloud-native, c last 8 years and API-first te the richest pack functionality t OPEN & INDEPENDENTLY transform faster IMPLEMENTABLE cost of softwar PRODUCTS For more information Highlights of the year Our solutions Insights Check out our website Turn to page 007 Turn to pages 011 to 019 Turn to page 030 to 03 www.temenos.com CLOUD NATIVE AND CLOUD AGNOSTIC Temenos solutions are “cloud native” and “cloud agnostic”. This means that the software can run on cloud infrastructures using the features found in them which enable dynamic scalability and built-in resilience. This materially reduces the operational cost of running the technology that the software uses, and also allows the operations to scale out and in as needed. The cloud agnostic capabilities mean that this is true for all major cloud platforms. This is important as it allows banks the choice to deploy the software on any mainstream cloud platform and realize the cost, scale and resilience benefits automatically, and it also make RELENTLESS FOCUS Temenos’ own cloud and Software as a Service ON INNOVATION (SaaS) propositions more commercially attractive. OPEN APIs Integration is often an expensive and time-consuming activity which can impact the ability of banks to both deploy new solutions and to create innovations around existing solutions. Temenos has a published set of Open APIs which enables clients and other participants in the Temenos technology ecosystem to integrate the solutions into existing operational environments and to design, test and deploy innovative extensions around Temenos’ products. 6,500+ CONSULTANTS TAKING A BANK LIVE The APIs can be accessed via a development portal for EVERY DAY documentation and testing purposes, and allow banks to rapidly make changes to their solutions and overall operational environment in an insulated and clearly defined way using modern technology and design approaches which shorten the time needed to accomplish this. offers the tion of advanced loud-agnostic chnology and EXPLAINABLE ARTIFICIAL aged banking INTELLIGENCE (XAI) Temenos’ patented XAI capabilities are embedded o help banks across our products. The technology is a cutting edge with the lowest CONTINUOUS & innovation which addresses customer and regulator e deployment. FASTER DEPLOYMENT concerns over the use and operation of conventional “black box” AI models which offer little insight as to how they reach their decisions. Our XAI approach enables automated decisions to be understood by customers, regulators and other stakeholders. Our performance Operating responsibly Our leadership team 3 Turn to pages 034 to 047 Turn to pages 048 to 095 Turn to pages 096 to 099 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 41 OF THE WORLD’S TOP 50 BANKS CHOOSE TEMENOS Over 3,000 firms across the globe, including 41 of the world’s top 50 banks, rely on Temenos to process the client interactions and daily transactions of more than 500 million banking customers. Open up the flap to read why Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Contents OVERVIEW Chairman’s statement 002 Our market opportunity 004 Our strategy 006 Highlights of the year 007 Industry recognition 008 Temenos Value Benchmark 009 Software 010 Our solutions 011 Products 012 Technology platform 016 Sector solutions 018 Acquisitions 020 Research and development 022 Delivering client success 027 Insights 030 PERFORMANCE Business review 034 Financial review 038 Principal risks and uncertainties 042 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Message from the CEO 048 Our CSR approach 050 Achieving business excellence 053 Operating responsibly 056 Investing in our people 066 Enabling access to financial services 078 Investing in our communities 079 Our targets at a glance 085 About this report 086 Independent assurance report 087 Contribution to the UN SDGs 088 UN Global Compact index 089 GRI content index 090 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 096 Executive Committee 098 Corporate governance 100 Compensation Report 110 Report of the statutory auditor on the Compensation Report 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 128 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 132 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 133 Consolidated statement of financial position 134 Consolidated statement of cash flows 135 We’re passionate about helping Consolidated statement of changes in equity 136 banks to perform better so we solely Notes to the consolidated financial statements Report of the statutory auditor on 137 focus on creating banking software. the unconsolidated financial statements Unconsolidated balance sheet 187 189 Unconsolidated income statement 190 Read more about our software Notes to the unconsolidated solutions on page 011 financial statements 191 Financial highlights 197 Information for investors 198 Temenos worldwide offices 199 Sources 203 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 001 Chairman’s statement ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH & SUCCESS “In 2019, we had another outstanding year with record growth The other acquisition was in the area of data management with the acquisition of hTrunk at the in our revenues and profitability and the successful development beginning of 2019. The acquisition has allowed us of our business and strategic objectives.” to offer the Enterprise-wide data lake capabilities required in order to intelligently use structured and unstructured data at scale to power our AI models. It is with great pleasure that we present our Digital banking This, along with the AI platform, has rounded off our Annual Report for 2019 to our shareholders. Banks’ efforts to offer their clients digital personalized offering in the digital space and we experienced customer experiences underpinned by analytics and outstanding growth in digital on the back of this. Only a handful of software companies have ever Artificial Intelligence (AI), and thus provide access reached USD 1 billion in revenues and Temenos Core banking software to both financial and non-financial products, are has the pride to be amongst this elite group. Investment in core banking software continues to gaining traction and are becoming mainstream. The relentless march of technology and innovation, grow at a very robust pace in the banking industry Today the spend on digital is larger than the spend which brings so many options to all of us as and Temenos continues to outpace the market on core software and is also growing faster. consumers in our daily lives, ensures that only the with significant double digit growth. Banks are best can keep pace with this change and even Our efforts in digital banking accelerated with increasingly realizing that without a modern, efficient fewer have an opportunity to lead. Temenos is the acquisition of three companies during 2019. core engine that can help them manage their one of them. More importantly, our growth continues products, price them for the customer of one, and to be strong and profitable as we continue to gain The acquisition of Kony has allowed Temenos provide the data to power their analytics, they will market share in our target markets, which bodes well to enrich our digital offering to our clients while not be competitive and their efforts in digital will be for the future. Our increased size allows us to invest also strengthening our US presence. Our Infinity undermined. In 2019 we made the significant step more meaningfully in our products and allows us to product, into which we have integrated Kony, is of enhancing our Microservices architecture in order compete more effectively and therefore grow faster. revolutionizing the distribution piece of the banking to provide our clients with more options on how to Application software companies that make it to USD value chain by allowing banks to deliver omnigo about their modernization efforts, implementing 1 billion in revenues with their growth intact usually channel, personalized customer experiences and fewer banking capabilities at a time, thereby accelerate significantly and continue to become the better engagement to all touchpoints, underpinned minimizing implementation risk. giants of their target markets; the bigger they become, by our AI technology. Infinity offers our customers the the faster they grow. choice to pursue transformation at their pace, before, Cloud and Software as a Service during or after a core modernization project, working Cloud and Software as a Service (SaaS) is gaining The trillion dollar opportunity in front of multiple core systems if necessary for a time. significant traction in financial services in both mature We would not have been able to do this unless we and emerging markets as banks appreciate the delivered outstanding value to our clients over the During 2019 we also acquired Logical Glue, efficiencies that can be achieved through cloud years. We have been running a value benchmark a leader in Explainable AI (XAI). During the year we deployment and regulators are convinced about the program with our clients for a number of years that have embedded AI in our products to allow banks security and availability of cloud networks. Temenos came to maturity during 2019 and has provided to offer personalized customer experiences to their has been a leader in offering our products on the insights into why our clients are more profitable and clients. The use of XAI is gaining traction in all areas cloud with our first deployments taking place as early with higher returns on equity than their peers. Through of technology, and banking and financial services is as 2011, giving us the credibility to lead the market in in-depth strategic analysis we are able to correlate no different. We are seeing a trend where the next this respect. We are very excited by the spectacular financial performance of banks to the use and phase of digital transformation within banks will be growth we see in this segment. Let me just say that in maturity of software processes across the banking powered by AI technologies. Being a regulated four years of growth in our cloud and SaaS business value chain and we estimate that there is at least an industry though, it is not enough just to offer your we have achieved an equivalent size business annual USD 1 trillion opportunity to be captured by clients the results of an intelligent algorithm, which that took us 19 years to grow under the traditional banks through the use of modern software. This is has the disadvantage of being a black box. Banks on-premise model. truly an exceptional finding which puts the Temenos need to be able to explain to their customers why, opportunity into perspective. for example, their credit card application has been approved or declined without bias and, if so, how Thoughts on our performance in 2019 they can resolve the issues that led to them being In 2019, we had another outstanding year with declined. This needs to be done in real-time and in record growth in our revenues and profitability plain language that all can understand. Logical and the successful development of our business Glue has a unique, patented fuzzy logic-based and strategic objectives. approach that provides the explanation and also the interaction with AI algorithms to be able to 2019 was characterized by three very achieve exactly this outcome. exciting trends: 002 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Values and sense of purpose Business models are changing globally while at the same time our roles as business leaders have been transforming. With digital technology minimizing the distance between businesses and their stakeholders and new generations questioning the ‘traditional’ ways, businesses must revisit their purpose, rethink how they deliver value to their stakeholders, shifting from mass production to personalization, and — more than ever — operate with responsibility, integrity, transparency and the highest ethical standards. At Temenos, we have the ethical responsibility to consider the expectations of all our stakeholders, along with our corporate purpose, our company’s strengths, the opportunities and trends in the global marketplace, and our personal aspirations and values as leaders and get a clear understanding of what will generate value to all those associated with us. We are proud of our dynamic and sustainable presence in the banking industry for over 25 years, as an enabler for the transformation and re-invention of banks. As a global company with 68 offices in 40 countries, we want to keep on doing what we know best in a way that takes care of the world around us both globally and locally. We are proud of our efforts so far, and they have been recognized by our inclusion in the 2019 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI), ranking in the top 10% of the largest global companies listed, as well as our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series. Maintaining the trust of our stakeholders and remaining accountable to them is critical to us. It took us more than 25 years to build Temenos as we know it today and we have done so with a strong sense of purpose, guided by our Temenos culture and values. We believe that this is our true competitive advantage. We call this Temenosity and we celebrate Temenosity as the cornerstone of our success. Our business is about building trust and strong relationships, with all our stakeholders, our clients, our Partners, our shareholders and between us Temenosians. Responsibility is in our culture. Our passion for innovation and for seeing things differently will ensure that we continue to develop winning products for our clients. Our determination, energy, enthusiasm, resolve, integrity, commitment, people focus and never-give-up attitude will ensure we remain the leading banking software company and overcome any challenges that may lie ahead of us, like we have done in the past. Influencing the way banking is carried out for the 21st century continues to be our end goal, one that guides our daily endeavors. With more than 3,000 banking clients in over 150 countries worldwide, we are well on our way to doing so. Andreas Andreades Executive Chairman Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 003 Our market opportunity GROWING OUR GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY Europe The Americas Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific 22 Offices in the region 17 Offices in the region 8 Offices in the region 21 Offices in the region 42 % Total revenue 23 % Total revenue 15 % Total revenue 20 % Total revenue 39% Total software licensing 27 % Total software licensing 13% Total software licensing 21% Total software licensing revenue revenue revenue revenue 004 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Key industry trends Addressable bank IT spend Consistsent growth in our addressable market A number of technology trends Total addressable market (5% CAGR) are driving change across the banking landscape and influencing the approach banks take to their IT renovation. USD 46bn Spend on third party IT (8% CAGR) USD 9 Cloud The use of on-demand computing resources to host software and data is driving down the total 2015 bn cost of ownership and reducing risk for incumbents, as well as lowering barriers to entry for new entrants to banking, as costs can scale according to business volumes. Artificial Intelligence (AI) The move to utilizing AI in helping customer interaction, for example through robo-advisors, chat bots and Total addressable market (5% CAGR) USD 60 bn automated product recommendation systems, in transactional processing and with operational efficiency and in risk and compliance. Recent advances in Explainable AI, which allows for the rationale in automated decisions to be understood by humans, have further advanced the rate and scope of adoption. APIs The move to Open Banking is both a risk and an opportunity for banks. There is increasing pressure Spend on third party IT (8% CAGR) USD 14 bn on banks to support interfaces that allow third parties 2020 to access their customer data, and banks with modern, Open API platforms are better able to take advantage of third party innovation to improve their customer service. Big data Banks have vast quantities of uniquely valuable data on their customers, however they are only just starting to use analytics to leverage this as a competitive advantage. Banks have the potential to improve customer service, increase product penetration and reduce risk, through the use of this data. Total addressable market (forecast) USD 67bn Mobile Banking has seen exponential growth in the number of interactions and transactions taking place through mobile devices. Banks need to ensure they can provide their customers a complete banking service with minimal friction. Those banks with the best mobile service will be able to better attract, retain and cross-sell products to their clients. Spend on third party IT (forecast) USD 16bn 20 22 Source: IDC, Ovum, Celent, Temenos estimates. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 005 Our strategy STRATEGIC INITIATIVES TO DRIVE GROWTH Enhance award Geographic market Investing in Sales An expanding Using M&A winning solutions development and Marketing, Partner ecosystem to accelerate Cloud and SaaS, organic growth Cloud-based Significant traction 6,500 consultants, Microservices in the US for Infinity and and Talent and 12,000 developer Hypersonalization of Transact post integration people community members of Kony front office with XAI 68% increase in SaaS Continuous renovation ACV* in 2019 of tier 1 back office * Definition of ACV to be found on the Sources page in the Appendix. 006 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Highlights of the year CONTINUED SUCCESS YEAR ON YEAR Total software licensing 2019 non-IFRS financial highlights Read more USD 445m on page 038 2019 • Total software licensing revenue growth of 19% 2018 USD 373m • Maintenance revenue growth of 14% +19% • • Total revenue growth of 17% Services margin of 11.0%, improvement of 1 percentage point • EBIT margin of 32.4%, up 87 bps Maintenance • Operating cash flows of USD 364 million • Operating cash conversion of 100% with DSOs at 120 days reported, 2019 USD 358m 114 days organic 2018 USD 314m • Strength of cash flows and growth in profit support 2019 dividend of CHF 0.85 per share, an increase of 13% (2018: CHF 0.75 per share). +14% 2019 operational highlights Read more Total revenue on page 034 • Strong performance in 2019 with market growth driven by increased focus 2019 USD 981m on digital banking and hyper-personalized, omni-channel experiences 2018 USD 841m • SaaS and cloud adoption continues to accelerate, driving incremental demand +17 % for software • US position strengthened through strategic acquisition of Kony, the leading US digital SaaS player • Tier 1 and 2 bank activity remained strong, with sales to tier 1 and 2 banks EBIT margin contributing 43% of total software licensing in 2019 2019 32.4% • Temenos won a total of 93 new clients in 2019, maintaining its market leading 31.5% position through the winning combination of the best technology 2018 and the best functionality 32.4% • Total of 330 clients going live on our software in 2019. Operating cash flow conversion 2019 USD 364m 2018 USD 365m 100% Earnings per share 2019 USD 3.47 2018 USD 2.95 +18% Dividend per share 2019 CHF 0.85 2018 CHF 0.75 +13% Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 007 Industry recognition A MARKET LEADER Gartner1 • Recognized as a Leader ten times in ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking.’ • Kony, now part of Temenos, recognized as a Leader in the ‘Magic Quadrant for Multiexperience Development Platforms.’ Forrester2 • Leader in Forrester Wave for global digital banking platforms and digital banking engagement platforms. A“Market Leader” • Classed “Global Power Seller” for new business for the 13th consecutive year and “Top Global Player” in core banking for new and existing business deals for 7th and a “Market Leader” consecutive year • Leader in Forrester Wave for Low-Code Development in digital banking Platforms for AD&D Professionals (Q1, 2019). platforms.3 Ovum3 • “Market Leader” in core banking and “Market Leader” in digital banking platforms. • “Market Challenger” in Anti-Financial Crime solutions. IBS Intelligence4 • Ranked best-selling core banking system for the last eight years and top two positions for the past 19 consecutive years. • Ranked best-selling digital banking and channels system. • Ranked best-selling payments system. Celent5 • Temenos’ Client, Umpqua Bank, received the 10times Celent Model Bank of the Year Award for Customer Engagement. International Data Corporation6 • Recognized as a ‘Leader’ for Integrated Recognized as a Leader ten times1 Payment Systems. • Recognized as a ‘Leader’ for North America Digital in Gartner Magic Quadrant for Banking Customer Experience Platforms for Kony DBX, Global Retail Core Banking 13 now Temenos Infinity. • Recognized as a ‘Leader’ for Know Your Customer (KYC) Solutions in Financial Services and as a ‘Major yrs Player’ for Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Solutions in Financial Services. Recognized as a Leader in global core banking, European mobile banking and wealth Classed “Global Power Seller” management front and middle office. for new business2 8 yrs Private Banking & Wealth Management Awards 2019 • Recognized as ‘Most Innovative Banking Technology Partner of the Year’. Ranked best selling core banking system4 1 The Gartner Report(s) described herein, (the “Gartner Report(s)”) represent(s) research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this Annual Report) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report(s) are subject to change without notice. Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking’, Vittorio D’Orazio, Don Free, 22 July 2019. (This report was previously titled “Magic Quadrant for International Retail Core Banking” from 2009 – 2014. Temenos was recognized as Temenos Group from 2010-2013, and Temenos Group (T24) in 2009.) Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Multiexperience Development Platforms’, Jason Wong, Van Baker, Mark Driver, Adrian Leow, Paul Vincent, 10 July 2019. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 008 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos Value Benchmark UNLOCKING BUSINESS VALUE FROM IT INVESTMENT The banking value chain Sales & Product Operations & Payments & Risk & Marketing relationship management execution settlement compliance management Reporting & analytics IT Accelerating value creation by “A great example of the Sample Temenos Value Benchmark measuring and comparing a value I got from the Temenos report output (illustrative) bank’s business performance Value Benchmark and why with banking peers. I would encourage my banking Product management counterparts to participate in Time to market for new products (# of weeks) The Temenos Value Benchmark is a strategic advisory this program, is the metric I 48.8 30 28.0 8.7 program offered to our clients and prospects to received on Page 1 of the help them understand, accelerate and optimize the tangible business value created by their investment report: IT cost as a % revenue. Marketing Digital campaigns lead conversion (%) in IT. By leveraging our 25 years of banking domain This benchmark metric experience and 3,000 banking clients across 150 countries, we are able to provide our clients paid off immediately as it 1.8 9.6 19.4 23.8 data-driven insights into business value creation revealed to me the true cost Sales & relationship management using a proven value-based methodology. of my IT and how I must continue Customer growth (%) The objective is to measure and compare a bank’s to optimize and automate as 5.3 17.0 25.4 37.5 business performance with other Temenos clients, around specific business and IT metrics and best I grow my customer base as Operations & execution practices along the banking value chain. Participants Canada’s first digital challenger.” Straight-through processing rate (%) in the program receive a customized confidential report comparing their business performance with Dan Dickinson, 2 38 75 83 anonymized peer group data from other Temenos CIO, Equitable (EQ) Bank Canada clients including executive-level findings with business Payments & settlement and IT insights structured along the banking value chain. Error rate (%) The exercise is conducted by Temenos strategy “This is a unique program 6.0 3.0 1.4 0.3 consulting professionals deployed on site to collect and validate the bank’s data. Over 200 quantitative compared to the other surveys Risk & compliance metrics as well as qualitative best practices are I have been involved in – it False positive rate (%) collected from each client to enable us to provide correlations and insights to explain banking brings in a business flavor to 99.7 90.0 74.6 92.1 performance. The benchmark provides a view show management the value of on high-performing banks and their adoption of IT investments. The benchmark Reporting & analytics best practices, aligning these with Temenos’ leading Data duplication (%) digital banking solutions, and providing state-of-thegives me the right indicators art recommendations throughout the entire banking and KPIs to justify my IT 62.9 38.1 21.5 0.0 value chain. It gives banks the opportunity to identify spend to the board so we can IT opportunities for operational improvements in their business in order to derive even more value from their invest in new technologies.” End-of-day critical path processing time (# of minutes) IT investment, by further leveraging Temenos as not just 439 300 246 82 a software provider but as a trusted partner, committed Khurram Qadir, to our clients’ success. CIO, CIB Egypt You Top quartile Average Bottom quartile Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 009 Software COMPREHENSIVE, CLOUD NATIVE, CLOUD AGNOSTIC, MICROSERVICES ARCHITECTURE Temenos’ software is centered around two main products; Temenos Infinity and Temenos Transact. Temenos Infinity Temenos Infinity is an independent digital banking PRODUCTS Both of these are available as independently deployable product which focuses on customer engagement and the Read more page 012 products, together with several other more specialist distribution of banking products and services on an omniproducts described in the following pages. Their value to channel basis by means of an integrated “conversational clients is, however, increased when they are deployed banking” customer engagement module, cutting-edge together to form an end-to-end digital banking solution. digital customer acquisition and onboarding functionality All of the software enjoys the benefit of continuing and an integrated product origination capability. functional investment by Temenos, ensuring that Temenos’ The market leading low-code channel capability of clients can access the latest banking functionality, as the software is backed by an independently deployable well as the years of functional enhancements which series of Distribution services, which enable banks to offer have been packaged into the products. a seamless omni-channel experience across multiple core and other product manufacturing systems. By avoiding Temenos’ products are also being increasingly complex point-to-point connections, it also future-proofs deployable as Microservices. The boundaries a bank’s capabilities in this area, allowing for different between services are defined according to business channel solutions to be deployed as needed, and for TECHNOLOGY areas and banking functions. This technology change core systems to be changed without needing to rebuild PLATFORM provides a series of strategic benefits to banks who large and complex integration layers. Read more page 016 use the software. In particular, the independently deployable nature of each service means that banks It can be deployed on any combination of back can progressively go live with different business office systems by means of its Open API framework areas by implementing different services. Unlike and definitions in a quick and cost effective manner, a standalone best-of-breed approach, the various allowing access to all of the underlying product service components also sit together to build an manufacturing and servicing capabilities which those integrated offering. This enables banks to undertake large platforms offer. Even greater benefit can be gained transformation exercises in a more flexible manner which when the solution is deployed with Temenos Transact also delivers earlier benefits. It also allows banks to retain as the bank can then make use of the end-to-end key items of third party or in-house technology where they product design and distribution capabilities to gain have a competitive edge and to manage upgrades on a significant benefits in the areas of customer insight and partial (“module level”) basis going forwards. new product go-to-market agility. SECTOR All of Temenos’ software products can be deployed SOLUTIONS natively on the main commercial cloud platforms; this Read more page 018 means that they take the full benefit of the lower operating costs and elastic scalability of these services, as well as enjoying in-built operational resilience. They are also available on a Continuous Deployment basis which Temenos Transact enables banks to reduce the cost of implementation and Temenos Transact is the market leading core banking maintenance by the use of modern DevOps approaches product which incorporates the broadest and deepest and technology, as well as making it faster for banks to set of functionality available in the market. Temenos deploy innovations into their live operating environments has invested in expanding the functionality of the and hence to enjoy a shorter time to market. product for over 25 years which, when allied with policy of producing standard packaged software, provides a functional footprint which is without parallel in the industry. This functional depth is supported by the use of the Microservice-based architecture. This allows for the solution to be deployed and upgraded on a functional component basis which means that banks can more easily engage in transformation programs that deliver early benefits and allow for changing business priorities during the implementation process. The product is further enriched by an extensive set of Country Model Banks. This combination of global product capability, off-the-shelf regional functionality and the underlying flexibility of the product enables banks to implement the solution in a cost effective manner and to continue to innovate, and to deploy these innovations, at speed and on an efficient economic basis. The cloud native and cloud agnostic capabilities which underpin the product also enable banks to operate at scale in an elastic and agile manner. 010 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Our solutions Temenos organizes its products into five key areas reflecting the needs of its customers. Technology is strategy. We say this because our Technology products and frameworks make banks more agile, competitive and profitable, and help them thrive in complex, marginpressured environments. Temenos offers software solutions to banks and financial institutions of all types and sizes. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 011 Our solutions continued PRODUCTS Temenos has five main products. Although each of these is independently deployable, they are based around a common set of capabilities and design principles aimed at increasing analytical insight and product agility, and reducing the cost of Temenos Infinity operation and ownership. Even A Digital Front Office product driving outstanding experience across customer acquisition, though they can be implemented servicing and retention journeys, built on a foundation of Explainable AI and Open APIs. on an independent basis, Temenos clients gain progressively more Temenos Infinity is an omni-channel digital banking product which focuses on the distribution of banking Temenos Infinity Distribution services comprise: benefit when multiple solutions are services and products. It can be sold and deployed • Origination for account opening and more complex deployed in an end-to-end manner. on any combination of back office systems, including products such as credit and mortgages • Onboarding to support the rapid digital acquisition non-Temenos core banking systems as well as Temenos The extent to which this is done, Transact. Temenos Infinity is deployed using the Temenos of new clients and the speed and sequencing Banking Platform. • Marketing Catalogue to provide a list of products and services which are available to sell of deployment, are all selectable The product is delivered using a series of Microservices. • Real-time engagement to use customer insight to by the client, ensuring that the These are organized into two main areas; Channel drive new product sales software supports their business Support and Distribution Services. The former is focused • Holdings and Arrangements providing a list of on creating outstanding customer experience on all all holdings for clients across all product and commercial goals in an digital channels, and is deployed using a market manufacturing systems optimal manner. leading low-code technology which enables the rapid • Payment Initiation construction and ongoing maintenance of customized • Funds Authorization user journeys and experiences on all devices. The latter • Multi-Party. provides an omni-channel layer which simplifies the complex connectivity between the product manufacturing Digital transformation programs can be long and systems and channel support systems. complex. Acquiring new customers in a competitive digital banking market, even more so. Temenos Infinity This is particularly important for banks which wish to retain offers a long term and flexible solution to managing elements of their channel solutions where they feel that omni-channel user experiences whilst also enabling they have competitive advantage. It also dramatically banks to deliver short to medium term gains in digital simplifies the ongoing process of managing the links sales and service performance. between multiple channel systems and multiple product manufacturing/core systems. Temenos Infinity includes solutions for the Wealth sector. These are designed to empower a wealth manager’s business. The solution helps wealth managers to industrialize the investment process, allowing for the efficient management of investments for large numbers of complex portfolios whilst achieving maximal investment performance. Combining back office efficiency with front office differentiation, the product offers support for all wealth sectors from the U/HNWI to the Mass Affluent. This latter sector has, in particular benefited from a renewed focus as the financial services industry identifies the segment as one key to growth; enhancements in this area include Robo-Advisor and Goal Based Investing capabilities. 012 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos Transact Temenos Payments The world’s best-selling, most technically advanced and functionally rich core banking product A universal end-to-end payments product used by over 1,000 banks in all sectors and geographies, delivered using a Microservice built on cloud-native and cloud agnostic architecture which enables progressive and agile transformation programs which deliver software with built-in support for ISO 20022 personalised and intelligent banking. and with tools to enable new payment channels to be addressed easily and quickly. Temenos Transact is the market leading core banking Transact also benefits from the underlying functionality product. Designed to operate in a truly packaged centered around data and analytics and the evolving Our Payments product is a uniquely flexible payment manner, and with a consistent policy of maintaining a support of the underlying Temenos technology platform offering that not only gives banks full, real-time control single functional base, the breadth and depth of the which now includes cloud native, cloud agnostic and but also a harmonized customer service experience products’ capabilities have grown over the years. Open API capabilities as well as support for a DevOps and is centralized for cost efficiencies and risk With more than 25 years of investment in functionality, approach to implementation and ongoing Continuous management. Our Payment Hub is designed to process the product contains massive functional capabilities, Deployment of new software and configurations. domestic and international payments in one product all of which can be accessed by any Temenos client in any region. who uses the software. The policy of incorporating all The product offers support to almost all sectors of enhancements back into the product continues, ensuring banking, including Retail, SME, Corporate and Inclusive It was designed in collaboration with a leading that any bank which licenses the software can continue Banking segments. The functionality is designed to be international bank to meet a gap in the market and to enjoy the future investment which Temenos makes into used on a global basis, which is then enhanced by the with its rule and data-driven approach, allows the product. growing number of Country Model Banks maintained by rapid evolution to support new products and Temenos which provide packaged support for regional new “payment rails”. Temenos Transact is delivered using the cloud native, banking requirements. cloud agnostic architecture which is common across all Our auto-repair solution allows banks to reach STP rates Temenos products. This enables Temenos, and banks, of 97% and higher. to deploy the software on all major cloud platforms in Our Payments clients benefit from increased efficiency a way which takes advantage of the elastic scaling and profitability through: capabilities of the platforms. Furthermore, the product can be deployed on an active-active basis to provide • A complete, single product resilience on a single cloud or across multiple clouds. • Transparent, 360° view of transactions As part of the cloud native architecture, it is increasingly • Unique weight based processing supporting delivered as a series of independently deployable payment prioritization Microservices. The means that individual functional • Agile, parameter driven platform flexibility components can be deployed one at a time, using • Full operational and technical control the extensive set of Open APIs to connect to other • Conditional rules; avoiding the complexity of multiple systems. This enables banks to engage in more flexible connections and high risk programming; and transformation projects which offer quicker time to value. • Can be deployed stand alone or fully embedded within Temenos Transact. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 013 Our solutions continued Temenos solutions are supported by industry-leading capabilities in the following areas: Temenos Fund Administration Temenos SaaS Analytics Investment Accounting and Investor Services Delivering market leading, compliant and Using Temenos Data Lake to unlock the software used by seven of the world’s top ten highly secure, functionally rich banking power of banks’ data to power AI, insight fund administrators, offering the widest range products to clients in all geographies and and automation. of underlying instrument support with market banking sectors, building on market expertise leading STP rates and operational efficiency. gained since 2011. Unlocking the power of banks’ data to become analytically driven and to drive profitability and efficiency improvements throughout their entire organization. The solution covers the full spectrum, supporting all Temenos has offered its software on a cloud-hosted basis Temenos Aanalytics is delivered on the Temenos Data product types and all asset classes on our unique, single since 2011, being an early adopter of this approach to Lake and enables banks to harness a wealth of data and platform. Clients choose us because they know we can delivering software. Since then, the range and scope of transform it into valuable business intelligence to support support all their fund administration requirements, both the offering has grown, with various SaaS offerings being better decision making and to drive the Explainable AI now and in the future. available. New SaaS offerings have been announced platform. for 2020, including a specialized pre-packaged We provide the best functionality, flexibility and extensive model supporting US based new digital banks. These By using banking specific, high-value, analytical capability in our industry to deliver significant operational take advantage of the cloud native capabilities of our applications in every department including Finance, efficiency gains by replacing fragmented legacy systems software, but also the extensive set of Open APIs which Marketing, Operations, Treasury and Risk Management, and manual processes with a single, global platform. enable integration, and the DevOps-based Continuous banks are able to transform their business. This gives Typically, our clients enjoy efficiency improvements in Deployment service which Temenos offers to ensure that banks a significant competitive edge in this new banking excess of 30% by migrating to Temenos. innovative product features are delivered on an ongoing landscape and digital world. basis to clients. As software dedicated specialists, our goals are aligned By using Temenos Analytics, our clients are able to: with those of our clients in providing market leading SaaS is a key change which permeates the financial • Empower business users with self-service access to products and transforming clients’ fund administration services technology industry, and Temenos is enthusiastic accurate data providing a single version of the truth activity with sophisticated workflow, production and about continuing to invest in this area to ensure that banks driving smarter decision making faster with better control techniques. can continue to benefit from the functional investment business outcomes made by Temenos into its products, however they wish • Gain deep insight into customer behavior and buying Global Accounting to consume the capabilities. The underlying structure trends to build a customer-centric approach to Transforms fund administration activity with sophisticated of investing in global functionality and Country Model delivering products and services workflow and production control techniques. Drives Banks ensures that Temenos’ SaaS solution will continue • Embed intelligent analytics into core systems to enrich dramatic increases in operational efficiency via to support the widest range of banks in different sectors every customer interaction and boost customer advanced global operating models and integrated and geographies. engagement with a superior user experience investment book and general ledger capability. • Integrate real-time data and embed predictive analytics to enable real-time risk and marketing activities Global Investor • Provide customers with contextual, relevant product A single, global investor servicing and transfer agency offers and advice at a time when they are most likely platform, offering the most extensive capability in the to buy – improving cross-selling, customer value industry, to deliver a step-change in efficiency, oversight and customer loyalty and control. • Integrate analytical capabilities directly into core banking and other applications, making those applications smarter and more efficient • Better understand and predict performance to build strategies for improving operational efficiency and financial processes to minimize risk and drive profitable growth. 014 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos’ main products are supported by a common set of functional capabilities and support which enable them to provide excellent solutions to their clients, wherever they are located and whichever market segments they focus on. Financial Crime Mitigation Risk and Compliance Country Model Banks Real-time and flexible products using dataEnabling financial institutions to remain Packaged country specific functionality driven AI to deliver Anti Money Laundering, compliant whilst focusing on business covering over 150 countries which enables Fraud Detection and Sanctions Screening growth and digital transformation. banks to go live quicker and to focus on protection to banks and their customers. areas of competitive advantage. Enabling financial institutions to navigate the complex A uniquely flexible range of intelligent, versatile products regulatory landscape in order to remain focused on With our extensive experience of client implementations for banks, large and small, to combat financial crime. serving customers, creating innovative products and we have packaged country specific localizations, improving profitability. including compliance with regulations and local The Financial Crime Mitigation product family is a payment systems, into reuseable country platforms. range of intelligent, analytical detection engines that The Risk and Compliance product family offers software and services for: We currently offer functionality which is drawn from are accurate, fast, easy to configure and simple to use. over 150 countries' requirements. Its sophisticated approach ensures increased efficiency • Compliance advice by saving time and lowering data-mining costs for • Audits enhanced decision making and improved collaboration, • Social media monitoring ultimately completely mitigating against risk. Banks • Vendor management choose the product they need, whether it be to combat • IFRS 9 money laundering, accurately screen against sanctions • CRS lists or ensure enhanced customer due diligence. • Enterprise risk management Our Financial Crime Mitigation clients benefit from • FATCA compliance. increased efficiency and profitability through: With our products, organizations are able to reduce • Safe and accurate algorithms exposure to risk and minimize losses while complying • Complete control and clarity fully with regulatory mandates. In this challenging • Full automation environment, there is tremendous pressure to maintain • Intelligent analysis and grow profit margins despite challenges associated • Ready and easy integration with new consumer demands, non-traditional • Stand alone or integrated into Temenos Transact competitors, and heavy regulatory burdens. Proper • Real-time as well as offline products. compliance practices, supplemented by products and services from Temenos, can help financial institutions With our products, organizations are able to reduce avoid penalties, fines, and reputational risk, ultimately exposure to risk and minimize losses while complying ensuring profitability and success. fully with regulatory mandates. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 015 Our solutions continued TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM Our products are built on the single integrated Temenos Platform using the most advanced cloudnative, cloud-agnostic and multicloud technologies and tools. Our solutions are designed to be API first and have AI capabilities embedded in them. We deliver Microservices and containers API first them using a DevOps based Efficient scalability built around a Temenos’ Open APIs allow you to integrate Continuous Deployment containerized deployment model. quickly with a wide range of internal or approach. The platform helps external systems to help drive your product Temenos transforms the traditional approach by banks to reduce their TCO, breaking down the software into independently and service innovation. to increase scalability and to scalable Microservices that can be deployed rapidly, Temenos’ Open APIs enable banks to execute deploy rapidly on any cloud. enabling banks to make high-impact changes frequently, strategies to thrive in an age of Open Banking. predictably and seamlessly, enhancing DevOps Temenos’ approach enables banks to meet regulatory capabilities: coding in the morning and consuming in the requirements such as PSD2, through pre-defined APIs afternoon. By exposing these banking Microservices as that meet published specifications such as Berlin Group, APIs in the cloud, our clients benefit from the easy plug STET, etc. They allow banks to innovate products and and play integration to both existing environments as well services rapidly with access to over 700 enterprise as to an ecosystem of Partners, developers and fintechs API endpoints on the Temenos Developer Community. via the Temenos Developer Community. Furthermore, banks benefit from the ability to enrich their This can be of particular use in large transformation offering to customers through the integration of new programs where banks can progressively go-live in FinTech technologies using Temenos MarketPlace. business-meaningful steps, ensuring that the payback API-first period is both initially shorter and progressively Temenos offers an API-first architecture across our entire Cloud-native and cloud-agnostic cumulative. It also means that it is easier for long strategic product range. This means that all significant product A cloud-native and cloud-agnostic approach programs to be flexed as business needs change. capabilities are exposed as standard, documented for real-time, non-stop banking. Independently deployable Open APIs and this forms part of the design and Components can be added, managed and scaled release process. Temenos provides banks with an infrastructure designed independently based on each bank‘s requirements, Extensibility to support digital transformation in order to provide speeding up the change process. Decoupled services We enable extensions to standard APIs to suit a bank’s the flexible experiences demanded by today’s digital can be written in the best language for the task – all precise needs, created using the API designer tool. customers. harmoniously coexisting and delivering a resilience not experienced in monolithic systems – should one service Temenos Developer Community Elastic scalability eliminates the need to provision for fail, the other services remain unaffected. Our Open API Catalogue bringing standardized outpeak processing volumes so that banks only pay for of-the-box APIs to fast track innovation, supported by actual usage, yielding significant cost savings. Temenos’ Elastic scalability Temenos experts and a growing developer community cloud-agnostic approach enables the highest levels of The Microservice architecture introduces highly efficient with dedicated online support and resources. long-term resilience and redundancy without creating elastic scaling capability, automatically provisioning a dependency on a single Cloud Service Provider. This resources to perfectly match demand upwards or is a key Temenos strategy and an answer to regulatory downwards. This improves the service ROI concerns. as overprovisioning resources become a problem of the past. Cloud-native Designed for the new digital banking age, our software Organized around business capability allows faster updates, lower provisioning, lower Services are developed to fulfill specific business infrastructure costs, elastic scaling, active-active resilience objectives needed and desired customer experiences, and security. This is built using API-first and DevOps meaning banks can organize development teams principles and engineered to deploy in containers around business capabilities, rather than technologies. and Microservices. Distribute development workload Cloud-agnostic The independence of components eliminates the issues We are the only banking platform readily available on of productivity and speed by decomposing applications Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services and into manageable services that are faster to develop. Microsoft Azure. We are also the only platform also to Different teams can independently and simultaneously offer multi-cloud deployments for increased resilience develop components, enabling faster project delivery and regulatory compliance. and better quality. 016 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements AI & machine learning Distributed database Continuous Deployment The most advanced next-generation Engineered to use distributed relational Extend cloud capabilities to DevOps Explainable AI and Machine Learning database technology. so banks can code in the morning and banking products embedded in the clouddeploy in the afternoon. native, cloud-agnostic Temenos Platform. Traditional relational databases are not always able to gain the maximum benefits from the cloud. Temenos Continuous upgrades are a core tenet of cloud products support distributed databases, natively utilization. DevOps teams delivering on the continuous Temenos is the first to bring transparency and designed and optimized for the cloud, providing a data integration and continuous story are able to expedite explainability to AI automated decision making in management architecture that extends the competitive project delivery timelines through self-service and the banking industry. Our patented Explainable AI advantages gained by cloud adoption. Through a self-management environments and tools, controlling (XAI) platform and machine learning capabilities are strategic partnership and participation in NuoDB, an the pace with which development plans progress, from embedded in the Temenos Platform and available with enterprise-class distributed SQL database provider, configuration to full test. all Temenos software either through an easy-to-use banks can benefit from unlimited processing capacity, interface or through APIs delivered on-premise, in Temenos Continuous Deployment provides banks with auto-elastic scalability and the highest levels of activethe cloud or as a SaaS offering. By embedding AI the ability to manage, configure and assemble Temenos active resilience across data centers, geographies and and Machine Learning into our products, we have software – either fully deployed and supported by cloud platforms. accelerated the release of explainable models that Temenos Cloud, or utilizing their own cloud infrastructure. will underpin new AI use cases that focus on creating Elastically scale-out seamless customer journeys and automating manual Distributed database technology allows banks to Rapid acceleration processes with self-learning capabilities. elastically scale-out, as needed, in a linear fashion Temenos Continuous Deployment creates environments without incurring the disproportionate scale-up within minutes rather than weeks, accelerating AI permeates Temenos products development and ongoing change projects. This overheads of legacy database approaches. AI capabilities are embedded in multiple areas within amplifies feedback loops and find and fix issues Temenos products including Fraud Detection, Payment Achieving zero downtime fast. Innovations are deployed from test to live Exceptions, Customer Engagement & Cross-Selling, Inherently designed for reliability, from keeping the environments quicker than previously possible, Collections Optimization, Tailored Pricing and an active application up, running and available for resilience reducing their time-to-value. ongoing roadmap for enhancing Robo-Advisor. and automated redundancy in a single data center, an active-passive architecture for disaster recovery, Increased stability Explainable AI (XAI) Banks can access the same Continuous Integration or even an active-active database across multiple Temenos’ XAI platform addresses one of the key and Continuous Deployment processes Temenos uses availability zones. issues for banks using AI applications; which is that internally – running hundreds of thousands of tests they typically operate as ‘black boxes’ offering little Trusted relational model daily – to optimize processes and workflows. if any discernible insight into how they reach their Unlike many distributed database solutions, Temenos decisions. We bring cutting-edge innovation to the believes that the trusted relational model is required to Reduce cost banking industry by providing transparency into these ensure data consistency and integrity at scale. Subscription-based, cloud hosting eliminates the need decisions and helping you explain clearly, in plain for costly infrastructure, reducing the cost of innovation language, to your customers and regulators how AIReduce cloud computing cost and the total cost of ownership. based decisions are made. A distributed database optimizes hardware utilization, automates redundancy and reduces disaster recovery Self-managed Smart data lake overhead, effectively reducing costs while improving Banks can create self-provisioned, self-managed The XAI platform, fully integrated with the Temenos Data performance. environments on-demand in minutes, with all Lake, gives banks a real-time, end-to-end Smart Data components installed. There are no procurement Lake, offering higher quality and richness of data through processes slowing down development. Banks can selfmultiple sources. This means that banks can make faster, pace development utilizing the Temenos Design Studio. more accurate and explainable decisions driven by AI algorithms. Enterprise-wide value Temenos embeds AI and Machine Learning capabilities into our banking platform so banks can realize value across the entire enterprise to provide individualized customer experiences and maximize straight-through processing with limited or no human intervention in all areas of the bank. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 017 Our solutions continued SECTOR SOLUTIONS Retail Banking Corporate Banking Wealth Management Temenos provides retail banks with agility Assemble cross-product line solutions for Empowering portfolio and relationship and freedom to innovate front-to-back using corporate customers linking directly to their managers with the latest in wealth the latest cloud and API technology. financial systems and broader ecosystems management and modern cloud technology. using Open APIs. The Temenos Retail Banking solution is an integrated Temenos has a long-standing focus on the Wealth banking software solution for retail banks of all sizes The Temenos Corporate Banking solution, with its Management sector. The solution covers all parts of the across the globe. scalable innovative technology, provides superior industry, from the U/HNWI to the Mass Affluent and is features for corporate banks, supporting profitability, designed to be deployed by all participants in the sector, It combines a modern, agile core with powerful analytics customer acquisition and retention. Now, bank ranging from Private Banks to Wealth Managers to and a single platform for distribution across all digital customers can benefit from quality digital solutions Retail Banks for the mass affluent sector. and assisted channels. It enables a bank to provide to equal their retail experiences, for all their business convenience and choice to their customers in how they banking needs. The solution contains sophisticated portfolio want to bank and manage their finances. It will extend management tools which cover most instrument the bank’s reach to customers using any device, today Our Corporate Banking customers continue to see the classes and which allow for maximized investment and in the future. The bank will be able to harness the benefit of our advanced modules. Temenos’ Corporate return. Supporting this core capability are digital wealth of its data to better understand its customers and Banking customers benefit from increased efficiency and CRM capabilities specifically designed for the sector, develop products and services they want and need profitability through: automation tools around goal-based planning and quickly and easily. automated advice capability for the mass affluent sector • A full complete, single solution and highly comprehensive back office functional support. The solution will address the banking technology, • Transparent, single view offering a 360° view regulatory and market challenges of today and of accounts If a wealth manager is looking for a single vendor tomorrow. Through Temenos a bank can leverage • Agile, parameter driven platform flexibility solution, with the associated benefits of centralized technology innovation to drive competitor differentiation • A product builder to quickly create segment support, Temenos can transform their business. and advantage, increase operational efficiencies, reduce customer level products The Wealth Management solution offers: costs and boost profitability. • Full control • Insight into customer profitability, loyalty, attrition risk • Increased performance and revenue growth Whether a bank is a new start-up looking for its first and number of products for targeting activity • Stronger customer loyalty solution, or a large-scale multi-country bank, the • A massively scalable, straight through• Advanced digital capabilities software provides a solution which will enable it to scale, processing solution • Cost and risk reduction. onboard, reduce attrition and deliver a market leading • Comprehensive business functionality and a modern, service to its customers. advanced, secure, open, modular architecture • An automated, electronic solution without the need for cumbersome paper based processes. 018 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Fund Administration Islamic Banking Inclusive Banking Providing unparalleled multi-asset class A flexible and efficient award-winning solution Enabling Financial Inclusion to be rapidly fund administration capabilities across all enabling Shari’ah compliant innovation, extended using a packaged and integrated geographies. scalability and digital engagement. model bank that is developed specifically to increase access to relevant financial services. With Temenos’ Fund Administration solution, clients Temenos’ Islamic Banking solution services the Islamic have the capability to manage all asset classes and banking community with Shari’ah compliant, flexible Temenos’ Inclusive Banking offering is an integrated jurisdictions, both now and in the future, from a single solutions that have been specifically designed to support banking software solution that helps community accounting and investor servicing platform: wealth, retail, corporate and treasury bank needs. This banks and Financial Institutions (FI) of all sizes, range of highly scalable, established solutions means that active in both group and individual lending • Delivers long-only control and efficiency with banks can now easily and efficiently create new Islamic and member deposit holding. alternatives flexibility on one platform, to support banking products, offering world class services that rival convergence between long-only and alternative funds Islamic or conventional counterparts. It provides community financial institutions with world• Reduces total cost of ownership by consolidating class banking capabilities that usually are only accessible functions and systems on one platform across multiple Temenos’ Islamic Banking clients benefit from increased to larger commercial banks with significant IT budgets. geographies, asset classes and jurisdictions efficiency and profitability through: Inclusive Banking, which can be deployed in the cloud • Delivers increased efficiency through sophisticated on a SaaS basis, provides a modern, agile and highly workflow and exception management • Full automation and increased straight-through scalable core banking system, as well as a single • Syndicates analysis/product development across processing rates platform for distribution across all digital and assisted clients, so that development costs are shared and all • Reduced development time channels, and powerful business analytics. clients benefit from changes made to one code base • Quality customer products and services available • Supports both middle office and back office, and quickly and cost effectively For community banks, it offers dividend point delivers the Investment Book Of Records (IBOR) • Adopting a pre-configured solution based tracking, provisions and parameterized dividend and Accounting Book Of Records (ABOR) from on Shari’ah industry standard processing functionality. one platform. • Offering advanced Shari’ah wealth management services. Inclusive Banking enables community financial institutions to significantly reduce operating costs even when their business is growing fast, and to pass on these efficiencies to their end-customers in the spirit of financial inclusion. At the same time, it enables them to clearly differentiate themselves with highly responsive service, tailored products and a truly customer-centric experience – giving every customer, regardless of their financial worth, the same quality service anywhere. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 019 Acquisitions STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS TO ACCELERATE ORGANIC GROWTH In 2019, Temenos made three Our three pronged approach acquisitions that brought significant to M&A to accelerate organic growth new products, technology, market 01 presence and expertise. Accelerated R&D roadmap in key markets and segments A strong track record September 2019 – Temenos acquired Kony, the US #1 digital banking SaaS company of strategic M&A In September, Temenos acquired Kony, the fast-growing 2019 02 3 acquisitions US #1 digital banking SaaS company. The acquisition Kony significantly enhanced Temenos’ scale and capabilities Logical Glue in the US, adding significant digital expertise and hTrunk accelerating Temenos Infinity, the breakthrough digital front office product. Temenos purchased Kony for an enterprise value of USD 559 million. Increased scale Kony had already achieved rapid growth with both top tier and mid-market banks in the US and internationally with its Kony Digital Banking Experience product (Kony DBX) which was recognized as a leader by top analyst 03 firms such as Gartner, Forrester and IDC. With 1,500 employees and deep expertise in digital and cloud technologies, Kony had been helping banks transform the experience for their customers with digital banking applications and its market leading development Adjacent markets and platform, all of which are served through a cloud complementary products hosted SaaS model. 2018 1 acquisition Avoka The Kony DBX product included a suite of mobile banking apps delivering exceptional omni-channel experiences including support for conversational interfaces, AI, augmented reality, and wearable technologies. Key to this success was Kony’s development platform that accelerates product cycles 2017 1 acquisition Rubik and increases agility by reducing the load on bank IT to design and iterate user experiences. Kony’s banking clients had been able to transform the banking experience with some achieving over 20% increase in mobile deposits, 64% increase in mobile credit card payments and significantly reducing abandonment rate 2015 2 acquisitions Multifonds from 20% to 3%. The combined strength of Temenos, Kony and the Akcelerant recently acquired Avoka, further strengthened Temenos Infinity, covering all banking verticals and offering customer acquisition and onboarding, omni-channel banking, customer retention and marketing, and modules supporting payments, wealth advisory, financial crime, risk and compliance and analytics. 020 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements “ We are excited to combine our strengths with Temenos’ expertise, reach and passion. Together, I am sure we will be able to transform the industry.“ Professor Hani Hagras July 2019 – Temenos acquired Logical Glue, a February 2019 – Temenos acquired Co-Founder and Chief Science Officer SaaS-based Explainable AI (XAI) platform to hTrunk, accelerating its analytics and at Logical Glue Ltd. accelerate its AI roadmap and expertise big data solutions In July, Temenos acquired Logical Glue Ltd., a In February, Temenos acquired hTrunk, a fast-growing London-based provider of a patented, award-winning company providing big data and analytics solutions Explainable AI (XAI) platform with financial clients in the to the banking industry. This accelerated our strategic UK and Europe. The acquisition accelerated Temenos’ vision for data and analytics. Through the integration AI roadmap by bringing together a patented, proven, of hTrunk, Temenos strengthened its Analytics product, industry-first XAI platform, AI credit scoring models that which was already recognized as a leading analytics are immediately available worldwide as well as deep solution in the banking space. Temenos is now able to AI and Machine Learning expertise. help banks leverage big data technologies, implement modern data lake architecture efficiently and unlock Logical Glue’s XAI platform addresses one of the key the value of their data. challenges for banks using AI applications, which is that they typically operate as ‘black boxes’ offering little if any With the addition of hTrunk’s comprehensive data lake discernible insight into how they reach their decisions. product, Temenos Analytics is able to ingest, blend, Regulators globally are increasingly mandating that store and process both structured and unstructured data financial institutions should be able to explain to their in real-time, allowing the creation of next-generation, customers the results of automated decisions that affect analytically-driven banking applications. them. For example, Europe’s General Data Protection Founded in 2015, hTrunk had 30 employees and Regulation (GDPR) includes ‘a right to explanation’ for was based in Bangalore, India. hTrunk provided big all decisions made by AI algorithmic systems while the data and analytics solutions, primarily to banking US Equal Credit Opportunity Act compels creditors clients, including a number of Temenos Transact and lenders to provide specific reasons to borrowers customers. hTrunk accelerates Temenos’ ability to offer when negative decisions have been taken. Through this a productized data lake solution as a fundamental acquisition, Temenos brings cutting-edge innovation to component of its banking software platforms. the banking industry by helping banks explain in plain language to their customers and regulators how AIbased decisions are taken. The Logical Glue XAI platform has been embedded within the cloud-native, cloud-agnostic Temenos banking platform and made available with all Temenos software including digital front office, core banking, wealth management, payments and fund administration products. This provides banks with the next generation of AI-powered applications irrespective of the choice of cloud platform or on-premise deployment. By embedding AI and Machine Learning into its products, Temenos is accelerating the release of explainable models that will underpin new AI use cases focusing on creating seamless customer journeys and automating manual processes with self-learning capabilities. The XAI platform is also fully integrated with the Temenos Data Lake to give banks a real-time, end-to-end Smart Data Lake, offering higher quality and richness of data through multiple sources. This means that banks can make faster, more accurate and explainable decisions driven by AI algorithms. All these products can be consumed either through an easy-to-use interface or through APIs and can be delivered on-premise, in the cloud or as a SaaS offering. The provision of XAI as part of the Temenos platform is central to the Temenos strategy to deliver both cloud-agnostic as well as on-premise products to banks. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 021 Research and development INVESTMENT TO INNOVATION The Temenos software investment The virtuous cycle of Temenos software investment approach forms a virtuous cycle How we turn investment into innovation in which our clients influence Temenos’ investment and therefore benefit from the improved product. This in turn contributes to their TEMENOS INVESTMENT APPROACH success. Our clients then advocate INVEST C.20% OF REVENUES IN R&D for our solutions enabling us to attract new clients, continuing the cycle. Respond to Revolutionary Evolutionary changing Respond to investment in investment industry specific client technology and in banking regulation and requirements architecture functionality trends RE LE TE ST AS E Continued CONTINUOUS advocacy and DELIVERY commitment DE D P LO IL Y BU SoftwareCloud or onas-a-Service premise Improved Reduced customer operational risk experience Improved Reduced operating Reduced time customer costs to market intimacy 022 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Revolutionary investment in technology Reduced operating costs and architecture Only a small percentage of bank IT spend is on growth In order to keep pace with the rapid rate of change and innovation; the majority is spent on business as in information technology, Temenos continues to invest usual activities. In contrast, Temenos clients spend significantly to ensure that its software takes advantage significantly less on maintenance IT, and a significantly of the latest innovations. The technology changes more on innovation. The result of this innovation-focused required to support the growing business and regulatory expenditure is our top performing clients achieving interest in Open Banking are a prime example of this. industry-leading cost-income ratios of up to half the What is revolutionary at one point becomes standard industry average, and Returns on Equity of up to three in the following years, and this is why it is important times the industry average. to continue with this investment approach. Examples Improved customer service can be seen in recent years in the adoption of mobile Customers expect banks to provide the same level of banking technology and the increasing desire to seamless, personalized service which they receive from provide software solutions which are hosted on the leading online service companies such as Amazon cloud. Temenos offers updated software based on the or Uber. In the past, banks’ abilities to provide such latest technology to clients seamlessly through simple, service has been hampered by legacy technology regular upgrades. and business issues. Temenos provides a modern Evolutionary investment in front-to-back digital and integrated solution, allowing banking functionality seamless customer journeys across all areas of a bank’s Banking functionality changes more gradually than service and product portfolio. A single rules engine information technology, with evolutionary advances driven by embedded analytic capabilities, enables a being made in banking products, industry practice and bank to proactively tailor the experience to a customer’s regulation. Temenos’ investment in functionality over individual needs based on a single 360° lifetime view the past 25 years reflects this. Recent examples have of the customer. included the embedding of AI and analytics across the Reduced operational risk entire portfolio to support improved and personalized Legacy IT landscapes are inherently risky because customer experiences and to increase the level of of the many interfaces which are required between automation and efficiency in the back office processing different functionality and delivery silos; the number areas of our customers. We enable our existing clients of “islands” of functionality and the resulting complexity to add new functionality to what they use already of connections between them increase the number of through regular updates, whilst also releasing the latest points where a process or technology failure can occur. software for new clients. As a result, banks can face outages in mission critical Respond to changing industry regulation operations with resulting reputational damage. and trends These risks are increased if the bank is still relying on Banking, being a highly regulated industry, is subject to obsolete technology where there is often a shortage the continuous changing of requirements by regulatory of suitably skilled resources. The end-to-end integration agencies. At Temenos, we actively follow changes in offered by Temenos’ software, with its configurable banking regulation, in order to build relevant solutions and sophisticated workflow, access control and into the software and thus support our clients using the security features, allows our clients to benefit from the regular upgrade mechanism. We also anticipate other lowest levels of IT operational risk, and to future-proof significant industry trends such as Open Banking, and their IT architecture by means of the regular software incorporate them proactively into our software. release mechanism. Respond to specific client requirements Reduced time to market As we enter new markets or work with new clients, it is Today, digitalization and the rise of new, specialized possible that our software may require enhancement. and highly agile competitors are driving banks to We invest in our products to close these functional respond ever more quickly to customers’ individual gaps, but also in such a way so as to make the new needs. Temenos’ software enables banks to respond functionality of widest benefit possible to our existing quickly, flexibly and securely to these business needs and future clients. We do this by ensuring that flexibility as it is highly parameter-driven, and delivered with is built into the design, and that the new functionality pre-configured, re-usable content, as well as is incorporated into the standard product. Our wide user-friendly configuration, design and testing tools. geographic reach across all banking segments means Improved customer intimacy that enhancements developed for a specific client are A modern, digital bank requires sophisticated analytics often relevant in other markets and to other clients. to understand customer needs, to respond to regulators Continuous delivery and to make optimal business decisions in a timely Temenos builds, deploys and tests software on a daily and efficient manner. The Temenos analytics product basis. We use this as the foundation for the continuous set is tightly embedded within the overall front-to-back release of upgrades to clients, which are then solution, providing real-time, predictive and integrated accumulated into one Annual Maintenance Release analytics based on a single version of the truth sourced each year. All releases are cumulative enabling clients from both transactional and contextual data from all to upgrade when they want. The upgrade process is areas of the solution. This enables bank staff to take designed to operate with minimal disruption to a bank’s customer service and business strategic decisions staff and customers. on the basis of up to date information. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 023 Research and development continued R&D The highest R&D in the industry % of revenue spent on R&D USD 2.1bn Cumulative R&D investment 1990-2019 25 20 Temenos average spend 15 of revenue on R&D % of revenue Temenos 10 5 Our peers* 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 R&D at more than twice the level of Core principles Temenos has always produced software according to our competitors plus deep domain a set of core principles. We believe in re-use, openness knowledge means that our software and being agnostic about technology platforms. This means that all developments are made available to never becomes legacy. all clients. It also means giving our clients choice over which technology they run and never locking them into Investing more than our peers on R&D a particular provider. The openness means that third Temenos has consistently invested over 20% of its parties can develop on our platform to accelerate revenues in R&D. This is more than twice the level of innovation thus ensuring that our clients always have estimated investment made by our closest competitors. access to the best technology and functionality. Furthermore, since we only produce software for Proud record of innovation banking and finance, all of this investment is targeted Our philosophy could be summed up as constant at our concentrated product portfolio. functional evolution delivered on innovative technology. Channeled continuously into We are proud of the record of innovation which we product releases have established, being, for example, the first banking Our software is fully packaged and upgradeable. software vendor to run on open systems, to have We produce new software on a continuous basis a truly 24x7 platform, the first to run core banking which has traditionally been available on a monthly software in the public cloud and the first to have all release cycle. This will continue to be available, services exposed as RESTful APIs. Temenos has recently together with an annual release, for clients which wish announced the next stage in its technology investment to consume our software on this basis. Going forward, and innovation with the migration of all of our products we will also make more of our software available on a to “cloud native” and “cloud agnostic” platform Continuous Deployment basis, with DevOps support, for capabilities, which use a Microservice architecture to banks to help them to shorten the innovation cycle. enable elastic scalability and to allow banks to deploy individual functional areas on a standalone basis as We also support partial upgrades, allowing our clients part of larger transformation programs. to upgrade the parts of their solution which they need to. This means that all of our clients can continue to benefit from the ongoing investment we make in our products. Source: Company Annual Reports, Temenos estimates. * Oracle FSS, TCS, FIS, Fiserv, Jack Henry, SS&C. 024 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPEN BANKING The pace of innovation is Opening up is unavoidable The effects of technology and regulation are accelerating at the same time self-reinforcing and pushing banks to much as competitive boundaries greater openness. are blurring. So many technologies are opening up the banking market: mobile phones have opened up a new distribution channel; cloud has lowered infrastructure Traditionally banks have operated as vertically costs and opened the market to new entrants; APIs integrated enterprises. This means that they have have opened up the flow of information. both manufactured banking products, and also distributed them to their customers. Although this model Now, regulatory forces are also pushing in the same remains valid for many banks and markets, changing direction. Open Banking legislation, which started in technology and regulation is also encouraging the Europe, is fanning out across the globe, forcing banks growth of institutions which specialized in providing to share customer data as well as share their payment one part of the overall banking value chain. Some of infrastructure with third parties. As such, the move to these are existing banks, but others are new banks, Open Banking appears inevitable, whether banks like whether owned by existing banks or not, and some it or not. are technology companies whose services are A new strategic imperative beginning to overlap with some areas of banking. The move to Open Banking, however, will be extremely In order to take advantage of the new opportunities lucrative to those banks that embrace the paradigm which this change creates, banks need to be able to shift. To do so, they will need to consider abandoning innovate not only in the products which they offer, but older models of operating as a closed, vertically also in how they interact with other market participants. integrated enterprise, and instead open themselves to Open APIs enable banks to connect the various working with partners, becoming a concentration point systems which they have in their technology landscape for information flows so that they can learn faster and to each other but also to externally provided give the best customer experience at scale. specialized solutions. Banks are starting to appreciate this. A survey from Recognizing the impact of these changes, Cognizant and Temenos found that a clear majority of we have pursued three key objectives: bankers (89%) now see Open Banking as more of an opportunity than a threat with 57% of bankers saying • The deployment of our solutions as a series that they would be prepared to distribute third party of Microservices to improve both operational services over their platform. scalability but also to increase the granularity at which external solutions can be integrated And so the scene is now set for greater collaboration. • The extension of existing API capability to support published, Open APIs and the building of a supported developer community around these • The creation of Temenos MarketPlace where a curated set of innovative fintechs are assembled and supported to ensure that our clients can find specialized solutions when they need them. “A clear majority of bankers (89%) now see Open Banking as more of an opportunity than a threat.” Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 025 Research and development continued THE TEMENOS TEMENOS DEVELOPER MARKETPLACE COMMUNITY Driving innovation through the building and engaging of banking’s largest collaborative Community. Bringing the power of fintech In 2019, we launched our Developer Portal, which provides access to hundreds of APIs, enabling to banking. developers to discover first-hand the power our APIfirst architecture and to experience just how easy it is to integrate with our products and innovate around The Temenos MarketPlace was launched in 2015, our software. The Developer Portal is a key part of when we had already recognised the value that fintech engaging our growing Community of developers could bring to banks. Our vision was clear – to help from across our industry, from banks to Partners, from our customers to benefit from the collective innovative educational establishments to fintechs and consultants. power of fintech – and that vision remains true today. Through this open sharing of technology, alongside We are identifying the very best in fintech solutions to online forums and live events that bring the Community add to MarketPlace, those solutions which complement and Temenos experts together, we are helping our software and bring real and proven value to banks. developers everywhere to use our software to its This curation of tried and tested fintech plays a key full potential. strategic role for our customers, enabling them to readily Encouraging innovation around Temenos software tap into an ecosystem of innovation, to identify those through the openness of our technology and the solutions that make sense for their businesses, and to be sharing of knowledge benefits our clients downstream, able to continue to innovate and differentiate within their who are in turn able to take advantage of resulting markets. The pre-integration of MarketPlace solutions fintech activity and solutions that are ready integrated ensures that our customers can rapidly implement the with our products. Our API-first architecture provides solutions they select for a quick time-to-value. the technology required to empower those banks that MarketPlace enables our customers to accelerate their are pursuing a strategy of proactively encouraging innovation by leveraging the best in banking fintech. and harnessing innovation across their markets through For our customers, the decision to buy Temenos software creation of their own developer portals and is just the start of a journey of continued innovation market places. where not only will they benefit from our market leading Through this building and engaging of banking’s largest investment in development, but also where they can collaborative Community, we are bringing together continue to leverage, through the MarketPlace, the expertise from across our industry to share best the latest in fintech to complement our software. practice, to encourage innovation, and to drive change leveraging Temenos’ leading technology platform. 026 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Delivering client success A DELIVERY ECOSYSTEM DESIGNED FOR SUCCESS The Temenos Delivery Ecosystem Established to support Partners and clients during “I am delighted with the Implementation projects The Temenos Project Consulting comprising Temenos Services Service (TPCS) continues to develop and uses lessons performance of our and our Partner consultants learnt from previous delivery engagement to define implementation business in continues to expand, providing the best practice to be used on delivery engagements. Experienced Project Management and highly 2019, across both our own scalable capacity and capability knowledgeable Architect-level Temenos consultants consultants as well as those of to implement the full portfolio provide advice and guidance on the best use our Partners. With over 6,500 of Temenos products and ultimately maximize of Temenos Products across all customer success. trained consultants worldwide, markets and all geographies, and Key to the growth of the Temenos Delivery Ecosystem we are very well positioned to deliver excellence to our growing is the increased demand for knowledge and training help our clients go live, on time customer base. validated by consultant certification, which is critical to and on budget. We had 330 go developing and delivering highly skilled resources able to deliver successful projects. To meet these needs, the lives globally in 2019, reflecting The Temenos Partner Program continued to expand Temenos Learning Community (TLC) has experienced our commitment to client success in 2019. The delivery capacity significantly increased a dramatic growth in its number of members who enjoy and proving the excellence of in the course of the year, in particular with regard to access to a continually developing prospectus of Infinity implementations. The Temenos Partner Program Temenos courses and supporting certification exams. our delivery ecosystem across continues to operate to a detailed due diligence Temenos also operates a Centre of Excellence (CoEs) the entire portfolio of Temenos process when onboarding new or renewing existing Partners to ensure that our Certified Partners are able structure, which works to define capacity and capability solutions. We also see an to provide Delivery Excellence in the services provided development plans for new and existing Temenos skills. increasing number of our clients Access to these CoEs is also offered to our colleagues to our clients. Whilst Temenos continually monitors the in the Temenos Partner Program and is further supported leveraging our extensive cloud market to identify potential new Partners, onboarding is conducted on an invitation only basis to provide value by specific Learning Paths defined by the TLC to capabilities to reduce cost and to both our selected Partners and mutual clients. develop individual consultant roles and detailed accelerate the speed of their product knowledge. The value and strength of the Delivery Ecosystem has implementations. This is an allowed Temenos and our Partners to deliver over extremely exciting business 1,000 successful go lives events over the past four years of which 330 took place in 2019, a year-onareas for us where we are year increase of 97 compared to 2018. The Temenos seeing rapid growth.” Partners play a critical role in this continued success story given their increased involvement in the go lives Colin Jarrett delivered. Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer In addition to developing Partners certified in delivering implementation services, Temenos has also formed specific programs for Partners wishing to become certified in delivering Development, Migration and Upgrade Services. The Development Partner certification process will be expanded further to support the new Open API structure of Temenos products in the future. The Community spirit within the Temenos Partner Program is very evident and highlighted by multiple Services Partners working collaboratively to deliver combined successful implementation projects and also our Technology Alliances working with Services Partner colleagues and Temenos to deliver the “Power of Three” which we plan to continue to evolve throughout 2020. This is also critical to the expansion of the Temenos Cloud offerings. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 027 Delivering client success continued THE FOCUS FOR TEMENOS SERVICES As the Services division of a Product Company, our aim is to support the Delivery Ecosystem to continually improve and drive the transformation of the Temenos Implementation and post live services delivery. Centers of Excellence (CoE) reflecting the Temenos five engines of growth, (Temenos Transact, Temenos Infinity, Payments, Funds and SaaS) have been created. A lead has been appointed for each CoE and they work with the Regional Consulting Managers to focus on building the skills and capabilities required to implement our solutions, both within Temenos and across our Partner network. They also work closely with the product teams during product launches to ensure that we, and our Partner network, are prepared as part of the go-tomarket process. Every Temenos consultant is mapped to one of the Centers of Excellence and the Leads run regular communication events to provide updates and share best practice with its members. Working with the TLC Division, our Temenos Services Teams take ownership in supporting our Partners in strengthening their Temenos skills base and staying up to date on the latest releases of Temenos software. Operating as joint project teams, the Temenos Services function is key to helping develop trained Partner consultants into project-ready resources through strategic early inclusion in projects. 028 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements TEMENOS LEARNING COMMUNITY In 2017 Temenos set out to TLC Engine TLC Engine is our complete digital transformation tool restructure and modernize its able to train, test and certify a client’s team. training and learning model in TLC Engine brings a business process-led learning answer to the increasing demand experience that provides the ability for our clients for Temenos experts, by making to shape and document their own unique standard TLC ONLINE operating processes. Beyond addressing our clients the process of knowledgetraining needs, TLC Engine is a comprehensive day-totransfer easier, faster and more day operational tool with smart impact analysis and rich Cloud-based, individual subscription cost effective for our clients and auditing capability. learning platform, providing Partners. The Temenos Learning TLC Engine now delivers more than 1,700 standard unlimited, 24x7 access to business process flows describing how Temenos products Community (TLC) was created deliver solutions to our clients. official Temenos training and to answer those demands, and certification programs and our In 2019 we continued to evolve the proposition, making during 2019 we have driven TLC Engine accessible for our clients and Partners as global expert community continued growth, cementing either an on-premise or cloud-based solution. TLC as the number one provider TLC Classroom for all Temenos’ educational The TLC Classroom is still a very popular product with our clients and Partners. In 2019 we delivered 670 needs, creating experts at the classroom experiences, which was an increase of heart of the Temenos Ecosystem. 11% over the previous year. Our content level has also increased, with more than 440 courses now available for our ecosystem to access. This is an increase of more TLC ENGINE TLC Online than 55% over 2018. This improvement has supported We are excited to report that membership of TLC Online our drive to make our offering more engaging with new has grown some 40% to more than 2,800 subscribers in componentized content, improved course structures and The digital learning and 2019. TLC Online is our approach to provide accessible virtual courses. These improvements have also helped communications platform, that knowledge-transfer to the entire Temenos ecosystem us to relaunch our public access courses in 2019. including clients, Partners and independent consultants. is able to capture and maintain bank Subscribers enjoy access to our latest content, specific operating procedures and sandboxes, learning paths and to the only recognized content, in order to rapidly upskill and Temenos certification available. certify their teams In the past year, we have seen substantial increases in the activities enjoyed by our members, including a 54% increase in examinations taken, an 89% improvement in the number of members who increased their certification levels, and around 5,500 logins to the TLC sandboxes. TLC CLASSROOM Virtual or instructor-led classroom Temenos Learning training provided by highly Community continues experienced, certified trainers to engage with all of in standard or bespoke formats, our expanding ecosystem delivered both on-site or via public to put the knowledgeaccess classrooms sharing and learning of Temenos products and technologies at the heart of our clients’ and Partners’ learning strategies. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 029 Insights RETAIL BANKING TRENDS – ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT REPORT RELEASED BY TEMENOS Which trends do you believe will have the biggest impact on retail banks in your country by 2025 (% of respondents) Trends 0 10 20 30 40 50 New technologies (AI, machine learning, 42 blockchain, IoT, VAR) Emerging regulation on digital technology (data 31 protection, digital taxation, etc) Change in macroeconomic cycle 29 Changing customer behavior and demands 28 Growing political and socioeconomic instability 27 Changing competitive environment 26 (eg, new entrants) Open Banking USD 383m 25 The impact of traditional bank capital regulation 22 Management of non-performing loans (NPLs) 17 An industry in transition Open Banking is an opportunity Retail banking has changed considerably over Banks are realizing the true opportunities of Open the past decade. Retail banks have adapted to Banking. More than four in ten (41%) see their business changing consumer demands and expectations, new models evolving towards acting as true digital technologies (AI, blockchain and the Internet of Things), ecosystems. A further 28% expect to maintain their new competitors (neo-banks, payment players and own product offerings and become an aggregator tech giants) and new regulations (Open Banking and of third party banking and/or non-banking products. PSD2) while reducing costs and creating value. These While 30% of banks are preparing to launch an Open combined factors have resulted in retail banks adjusting Banking strategy by 2025, they remain focused on their business models, rethinking their innovation improving product agility (32%) and mastering digital strategies and investment focus, and altering their marketing and engagement (31%) in the shorter term. product offerings and how they are delivered. Launching a new digital banks as top For the sixth consecutive year, The Economist Intelligence innovation strategy Unit (EIU), on behalf of Temenos, surveyed over 400 Although banks’ innovation strategies remain focused global banking executives on the changes they see on digitization, Open Banking and their partnerships taking place in their industry to 2020 and 2025, their with fintechs, they are also looking to build new organizational response, and the longer-term impact business units and brands from scratch. Banks’ top on their strategic development. innovation strategy in this year’s report is focused on building greenfield digital banks (36%). New technologies will have the biggest impact on banks Banks are looking to the cloud Technologies like AI and Machine Learning have Digital investment is focused on cybersecurity (39%), replaced changing customer behavior and demands as cloud technologies (35%) and developing AI-powered well as regulation, as the key driver of strategic thinking digital advisers and voice-assisted engagement at banks around the world both, in the short (36%) and channels (29%). Such will be the demand for longer term (42%). AI is becoming a key part of the new behavioral data analysis, that three in five respondents technology mix and 61% of survey respondents think AI (60%) foresee banks deploying more computing power will create better value for customers by 2025. in the public cloud by 2025 than they currently deploy in all the private cloud data centers. 030 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 400+ Global banking executives surveyed on the changes they see taking place in their industry to 2020 and 2025 42% Of respondents recognized new technologies as the trend that will have the biggest impact on retail banks in their country by 2025 61% Of survey respondents think AI will create better value for customers by 2025 Banks are realizing the true opportunities of Open Banking. More than four in ten (41%) see their business models evolving towards acting as true digital ecosystems. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 031 Insights continued GIVING INSIGHT INTO THE FUTURE REDEFINING BEST-INCLASS BANKING: TEMENOS INFINITY MOBILE BANKING APP GETS HIGHEST “LEADER” RATING FROM CENTRIC DIGITAL In the fast-paced world of technology, the idea of minimum viable product (MVP) is a common application development technique to rapidly deliver a new product with sufficient features. However, we’ve taken a completely different approach to how we deliver solutions. Jeffery Kendall Executive Vice President of North America 02 Sales and Distribution 01 WHY BANKS ARE TAKING BIG DATA TO THE CLOUD The benefits that can be realized from cloud for any banking cloud-deployed software are also 03 true for the data lake. Todd Winship Product Director HOW GENERATION Z WILL RESHAPE DIGITAL BANKING Just as banks are beginning to understand what makes millennials tick, they have to start taking note of the shift in customer habits and expectations that Gen-Z is bringing, so that they remain relevant to this new breed of customers. Ahmed Khidhir Senior Consultant, Business Solutions 032 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements To read more about our insights Check out our website www.temenos.com 04 THE FUTURE OF CORE BANKING IS IN THE CLOUD There is no doubt that the future of banking is with the cloud. As banks react to their fast-paced customers’ increasingly demanding requests, only cloud-based systems can provide robust solutions which banks and IT’S TIME FOR AI TO finance houses need. EXPLAIN ITSELF The US financial regulator announced earlier this month Alexandre Duret that it has opened an investigation into claims of gender Product Director, Wealth 05 discrimination by Apple Card. Apple’s own co-founder, Steve Wozniak, tweeted that algorithms used to set credit limits are inherently biased against women. Hani Hagras Chief Science Officer SIX THINGS YOU DIDN’T KNOW ABOUT SUSTAINABLE BANKING The integration of sustainability issues into policies, 06 strategies, products and services of the financial industry makes business sense as well. Nick Brewer Product Marketing Director Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 033 Business review A SIGNIFICANT YEAR OF GROWTH “We delivered an excellent set of results in for the full year 2019, Temenos remains at the forefront of innovation in our sector. We do this by building packaged, upgradeable and our investment in product, strategic acquisitions and people software and combining this with a relentless focus has laid the foundation for a strong 2020 and beyond.” on Research and Development. We also continue to expand our global community across clients, Partners, developers and, ultimately, the banks’ customers who • Strong sales momentum across geographies, doubleuse Temenos software every day to manage their digit growth in Temenos Transact and very strong finances. demand for Temenos Infinity. Our addressable market is expanding, with overall • Surging growth in demand for SaaS with signings bank IT spend growing at around 4% p.a. and, within across regions for both Temenos Transact and this, spend on third party packaged software growing Temenos Infinity. at 8%. This shows that banks are recognizing the • Transformational separation of manufacturing and need to embrace change and rethink their business distribution by making Temenos Transact and Temenos models. On top of existing cost and regulatory pressure, Infinity standalone products that can be integrated demands for digital services are increasing. Meanwhile through APIs. Open Banking is increasing competition to meet these • Significant investment in technology, including the roll demands. That competition is no longer peer banks. out of our Microservices architecture that allows tier It is now big tech, fintech, neo banks and other new 1 and 2 banks to continuously renovate and harness entrants, all attempting to disintermediate the banks, cloud-based banking in the front and back office. gain customers and take market share. • Leadership in cloud, through our strategic partnership with Google and our benchmarking of 50,000 We maintained our very high win rates in this transactions per second on AWS, on distributed addressable market through 2019, continuing to take database NuoDB in which we are a strategic investor. market share even as we face a broader range of • Embedded Explainable AI across our products competitors. These competitors included both new to enable our clients to make faster, accurate and entrants in the core banking market and specialist explainable decisions using AI across their front and vendors in areas outside of core banking such as front back office. office. We continue to sell a significant portion of our • Completed the integration of the Kony organization, licenses to tier 1 and tier 2 banks, with these institutions driving pipeline growth globally including in the US contributing 43% of total software licensing in 2019. and especially across Temenos Transact and Temenos In particular, 2019 saw a massive acceleration in the Infinity. demand for SaaS and cloud, across all client tiers. We were also particularly pleased with the traction built in the front office market with Temenos Infinity. Introduction As I reflect on my first year as CEO, I am delighted I am very pleased that our continued progress is by Temenos’ excellent performance in 2019. We receiving external recognition. IBS Intelligence Sales made significant progress on strategic initiatives and League Table has ranked us the number 1 core delivered an excellent set of results for the full year. We banking vendor for the last 14 years as well as the performed well across all of our KPIs, both operational number 1 best-selling solution for digital banking and financial, and made some major steps in the and channels, payments, and risk and compliance. evolution of our products and technology. Not only that, the progress we have made on ESG performance now sees Temenos included in three Our robust business model and winning strategy different sustainability indices: FTSE4Good, Dow Jones continue to deliver strong returns for our shareholders. Sustainability Index and the Swiss Sustainability Index. As a vendor focused on the banking industry, we use our deep domain expertise to understand our clients, We are focused on operating sustainably and the environment they operate in, the competitive responsibly. This is a key pillar of our culture and the pressures they face and the demands of their customers. foundation on which we conduct our business. It is a This knowledge drives our product roadmaps, building personal focus of mine and the passion with which our software that can deliver significant operational and people embrace this responsibility makes me proud to financial benefit to our clients. Our Temenos Value be a Temenosian. Benchmark demonstrates the tangible benefits this brings across our customer base. 034 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements There is a massive market opportunity in front of us, and we continue to invest in our business to make sure we capture it. In particular, we focused in 2019 on Sales and Marketing and R&D. We grew our sales force both organically and through acquisitions, and we continued to hire some exceptional graduate talent for the Temenos Sales Academy. On R&D, we again invested significantly more than 20% of revenue into product development. with a focus on Temenos Infinity, Explainable AI and our cloud and SaaS capabilities. And in a key evolution of our products, we announced the roll-out of our cloudnative Microservices architecture for Temenos Transact and Temenos Infinity in January 2020. Sales – strong demand across products, geographies and tiers Our growth in 2019 was broad based. We had double digit growth in demand for Temenos Transact, as banks continued to pursue end to end transformation. Meanwhile, sales for Temenos Infinity grew multiple times faster on the back of the integration of the Kony product. Our SaaS business performed exceptionally well in 2019. It took Temenos 19 years to achieve approximately USD 100 million of license bookings, while we are forecasting to achieve the same milestone in less than four years with ACV bookings. This is a tectonic shift in growth acceleration, never witnessed before in the history of Temenos. At the end of 2019, ACV bookings growth was already outpacing license bookings growth by a factor of more than 4x. ACV bookings growth is set to further expand its relative growth multiple, and at the same time we are expecting sustained strong growth in license bookings in 2020. From a geographical perspective, we had strong growth across a number of regions. We have transformed our presence in the US through the acquisition of Kony – expanding our headcount by c. 50%. The integration of Kony and Avoka has dramatically accelerated our R&D roadmap, helping us to build a market leading digital front office platform that can address the needs of US financial institutions. This allows them to address their clients’ needs with hyper-personalized products and services. Sales – strong demand across products, geographies and tiers continued Europe remained a major contributor to group revenue, with 39% of total software licensing from the region. We continue to see a strong pipeline of activity in the region, both in existing and new clients. Asia Pacific saw strong growth in 2019 – in particular in Australia – and contributed 21% of total software licensing in the year. We also had a strong year of sales into our installed bases, who contributed 69% of total software licensing in the year. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 035 Business review continued Our three year plan – update on strategic Using M&A to accelerate organic growth: We made We also announced the rollout of Temenos Transact initiatives three strategic acquisitions in 2019. In September we Microservices. Larger banks can now renovate their The very good progress we made on our strategic completed the acquisition of Kony, the number one US core banking applications component by component initiatives in 2019 was outlined in our Capital Markets digital banking SaaS player. In July we announced the without compromising their end goal of a full system Day in February 2020 and is summarized below: acquisition of Logical Glue, which gave us an industry transformation to a cloud-agnostic, cloud-native leading, patented, Explainable AI product with multiple architecture. Temenos Transact Microservices can Enhancing our award-winning products: We have use cases. This enables clients to use AI across their deliver enterprise-wide capabilities such as pricing separated Temenos Infinity and Temenos Transact, front and back office whilst being able to understand on top of legacy infrastructures as a first step toward to enable banks to implement them independently and explain the decision making process. Lastly, in creating value for the bank. These can be integrated or integrated through APIs. In January 2020, we February we announced the acquisition of hTrunk, through APIs in any sequence with any legacy announced the roll out of cloud-native Microservices which provides big data and analytics solutions to infrastructure, quickly and safely, helping banks to for both Temenos Infinity and Temenos Transact. the banking industry. unlock the power of digital transformation. Geographic market development: In terms of Delivering customer success: A total of 330 banks Final Remarks geographic expansion, we have transformed our went live on our software in 2019. We have seen It is a privilege to lead Temenos and I am delighted presence in the US market through the acquisition our Partner strategy continuing to mature, within with our excellent 2019. Temenos will grasp the of Kony. We have brought local market expertise in an increasing number of third party consultants opportunities ahead through our winning combination digital and SaaS to Temenos, and have seen significant being trained by Temenos. Partners are involved in of the most advanced technology with the richest traction for both Temenos Transact and Temenos Infinity the majority of our implementations. Our Services functionality, as well as continuous and unparalleled in our pipeline. organization continues to focus on the quality control investment in our business. And all the while, we will Investing in Sales and Marketing, Cloud/SaaS and governance of all our projects. act as a sustainable and responsible company. Thank and new talent and people: We have made massive you for your support. I look forward to what we can Product Innovation investments in SaaS and cloud. Today, we have more achieve in the year ahead. With the launch of Temenos Infinity and Temenos than 1,000 clients using our SaaS services, with over Transact at the start of 2019, we have the leading 50 core banking customers in the cloud. We have products for the new era of banking – both for Max Chuard demonstrated the scalability of our solutions with our distribution and manufacturing. These products are Chief Executive Officer AWS benchmark at 50,000 transactions per second. available for independent deployment or tightly We also announced our global partnership with integrated for the bank that requires a full software Google Cloud to become the first global banking stack. Temenos Transact provides an optimized software provider to run on Google Cloud’s Anthos. solution for manufacturing providing scale, agility and This enables our clients to run hybrid models combining efficiency. Temenos Infinity focuses on the customer on-premise and cloud deployment. And we have experience, enabling the customer to provide a service continued to invest in our people, both in terms of new that is smart, personal, proactive and contextual. hires as well as development, investing in both training and career development to ensure we attract and Temenos is the only banking software company that retain the best talent in the market. has the winning combination of the most advanced cloud-native, cloud-agnostic technology, the richest, An expanding ecosystem: Temenos benefits from broadest banking functionality, and the highest the ecosystem we have built around the business that investment of revenues into Research and Development helps drive our growth in the long term. Today we have in our industry. 8,000 people in the company, and over 3,000 clients globally using our software. We continue to expand In January 2020, we announced a key evolution of our implementation Partner ecosystem to support these our products, with the industry-first rollout of Banking clients. Partners offer us scale, local expertise and Distribution Services in Temenos Infinity. These are a implementation capabilities and we are expanding set of API-driven, cloud-native Microservices, giving these. Last year, with our 6,500 strong implementation banks the freedom to transform faster. They help consultant Partners, Temenos had a go-live almost banks to create hyper-personalized experiences, every day of the year. We have also expanded our driven by Explainable AI, for all financial and noncommunity of developers building applications on financial products. Banks are excited because these top of our software through our APIs. Today there are Microservices can be deployed one-by-one, in any 12,000 members of our developer community building sequence, across single channel, multichannel or new innovations which our banking customers can omnichannel – depending on the bank’s strategy. They harness. Finally, and most importantly, there are half a now have the ability to deploy Temenos Infinity before, billion end customers using Temenos software every after or during a core transformation project. This makes day for their day to day banking. deployment faster and reduces the cost of operation. It helps banks take personalized products to market quickly and ultimately adopt new business models. 036 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Our operating highlights 93 93 new customers in 2019 68% Annual Contract Value of SaaS grew 68% in 2019 43% Tier 1 and 2 banks contributed 43% of total software licensing revenue For financial highlights turn to page 007 “It is a privilege to lead Temenos and I am delighted with our excellent 2019.” Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 037 Financial review AN EXCELLENT YEAR ACROSS KPIs “We had an excellent set of results in 2019, with total software licensing Our DSOs reached 120 days reported and 114 days organic by year end, and we closed the year with growth of 19% and total revenue growth of 17%. Our EBIT grew by USD 153 million of cash on our balance sheet and 20% and we delivered a full year EBIT margin of 32.4%, an increase of leverage of 2.6x net debt to non-IFRS EBTIDA* after 87bps year-on-year. We saw double-digit growth in Temenos Transact we closed the acquisition of Kony in September 2019. and even stronger growth in Temenos Infinity. The integration of Kony IFRS vs non-IFRS To ensure that the presentation of results reflects the and Avoka has significantly strengthened the Temenos Infinity platform underlying performance of the business, Temenos and this was reflected in client demand.” publishes its key metrics on a non-IFRS basis as well as on an IFRS basis. For transparency purposes, Temenos also publishes full reconciliations between IFRS and non-IFRS measures. Full definitions of nonIntroduction IFRS adjustments can be found on page 41. Non-IFRS Opening thoughts comparatives are based on non-IFRS (IFRS 15) rather We had an excellent performance in 2019, delivering than non-IFRS (IAS 18) as in prior years. non-IFRS total software licensing growth of 19% and non-IFRS total revenue growth of 17%. Over the last Highlights five years, we have grown total software licensing Full year highlights (non-IFRS) include: at a CAGR of 25%, and total revenue at a CAGR • Total software licensing growth of 19% reported of 16%, demonstrating the sustained revenue growth • Maintenance growth of 14% reported in our business. Our profit growth has also been very • Total revenue growth of 17% reported robust, growing non-IFRS EBIT at a CAGR of 20% • Services margin of 11.0%, representing a margin and non-IFRS EPS at a CAGR of 19% over the last expansion of 1 percentage points five years, as we continue to drive strong operational • EBIT of USD 317.9 million and margin of 32.4% leverage through our business model of packaged, • EPS of USD 3.47, an increase of 18% upgradeable software, significant R&D investment • Operating cash flow of USD 364 million with and our use of strategic M&A to accelerate our cash conversion of 100% of EBITDA, in line with organic growth and our R&D roadmap. our guidance • DSOs ended at 120 days reported and 114 days organic • Recommended annual dividend of CHF 0.85 per share, an increase of 13%. Key Figures 31 December USDm, except EPS 2019 2018 Non-IFRS revenue 980.6 841.0 Non-IFRS EBIT 317.9 265.3 Non-IFRS EBIT margin 32.4% 31.5% Cash generated from operations 364.3 365.1 Total assets 2,322.4 1,649.2 Non-IFRS earnings per share USD 3.47 USD 2.95 * For the purpose of leverage calculations, non-IFRS EBITDA adjusted for IFRS 16 impact USD 15.9 million, and net debt adjusted to exclude lease liability of USD 51.3 million. 038 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Revenues IFRS IFRS group revenues were USD 972.0 million for 2019, an increase of 16% versus 2018 on a reported basis. IFRS total software licensing grew 17% in the year on a reported basis, with significant demand for Temenos Transact and even stronger demand for Temenos Infinity. We saw very strong growth in demand for SaaS and cloud. SaaS Annual Contract Value increased 68% (constant currency) to reach USD 21 million and Total Contract Value (TCV) increased 44% in 2019 to reach USD 76 million by year end. IFRS maintenance revenues grew 14% on a reported basis, and IFRS services revenues grew 16% on a reported basis. Non-IFRS Total non-IFRS group revenue in 2019 was USD 980.6 million, an increase of 17% compared to 2018 on a reported basis. The USD 8.6 million difference between the IFRS and non-IFRS revenue is due to adjustments made for the write down of deferred revenue linked to the acquisitions of Kony and Avoka. Cost base IFRS Full year costs on an IFRS basis were USD 736.6 million, up from USD 622.1 million in 2018. The increase in cost was driven by our continued investments in the business, in particular in Sales and Marketing, and Product, as well as the contribution from the acquired business of Avoka in December 2018 and Kony in September 2019. Non-IFRS Full year costs on a non-IFRS basis were USD 662.7 million, up from USD 575.7 million in 2018. Of the USD 73.9 million difference between the IFRS and non-IFRS cost base, USD 55.2 million is due to adjustments made for the amortization of acquired intangibles costs and USD 18.7 million is due to adjustments made for restructuring costs and acquisition-related charges. EBIT (Operating profit) and Earnings Per Share (EPS) IFRS Full year IFRS EBIT was USD 235.4 million compared to USD 218.8 million in 2018. IFRS EPS for 2019 was USD 2.46, compared to USD 2.31 in 2018. Non-IFRS EBIT on a non-IFRS basis was USD 317.9 million, up from USD 265.3 million in 2018, an increase of 20% on a reported basis. EPS was USD 3.47, up from USD 2.95 in 2018, an increase of 18%. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 039 Financial review continued Non-IFRS continued Dividend Non-IFRS EBIT margin was 32.4%, up from 31.5% in DSOs We have announced a dividend of CHF 0.85 per 2018, benefiting from the faster integration of Kony share for 2019, representing an increase of 13%. Day and underlying leverage on our cost base in particular This is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM across G&A and Services. Our Services operating on 20 May 2020. The shares will trade ex-dividend 31/12/19 120 (114) margin was 11.0% for the year, up from 10.1% in 2018. on 22 May 2020, and the dividend record date will 31/12/18 114 be set on 25 May 2020. The dividend will be paid Our Partner program continues to mature and we see an increasing number of Partners involved in our 31/12/17 119 on 26 May 2020. Out of the total dividend of CHF implementation projects. 31/12/16 127 0.85, half of it (CHF 0.425) will be treated in line with previous years and be paid as a distribution of reserve 120Days Cash flows from capital contributions, therefore exempted of We generated USD 364 million of operating cash withholding tax (share premium dividend). Half of the in 2019, representing a cash conversion of 100% of dividend (CHF 0.425) will be taxable (Withholding EBITDA. We have maintained our guidance for 100%+ Organic Reported Tax of 35%) taken out from the retained earnings conversion of EBITDA into operating cash flow in 2020, (cash dividend). Temenos’ policy is to distribute and we are confident of delivering this driven by the a growing dividend. continued growth in our recurring maintenance and Cash conversion SaaS revenue and strong cash collection on license Looking forward USDm and services revenue. Guidance for 2020 Our 2020 non-IFRS guidance is as follows DSOs ended the year at 114 days organically, flat 365 2019 100% (in constant currencies): on 2018, however the acquisition of Kony added six 364 days of DSOs such that we ended the year at 120 313 • Non-IFRS total software licensing growth at 2018 117% days reported. We have moved our target of reaching 365 constant currency of 18.5% to 23.5% (implying DSOs of 90 days to our medium term targets and 263 total software licensing revenue of USD 527 2017 114% expect to achieve this in the next three to five years. 300 million to USD 550 million) We generated free cash flow of USD 269 million 2016 225 114% • Non-IFRS total revenue growth at constant currency in the year. 258 of 16% to 20% (implying total revenue of USD 1,137 million to USD 1,177 million) Balance sheet and financing EBITDA Operating cash flow • Non-IFRS EBIT at constant currency of USD 380 Temenos is highly cash generative with a strong million to USD 385 million (implying non-IFRS EBIT balance sheet which enables: Medium term targets margin of c.33%) • The servicing of our debt obligations • SaaS ACV to grow by more than 100%, implying • Investment in the business, including industry at least USD 42 million of ACV for full year 2020 leading R&D spend • Funding for targeted acquisitions • The payment of an annual dividend 90 Days • 100%+ conversion of EBITDA into operating cash flow • Tax rate of 15% to 16%. • Deliver value to shareholders through share DSOs of buybacks. Sustainable long term annual targets We have confirmed our sustainable long term annual 36%+ We continue to actively pursue acquisition targets, which are as follows: opportunities as a driver of shareholder value creation, as well as investing in the business to position ourselves • Non-IFRS total software licensing growth of at least for the market opportunity. 15% CAGR EBIT margin of • Non-IFRS total revenue growth of 10-15% CAGR We ended 2019 with a leverage ratio of 2.6x net • Non-IFRS EPS growth of at least 15% CAGR debt to non-IFRS EBITDA*, and have capacity to • Cash conversion of over 100% of EBITDA p.a. 18-20% pursue inorganic growth opportunities to accelerate • Tax rate of c.20% our organic growth in line with our M&A strategy if they arise. Medium term targets In addition to our sustainable long term annual targets, Tax rate we have confirmed our medium term targets, which are as follows: Non-IFRS IFRS • DSOs to reach 90 days USDm, except EPS 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change • Non-IFRS EBIT margin to reach 36%+ • Tax rate of 18% to 20%. Software licensing 378.4 341.6 11% 378.4 341.6 11% SaaS and subscription 66.6 31.4 112% 57.9 31.3 85% Total software licensing 445.0 372.9 19% 436.3 372.8 17% Maintenance 357.7 314.4 14% 357.7 314.4 14% Services 178.0 153.7 16% 178.0 153.7 16% Total revenues 980.6 841.0 17% 972.0 840.9 16% EBIT 317.9 265.3 20% 235.4 218.8 8% EBIT margin 32.4% 31.5% 1%pts 24.2% 26.0% -2%pts * For the purpose of leverage calculations, non-IFRS EBITDA adjusted for IFRS 16 impact USD 15.9 million, and net debt EPS (USD) 3.47 2.95 18% 2.46 2.31 6% adjusted to exclude lease liability of USD 51.3 million. 040 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Engines of growth in 2019 and the medium term USDm 2019 2018 We continue to benefit from multiple structural drivers of growth, which we will capitalize on to deliver our IFRS EBIT 235.4 218.8 medium term targets. Deferred revenue write-down 8.6 0.1 The total global spend we can address today with our Amortization of acquired intangibles 55.2 37.2 products is estimated to be USD 60 billion, of which Restructuring 14.7 3.3 only USD 14 billion is spent with third party vendors. Acquisition-related charges 4.0 5.9 The spend with third parties is estimated to be growing Non-IFRS EBIT 317.9 265.3 at an 8% CAGR as banks are under digital, regulatory and cost pressure as well as pressure from the move to Open Banking. USDm 2019 2018 The Temenos Value Benchmark has demonstrated that best-in-class banks running Temenos software can IFRS EBIT 235.4 218.8 achieve Cost/Income ratios at half of the industry Depreciation and amortization 130.6 92.7 average, returns on equity of three times the industry average and allocate twice the amount of IT spend IFRS EBITDA 366.0 311.5 to growth and innovation compared to the industry average. The operational and performance benefits from working with the market leader are clear. Deferred revenue write-down 8.6 0.1 Restructuring 14.7 3.3 Temenos has a unique value proposition that enables us to beat the competition. We are solely focused on the Acquisition-related charges 4.0 5.9 banking space with deep domain expertise. We have Non-IFRS EBITDA 393.3 320.8 the winning combination of leading functionality with advanced technology and are continuously investing in innovation and R&D to ensure we stay at the forefront of the industry. Our products are open, independent Sustainable long term Definitions and enable banks to continuously renovate their IT. annual targets Non-IFRS adjustments We benefit from a significant global ecosystem of 15% clients, Partner consultants, developers and fintechs that can work with us to continuously innovate and At least Deferred revenue write-down facilitate change within our clients. Adjustments made resulting from acquisitions. Tier 1 and 2 clients contributed 43% of total software Total software licensing (CAGR) Discontinued activities licensing revenues in 2019 and we expect this client group to grow as a percentage of the mix in the Discontinued operations at Temenos that do not qualify 10-15% medium term. We are also building strong momentum as such under IFRS. in North America, with the acquisitions of Kony and Avoka bringing significant digital and SaaS expertise. Acquisition related charges We now have 700 employees in the US, with seven Relates mainly to advisory fees, integration costs and Total revenue (CAGR) major offices and over 1,300 US clients. earn outs. We are particularly pleased with the tectonic shift At least 15% in growth acceleration in our SaaS business, with Amortization of acquired intangibles ACV bookings growing four times faster than license Amortization charges as a result of acquired bookings in 2019 and expected to accelerate further intangible assets. in 2020. ACV reached US 21 million in 2019 and EPS (CAGR) we expect this to at least double in 2020 to reach Restructuring USD 42 million. Costs incurred in connection with a restructuring plan 100%+ implemented and controlled by management Final Remarks Severance charges, for example, would only qualify We had an excellent performance in 2019, continuing under this expense category if incurred as part of a the strong and sustainable growth we have delivered over the past five years. We benefit from a growing Cash conversion of EBITDA p.a. company-wide restructuring plan. market, increasing momentum with tier 1 and 2 clients and have transformed our presence in the US in 2019 Taxation through the acquisitions of Kony and Avoka. I am personally honored to have joined the company as CFO in March 2019 and look forward to continuing c.20% Adjustments made to reflect the associated tax charge relating to the above items. to execute our strategy to drive growth and returns Tax rate EBITDA for our shareholders in the long term. Temenos defines earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as operating Panagiotis Takis Spiliopoulos profit excluding depreciation of property, plant and Chief Financial Officer equipment and amortization of intangible assets. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 041 Principal risks and uncertainties RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management Law and litigation Temenos Risk management policy is aligned with Temenos operates in various legal jurisdictions and ISO: 31000 Risk management – Principles and as such is subject to various legal and regulatory guidelines. It defines the methodology, roles and requirements. Temenos may have legal proceedings or Risk responsibilities, reporting and monitoring for key risks. litigious actions brought against it. The outcome of these framework Temenos’ operational management is responsible for proceedings or actions are intrinsically uncertain and managing day-to-day risks. Periodical risk assessments the actual outcomes could differ from the assessments are performed within business units and summarized made by management in prior periods, resulting in results reported to management along with mitigation increases in provisions for litigation in the accounts plans where appropriate. The Audit Committee oversees of Temenos. Adverse outcomes to legal proceedings the program and reviews key risks of the Group. or litigious actions could result in the award of significant damages or injunctive measures that could We have implemented a robust internal control and hinder Temenos’ ability to conduct business and risk management system for financial reporting that could have a material adverse effect on its reputation, goes beyond statutory requirements. All relevant risks business, financial position, profit, and cash flows. are identified, formally assessed and documented. Identify For each risk we have implemented specific controls Litigation of intellectual property infringement claims and mitigation plans. Their effectiveness is regularly may increase as a result of Temenos acquiring evaluated through a self-assessment process which is companies which rely on third party code including independently tested by internal and external auditors. open source code, Temenos expanding into new areas of the banking industry resulting in greater overlap in the The following sections outline the risks that we functional scope of products, and increasing assertion have identified and track. They represent an of intellectual property infringement claims by nonaggregated view. practicing entities that do not design, manufacture, Economic, political, and social environment or distribute products. Temenos derives all of its licensing, SaaS, maintenance Although Temenos has implemented controls and Assess and services revenues from banks and other financial believes that its products do not infringe upon the institutions. The banking industry is sensitive to changes intellectual property rights of others, and that Temenos in global economic conditions, financial markets and has all the rights necessary to utilize the intellectual is highly susceptible to unforeseen external events, property employed in its business, Temenos is still such as political instability, terrorist attacks, recession, subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third inflation, environmental, public health or other adverse party intellectual property rights, including in respect occurrences that may result in a significant decline in the of intellectual property that has been developed by use and/or profitability of financial services. Any event third parties and acquired by Temenos in business or that results in decreased consumer or corporate use of asset purchase transactions. Responding to such claims, financial services, or cost-cutting measures by financial regardless of whether they are with or without merit and Prioritize services companies, may negatively affect the level of negotiations or litigation relating to such claims could demand for Temenos products and services. require Temenos to spend significant sums in litigation In recent years, there have been substantial changes in costs, payment of damages and expend significant the banking industry, including continuing consolidation management resources. among market participants, the introduction of Temenos legal teams are aligned to business operations wide ranging regulatory changes and extensive and are involved early in any decisions which may technological innovation. These changes have inter alia incur legal implications. The legal team reviews and resulted in increased IT spending by banks and driven provides guidance on complex client contracts to market participants to replace legacy systems, leading ensure contractual agreements align to local commerce to increased demand for Temenos’ solutions. If the pace laws and regulations. Whenever possible, Temenos tries Respond of change were to decrease, demand for Temenos’ to contractually limit its liabilities. This is covered further products and services may decrease, which could in Foreign Operations. have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ business, financial condition and results. More broadly, the risk of potential breach of legislative or regulatory requirements through general operations, Temenos’ sustainable global presence, organizational such as breach of listing requirements or Group level structure, international mobility and working from legal requirements are managed through Group level anywhere service delivery to clients, comprehensive controls, compliance policies and procedures. product offering and market leadership help to mitigate this risk. Policy compliance requirements are periodically assessed through Risk Management processes and Review and reviewed by Internal Audit to provide comfort over monitor adequacy of policies, processes and compliance. 042 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements IP protection Undetected defects or security Key personnel Temenos relies upon a combination of copyright, vulnerabilities Temenos operates in an industry in which there is intense trademark and trade secrecy laws, trade secrets, Temenos’ products and offerings may contain defects competition for experienced and highly qualified confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions or security vulnerabilities that Temenos has not been individuals. The success of Temenos is partly dependent and license arrangements to establish and protect able to detect and that could adversely affect the on its ability to identify, attract, develop, motivate and its proprietary rights and Temenos’ ability to do so performance of the products and negatively impact retain highly skilled and qualified management and effectively is crucial to its success. Temenos enters into Temenos’ relationship with its clients. It is not always other personnel, particularly those with expertise in the agreements with its employees, Partners, distributors and possible to identify and rectify all errors or defects banking software industry. If Temenos fails to recruit clients that seek to limit the distribution of and otherwise during a product or services developmental phase, and retain the numbers and types of employees that protect its proprietary information. However, Temenos and more commonly Temenos has discovered it requires, its business, operating results and financial cannot give full assurances that the steps taken will be minor software defects in certain new versions and condition may be adversely affected. adequate to prevent misappropriation of its proprietary enhancements of its products after they have been Incentive and recognition programs are utilized to align information as all of the protection measures afford introduced. The detection and subsequent correction staff efforts to organizational objectives. Staff receive only limited protection. Temenos’ proprietary rights of any errors or defects can be expensive and time various training to ensure they have the necessary skills could be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable consuming, and it is not always possible to meet the to perform their duties. We have launched various CSR or otherwise affected. Certain proprietary technology expectations of clients regarding the timeliness and initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to employees. may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation the quality of the defect resolution process. In a worst Career and succession planning are carried out by employees, Partners or other third parties, and third case scenario, it might not be possible to wholly rectify annually to provide for continuity of operations. parties might reverse-engineer or otherwise obtain and certain defects or entirely meet client expectations. In use technology and information that Temenos regards such circumstances it is possible that clients may pursue as proprietary. Accordingly Temenos might not be able claims for refunds, damages, attempt to terminate to protect its proprietary rights against unauthorized existing arrangements, request replacement software third party copying or utilization, which may undermine or seek other concessions. Temenos’ market position and deprive it of revenues. A defect or error in any newly developed software of Temenos may not be able to detect unauthorized use Temenos could result in adverse client reactions and of its intellectual property, or take appropriate steps to negative publicity, as Temenos’ clients and potential enforce Temenos’ intellectual property rights. Temenos’ clients are highly sensitive to defects in the software they products are used globally and are therefore subject use. Any negative publicity could hinder the successful to varying laws governing the protection of software marketing of the new software, reducing demand and intellectual property in each of these jurisdictions. for the software. A defect or error in new versions or Temenos cannot guarantee that its software and enhancements of Temenos’ existing products could intellectual property will be afforded the same level result in the loss of orders or a delay in the receipt of of protection in each jurisdiction, as some jurisdictions orders and could result in reduced revenues, delays may offer no effective means to enforce Temenos’ in market acceptance, diversion of development rights to its proprietary information, which could result in resources, product liability claims or increased competitors offering products that incorporate features service and warranty costs, any of which may have a equivalent to Temenos’ most technologically advanced material adverse effect on Temenos’ business, results of features, which could have a material adverse effect on operations and financial condition. Any claim brought Temenos’ business, results of operations and financial against Temenos in connection with defective software, condition. regardless of its merits, could entail substantial expense and require a significant amount of time and attention Any legal action that Temenos may bring to enforce its by management personnel. proprietary rights could involve enforcement against a Partner or other third party, which may have a material We continually enhance our quality program as part adverse effect on its ability, and its clients’ ability, to use of the Software Development Life Cycle. We have that Partner’s or other third parties’ products. Moreover, centralized our product security group and practices. litigation, which could involve significant financial and Extensive testing is carried out to identify and resolve management resources, may be necessary to enforce any issues which may adversely affect the functionality, Temenos’ proprietary rights. Any material infringement security and other performance of our products and of Temenos’ proprietary technology could have an offerings. adverse effect on its reputation, business, financial position, profit and cash flows. Our Partner contracts are designed in a manner which provides clarity and understanding of both parties with regard to the protection and safeguarding of their IP. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 043 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Foreign Operations Foreign exchange and/or interest rate fluctuations Compliance with the terms of Temenos Temenos systems are currently installed at more than Temenos’ financial statements are expressed in US credit facilities 3,000 live sites in over 150 countries and it has sales dollars and Temenos generates the majority of its Temenos has credit facilities in place with a syndicate and support offices in over 40 countries. Temenos’ revenues in US dollars. However, a significant portion of banks. The facilities contain financial and negative future revenue growth depends on the continued of its operating expenses are incurred in currencies covenants, undertakings and event of default provisions. successful expansion of its development, sales, other than the US dollar, particularly in Euros, Swiss Moreover, the facilities contain cross-default provisions marketing, support and service organizations, through francs, Rupees and Pounds sterling. such that a default under another debt instrument, such direct or indirect channels, in the various countries as bonds, could result in a default under the credit Temenos is exposed to the fluctuation in exchange rates around the world where its current and potential clients facilities and acceleration of the debt thereunder. of each of these currencies. Temenos makes efforts are located, including in many developing countries. to mitigate its foreign exchange risk by aligning its The inability of Temenos to draw under the credit Such expansion will require the opening of new offices, revenue streams to currencies that match its cost base facilities to satisfy its financing requirements, could have hiring new personnel and managing operations in and hedges most of the residual exposure. However, an adverse effect on Temenos’ growth. Compliance widely disparate locations with different economies, such hedging may not be sufficient protection against with the terms is monitored on a monthly basis. legal systems, languages and cultures, and will significant fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US require significant management attention and financial Managing client relationships dollar to other currencies, in particular those currencies resources. Temenos’ operations are also affected by Temenos enters into long term relationships with its in which Temenos incurs operating expenses, generates other factors inherent in international business activities, clients. The contractual arrangements supporting these revenues or holds assets. Such fluctuations may impose such as: relationships are often varied and diverse to reflect additional costs on Temenos and have a material the nature of the requirements of the client factoring in • Differing or even conflicting laws and regulation of adverse effect on Temenos’ financial condition and specific legal and cultural requirements of the client’s risk and compliance in the banking sector results of operations, and on the comparability of its operating environment as well as the multiple stages • Difficulties in staffing including works councils, labor results between financial periods. of the relationship. unions and immigration laws and foreign operations Furthermore, the Group is exposed to the fluctuation • The complexity of managing competing and Temenos has increased its focus on assessing client in interest rates. Some of the Group’s financing overlapping tax regimes satisfaction and is proactively seeking and responding arrangements bear interest at floating rates of interest • Differing import and export licensing requirements to client feedback. per annum equal to EURIBOR or LIBOR, as adjusted • Operational difficulties in countries with a high periodically, plus a margin. These interest rates could Improved mechanisms for tracking and oversight of corruption perception index rise significantly in the future. To the extent that interest contract clauses are utilized by the global contract • Protectionist trade policies such as tariffs rates were to increase, the Group’s interest expense team to provide additional comfort over the effective • Limited protection for intellectual property rights would correspondingly increase, reducing Group cash management of client contractual arrangements. in some countries flow. This could have a material adverse effect on the • Difficulties enforcing intellectual property and Temenos aims to build long term strategic relationships Group’s business, financial condition and results of contractual rights in certain jurisdictions with clients in order to maximize the value provided to operations. • Differing data protection and privacy laws both parties. Through strong relationships, Temenos is • Political and economic instability, outbreaks of Temenos uses a combination of various techniques to able to further develop products according to industry hostilities, terrorism, mass immigration, international protect against currency and interest rate fluctuations. needs and requirements. embargoes, sanctions and boycotts. Strategic Partnerships The risks associated with the factors stated above will Temenos delivers its products to clients directly and intensify as Temenos expands further into new countries indirectly through distributors and through strategic and markets through organic growth or acquisitions. alliances with IT service providers. Temenos’ strategic Additionally laws and regulations and governments’ Partners sell to clients and provide implementation approaches to their enforcement, as well as Temenos’ services through a contract with the client, rather than products and services, are continuing to change and with Temenos. These relationships with IT service evolve. Compliance with the laws and regulations providers and strategic Partners help to drive coin the various jurisdictions may involve significant innovation of Temenos’ products, profitably expand management time, costs and require costly changes to Temenos’ routes-to-market to enhance market coverage products and/or business practices. and provide high quality services in connection with Temenos’ product offerings. Any failure to maintain Risks related to foreign operations are regularly and expand these relationships could adversely affect assessed and mitigated as needed. Specific policies Temenos’ products and services which, in turn, would and procedures are in place to ensure compliance have an adverse effect on Temenos’ ability to compete with export control and sanctions, anti-bribery and successfully with its competitors and therefore negatively corruption, anti-money laundering, data protection affect the results of operations and financial condition. and privacy and other legislation. 044 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Cloud and SaaS solutions Software implementation project Mergers and acquisitions Cloud and SaaS technology is inherently complex management Temenos pursues a strategy of making targeted and relatively new to the banking and financial The implementation of Temenos’ software and acquisitions. The risks associated with such a strategy market sector. Accordingly, Temenos may be subject integration of various product components is a complex include the availability of suitable candidates and to changing regulatory requirements, evolving client process requiring skilled and experienced personnel. successful integration. Risk of failure to assimilate attitudes and technical complexities in developing a The implementation of Temenos’ software is often operations and personnel, may materialize. The process new business offering and support services. Temenos performed in part or wholly by service delivery Partners of integrating an acquired company or business may fail to achieve desired operating profit results as well as committed resources of the client. The may create unforeseen operating difficulties and in this new market due to regulatory changes, inability complex nature of the solutions makes it necessary to expenditures. to develop a competitive product or which appeals provide training and education on the operation of Further consolidation in Temenos’ industry may to its clients. the product. decrease the number of potential desirable acquisition By providing cloud technology to clients, Temenos will The reliance on third party capabilities, and the complex targets. Failure to acquire, integrate and derive the hold client data. Hardware or data center failures, nature of product customization and installation desired value of any businesses or assets in the future product defects or system errors could result in data requirements mean that there is a high potential for could materially adversely affect Temenos’ business, loss or corruption, or cause the information held to be unforeseen events to occur delaying the progress results of operations and financial condition. incomplete or contain inaccuracies. The availability of of implementations. In addition, acquired businesses might not perform Temenos’ application suite could be interrupted by a Temenos focuses heavily on training the staff and as anticipated, resulting in charges for the impairment number of factors, such as the failure of a key supplier, Partners responsible for implementation of software of goodwill and other intangible assets on Temenos’ its network or software systems due to human or other to ensure a strong mix of qualified project managers statement of financial position. error and security breaches. and technical product expertise. Temenos ensures the Detailed integration planning is utilized to ensure Although Temenos employs strict security, data adequacy of skills through requiring certification of staff a smooth transition of operational activity, product protection and privacy measures there is a risk that such and Partners in Temenos Implementation Methodology offerings and services. Legal, commercial, operational, measures could be breached as a result of third party and products. Launch of Temenos Learning Community personnel and security matters are also considered action, employee error and malfeasance, or otherwise, (TLC) shows our further commitment to this area. prior to integration in order to limit exposure to and if as a result unauthorized access is obtained to Implementation teams are also trained to identify and unexpected losses or damage. client data, which may include personally identifiable effectively manage any unforeseen events and a suite information about users, Temenos could suffer significant of risk management tools are used to monitor and reputational damage and be exposed to liabilities. track potential issues which may adversely impact the Temenos is constantly enhancing its cloud and SaaS successful installation of software. Project governance offering and security. In addition, Temenos holds boards are held monthly to oversee the delivery of the SSAE18, SOC 2, ISO 9001, ISO27001, ISO27017, implementation against milestones. ISO27018 and ISO22301 certifications to provide a Temenos Implementation Methodology is periodically greater degree of assurance to clients. Temenos is in reviewed and updated in order to maintain high the process of further extending the certification and standards for Temenos staff and Partners. Identified attestation program with PCI-DSS, AICPA and SOC1. initial project risks receive an increased level of review and analysis in order to more effectively mitigate and monitor them throughout the life of the implementation project. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 045 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Security, business continuity and resiliency In terms of business processes, security assurance is Insurance As a software technology vendor and SaaS provider, integrated into all business processes related to R&D, Temenos has taken out a variety of insurance policies in we face various cyber and other security threats, the supply chain, sales and marketing, delivery and areas where a loss would have a significant financial including: technical services. In addition, Temenos reinforces the impact, or to ensure safety of employees while on implementation of the cyber security assurance system business trips. • Attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive by conducting internal audits and receiving external information and data Across the various local legal jurisdictions in which certification and auditing from security authorities or • Threats to the safe and secure operation Temenos operates, there are various legal requirements independent third party agencies. of our software solutions and services to hold certain insurance policies such as workers • Threats to the safety of our Directors, officers and In connection with personnel management, our compensation policies and public liability for example. employees employees, Partners and consultants are required Temenos’ local offices manage their legally required • Threats to the security of our facilities to comply with security policies and requirements policies with oversight and review by Temenos Head and infrastructure established by Temenos and receive appropriate Office. Each office is reviewed and as necessary • Threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. training so that the concept of security is deeply covered for property damage, business interruption and rooted throughout Temenos. To promote cyber security, Our clients and Partners (including subcontractors) face public liability risks. Information and IT infrastructure is Temenos will take appropriate action against those similar threats. also covered by regional and local computer policies. who violate cyber assurance policies. Employees may Although we utilize various procedures and controls also incur personal legal liability for violation of relevant Temenos Head Office also manages all global policies. to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there laws and regulations. If Temenos security measures The main global policies provide coverage across core cannot be full assurance that these procedures and are breached and unauthorized access is obtained business areas such as Professional Indemnity liability controls will be sufficient. These threats could lead to to Temenos’ IT systems, Temenos’ business could be (covering Errors and Omissions, Cyber Liability and losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to disrupted and Temenos may suffer financial losses Data Protection), Cyber Insurance, Crime Insurance, personnel, infrastructure or products, and/or damage as a result of the loss of confidential client information Global Travel Insurance and Directors and Officers to our reputation as well as our Partners’ ability to or otherwise. policy that is providing the professional coverage. perform on our contracts. Temenos’ insurance coverage might not cover claims All insurance policies are reviewed periodically Cyber threats are evolving and include, but are not against it for loss or security breach of data or other to ensure that Temenos, our offices and employees limited to: indirect or consequential damages. If Temenos are adequately covered in line with the most actual experiences interruptions in the availability of its and comprehensive insurance portfolio software • Attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, application suite, Temenos’ reputation could for companies. information or intellectual property be harmed, which may have a material adverse • Disruption to or denial of service effect on Temenos’ business and financial condition. • Other malicious or criminal activities. As part of the periodic Risk Assessment of IT These threats could lead to disruptions in mission critical infrastructure, potential physical and security systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal vulnerabilities are factored into the process for or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our developing a resilient and robust IT infrastructure. employees, clients or Partners), and corruption of data, networks or systems. In addition, we could be impacted The physical security of IT infrastructure and personnel by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities are kept secure through standardized general IT found in products we use or in our Partners’ or clients’ controls across Temenos in line with best practice systems that are used in connection with our business. standards. These events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, A Business Continuity Management framework could damage our reputation, require remedial provides contingency planning for all mission critical actions and lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, business functions and process within the organization. potential liability and other financial losses. Information systems are regularly audited internally We provide software products and services to various and externally to provide a reasonable assurance clients who also face cyber threats. Our software on effective management of these risks. products and services may themselves be subject to cyber threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter threats, or effectively to mitigate resulting losses. These losses could adversely affect our clients and our Group. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. From an organizational perspective, the Security and Privacy Committee provides the Group level oversight. 046 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Environment and sustainability Internal controls failures With the continued global spotlight on the critical Although Temenos considers the controls and issue of climate change, we recognize the importance procedures it currently has in place to minimize of understanding and taking action on our material the financial reporting, legal, disclosure and other environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. As regulatory, compliance, non financial and operational an IT company, we rely heavily on people rather risks associated with its business to be adequate, than natural resources. To serve our clients, we use Temenos recognizes that the efficacy of some of these computing resources and business travel. We are controls and procedures depends significantly on aware of the environmental impacts of our business and employees and contractors, and on input from external support a precautionary approach to environmental parties and all of these controls and procedures need challenges on our own initiative and an environmentally to be kept under regular review, particularly given the responsible way of conducting our business operations. pace at which Temenos’ business has developed and generally increasing regulatory scrutiny. Climate change and governmental actions to reduce such changes may disrupt our operations or reduce There is no guarantee that Temenos will not be targeted demand for our products. Increased frequency of by those willing to commit fraud against Temenos. extreme weather (storms, floods, heat waves) could Such an action could come from either an internal or cause increased incidence of disruption. Failure to meet external source and could result in a significant adverse client, Partner, investor, other stakeholder expectations impact on Temenos’ business, results of operations and or globally recognized standards on sustainability and financial condition. climate change strategy could have an impact on the Internal controls are regularly reviewed, updated and demand for our products, our ratings in sustainable tested. Internal audit serves as a third line of defense investment indices and our corporate reputation, to provide assurance on the effectiveness of risk resulting in reduced growth and profitability. management and internal controls system. As part of our environmental responsibility strategy, we have set up an internal Company-wide mechanism, in order to measure, monitor and report on our global impact. We also implement mitigation, energy reduction and emissions’ avoidance initiatives, by putting in place policies, management systems and setting internal targets to improve energy efficiency, reduce emissions and invest in offset projects for the carbon we cannot reduce or replace. We cooperate with our business Partners and suppliers to ensure continued availability of our business operations and products. We monitor environmental regulations, trends and other related governmental developments in the countries we operate and take proactive actions. Where environmental legislation is not clear or enforced, we ensure that all necessary environmental practices are in place. We communicate our environmental responsibility strategy to all our stakeholders and raise awareness internally and externally. We help our clients integrate environmental sustainability into their business strategies and enable the potential for the reduction of their environmental impact. We are an environmentally responsible neighbor and support environmental sustainable projects in the communities where we operate. We participate in global efforts to improve environmental protection and understanding and align with the United Nation’s global agenda for sustainable development. We ensure that our clients, suppliers, Partners and contractors are committed to following our environmental policies, by conducting sustainability risk assessments as well as audits and reporting annually to the Board of Directors. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 047 Message from the CEO ACHIEVING EXCELLENCE RESPONSIBLY “There is no question that sustainability has been moving upwards on They are the ones who will transform local communities, enhance India's competitiveness and change the world. the corporate agenda globally and is set to shape how businesses think, We also expanded the Adopt-iT program to promote plan and operate. It is increasingly on the minds of people, business innovation and digital skills and create employment leaders, investors, non-governmental organizations and policy makers.” opportunities to University students. We created the first Temenos Innovation Lab and provided 43 need and merit-based scholarships to deserving engineering students at Anna University in Chennai. And this is only Our sector has experienced more change in the last five the beginning. Our long-term goal is to reach as many Max Chuard years than in the previous 20 years combined. Digital young people as possible and inspire them to achieve, Chief Executive technology is transforming banking. Being innovative, do better, and improve their own lives and others within Officer fast, flexible and compact in size can put you ahead of the communities around them. the game. Banks are changing to adapt to this new fastpaced, digital, interconnected global world: moving We are also proud of the progress we have made from the physical to the digital model service delivery in 2019 on our long term environmental sustainability that transcends border, time or adverse event limitations, journey. Temenos received ISO 14001:2015 topped up with all the new risks and the ethical certification for having implemented an Environmental implications of an increasingly digital world as well Management System (EMS) in our office in Romania, as the changing new regulations. The possibilities now adding to our three already certified offices in India. emerging for companies are equally transformational In addition, we measured for the first time the carbon as challenging. footprint of our two biggest Temenos events – Temenos Community Forum and General Sales Meeting 2019 – At Temenos, we are proud of our dynamic and and offset the emissions that could not be avoided sustainable presence in the banking industry for over or reduced. 25 years, as an enabler for the transformation and reThe rise of sustainable business At Temenos, we believe that people can make the invention of banks, having built one of the world’s most Technoloogy is transforming the world. We witness difference. Our strength lies in our people, as our dynamic banking communities, where we share best breakthroughs that we could not have imagined years people are the key to our success. What we create technology banking practices and see their impact on ago. Technology moves fast. The world has to keep and achieve is the result of the aspirations and goals our stakeholders. up and adapt fast. Digital technologies and the rise of the 8,000 Temenosians that make up Temenos today. of an interconnected world are transforming the way As a truly global company, we want to keep on And a solid proof of that were our four 2019 Great businesses think, plan and operate. Business models doing what we know best in a way that takes care Place to Work recognitions in Europe, Middle East are not linear any more. Millennials and Gen Zers are of the world around us both globally and locally. and Asia. questioning the ‘traditional’ ways, mobilize themselves It is our mission and ethical responsibility to keep for a variety of causes, and are now setting new growing our business in a responsible and sustainable For us, it is not enough to simply have a CSR strategy. game rules. way, delivering value to anyone associated with us. Instead we have integrated responsibility into the Responsibility after all is in our Culture, Temenosity, way we operate, promoting a sustainable corporate Our roles as CEOs have been transforming as well. strategy across our entire business and beyond. the magic that makes Temenos, Temenos. We are looking for new and better ways to listen and In 2019, we celebrated a big milestone in our act upon the expectations of our stakeholders. We In 2019, we renewed our commitment to furthering sustainability journey: our inclusion in the 2019 Dow have witnessed a number of initiatives in the headlines the agenda for global action on sustainability and Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI), ranking in the lately, just to name a few: the Business Roundtable advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals top 10% of the largest global companies listed, as well new statement on corporate purpose, BlackRock and through our engagements with the UN Global as our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series. State Street letters to CEOs, as well as the aspiring Compact and WEF. teenage world-changers sitting on the same table As we look to the future, we will continue to embrace We also remained close to the local communities where our global role and create sustainable value for all our along with CEOs at the United Nations (UN) or the our employees, Partners and clients live and work, by stakeholders. Maintaining the trust of our stakeholders World Economic Forum (WEF) events. We have the sharing our technology, expertise and resources with and remaining accountable to them is critical to us. ethical responsibility to consider the expectations of those that need them the most. Through the Temenos We will keep on doing what we know best – while our stakeholders, along with our corporate purpose, Adopt iT project, we built solar-powered computer labs managing our operations responsibly – from investing our company’s strengths, the opportunities and trends in in two additional schools in India, reaching more than in our people and managing our carbon footprint, to the global marketplace, and our personal aspirations 8,000 students in five government or government-aided providing secure, compliant and trustworthy services to and values to get a clear understanding of what will schools in Chennai and Bangalore. It is with enormous our clients, while conducting our business in an ethical generate value to all those associated with us. pride that I keep returning to India and volunteer myself and transparent way. along with our Temenos India volunteers every time we build another computer lab: to help these children improve their work skills and capabilities and promote Max Chuard gender equality and inclusive education for all. Chief Executive Officer 048 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Highlights About Temenos Our vision is to provide Founded in 1993, Temenos is the world’s leader in banking software, partnering with banks and other financial institutions, of any size, anywhere in the world, in the top 10% financial institutions to transform their businesses and stay ahead of a changing marketplace. Over 3,000 the software to thrive in the firms across the globe, including 41 of the top 50 banks, rely on Temenos to process both the daily digital banking age. Of the largest global companies transactions and client interactions of more than listed in the 2019 Dow Jones 500 million banking customers. Our products combine Sustainability Index the richest end-to-end packaged country model bank We are passionate about functionality and the most advanced cloud-native, helping banks perform better 45% cloud-agnostic, AI and API-first technology, helping our clients go-live faster, giving them the freedom to and deliver consistent, frictionless innovate and deliver personalized experiences. customer journeys. Female senior managers Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, the Company reporting to CEO currently has 68 offices in 40 countries and had non-IFRS revenues of USD 980.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2019. Temenos has been a 5 public company listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange (TEMN) since June 2001. Temenos employs 7,854 people worldwide, including full-time employees Great Place to Work recognitions and contractors. In February 2019, Temenos acquired hTrunk, a small and fast-growing company providing big data and analytics solutions to the banking 8,300 market. In July 2019, Temenos acquired Logical Glue, a SaaS-based, patented, Explainable AI company and in September 2019, Temenos acquired Kony, the fast-growing US #1 digital banking SaaS company. Students reached through solar For more information please refer to the Annual Report: powered computer labs built in Strategic Acquisitions section. Chennai and Bangalore For more information on our 2019 CSR and Sustainability highlights, please watch this video. Our culture: TEMENOSITY Temenos’ culture powers the company. We define it as ‘TEMENOSITY’ because this single word captures the spirit of who we are and how we make things happen: collaboratively, dynamically and boldly. These are the qualities that make up TEMENOSITY. Tenacity Velocity Responsibility Authenticity Community We are innovators who We operate with a long We act with integrity We are straight talkers, We care about and disrupt the status quo. term strategic view and and keep our promises. hate politics and do not respect each other in We are driven and hate a day-to-day sense We love, protect and let hierarchy define us. We good times and bad. to lose, so we never give of urgency. We are invest in our software work with freedom and are We work collaboratively up. We put Temenos first ambitious, never stand still and technology. not afraid of taking risks. and inspire each other. to achieve great things. and are always thinking We relentlessly focus We champion diversity We put our clients at the ahead. We are growthon value creation. and see things differently. heart of everything we do. minded, execution-focused and results-driven. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 049 Our CSR approach Our commitments Our endorsements Our achievements Operating Responsibly is in our DNA, part of our International organizations, industry peer pressure and Throughout 2019, as a result of our active dialogue Temenos culture. We strongly believe that our long stakeholder expectations play a major role in promoting with our stakeholders, we continued to benchmark our term success requires a sustainable business model that responsibility, transparency and accountability sustainability performance against international business incorporates corporate responsibility as an important in corporate governance and business processes. benchmarks and voluntary initiatives, in order to better part of our business operation. Temenos is committed Regulation as well as voluntary compliance with address the needs of our stakeholders. In recognition to achieving business excellence and long term value international standards are central to our CSR strategy. of our sustainability performance: through superior financial performance while operating Temenos complies with the requirements of many responsibly and with integrity, honoring ethical values international organizations, governmental organizations • Temenos was included in the 2019 Dow Jones and respecting its stakeholders, communities and the and industry standards, such as the EU Directive Sustainability World Index (DJSI) and ranked in the environment. 2014/95/EU on disclosure of non-financial and top 10% of the largest global companies listed, as diversity information by certain large undertakings and well as in the FTSE4Good Index Series We are committed to: groups, India Companies Act 2013, UK Modern Slavery • Temenos obtained a gold medal level by EcoVadis Act 2015 and the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay for its CSR performance, ranking among the top 5% • Building long term sustainable relationships with Gap Information) Regulations 2017. performers evaluated in all four themes our stakeholders • Temenos was once again named as a Great Place • Managing our operations in a responsible, Temenos is included in the SXI Switzerland Sustainability to Work, adding to the Temenos Greece 2018 secure and sustainable way 25® Index among the 25 Swiss stocks from the SMI® recognition. The new recognitions included: • Helping our clients transform into smart, Expanded Index with the best sustainability scores. • Temenos Luxembourg: 2019 Great Place to sustainable organizations We base our CSR reporting on the Global Reporting Work (1st place) • Achieving both financial and non-financial value Initiative (GRI) Standards. We have endorsed the • One of the Best 2019 Workplaces in Europe (business and social value) for our stakeholders. UN Global Compact (UNGC), and are committed • Temenos United Arab Emirates: 2019 Great Our priority areas to submitting an annual Communication on Progress Place to Work (12th place) For over 25 years, these commitments have guided the implementing the UNGC’s 10 principles. We are • Temenos India: 2019 Great Place to way we operate internally, innovate and deliver on members of the Global Compact Network Switzerland. Work (certified) our business mission through the following priority We have aligned our Business Code of Conduct and • Our Environmental Management System in our strategic areas: corporate policies with the UNGC’s 10 principles on office in Romania received ISO 14001:2015 the four issue areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment certification, adding to our three India offices and • Achieving business excellence and Anti-Corruption, as well as the OECD Guidelines reaching coverage at around 60% of the total global • Operating responsibly for Multinational Enterprises. Our commitments strongly employee workforce (before the Kony acquisition) • Investing in our People align with the UN Sustainable Development Goals • Temenos was the only exhibitor partnering with a • Enabling access to financial services (SDGs). We support the SDGs and publicly report sustainable production company to introduce a • Investing in our Communities ways in which we are contributing to the global effort zero-waste conference stand at Sibos, the global to achieve the UN SDGs. financial services event that took place in London Our actions We have gone beyond the requirements of the law Temenos is also a member of the World Economic 23-26 September 2019. and have integrated CSR into our corporate strategy, Forum (WEF). For the past two years, Temenos has 2020 Goals business principles, policies and processes, decision been participating in a number of key WEF events, • To proactively identify and address any new social making and governance. Our CSR action plan focuses demonstrating the significance of our contribution to and environmental issues, material to our business, on three areas: the banking industry and more broadly to society as better responding to the changing needs of our a whole, including the Sustainable Development stakeholders 1. How to manage our CSR strategy Impact Summit in New York on 23-24 September • To share our sustainability efforts’ recognitions with 2. How to monitor, analyze and assess our ESG 2019. Temenos’ attendance confirms our commitment our stakeholders footprint, with the use of non-financial KPIs to furthering the sustainability agenda and advancing • To continue to target international standards, 3. How to communicate and raise awareness about the UN SDGs. frameworks and business benchmarks relevant to our CSR strategy to all stakeholders internally and externally. Reporting, verification and assurance are important tools the interests of our stakeholders, such as indices, for us to measure our progress as well as document our ISO certifications and performance ratings. non-financial performance to all our stakeholders, while remaining competitive and ahead of the game. How our CSR strategy is contributing to the UN SDGs Enabling Access to Investing in Our Operating Responsibly Operating Responsibly Financial Services Communities Investing in Our Enabling Access to Investing in Our Communities Financial Services Communities Investing in Our Investing in Our Operating Responsibly Communities Communities Operating Responsibly Investing in Our Investing in Our Operating Responsibly People People Enabling Access to Enabling Access to Financial Services Financial Services Investing in Our Investing in Our Communities Communities 050 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Stakeholder Examples of Stakeholder key Location in groups engagement concerns report Employees • Employee surveys: MyVoice, New Hire Survey • Learning and development • Investing in Our • Career Development Process: Pathfinder, Compass • Internal communication People Frequency: daily and Talent Review • Job satisfaction • Learning and Development • Employee recognition • Temenos Mentoring Platform • Responsible, secure and stress-free • Internal Communication: uni-T intranet, social media, Marketing, workplace HR and regional Newsletters • Town hall Meetings and Leadership Live • Employee recognition: Quarterly Regional employee recognition awards, Annual C-level awards, Club and Chairman’s Club, Hackathons, Temenosity Badges • Internal global mobility scheme • Business Code of Conduct and linked policies • Employee volunteering and fundraising matching scheme Clients • Client surveys: Client Voice and Client Satisfaction project • Client communication • Achieving Business • Product Board and Steering Committees • Client satisfaction Excellence Frequency: daily • Annual Temenos Community Forum • Quality, security and responsibility • Focus on Client • Temenos Learning Community in delivery and implementation Engagement • Temenos MarketPlace • Data privacy and protection • Client newsletters, Marketing updates and social media • Client Support Portal • Audits • Temenos Security and Privacy Committee • Business Code of Conduct, data privacy and protection and corporate security policies • Corporate Website Investors – research • Annual General Meeting of Shareholders • Economic performance • Annual Report analysts • Annual Capital Markets Day • Transparent and ethical corporate • Roadshows, investor and analyst visits, meetings, skype calls governance Frequency: weekly • Financial press releases, videos, webcasts and social media • Accurate, timely and responsible • Annual Report communication • Corporate website • Business Code of Conduct and linked policies • ESG Indices Suppliers and • Procurement policies • Ethical and responsible business conduct • Operating Partners • Annual Temenos Community Forum • Long term partnership Responsibly • Annual Temenos Kick Off Meeting • Responsible Frequency: daily • Annual Partners’ Meeting Procurement • Temenos Learning Community • Trainings and seminars • Audits and risk assessments Local Communities • Cooperation with NGOs • Access to education and jobs • Investing in Our and NGOs • Community service and Employee Volunteering • Improve local living conditions Communities • Employee fundraising • Support in emergency situations Frequency: monthly • Community investment projects • Scholarships • Social media Academic • Temenos Sales Academy • Collaboration and job opportunities • Investing in Our community • Services Incubation Center • Joint R&D projects People • Temenos Masterclass Frequency: daily • Temenos Innovation Labs • Hackathons • Scholarships • Collaboration in research programs • Lectures, presentations, company visits • Career days • Social media Media and industry • Temenos Events • Accurate, timely and responsible • Annual Report analysts • Roadshows, visits, meetings, skype calls communication • Press releases, videos, webcasts, blogs and social media Frequency: daily • Annual Report • Corporate website Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 051 Our CSR approach continued Stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis The following main material issues per priority strategic Engaging with our key stakeholders informs our decision Our materiality analysis is in line with the GRI Standards’ area have been identified: making, strengthens our relationships and helps us requirements and includes the views of our employees, deliver our commitments and succeed as a business. clients, prospects, investors, suppliers, Partners, nonAchieving Business Excellence In order to achieve our goals, we recognize that we governmental organizations and media. Based on 1. Business Performance need to work in partnership with those stakeholders various internal compliance, business continuity and risk 2. Technology and Product Innovation who share our commitment and have a stake in our assessments throughout the year covering different areas 3. Client Engagement business. These engagements may take many forms, related to the impact of our operations as well as on the Operating Responsibly in order for us to identify the significant economic, ongoing engagement process with our stakeholders, in 4. Ethical Business Conduct and Governance environmental and social impacts on Temenos and 2019, we updated internally our materiality analysis and 5. Information Security and Data Privacy better understand the interests and expectations of our assessment of the material CSR issues for Temenos and 6. Responsible Procurement stakeholders. We conduct annual surveys with clients, for our key stakeholders. We incorporated the feedback 7. Environmental Management and Awareness Partners and employees to learn more about our we received from our clients through RFPs and supplier 8. Energy Efficiency and Carbon Neutrality stakeholders’ experiences working with us, as well as assessments and from our investors through engagement their expectations from us. calls and meetings we had in 2019. We also Investing in Our People incorporated the areas against which we were rated 9. Diversity and Inclusion Over the past few years, our clients, prospects, and scored in 2019, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability 10. Talent and Development investors and suppliers have addressed CSR as part Index, FTSE4GOOD, MSCI, ISS-oekom, ISS E&S, 11. Human Rights of their evaluation of Temenos as an IT partner through Ecovadis, among others. In 2020, we plan to launch a client, prospect and investors’ questionnaires, supplier Investing in Our Communities new materiality issues survey to all our stakeholders, so 12. Community Investment and Employee Volunteering and rating agencies’ assessments, requesting for as to have a 360 view of the changing needs of our documentation of our CSR strategy and compliance stakeholders and mirror that into our materiality analysis. Enabling Access to Financial Services with voluntary international sustainability standards. 13. Financial Inclusion Understanding and prioritizing the issues that matter to We believe that regular, open and transparent Temenos and our stakeholders enables us to focus on the In the following materiality analysis graph, the vertical communication with our stakeholders is the most effective respective areas, address the right issues and report on axis represents the impact of the above material issues way to assess the impact of our operations and our them effectively, aligned with the interests and changing on Temenos and the horizontal axis represents the performance as a corporate citizen. That is why we needs of our stakeholders and those of the Company. stakeholders’ interest per material issue. For all of have integrated CSR considerations into our dialogue We have defined issues to be material to our business the issues discussed in this CSR Report, the data with our stakeholders, drawing upon international in terms of: cover all Temenos operations globally except frameworks such as the UN Global Compact, where otherwise noted. the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human • The importance of the issue to our key stakeholders Rights and the GRI Standards. • The potential economic, environmental and 2020 Goals social impacts • To send a new materiality issues survey to our 2020 Goals • The degree to which each issue is aligned with our stakeholders, so as to update our materiality analysis. To look for new ways of direct stakeholder engagement mission, vision and geographic presence. and communication, based on the changing needs of our stakeholders. Materiality analysis graph Key: Very high 1 3 Achieving Business Excellence Operating Responsibly 10 4 9 Investing in Our People 5 Investing in Our Communities 6 11 Enabling Access to Financial Services 13 12 2 Within Temenos 7 Very high Within and outside Temenos 8 Note: numbers on graph refer to High numbers in previous materiality analysis text High Impact on Temenos Business Moderate Moderate Moderate High Very high Stakeholders’ Interest 052 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Achieving business excellence Economic impact Innovation and technology The R&D spent inclusive of overhead allocations for Economic impact for Temenos means achieving our In order to keep pace with the rapid rate of change in 2019 was USD 210,002,675. This is more than twice medium term growth targets to generate long term information technology, Temenos has a long history of the level of investment made by our closest competitors. sustainable value for all of our stakeholders in order investing in its products. This has ensured our position as Furthermore, since we only produce software for to contribute to the global economy as well as the local the leading solution in our sector and, together with the banking and finance, all of this investment is targeted economies where our clients conduct our business. upgradeability, means that clients can continue to enjoy at our concentrated product portfolio. For more the benefits of our industry leading investment in the information, please refer to the Annual Report: In 2019, we grew non-IFRS total software licensing by future. Temenos has consistently invested over 20% of its Research and Development section. 23% and non-IFRS total revenues by 19%. We achieved revenues in R&D. full year EBIT of USD 317.9 million and expanded our non-IFRS EBIT margin by 87bps to reach 32.4%. Our proposed 2019 dividend is CHF0.85, an increase of 13% over last year’s dividend. We have a strong capital structure, Our leverage decreased to 2.6x net debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter, and we expect this to approach 1.5x by the end of 2020 and having generated USD 364 million of operating cash flow in 2019. Achieving business excellence The total monetary value of financial assistance received by Temenos from governments during 2019 is as follows: Europe: • UK: Temenos UK receives research and development tax credits for certain related activities. In 2019 the ‘We who shall total tax credit received was USD 354,790 (2018: USD 434,240). not be named’ • Romania: Temenos Romania benefits from an income tax exemption for employees in software creation triumphed with related roles. The amount of the exemption for 2019 was USD 422,825 (2018: USD 399,385). their app to support Asia offline payments. • Singapore: Under Singapore’s Productivity and Innovation credit (PIC) and Wage credit Schemes Temenos has claimed USD 3114 in 2019 (2018: USD 34,666). Case study: Hackathon For more information please refer to the Annual Innovation at its best Report: Financial and Operational Highlights sections. “The teams were tasked with The six shortlisted teams competed for the first 3 positions Our medium term growth targets are: creating an innovative banking in the presence of the Executive Chairman, CEO and Executive Committee who traveled to India to be application, leveraging our part of this activity. The judges scored teams on their Metric Sustainable long APIs and building a demonstrable prototype’s innovation value and ambition of scope, its (Non-IFRS) term annual prototype to present to our demonstrability and the app’s overall potential value to targets financial institutions and end-users. ‘We who shall not Executive Committee be named’ were awarded first place in the competition Total software At least 15% CAGR judging panel.” at the Leadership Live event, in recognition of their licensing Temenosity and highly innovative offline payments app. Our ability to challenge the status quo has been a Total revenue 10-15% CAGR mainstay of the way we have operated over the years The winning idea but the 48-hour Hackathon, which took place in our ‘We who shall not be named’ triumphed with their app EPS At least 15% CAGR offices in India, has put our ability to innovate firmly to support offline payments. With a clear understanding in focus. In October 2019, Temenos organized a of the network issues often faced by people buying Tax rate c.20% Hackathon competition, with nearly 800 Temenos and and selling goods across the world, the team created Kony employees from our Chennai, Bangalore and a fantastic prototype that allows payments to be made Cash conversion 100%+ of EBITDA p.a. offline using QR codes for pre-registered banking Hyderabad offices in India. The teams were tasked with creating an innovative banking application, leveraging customers. It’s an ambitious and potentially far-reaching Medium term idea that could be productized and sold to our banking our APIs and building a demonstrable prototype to targets present to our Executive Committee judging panel. They clients. The team will now get to partner with subject were given 48 hours, over the course of a weekend matter experts from across the business to develop DSOs 90 days their idea and prototype further and will join external in October, to create their app using a cloud sandbox environment comprising Temenos T24 Transact and developers at our new developer conference – Temenos EBIT margin 36%+ Temenos Infinity. Scale – in 2020. Because of the success of this activity, Tax rate 18-20% our CEO promised to repeat the Hackathon in 2020 to keep the momentum and put the talent and passion that FY 2019 FY 2018 we have within Temenos to test in new ways. Economic contribution to various stakeholders USD 000 USD 000 Revenue 971,970 840,861 Employee wages and benefits 454,554 386,215 Payment to provider of funds 611,592 67,842 Payment to government 31,715 38,839 Community investment 276 175 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 053 Achieving business excellence continued Focus on client engagement Since the metric was launched, our NPS has improved 2020 Goals Client Voice by 50 percentage points with the largest improvement • To continue to focus our efforts on improving Client-centricity and client success have been at the following the launch of the Improve Client Satisfaction satisfaction in those areas, which have the largest heart of our corporate values since the Company was Project. Our satisfaction scores across the board have impact on client engagement, including product, founded. In order to have a consistent view of each also followed this trend. To date we have completed ten support and services. step of our clients’ journey, we launched the Temenos survey waves, collecting over 7,000 responses across all • To strive for higher participation in the Client Voice Client Voice in 2012 and have been repeating it on our accounts. Since 2015, we have been incentivizing program to obtain more and more representative an annual basis since then. The program, owned by our clients to participate in the survey. The Company feedback, bringing the annual number of participants our Chief Executive Officer, covers all products and matched every survey submission with a donation to to over 1,250 individuals from our client organizations. regions. The program is critical to Temenos as it enables Poverty Alleviation and Local Economic Development: • To raise our Net Promoter Score by 5 percentage us to track and analyze the clients’ perception of their Kenya CSR program with Hand in Hand International. points. experience of working with Temenos. It is supported In 2019 we set ourselves several goals including • To improve our overall satisfaction score (an average both at a senior management and regional level, with maintaining a strong response rate and improving in all of all participants’ scores, as opposed to promoters the client satisfaction process itself being led by a cross satisfaction areas. We have achieved our 2019 goals, less detractors) by at least 1 percentage point across departmental team with members from Sales, Marketing, while we will continue to strive for improvement in 2020. every aspect of the business. Support and Services teams. The Temenos Client Voice program was first launched with an initial survey in February 2012. It is based on the ‘Net Promoter’ methodology, which classifies participants from those least likely to recommend a firm Priority area Objective Indicator 2025 target to those most likely to advocate for a firm, detractors, passives and promoters. The percentage of detractors Achieving business Client Engagement Client Voice: number x2 is then subtracted from the percentage of promoters to excellence of participants from our arrive at the Net Promotor Score. In doing so, it serves clients compared to to effectively concentrate the organization on always2016 baseline giving outstanding service and moving client opinion from Client Engagement Improve Client Satisfaction: +55pp negative or neutral to highly positive, (a promoter has a percentage points in the satisfaction score of nine or ten out of ten). However, the Net Promoter Score, since discipline of Net Promoter, which is used widely by B2B the metric was launched companies, goes deeper than just tracking a metric, it is a whole system designed to operationalize client data throughout the organization in order to drive change, systemize learnings and improve client experiences. On an annual basis Temenos invites its entire client base, across its full range of products and platforms, to participate in a detailed relationship survey. Client Satisfaction In order to drive our focus on client experience further, a complementary initiative to the Temenos Client Voice program, the Improve Client Satisfaction Project, was launched in March 2014. The aim of the Improve Client Satisfaction Project is to cement the Company’s focus on client satisfaction and make Temenos an even more client-centric company. The project is sponsored by our Chief Client Officer. Within the project, each department is represented by a carefully selected individual/group of individuals. They are tasked with setting KPIs and actions to enhance satisfaction in their areas according to the feedback collected through the Temenos Client Voice program. The representatives are also responsible for making sure that the actions are completed and that the target improvements within their areas are achieved. The KPIs and actions are tracked and reported on a monthly basis at the executive level. They are also reviewed regularly based on incoming feedback in order to ensure that they remain relevant and continue addressing the correct areas. Clients receive updates on Temenos initiatives and activities through various media, from specific updates and newsletters to presentations at our annual Temenos Community Forum. Since the program was launched, we have seen a significant improvement in our Net Promoter Score and our clients have shown their support and approval of the program. 054 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements International Standards and Certifications Temenos adopted processes and methodologies The certification and external attestation program is that are certified by accredited bodies and adhere to subject to annual scope review to ensure it stays relevant, international standards, in order to deliver its services meets stakeholders’ expectation and reinforce Temenos to all clients in a consistent, standardized way. commitment towards delivering high quality service. 2018 2019-20 goals Progress against 2019-20 goals 2020-2025 goals ISO/IEC 27001:2013 Temenos India offices and To extend the ISO 27001 Temenos UK and Romania offices obtained ISO 27001 To continue to integrate Information Security Temenos Australia are ISO certification with ISO certificates including for hosting business, in Q1 2019 newly acquired companies Management System 27001 certified against 27017 and ISO 27018 and certify new locations on the standard. Temenos controls ISO 27001 Certificate extension with ISO 27017 and ISO 27001, ISO 27017 with extensions: 27018 controls for Temenos India, Temenos Australia Romania and UK offices and ISO 27018 standards await certification and Romania hosting business has been obtained in ISO 27017 November 2019 ISO 27018 Newly acquired Kony is ISO 27001 certified for its offices located in India (Hyderabad), Australia (Melbourne) and US (Texas, Austin) ISO 22301:2012 Assessment and gap To aim for certification in ISO 22301 certificate was obtained for all planned To extend the certification Business Continuity analysis 2019 for cloud: Temenos locations in November 2019 to more cloud support Planning Australia, Temenos India and operations locations Chennai offices, Temenos globally Romania, Temenos UK Fenchurch office and Temenos Avoka for Sydney and Broomfield offices ISO 9001:2015 Temenos India offices and To extend the certification The US Model Bank (US Orlando center) To include US Model Quality Management UK –Product Core CMB, to US Model Bank and is still underway Bank into the scope by CSD, PACS, Model Bank, Cloud operations in October 2020 Technology along with Australia Temenos Australia and Temenos Romania offices are certified ISO 14001:2015 Three Temenos To extend the certification Temenos Romania office became ISO 14001:2015 To extend the certification Environmental India offices are ISO to other Temenos offices certified in October 2019 to five additional Temenos Management 14001:2015 certified offices based on headcount AICPA SOC Temenos India offices, To extend SOC 2 Type Control alignment for global SOC2 reporting To include “Privacy” trust Service Provider Security Temenos Romania and 2 certifications to include: has been completed, including mapping with CSAservice criteria under SOC2 • SOC 1 Type 2 Temenos UK are certified Temenos Australia SOC2 CCM requirements audit coverage • SOC 2 Type 2 for SOC 2 Type 2 Type 2 in November 2019 Global SOC2 Type 2 and SOC1 Type 2 annual audit To continue the global Akcelerant Lifecycle including CSA-CCM compliance status reporting for: SOC2 Type 2, SOC1 business and Wealth LATAM location for SOC2 Avoka, Temenos US, LATAM, Canada, Temenos India Type 2 reporting Management are also Type 2 US Core banking offices, Romania and Temenos Australia expected to be SOC 2 type 2 certified for SOC 2 Type 1& 2 completed in Q1 2020 as per audit cycle Integrate and align newly acquired companies to Australia office is SOC 2 Other processes such as Security, Availability, Confidentiality and Processing Temenos standard set of type 1 certified as of 31 product development and integrity trust service criteria are addressed Security & Privacy controls December implementation Newly acquired Kony is SOC2 Type 2 certified for Temenos Avoka, is SOC1 India and US operations. “Security” trust service criteria Type 2 and SOC2 Type 2 addressed certified CSA STAR Assessment of compliance To publish a standard Temenos cloud services standard response to CSA To obtain CSA-Star Certificate/Cloud with the CSA-CCM response to the CSA CCM has been documented and released for client use Certificate, Level 3 for Security Alliance completed CCM for use by clients and understanding of implemented security and privacy Temenos and newly – Cloud Controls Matrix in assessing the security concepts acquired companies of our services. To prepare for STAR certification PCI DSS level 1 Temenos Australia gap To implement controls External audit work to certify Azure platform closed. To further extend PCI-DSS Payment Card Industry – analysis concluded and obtain the PCI-DSS To obtain the certificate by end Q1 2020 certificate Data Security Standard certification in 2019 for Temenos Australia Newly acquired Kony has obtained the PCI-DSS To complete the readiness (Azure platform) certification for both Azure and Amazon platforms assessment against CI – Secure Software Lifecycle and PCI – Secure Software standards and get it prepared for certification Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 055 Operating responsibly DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY For 26 years we have been proud of our reputation for The Committee’s membership expanded, in order to Highlights professionalism and the strong relationships we have built better reflect the organizational changes in 2019 and up with our clients. We believe that sound and ethical better address the changing needs of our stakeholders. 98.4% business conduct and governance is critical to earning The CFO transitioned into the CEO position in 2019. and maintaining the trust of our clients, investors, Partners Despite the role change, the CEO remains the and suppliers. Integrity, honesty and transparency are Committee Chairman and main executive sponsor of at the heart of what we do. Our commitments to ethical the Temenos CSR and Ethics strategy. The Chief Security Of our employees have business practices and strong corporate governance Officer joined the Committee membership, as security acknowledged the Temenos structures are designed to promote the long term is a material issue for Temenos. The Chief Marketing Business Code of Conduct interests of our shareholders, maintain internal checks Officer also joined the Committee, in order to better and balances, promote accountability at all levels of communicate internally and externally the CSR strategy our organization and foster responsible decision making. to all our stakeholders. The expanded membership is as follows: As a global corporation, we have been operating at 73 % an exceptionally high standard of integrity in complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate – in some cases higher standards than • Chief Executive Officer (Chairman of the Committee) • General Counsel (Deputy Chairperson of the Committee) Of our focus suppliers underwent required by national laws or regulations. We understand • Director of Sustainability and Social Responsibility the responsibility that comes with that role and are (Secretary) sustainability assessments committed to working with all our stakeholders to build • Chief Human Resources Officer long term business relationships and create sustainable • Chief Security Officer value for them. • Deputy Chief Financial Officer • Chief Marketing Officer 60 Corporate governance % Corporate Governance at Temenos is set up so as to • Group Head of Internal Audit. promote the long term interests of all of our stakeholders The Committee meets quarterly, while quorum is required and foster a culture of transparency, business integrity, for actions to be taken. Written minutes are kept and ISO 14001:2015 responsible decision making and accountability, maintained by the Committee Secretary for all formal certification coverage maintain internal checks and controls and help build meetings of the Committee and are communicated public trust in the Company, by balancing the interests to the external statutory auditor. In 2019, the Committee of all its stakeholders. held five meetings. More information on Corporate Governance can be Business Code of Conduct 2 found in the Annual Report: Governance section and on the corporate website www.temenos.com. Our Code is the foundation of our commitment to ethical business practices and legal compliance. It defines the standards for business conduct everywhere we operate Biggest Temenos events became Ethical business conduct and governance and provides guidance in addressing the business, legal Our commitment to assess and manage the impact of carbon neutral in 2019 our operations and promote the long term interests of our and ethical issues encountered while performing daily work or making decisions on behalf of Temenos. Our shareholders is demonstrated in the Temenos Business Code and policies are aligned with the ten principles Code of Conduct and our corporate policies. The of the UN Global Compact on the four issue areas of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Quick links Committee have endorsed the Code and have the Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, highest level of executive oversight for the company’s in order to better serve the interests of a broader set of CSR & Ethics Framework. stakeholders and raise awareness about our responsible CSR and Ethics Governance and sustainable operation. To ensure the effective implementation of our CSR Our Code is available in English and French on our strategy, Temenos has a Global Corporate Social intranet and our corporate website. It applies equally Responsibility Department, responsible for managing to full-time, part-time, temporary employees and the Group CSR strategy, interacting with stakeholders contractors globally. It is a key part of the employment and driving the CSR initiatives. contract and contractor agreement. All employees are Temenos CSR strategy is designed and led by the CSR required to read and acknowledge the Code and Business and Ethics Committee at the senior management level, linked policies within the first three months of their Code of Conduct which reports to the Board of Directors through the Audit employment. They are also required to complete the Committee. The purpose of the Committee is to foster a mandatory trainings upon joining and to repeat every culture of sustainability, responsibility and ethics within 12 months. The CSR and Ethics Committee is charged the Company, recognizing that senior management is with monitoring the compliance with the Code and responsible for instilling Temenos’ values throughout the Ethics Framework. Company. The Committee represents different Temenos In 2019, Temenos acquired three companies, with the functions and departments, ensuring all the voices of latest acquisition of Kony completed in late September internal and external stakeholders are taken into account. 2019. The Kony integration project is underway and will be completed in 2020. All employees from acquired companies were allowed three months to read and acknowledge the Code and linked policies, as well as to complete the mandatory trainings. Since the Kony acquisition was completed at the end of September 2019, the compliance data from Kony will be reported in next year’s report. 056 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos requires Partners to comply with the Temenos Anti-Corruption and Bribery Since 2016, we have implemented mandatory Business Code of Conduct as respective compliance For Temenos, anti-corruption is not only a legal requirements for screening and conducting duerequirements are included in the Services Partner obligation but also a matter of ethical business standards. diligence assessments of our business Partners and agreement. In addition, Temenos requires all new The Company takes a zero-tolerance approach to suppliers, while introducing a risk assessment tool for suppliers to comply with the Temenos Business Code bribery and corruption and is committed to acting our suppliers to identify the level of risk associated with of Conduct and the Temenos Supplier Code of Conduct. professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its business bribery and corruption, ensuring that we can only For the existing suppliers, Temenos will require to dealings and relationships – wherever it operates – and engage with those that are legitimate businesses with a gradually comply with the Code and related policies to implementing and enforcing effective systems to reputation for integrity. and to verify compliance by providing respective counter bribery. Temenos upholds all laws relevant to The updated Code addresses our policies with regards information when requested. countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions to charitable donations and the giving and receiving in which it operates, including but by no means limited to Corporate Policies of gifts and corporate hospitality. To ensure charitable the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Bribery Act The backbone of our Code are the corporate policies contributions, donations and sponsorships and prizes (UK) 2010. Temenos’ zero tolerance on corruption and linked to it that provide detailed guidance on how to made on behalf of Temenos are not used to circumvent ethical standards are set out in our Code and the linked exercise good judgment when working and making Anti-Corruption and Bribery policies and can be Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy which apply to all decisions for Temenos. Temenos is a global company documented, we set up an internal global system Temenos employees and group entities. and our business is subject to the laws of many different designed to centralize the declaration and/or approval countries. In order to conduct our business on a daily The Temenos Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy is process for gifts, entertainment and contributions to basis, we interact with a variety of stakeholders. We are available on our intranet and our corporate website. It better shield the Company from practices that could committed to interacting with all of these stakeholders states that Temenos shall actively attempt to ensure that be perceived as unethical and contrary to our Antiin a respectful, ethical manner and in compliance with corruption does not occur in Temenos’ business activities Corruption and Bribery practices. A Conflict of Interest all the local and international laws of the countries we through an adequate and risk-based Anti-Corruption Declaration is mandatory for every Donations’ Request operate in. The policies are reviewed annually and program. Anti-Corruption and Bribery training is part of through the online system. All charitable contributions, reflect our continued commitment to ethical business the annual mandatory trainings that all employees have donations and sponsorships require the prior review practices and legal compliance. to take when joining Temenos and to repeat regularly and written approval of the CSR and Ethics Committee. during their employment with Temenos. By 31 December As per the Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy as well In addition to acknowledging the Code when joining 2019, 96.6% of our employees (including Executive as the Charitable Donations and Non Commercial the Company, Temenos employees are expected to Chairman, Executive Committee and Leadership team Sponsorships’ policy, Temenos does not make any complete training on the Code as well as on three members) have completed the training. 2.1% (124 contributions to political parties. other areas, such as Anti-Corruption and Bribery, employees) of the total headcount were exempt from Data Protection and Security Awareness. We continue to operate on the updated anti-corruption this requirement due to long-term leave reasons framework and guidelines when engaging with third(sickness, maternity, etc). Global Temenos training party representatives that introduce Temenos to new completion percentage* % The Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy and the Antimarkets and projects, both in terms of the Introducer Corruption program include several elements such as scoring mechanism as well as the level of documentation Business Code of Conduct proportionate procedures, top-level commitment, risk required to be submitted in support of Introducer related assessment, integrity due diligence, communication, activities, including an obligation to document the Acknowledgment 98.4 activities and communications undertaken when working training, monitoring, review, enforcement and sanctions, Information Systems Security with the aim of continuous improvement and alignment with Introducers. The new Introducer scoring mechanism Acknowledgment 97.7 with prevailing international standards. The Board of is based on three assessment criteria. More specifically: Directors has the highest level of executive oversight Business Code of Conduct training 96.2 for the Company‘s Anti-Corruption program. As part of 1. Quantitative Criteria Anti-Corruption and Bribery training 96.6 The risk assessment is based on: our ongoing commitment to anti-corruption, we have Data Protection training 95.7 expanded our commitments in this area beyond Temenos, • Location Risk: The perceived corruption level set up by to include our suppliers, Partners and other third parties Transparency International is taken into consideration, Security Awareness training 95.5 that have a direct contractual relationship with Temenos. both for the Introducer and the prospect client Integrity is a vital part of our business. We also have • Payment Risk: Both the proportionality of Introducer * The table above covers the entire 2019 and does not include Anti-Corruption and Bribery provisions in our Partner payment as % of deal value, as well as the payment Kony employees. and contractor agreements as well as in our to the Introducer as an absolute amount is taken into procurement process with suppliers. consideration • Transaction Risk: The location (country) of the bank account in which the Introducer will receive payment is scored against the location (country) of the Introducer. Quick links Anti-Corruption and Bribery training dashboard Employees trained Employees trained By function No. % By region No. % General administration 589 98.5% APA 452 99.6% R&D 2,690 95.9% Europe 1,341 98.2% Sales & marketing 580 96.2% India 2,911 95.0% Services 1,497 97.6% MEA 174 95.6% Cloud 160 94.1% NAM 500 98.4% Grand total 5,516 96.6% LATAM 138 99.3% Anti-corruption and Grand total 5,516 96.6% Bribery policy * The table above covers the entire 2019 and does not include Kony employees in the total headcount. Priority Objective Indicator 2025 Area target Operating Ethical Business Conduct Maintain a stable percentage of >97% Responsibly and Governance completion of Ethical Business Code of Conduct and mandatory trainings compliance Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 057 Operating responsibly continued Specific weighting is assigned to the following (based Updated sanctions lists provided by Dow Jones are In addition, there is an independent anonymous on the risk appetite set at management level): uploaded to the FCM Solution, and all business reporting mechanism in place, the details of which are opportunities, Clients, Partners, Introducers, Subset out in the Anonymous Reporting policy, which is • Location Risk-Perceived corruption at location Contractors and Marketplace Accounts are linked to the Temenos Business Code of Conduct as of prospect client checked daily. well as the Temenos Supplier Code of Conduct. It is • Location Risk-Perceived corruption at location available on our intranet and our corporate website. of Introducer Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions Anonymous reporting means raising a concern about • Payment Risk Conflicts of Interest in both the public and private suspected wrongdoing that is taking place in our • Transaction risk (Location of Payment-Perceived sectors have become a major matter of public concern workplace. Temenos is committed to promoting and corruption). worldwide. As a global market leading software maintaining highest ethical standards in all our work, provider, Temenos might be faced with actual, potential and ensuring that where concerns are raised, they are 2. Qualitative criteria or perceived conflicts of interest. Temenos is sensitive • Relationship of the Introducer with government/ investigated and resolved, preserving the anonymity and to the ways in which an employee’s private financial confidentiality of anyone raising a concern. In addition, governmental authorities affairs could create potential conflicts of interest. • Adequacy of information provided. an appeal process to the CSR and Ethics Committee Also, transactions executed by related parties (legal is in place, whose decision is final and binding. All 3. Sanction checking entities and natural persons) must be reported if such disclosures are reported to the Audit Committee. All filed • Both the Introducer and the prospect client are transactions are carried out under the significant cases have been successfully resolved in 2019. cross-checked against sanctions lists provided influence of a Temenos senior manager. Ensuring that by Dow Jones. the integrity of the Company’s decision making is not compromised by employees’ private interests, Temenos Temenos monitors compliance with the policy regularly has in place business-specific policies and procedures Quick links through routine and ad hoc checks and audits across that address the identification and management of actual, the organization. The Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy potential or perceived conflicts of interest that may arise and the effectiveness of the Anti-Corruption program in the course of business as well as the reporting of any are assessed and revised on a regular basis. In 2017, related party transactions. we engaged a third party external audit company to benchmark our Anti-Corruption and Bribery compliance The Conflict of Interest policy is linked to the Code organization, including an examination on the design, and describes in detail the disclosure mechanism implementation, processes and internal controls in that for all Temenos employees, members of the senior respect. This benchmark was part of our commitment to management and the Board of Directors as well as the ensure that our Anti-Corruption and Bribery compliance appeal process to the CSR and Ethics Committee who is program is continuously improving, in line with best charged with monitoring the compliance with the Code Anonymous Reporting practices and our continually evolving business. and its linked policies. Policy and Guidelines Export Controls and Sanctions We have an internal online global system designed Temenos complies with all applicable export control to centralize the declaration of Conflict of Interest and Risk Management and Internal Controls laws and sanctions worldwide and meets obligations Related Party Transactions as well as the approvals Temenos’ policy is to have adequate controls in all under sanctions regimes of the jurisdictions in which of Outside Directorships Requests made by Temenos areas of its operation to ensure compliance with it does business. Temenos will forego business which employees or members of the Board of Directors serving applicable laws, regulations, policies and client would breach Sanctions regimes directly applicable to it. as a director or an officer for an outside organization agreements, preparation of reliable financial and which might also result in a conflict of interest. management reports, safeguarding of Company assets All Temenos employees, contractors, distributors and Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting (both physical and intangible) and efficient and effective Partners are expected and required to comply with the Our responsibility is to train our employees on ethical use of resources. Internal audit reviews are conducted Export Controls and Sanctions policy, which is also part business conduct, provide them with communication by the Group Internal Audit function according to a of the Code. Failure to observe sanctions and export channels, build controls to prevent and detect unethical risk-based plan. controls may cause operational delays, expose the Company to regulatory investigations, severely damage and non-compliant conduct and perform regular It is management’s responsibility to design, implement our reputation, and create substantial legal exposure internal audits. When we identify or learn of concerns and operate effective risk management practices and for Temenos companies including criminal and civil fines, or improper conduct, we investigate them fully and take controls. This is achieved through regular assessment of and for individuals, fines and imprisonment. appropriate action to remediate any issues identified. risks, carrying out control activities such as segregation Temenos offers employees, Partners and suppliers ways of duties, supervision, staff training, communication, and In 2019, Temenos significantly enhanced its Sanctions to report compliance concerns. If instances of possible monitoring. It is the role of Group Internal Audit among Compliance program in order to take into account the non-compliance with the Business Code of Conduct are others, to evaluate effectiveness of risk management efficient integration of all new acquisitions. By further detected, an internal grievance mechanism is in place and internal controls, assess compliance with policies utilizing Temenos’ own compliance solution Financial to record verbally, in print or electronically, any related and procedures and provide assurance to senior Crime Mitigation software (FCM), and through the concerns through: management and Board of Directors. development of a custom parameterization, specifically designed to cover Temenos’ business needs and • The Line Manager All Temenos employees, contractors, Partners and requirements, the entire database of all newly acquired • Group Human Resources Department suppliers are required to cooperate fully with Group companies can be integrated with FCM within 24 hours. • Group Legal Department Internal Audit when requested and to provide access Furthermore, Temenos continues to assess sanctions risk • Group Internal Audit. to all records, property and personnel as stated in the as follows: Internal Audit Charter approved by the Audit Committee. Primary targets: Opportunities (prospects) including distribution channels such as re-sellers, licensing and services, Existing Clients Secondary targets: Suppliers, Partners, Introducers, Employee concerns 2019 Raised Upheld Dismissed Sub-contractors, Marketplace/Complementary Solutions Provider Accounts Workplace discrimination concerns (perceived-feeling of discrimination) 0 0 0 Auxiliary targets: TLC Subscribers, Suppliers Other workplace concerns (failure to comply with legal obligations, The capability to analyze within 24 hours all business such as breach employment law or human rights obligations) 1 0 1 opportunities at an early stage of development for Fraud, theft, bribery or other ethical misconduct 2 0 2 sanctions risks has been maintained, as well as the Health and safety or perceived damage to the environment 0 0 0 functionality for a continuous analysis through their Violation of the Temenos Business Code of Conduct 2 1 1 evolution as a business opportunity and thereafter as a Actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest 0 0 0 client. Total 5 1 4 058 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Information security and data privacy Technology Building on the 2019 engagement, ISO 27701 aligned Temenos acknowledges that information security and Information security and data privacy are a fundamental Privacy framework has now been fully deployed across data privacy are fundamental to its clients, Partners and aspect of our product offering and business operation. all business lines. Moreover, Temenos Data Protection employees. This encompasses security relating to its Temenos continued to invest in the security aspect of its and Privacy policy applies to all of Temenos worldwide products and services including its hosted solutions as operations, upgrading its Security Operations Center (business lines, subsidiaries and newly acquired well as its own information security systems and physical in terms of people, processes and technology. These companies). and location security arrangements. In addition, Temenos investments will provide the capability of state-of-the-art respects that everyone has rights with regard to how their monitoring and response capabilities for all cloud and on How Temenos uses the data personal data is handled. The Temenos Security and premise clients. In addition, Temenos has invested heavily Temenos process personal data only for the purpose it Privacy policies as well as the respective enhancement on tooling, launching and implementing the additional DLP was originally collected as per the applicable legal basis plan have been fully aligned with the Security and technologies, threat intelligence and monitoring software. of processing. Personal data is not processed for any other Privacy strategy. secondary purpose. Access to that data is restricted to the Product people responsible for the specific processing activities. Information Security Temenos Product Security incorporates continuous security Governance assessment improvement through researching of the latest Temenos has never received any requests for customer The role of the Temenos Security and Privacy Committee vulnerabilities and attack trends. As part of the secure information from government or law enforcement has been enhanced in order to serve as a connecting development lifecycle, identifying vulnerabilities involves agencies. In addition, the company has not received any point to senior management and to the Board of Directors. testing target applications using a variety of different substantiated complaint concerning breaches of customer To this end, the Committee: methods and tools. Product security has been embedded privacy and losses of customer data in 2019. into Temenos product development methodology to the 2020 Goals • Reviews security and privacy risks and opportunities extent that we are confident that the secure development present in Temenos and makes decisions which are • To achieve a level 4 Maturity as per the ISO 27701 and testing approach reduces the risk of security issues methodology communicated to the business or escalate to the within the product set. Executive and Audit Committees as appropriate; • To position for compliance with Indian DPA • Assists senior management and the Board of Directors Privacy • To position for compliance with CCPA in establishing an appropriate “tone at the top” and Towards a Global Privacy Compliance Framework • To position for compliance with ISO 27701 promoting a strong culture of awareness of security In 2019, Temenos enhanced and expanded its GDPR • Product – Privacy by design and data protection throughout Temenos; compliance program to include all privacy requirements at Business Continuity • Reviews effectiveness and impact of the security and a global scale. Temenos Privacy compliance framework Temenos recognizes that having a robust Business data protection compliance programs. incorporates the same four principles: Assess, Protect, Continuity management framework is one way Sustain and Respond, utilized for all its processing activities to adhere to our corporate commitment to operating The Committee meets quarterly with representation from globally. To facilitate the framework, the Global Privacy senior stakeholders within Temenos, with a fixed agenda responsibly. We operate responsibly towards: operating model has been introduced, with distinct and item for our regular Executive and Audit Committees inter-related operations between the corporate Privacy • Our clients by continuing to provide our services in meetings. function, the country/region Privacy teams, the Security adverse situations especially when these affect our Temenos Security Incident Management procedure has and Privacy Committee and the Privacy Steering Group sites/premises/people/suppliers been further enhanced, resulting in a more agile, versatile (Legal and Privacy functions). • Our employees by having emergency response and and effective operating model. Depending on the type communication plans to perform our duty of care The Corporate Privacy function sets and maintains • Our shareholders, investors and all interested of incident, and in order to address it in the most effective the Privacy control framework, drives and monitors and efficient manner, the Standard Security Response stakeholders by protecting our product, intellectual compliance, sets the Privacy standards, completes annual property, people, premises and supply chain. team is expanded with the equivalent stakeholder. maturity assessments, develops and monitors plans to In 2019, 11 privacy related incidents were reported and improve local Privacy compliance, maintains records of To that effect, within 2019, Temenos implemented a fully handled as per the aforementioned procedure. One of processing, maintains and updates the relevant policy, compliant ISO 27701 Business Continuity Management these incidents has been categorized as ‘Level 1” (highpursues and obtains certifications associated with Privacy, System (BCMS) to cover Continuity and Resilience severity – immediate response required) and have been identifies, assesses and mitigates privacy risks, provides requirements. The framework touches on all aspects resolved at the Committee level. opinions and recommendations and liaises with local of Resilience and more specifically focuses on: DPOs (where applicable). CSO organization • globally standardized emergency response and The Chief Security Officer is responsible for all security, The country/region Privacy teams provide support by communication planning privacy and business continuity matters. The team has triggering and completing PIAs, documenting new • fully tested business continuity management plans for all deep expertise in GRC, cloud security, cybersecurity, processes, performing annual maturity assessments, driving its global critical locations and personnel privacy business continuity and business resilience, product improvement plans, and reporting applicable KPIs. • cloud client service continuity testing in line with our security, infrastructure security. As a result, the Global responsible code of conduct The Security and Privacy Committee acts as a point • internal corporate IT service continuity and disaster Information Security and Privacy headcount has increased of escalation and communication, providing senior from approximately 10 people in 2018 to 65 people in recovery plans level oversight. • supplier contingency planning 2019. Temenos will continue to invest in people and talent, targeting at a total headcount of 70 people by the end The Privacy Steering Group (Legal and Privacy functions) • crisis management and major incident handling of 2020. identifies the relevant risks, monitors the progress of procedures required implementation plans, builds awareness and Recognizing the importance of Temenos being a resilient Communication and Training escalates risks when required. Temenos has recently contracted with a leading e-learning organization, it has also invested in a state-of-the art and training platform in order to expand and enhance its Based on the above, all processes involving processing award winning Business Continuity planning solution as training capabilities globally. In addition to the mandatory of personal data have been mapped and assessed well as an emergency mass notification system tool to trainings for all staff, we are also developing more for relevant risks, via the leading Privacy management handle emergency communications. targeted training to “high-risk” user segments such as IT software. Furthermore, all data subjects can exercise their Finally, in order to be able to validate the robustness administrators, staff processing PII and Temenos cloud staff rights, including the rights to access, rectify and delete of our BCMS, Temenos has certified its cloud support will be developed. personal data. and operation teams from six global locations (London, In 2019, Temenos achieved a 95.7% completion rate Chennai, Sydney, Manly, Broomfield and Bucharest) for mandatory Data Protection training and 95.5% for against the ISO 22301:2012 standard from the Lloyds Security Awareness training. The trainings are mandatory Register Quality Assurance certification authority. for all Temenos employees and contractors. Furthermore, all Partners – included in the Services Partner agreement – are required to provide Security Awareness and Data Protection trainings to all of their employees, working on Temenos projects. Temenos Information Security and Privacy Intranet Portal is being redeveloped, in order to provide a one-stop presence for internal staff and targeted messaging in the form of regular bulletins. The project was initiated in 2019, targeting for a Q1 2020 completion. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 059 Operating responsibly continued Responsible procurement Temenos.com has a dedicated supplier section where Spending on local suppliers Temenos has integrated sustainability considerations in its we publicly disclosed the Supplier Code of Conduct as We have a dynamic supplier base that can meet the procurement policy and practices to provide more value well as relevant information related to our Purchase Order specific needs of each business line. We build and to the organization by improving productivity, assessing Terms and Conditions and invoice guidelines. maintain relationships with both small local suppliers as supplier value and performance, enabling communication well as large international suppliers. The percentage of the between buyers, suppliers and all stakeholders, and by Temenos has a centralized procurement governance procurement budget used for our top significant locations encouraging innovation. model where the Global Procurement team oversees of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation the sourcing process and drives the purchase activities (such as percentage of products and services purchased Procurement lifecycle in Temenos is an end-to-end Source at Group level. The Global Procurement team is annually locally) is as follows: to Pay process: it spans right from responsible sourcing trained on the latest sustainable procurement principles and supplier relationship management to purchasing and and sustainable procurement objectives are integrated Highest to Top 15 accounts payable. into the team’s performance reviews. Lowest Employee countries % purchases We employ a responsible sourcing process for categories Headcount based on from local of suppliers considered as critical for our business Procurement lifecycle December 2019 headcount* suppliers (focus suppliers). The suppliers that are critical for an end-to-end Source to Pay process our business are: 3,106 India 94% New Supplier selection – USA 62% • Suppliers that provide goods and/or services that are – United Kingdom 62% directly linked to Temenos Products and qualification Supplier Relationship – Romania 68% • Suppliers that have access to and/or processes our Sourcing Management – Australia 67% Employee or Company data • Suppliers that connect to our Company systems or Spend category – Luxembourg 49% requires access to Temenos Intellectual Property or Management – Singapore 40% confidential information – Switzerland 35% • Suppliers that provide technical or IT services and/ – Canada 79% or software products that involve intellectual property – UAE 60% licensing. Raise Purchase Requisition – Greece 53% Sustainability assessments are part of the new supplier Purchase Issue Purchase Order – China 100% selection process and the annual supplier performance Goods receipt – Germany 95% and risk assessment activities. – Ecuador 52% 64 France 70% For the assessments, we use a Supplier Questionnaire that covers areas such as business and ethical conduct, * Highest: 3,106, lowest: 64. environment, human and labor rights, impact on society, client privacy and information security, financial and legal Invoice processing The reported local spending contains all purchases compliance requirements. Our Supplier Questionnaire is aligned with the 10 principles of the UN Global Payables Expenses done by the Temenos local entity from local suppliers, i.e. Compact and the EU General Data Protection Regulation Payments suppliers that are registered in the same country as the 2016/679. Temenos entity that pays them. Our Supplier Code of Conduct lists the requirements for our suppliers in adhering to our responsible ways of doing business and is integrated clause into contracts and Responsible Procurement Purchase Order Terms and Conditions. We encourage framework 2019-2025 our suppliers to develop responsible practices of their own and communicate any concerns they might have related We have established a responsible procurement to a possible breach of our Code through the Anonymous framework to track our current achievements and long Reporting mechanism. terms goals in delivering sustainable outcomes: Area 2019 2020 2021 2025 target Objective Achievement Objective Objective Objective People Refresher training to procurement 100% Key staff involved in procurement Sustainable procurement to be Maintain 100% staff on latest sustainable activities to receive training on included as part of all staff induction procurement principles sustainable procurement principles program Policy & Review and enhance the internal 100% Extend the responsible sourcing Ensure the internal sustainable Maintain 100% strategy sustainable procurement policy process to other categories of procurement policy is reviewed for focus suppliers with strategic suppliers, beyond focus categories regularly as part of the CSR strategy techniques such as spend category of suppliers management, market analysis, vendor risk management Procurement Further implement sustainability 73% Sustainability assessment as part Sustainability assessment for most Reach 100% process assessment as part of the of the qualification and annual supplier categories qualification and annual performance and risk assessment performance and risk assessment implemented to all focus categories for focus categories of suppliers of suppliers Engaging New or renewed focus categories 15% Further augment the new or Supplier engagement program Reach 100% suppliers of suppliers, providing goods or renewed suppliers providing goods in place, promoting continual services with Supplier Code of or services with Supplier Code of sustainability improvement and CSR Conduct applicable clause Conduct applicable clause audits if required 060 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Environmental responsibility Environmental Monitoring and Reporting With the continued global spotlight on the critical We have set up an EMS Desk, an internal Companyissue of climate change, we recognize the importance wide mechanism, in order to measure, monitor and report of understanding and taking action on our material our environmental footprint in relation to business travel, environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. While employee commute, energy and water consumption fully complying with all relevant environmental laws and and waste generation and introduce ways to conserve legislation at our office locations globally, we support resources in select locations globally with the largest a precautionary approach to environmental challenges employee concentration. on our own initiative and an environmentally responsible way of conducting our business. No instances of nonAs a result of the implementation of ISO 14001, a Offices compliance with environmental laws and regulations decrease in the energy intensity (energy consumed in In 2017, we started measuring and reporting on our occurred in 2019. kWh/headcount) was achieved in all four ISO 14001 actual direct and indirect energy consumption in certified offices, by implementing both engineering and our offices. In 2018, we measured and reported the We are committed to: administrative controls. energy consumption and carbon emissions in the top 15 significant countries based on December 2018 • measuring and monitoring our global environmental At the three offices in India, there was a 7% reduction in headcount, with more than 50 employees in the country, footprint, energy intensity, which was achieved through a number representing 92% of the total Temenos population. In • implementing mitigation, reduction and improvement of mitigation initiatives such as: 2019, we measured and reported 99% of the total initiatives, by continuously identifying opportunities to energy consumption and GHG emissions, excluding increase our energy efficiency and reducing carbon • installation of energy efficient lifts • upgrade of the A/C systems with energy efficient only a few individual small offices with limited headcount emissions and (10 people or less). We are in the process of intensifying • reporting on our progress. components such as motors, filters, coils • use of 350 LED lamps in common areas and work our EMS Desk efforts to establish a systematic way to Environmental policy and Management stations measure and report on our water consumption and Temenos has 68 offices in 40 countries. All Temenos • increase of diesel generators’ efficiency by improving waste generation with the cooperation of the building offices are located in large leased office buildings operations and maintenance activities owners, where our offices are located globally. close to city centers and outside protected lands and • employee training and effective implementation of habitats. Some of the large leased office buildings are Standard Operating Procedures for maintenance and already certified for their environmental performance on operation of significant energy consuming equipment their own initiative, such as the one in Miami, which has • consolidation of critical rooms such as data centers, been awarded LEED certification at the Gold level by server rooms and switch rooms for effective the US Green Building Council. The Temenos offices are operations. designed internally in such a way as to fully utilize natural resources, such as sunlight or make efficient use of the At our office in Romania, there was a 4.4% reduction office space (open space externally used as patios), and in energy intensity, which was achieved through the to create an excellent working environment. installation of motion sensors in specific areas and through employees training to operate A/C systems and Business travel We have incorporated environmental requirements room lighting only when required, with emphasis given As an IT software company we rely on our people into our corporate facilities management practices and on switching off any electronic equipment, lights and who travel to deliver our services. So business travel developed a comprehensive facilities management A/C system during weekends and after working hours. by air constitutes our biggest environmental impact strategy that incorporates both financial and nonthat cannot be easily reduced. We have measured our financial criteria for new property leases (procedure At our UK offices, planned for EMS and ISO 14001 environmental footprint in relation to business air travel for implementation, for the past two years, as a part of and standards for selecting a new property) and for all the countries we operate, representing 100% of the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 2015 requirements, renewal of existing leases. We continuously pursue total employee concentration (prior to Kony acquisition). we engaged a third party to conduct an Energy initiatives to help us improve energy efficiency and Efficiency audit in line with BS EN 16247 standard and Despite our growing headcount, our air business reduction of carbon emissions at a time of ongoing identified opportunities to improve our energy efficiency. travel emissions significantly reduced since last year, growth in our business. In 2019, we continued to perform the Energy Efficiency as a result of carbon emission reduction initiatives we audit in all four UK offices. As a result, by the end of introduced internally, such as travel and global mobility In 2017, we introduced a Global Environment policy, as 2019, we achieved close to 2.3% reduction in energy policies, internal carbon pricing, increased internal part of the Temenos Business Code of Conduct. While intensity as compared to last year, by optimizing the communication and environmental training, efficient our footprint is smaller compared to other resourceuse of lighting systems in collaboration with the building meeting management that required travel around big intensive industries, we are committed to continuously management companies and through employees corporate events, use of other lower-carbon modes of identifying opportunities to increase our energy training awareness initiatives. transport for travel within Europe and further investment efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. in virtual collaboration and communication technologies. 2020 Goals Since 2018, we have been investing in carbon emissions • To implement EMS to additional offices in Europe and offsets for all our air travel globally. This offset effort increase the certification coverage resulted in the compensation of 11,527 tCO2e of the • To introduce a mandatory Environment Awareness entire air travel impact in 2019. training for all employees Priority Objective Indicator 2025 Area target Global Operating Environment Roll out EMS to additional locations and increase the 4 offices Environment Policy Responsibly policy & ISO 14001:2015 certification coverage Management In 2018 we developed a Global Environmental Energy Organize sustainable and carbon neutral corporate 4 events Management System (EMS) and aligned it with Efficiency events international standards. We have successfully & Carbon implemented the EMS in our three offices in India Neutrality Percentage of overall decrease of Scope 2 Indirect 10% (Chennai and Bangalore) in 2018, and our office in energy consumption per capita for certified ISO Romania in 2019, while receiving ISO 14001:2015 14001 offices, compared to 2018 baseline (first certification for all four offices. These four offices account certification) for almost 60% of the total global employee workforce (prior to Kony acquisition). Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 061 Operating responsibly continued Employee commute Energy Efficiency and Carbon Neutrality In 2018, we launched for the first time an internal As part of our environmental responsibility strategy and Case study: employee commute survey, which we repeated in in line with our commitment to measuring our global Investing in a community carbon 2019, to measure and report our indirect environmental impact and implementing mitigation, through energy project in India footprint in relation to employee commute, using their reduction and emissions’ avoidance initiatives, we set private means of transportation to commute daily to internal targets to improve energy efficiency, reduce “Apart from the environmental our office locations globally. In 2019, due to increased emissions and invest in offset projects for the carbon internal communication, we managed to get a 92% emissions we cannot reduce or replace. Key initiatives benefit, it offers social benefits to response rate to the survey (from all our employees include: implementation of our ISO 14001 certified the local population by improving globally prior to the Kony acquisition) higher than last Global EMS, increased internal communication and access to clean energy, education, year, while reducing the actual emissions from employee environmental training, investment in virtual collaboration commute due to relocation of offices based on and communication technologies, changes in travel and healthcare.” environmental criteria. 3% (200 employees) of the total and global mobility policies, introduction of a facilities In 2019, we continued to witness the benefits of our headcount were exempt from this requirement due to management strategy that incorporates environmental investment in the community carbon project in Tamilnadu job role (teleworking and not commuting to an office) or criteria for new property leases and for renewal of in India, a material location for Temenos, where our long term leave reasons (sickness, maternity). existing leases, joint energy efficiency and innovation two Chennai offices are located. As part of our efforts activities with the landlords in the buildings we lease, towards carbon neutrality, we offset the carbon Carbon footprint partnerships with suppliers and event management footprint of our air business travel (as we also did in The primary sources of our emissions are natural gas, vendors with the same mindset, internal carbon pricing 2018), as well as from our two 2019 biggest Temenos on-site electricity generation, purchased electricity, for flights and investment in carbon credits. events: Temenos Kick-Off Meeting (TKO) and Temenos employee commute and business travel. The total Community Forum (TCF), through purchase of voluntary energy consumed during 2019 is 32,986.56 GJ. The 2020 Goals emission reduction certificates generated from a Wind direct energy consumption by primary energy source is • To implement energy efficiency measures in more Power project in Tamilnadu in India. This offsetting project, 2,819.5GJ. The indirect energy consumption by primary offices with large employee concentration coordinated by the Tamilnadu Spinning Mills Association source is 30,167GJ. Our annual absolute greenhouse • To introduce environment champions in more (TASMA) focuses on renewable power generation gas emissions (GHG) are at 24,302.1tCO2e. We are offices globally (wind and solar) and complies with the Verified Carbon establishing reliable systems to monitor other emissions Standard (VCS), the world’s leading voluntary program such as NOx, SOx, and Ozone Depleting Substance for the certification of GHG emissions reduction and (ODS). All GHG figures in the report are in tons of removal projects. The TASMA project, apart from the carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2e). The Temenos’ environmental benefit, it offers social benefits to the energy reporting and corresponding Scope 1 and 2 local population by improving access to clean energy, emissions cover the time period from 1 December 2018 education, and healthcare – all in alignment with the to 30 November 2019. The data below do not include 17 UN SDGs. any data from Kony, as the acquisition was formally completed at the end of September 2019. Emissions activities Scope Emission source Emissions offset Natural gas consumption Direct (Scope 1) Natural gas supply On-site electricity generation – diesel fuel Direct (Scope 1) Diesel-operated generator sets 14,587tCO2e 2019 Purchased electricity Indirect (Scope 2) Electricity grid 21,442.50tCO2e Employee commute Other indirect (Scope 3) Employees’ private vehicles* Business travel Other indirect (Scope 3) Commercial airlines * Vehicles owned by our employees – the Company does not have any company cars. 2018 Energy in GJ Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) – 2019 Contribution to the SDGs Natural gas 1,501.5 Scope 1 382.5 consumption 5,737.6 Scope 2* On-site electricity 1,317.9 Scope 3 18,182 generation Purchased 30,167 electricity GHG emissions (tCO2e) GHG emissions by activity (tCO2e) Scope 1 2% Natural gas 78.1 22% consumption Scope 2 On-site electricity 304.4 Scope 3 76% generation Purchased 5,737.6 electricity Employee 6,655 commute Business travel by 11,527 air ** * Our offices in Switzerland utilize renewable energy sources for electricity, thus generating zero GHG emissions. ** Business travel by air data are provided by the travel agencies. Emissions are calculated based on the miles flown using one DEFRA emissions’ factor due to Company policy change on traveling Economy class for environmental reasons. 062 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Sustainable Event Planning In 2020, we aim to achieve ISO 20121 event We are seeking ways to ensure that our event planning sustainability certification for these two events, following Quick links operates with high sustainability standards, by organizing a rigorous off-site and on-site audit by an external our external events in a sustainable way and working certification body. ISO 20121 provides the framework for with event vendors who are adhering to sustainable identifying the potentially negative social, economic and event best practices. In addition, we are committed to environmental impacts of events by removing or reducing measuring, reducing and offsetting the environmental them, and capitalizing on more positive impacts through impact of our two biggest Temenos events. improved planning and processes. In addition, Temenos will quantify and report the carbon footprint from all the In 2019, we introduced a new Sustainable Event emission sources of these events, based on ISO 14064Planning policy and we linked it to the Global 1, as well as achieve carbon neutrality for these events in Environment policy. The Global Environment policy accordance with PAS 2060:2014. is part of the Temenos Code of Conduct and the Temenos Supplier Code of Conduct. 2020 Goal Sustainable Event • To organize TKO and TCF as sustainable, carbon Planning Policy We are committed to responsible event planning: neutral events as per the requirements of international • by planning and organizing our external corporate standards. and regional events in a sustainable and environmentally responsible way • by working with event vendors who are adhering to sustainable event best practices, thus making our events as sustainable as possible • by measuring, reducing and offsetting the environmental impact of our two biggest Temenos events • by adhering to international standards relating to sustainable development. Our sustainable event planning commitment is based on four principles: • Promoting sustainable environmental practices • Integrating social considerations: supporting universal human and fair labor rights, inclusiveness, respect for the community, health and safety • Supporting economic practices: based on collaboration, support for the local economy and communities, responsible sourcing and procurement, Temenos showcased economic growth, integrity, transparency and responsible governance a state-of-the -art • Sustainable partnerships: Suppliers and event management vendors with a CSR mindset, i.e. who zero-waste and share the same values with us and understand the responsibility of implementing and communicating eco-friendly stand. sustainable practices to their stakeholders. Temenos organizes a number of external corporate and regional events during the year. The biggest corporate events include the Temenos Kick-Off Meeting (TKO) and Case study: Temenos Community Forum (TCF). Temenos employees, Sibos zero waste stand Partners and clients attend our external events. In 2019, we measured the carbon footprint of these “Constructed exclusively from At Sibos 2019, a global financial services event that took place in London 23-26 September 2019, two events, reduced as much as possible and offset the responsibly sourced materials, Temenos showcased a state-of-the-art zero-waste remaining emissions (2,195 tCO2e) through purchase of voluntary emissions reduction certificates generated from the entire booth will be re-used, and eco-friendly stand to reduce its carbon footprint a Wind Power project in Tamilnadu in India, coordinated re-purposed or recycled after and contribute to a more sustainable event. Temenos was the only exhibitor partnering with a sustainable by the Tamilnadu Spinning Mills Association (TASMA). the event.” production company at Sibos. The stand incorporated In addition, we designed and implemented an environmentally-friendly features, including furniture Event Sustainability Management System, as per the made from ocean waste plastic, furnishings 3D printed requirements of ISO 20121, to help us manage our two from recycled plastic drinks bottles, and a living wall biggest events and control their social, economic and made up of air purifying plants to provide cleaner air for environmental impact. Sibos’ 8,000 attendees. Our goal is to organize these two events as an ISO certified sustainable event, minimize the negative environmental impact of the event in the areas of waste, water, energy and air quality, ensure our supply chain has responsible social and environmental practices, improve positive social and economic impacts of the event, optimize planning and processes, while maximizing the benefits of a sustainable event. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 063 Operating responsibly continued Water Although we use water only as part of our offices’ operations, in 2019, we started to measure and report the water consumption, representing 72% of the total Temenos population (excluding population working in serviced offices with less than ten employees). Sources of Water* Volume in L Purchased water Municipality water 30,551,126.55 Purchased water (non-potable) 2,889,140.3 Purchased drinking water 575,558.76 Ground water Ground water 1,958,934 Surface water Surface water (River/Lake/Sea) 0 Harvested rain water Rainwater collected and stored 0 (water consumed from RWH tanks) These initiatives Total water consumption 35,974,759.61 include: refillable * The data above do not include recently acquired Kony. For more information on the calculations, please refer to About this Report. Temenos branded stainless steel bottles Case study: Use of recycled waste water in our Case study: Recycling in our London office to replace single use office in Chennai, India “In 2019, we recycled 4,017kg plastic water cups. “The consumption of fresh water of paper, including white and was reduced and 1,907,218.53 mixed paper as well as security liters of domestic waste shredding.” water were treated, without In our London office, we work with a recycling company contaminating both water Case study: to measure the amounts we recycle and monitor the Green initiatives and land.” benefits of this initiative to the environment. In 2019, we Our office in Chennai, KG 360° building, operates recycled 4,017kg of paper, including white and mixed paper as well as security shredding. We have also “We have introduced environment in an IT Business park, where all waste water is recycled 2,800kg of glass, 128kg of cans and plastic, champions as well as being treated in a sewage treatment plant. It is 5kg of IT equipment and 90kg of toners. Thanks to our environmental initiatives then reused for toilet flushing and horticulture, in recycling, 51 trees and 7,460kg of CO2 were saved accordance with all legal requirements: Chennai in 2019, while we received an annual award for our to our offices globally.” Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board recycling achievements. To enhance our efforts to protect the environment, we and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. have introduced environment champions as well as As a result, in 2019, the consumption of fresh water environmental initiatives to our offices globally. These was reduced and 1,907,218.53 liters of domestic 2019 Highlights initiatives include: refillable Temenos branded stainless waste water were treated, without contaminating steel bottles to replace single use plastic water cups; 4,107kg both water and land. stainless steel straws to replace single-use plastic straws; recycling programs; environmental awareness Waste Management: campaigns to ban plastic and promote reuse and As an IT software company, due to the nature of Of paper recycled recycling and environmental volunteering activities our business, waste generation is fairly limited and and community service. restricted primarily to municipal solid waste, as well as a reasonable amount of e-waste from our internal operations – from computers, printers, monitors and phones etc. Other waste includes a small proportion 2,800kg of regulated waste like batteries, waste lube oil, etc. Of glass recycled Since all Temenos offices are located in large leased office buildings with multi-occupancy, waste handling and disposal is handled by the building management companies, and hence not under Temenos control. Although we do not handle our disposal, we have 7,460kg increased our focus on adopting a proactive approach Of CO2 avoided by recycling, in the countries and counties where such an option is available. We have introduced recycling initiatives to our offices globally, while encouraging and training our employees to recycle paper, plastic, can, glass and toners. Used IT equipment is cleaned of all data and software and it is either donated to non-governmental organizations or disposed in an eco-friendly manner through an authorized and certified recycler. 064 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Case study: Internal campaign to stop plastic “Temenos India employees in Chennai and Bangalore conducted internal campaigns to #BeatPlasticPollution# in 2019.” To raise awareness about the big environmental impact of plastic and to help reduce plastic use, our Temenos India employees in Bangalore conducted a five day campaign “Temenos Supports #BeatPlasticPollution#” in 2019. The campaign included: • Day 1: our environment champions invited a solid waste management expert and a recipient of the prestigious Namma Bangalorean Awardee 2016, to address all employees on the harmful effects of singleuse plastics and suggest ways to reduce the usage of plastics in our everyday life. • Day 2: they posted awareness posters related to the harmful effects of plastics and various methods to reduce them, on highly visible areas of the office. • Day 3: they visited each floor and shared a strong message with all employees to reduce use of plastics. This was also communicated by a dance performance to say NO TO PLASTICS. • Day 4: they set up stalls showcasing alternative plastic products like bamboo toothbrushes, stainless steel straws and wooden combs. • Day 5: our environment champions along with Temenos employees had a special theme based dance performance to say NO TO PLASTICS within the premises and outside of the office so that they could raise awareness to employees from other companies, too. Case study: Lake cleaning “In August 2019, our Temenos India employees in Chennai volunteered to clean Porur lake. In October 2019, they returned to the lake, not only to clean it but also to plant trees, contributing to the protection of the lake flora and fauna.” Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 065 Investing in our people MAKING THE DIFFERENCE We believe our people are the key, as they make things Human rights Highlights happen and define our destiny. Our people are the Temenos is committed to operating responsibly and most important and valuable Company asset constituting establishing high ethical standards across our Company 7,854 the Temenos culture and helping the Company reach and in our supply chain. This commitment includes its business targets and bring exceptional value to our the promotion of and respect for Human Rights as stakeholders. Temenos aims to create an open, fair, recognized in international human rights standards. equal opportunity and honest work environment where As a UN Global Compact participant, we respect Employees all employees are treated with respect and courtesy and support the values of the Universal Declaration of in an inclusive, productive and safe work environment. Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational 68 All employees and contractors are responsible for Enterprises and the International Labor Organization’s upholding this principle and work towards making (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Temenos a great place to work. Our commitments to at Work by integrating human rights considerations communicate openly and respectfully with each other, to into our business operations. We respect government Offices provide for diversity and equal employment opportunity policies in the countries where we operate, while seeking at all levels of our organization and to protect the health ways to honor these global principles. We conduct and safety of our employees are an integral part of the regular audits to check internal compliance with these 40 Temenos Business Code of Conduct. Our Human Resources (HR) team is organized globally standards. As defined in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Countries as well as across regions and countries to cater to the Human Rights (UNGP), we are committed to respecting needs of our people at both local and global level, with as well as promoting and advancing human rights policies in place attuned to local conditions. The team within our organization. Our Human Rights commitment 90 includes groups focused on HR operations, business is an integral part of our Business Code of Conduct, as partnering, compensation and benefits, mobility, data well as the Supplier Code of Conduct. We expect our and systems, talent and development, recruitment and employees, Partners, suppliers and clients to share this Nationalities employee communication and branding. Temenos commitment to ensure that information technology and global as well as local HR policies serve as the overall our business respects and promotes human rights. strategic direction and a clear point of contact and 47 In 2019, we renewed our compliance with the UK % support on HR issues for our employees and operations globally. Modern Slavery Act by issuing a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement where we outlined Temenos’ At the end of 2019, Temenos employed 7,854 people policies and procedures related to fair labor standards Female under 30 worldwide, including both full-time employees, business and respect for human rights throughout our operations partners and contractors of Temenos and all acquired and supply chain, while describing our efforts to address companies in 2019. In February 2019, Temenos acquired modern slavery. In addition, we have addressed our 45% hTrunk, a small and fast-growing company providing big data and analytics solutions to the banking market. In July 2019, Temenos acquired Logical Glue, a SaaS-based, own as well as our suppliers’ impact on human rights in our Business Code of Conduct and related training, Supplier Code of Conduct as well as our supplier Female senior managers patented, Explainable AI (XAI) company. In September performance and risk assessment processes of our reporting to CEO 2019, Temenos acquired Kony, the fast-growing US #1 Global Procurement policy and procedure. digital banking SaaS company. The Kony integration project is underway and will be completed in 2020 5 with leads and teams participating from both Kony and Temenos per function as our aim is to combine the best of Quick links both worlds in order to deliver a successful integration. Great Place to Work recognitions During 2019, we invested heavily in onboarding new people through recruitment and acquisition to support the growth. Our partnerships increasingly allow us to deliver a complete range of implementation and support services to our clients and complement our growth strategies. Most of our employees work as full-time, permanent employees. In 2019, we had 104 part-time employees (61 women and 43 men) and 12 fixedterm employees (7 women and 5 men). All employee benefits are provided to full-time as well as temporary or part-time employees based on the requirements mandated by the laws in the countries where we operate and the locations where we recruit. 066 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Workforce diversity by age and gender % women in the total Temenos workforce Gender less than 30 years old % employees by gender in certain regions 2019* 33% United States 32%/68% 34% Male – 53% Luxembourg 29%/71% 2018 Female – 47% 2017 32% Romania 62%/38% 2016 31% Switzerland 23%/77% 2015 29% UK 25%/75% 2014 28% India* 35%/65% Male Female * In September 2019, before the Kony acquisition, the ratio of women at Temenos was 35%. With the Kony acquisition, the ratio was reduced * The Kony acquisition had an initial impact on our cultural, age, and since the percentage of women at Kony was 27%. gender diversity dashboard. In particular, 76% of the headcount impact was in India: with 73% male and 56% between the 30-50 age group. Board, Executive Committee and Leadership Team Diversity % Board of directors by gender and age % Executive Committee by gender and age % Leadership team by gender and age Grand total 12%/88% Grand total 14%/86% Grand total 31%/69% 50+ 12%/88% 50+ 0%/57% 50+ 0%/46% 30-50 0%/0% 30-50 14%/29% 30-50 31%/23% <30 0%/0% <30 0%/0% <30 0%/0% Male Female Male Female Male Female Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity The Company’s management structure is one with At Temenos, we have focused as early as 2014 on We take pride in ourselves for continuing to build our regional directors, responsible for all business lines in gender diversity in the IT workplace and have invested diverse workforce at all levels in Temenos from 90 each region. Our people come from a diverse pool in an equal opportunity environment for both men nationalities. We are committed to attracting, developing, of countries and regions and share skills, resources and women. Our CEO has the executive oversight for promoting and retaining our diverse Temenos community and support across geographies to promote synergies diversity issues throughout the company, signaling the to provide product and service excellence in a global and learning across the organization, enhancing our importance of gender diversity and leading by example. marketplace to a diverse client community, while creating reputation as a global but – at the same time – local Our interventions are focusing on five areas: Recruitment, an inclusive work environment in which all employees company, and ensuring we are best positioned to meet Retention, Pay, Advancement and Representation. can contribute their unique knowledge and experience the needs of our clients. For example, we have incorporated gender diversity to make a real impact on the world around us. in our recruitment and advancement practices at all In addition, thanks to the diversity model we support, levels and monitoring progress, focusing on two levels Diversity and inclusion principles are integrated into Temenos’ software has multiple country model platforms, within the company: on the new generation recruitment, our Temenosity culture and business practices: from our tailored to the individual language, currency, regulatory encouraging young women to choose a career in hiring processes to the development of our people, as and reporting requirements of each country. This enables the IT industry, resulting in female participation of 35% well as to the way we recognize outstanding talents and our software to be seamlessly integrated into banks (in 2014) to 47% (in 2019) in the under 30 year old communicate the importance of diversity and inclusion around the world, adding incremental value from the age segment of our workforce; and on advancement with our people. Through such diversity, we have a very beginning of each project. and representation of women in senior management dynamic work environment in which we continue to positions, resulting in female representation of 22% gather a wealth of knowledge that contributes to our Since the IT industry is still male-dominated in many countries, we are actively seeking to recruit women and (in 2014) to 45% (in 2019) in the 1st line female innovation and commercial success. senior managers reporting to the CEO. support them in their career development, with the aim Being an equal opportunity employer, we do not of achieving a more equal representation of male and At the Company level, the female representation in the mandate the disclosure of ethnicity and/or disability at female employees in the business. The principles and total Temenos headcount is currently at 33%, i.e. 8% the time of recruitment. Our business philosophy as well goals of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights higher than the average in the IT industry in terms of male as our organizational structure are based on cultural are at the center of our diversity initiatives. According to female ratios. It is worth noting that in September diversity, as we operate 68 offices in 40 countries to global studies, in 2016, fewer than 25% of IT jobs in 2019, before the acquisition of Kony was completed, the globally. The Company is managed using a matrix of developed countries were held by women. That figure ratio of women at Temenos was 35%, up from 34% in regional and global business functions. We encourage was about the same in 2015. Gender imbalance in IT 2018. With the Kony acquisition, the ratio changed to decentralized work processes and co-operation has been recognized as an issue since at least 2005. 33%, since the percentage of women at Kony was 27%. between our people across countries and regions or Our global, regional and local HR teams use quarterly anywhere in the world when traveling, while having Achieving gender equality in the workplace, at all levels, remains a significant challenge for most businesses. analysis to identify and address challenges, reviewing central processes on core activities, co-operation and gender balance and discussing key initiatives to increase decision making. We understand that change takes time, particularly for the initiatives that encourage women to choose a career the proportion of female employees. The CSR and in IT, which will ultimately improve gender diversity. Ethics Committee is updated regularly on progress and We are committed to communicating internally and approves the directions. externally the importance as well as the benefits of gender diversity, designing targeted interventions and monitoring progress over time. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 067 Investing in our people continued By 31 December 2019, our leadership team (excluding the Executive Committee) consisted of nine men and 2025 four women. Our Board of Directors consisted of seven Objective Indicator 2014 2019 target men and one woman, while the Executive Committee consisted of six men and one woman. In 2020, the Gender diversity Percentage of women in the Temenos Executive Committee membership changed and as of total headcount 22% 33% 36% February 2020 consists of five men and one woman, while our leadership team (excluding the Executive Committee) consists of eight men and four women. Consistent success in our fast paced, demanding sector is Employee relations More information on our 2019 Board of Directors only achievable with a team of diverse, highly committed Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining and Executive Committee structure can be found in and talented people. We strongly believe in making As stated in the Temenos Business Code of Conduct, the Annual Report: Governance section and on the our commitment and focus on diversity and inclusion we respect the right of our employees to join or not corporate website www.temenos.com. a truly integrated part of the Company’s standard to join trade unions or similar external representative business practices that will bring added value to all organizations as defined in the ILO Declaration on Temenos has a gender pay gap of around 35% similar our stakeholders. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, while we to other software companies since the number of females engage in a constructive dialogue with employee as percentage of total employees reduces as the 2020 Goals representatives. Local employment laws and practices, seniority increases. Temenos publishes the UK Gender • To become a preferred employer for women collective bargaining agreements and individual contract Pay Gap Report which is available on our website. globally (by 2025) terms are followed. Where mandated by local law, We constantly monitor salary by country, role and • To target international standards and business we have 100% employees covered by collective band for internal equity. benchmarks relevant to gender diversity, such as bargaining agreements. indices, ISO certifications and performance ratings. Temenos is committed to improving the quality of work life We provide policies, fora and communication channels of all employees irrespective of gender, race, disability, Elimination of discrimination and prevention for hearing and addressing the concerns of our age, and personal circumstances. We are committed of harassment employees and resolving their issues in an open, to increasing the representation of women in Temenos Temenos is proud of the diversity of its people and fair and transparent manner. at all levels, functions and locations, as well as to believes in an equal employment opportunity for all. creating a strong network amongst women to support The work environment at Temenos is free of any type Freedom of association and collective bargaining is a and help one another to develop across the organization. of harassment based on race, religion, national origin, fundamental principle which is respected and valued by ethnicity, color, gender, age, marital status, sexual the Company for all of its employees. We are committed As part of our gender diversity commitment, in 2018, orientation, gender identity or disability or any other to having a constructive and efficient collaboration our Chief HR Officer established an active Women@ personal traits or characteristics that are not workwith trade unions and other employee representatives. Temenos network, founded and managed by 170+ related. Any behavior contrary to this principle will We comply with all relevant collective bargaining women ambassadors, to provide the framework for not be tolerated. agreements in countries where we operate. we follow as exchange, collaboration and raising awareness globally, a minimum the local law requirements We also require while at the same time acting locally. The objective Through the respective communication channels, subcontractors to comply with all relevant collective of Women@Temenos is to raise awareness and employees are encouraged to report any concern bargaining agreements and to provide documentation ultimately increase the proportion of women across the of discrimination and harassment. Any retaliation with of compliance. The percentage of Temenos employees organization by: regard to any such report is strictly forbidden. In case a (excluding Kony employees) covered by collective concern is raised or detected, an inquiry will be launched • Sharing best practices on how to create an inclusive bargaining agreements may be seen below: as quickly as possible, which will be conducted carefully business environment and with full discretion, and any corrective or punitive • Networking internally and externally No. of employees action taken if appropriate. Our anti-discrimination • Attracting more women in the technology sector and covered under and anti-harassment policies apply to employees and to Temenos contractors, as well as suppliers, Partners and clients. collective bargaining • Coaching, mentoring and helping one another and developing women leaders at all levels Country agreements % • Discussing challenges facing women in the workplace • Sharing women’s achievements with visible support Brazil 5 0.07% from our senior leadership France 64 0.90% • Having fun in a great place to work. Spain 22 0.31% Romania 322 4.54% Some of the activities that were organized by Women@Temenos in 2019 included: Total no. of employees 413 Percentage 7.72% • Celebrating: Men & Women at Temenos held a week-long celebration to coincide with International * The table above covers the entire 2019 and does not include Women’s Day across the organization in all Temenos Kony employees . offices focusing on the theme Balance for Better. • Prevention of Harassment: In India, we conducted In France, Germany, Luxembourg and Brazil, the awareness sessions at all locations by qualified employees maintain work councils and health and Prevention of Sexual Harassment/trainers. safety committees. The local HR departments work as • Community: Temenos became member of the an enabler and to make sure that all agreements are European Women in Payments Network. This is the followed through as agreed. first and only Pan-European community for women, a not-for-profit organization dedicated to building a community for women in Fintech & payments in Europe. • Mentoring: Women@Temenos ambassadors created a mentoring platform that allows training, rolemodeling and mentoring sessions across women in Temenos. • Raising Awareness: An online blog of inspirational stories of successful women at Temenos was created where stories of successful women in the banking industry are shared through our “Women Wear Technology” Blog. Articles of Inspiring Career Journeys within Temenos. 068 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Case study: Welfare of Women “In 2019, during the Bengaluru Tech Summit, our Temenos Bangalore office received an award by Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) for hiring more women during the year.” The Welfare of Women in India, a women’s group that drives affirmative actions for the welfare of women working in Temenos India, is active in Bangalore and Chennai and is run by Temenos India women employees. WoW group decides and drives the employee-connect initiatives focusing on creating awareness on women’s health through workshops and programs, as well as lifestyle initiatives that help women with their personality In 2016, the Welfare development. Through the ‘Dialogue’ forum, WoW of Women was invites women leaders to come and share their thoughts on leadership and excellence. launched in India, a Temenos Kony Hyderabad women are also promoting women’s group that equality through community initiatives and advocacy, aligning with the UN Women's Empowerment Principles. drives affirmative In November 2019, they received an award for supporting a safe and secure society for women through actions for the welfare contributing to building the Women cell of control partnering in awareness videos with the Telanagana of women working in Police Control team – “She Teams”. Temenos India. During Temenos Kony integration, we are focusing on gender diversity through a separate integration stream, where we will align all our diversity initiatives across India in 2020. Case study: Miami eco-action volunteering “As part of the Women@Temenos initiative, our Temenos Miami ladies rolled up their sleeves and helped the environment prepare for the hurricane season.” During the Miami-Dade Parks EcoAction Day, our ladies volunteered to restore one of the biggest parks and natural areas in Miami, Crandon Beach. In collaboration with another 80 volunteers, they planted 400 sea oats that will prevent sand erosion during the storms that affect the coastal habitat during summer time. They also participated in restoring the local flora and fauna by planting flowers that will attract seven types of autochthone butterflies. This event was organized in collaboration with Miami Dade County, Million Trees Miami non-profit organization and the National Football League as sponsor. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 069 Investing in our people continued Freedom of expression and privacy Health and wellness Employee communication and engagement We believe that access to information technology can At Temenos we are committed to supporting our Open communication and engagement with our support greater freedom of expression, which in turn employees’ well-being and creating a work environment employees will continue to be an integral part of the depends upon the right to privacy if it is to be exercised that helps employees maximize their physical and social Temenosity culture and philosophy. At Temenos, we effectively. We respect peoples' right to freedom of wellness. Temenos global as well as local HR policies are committed to clearly communicating our corporate expression and their right to freedom from arbitrary and serve as the overall strategic direction and a clear point goals, objectives and successes, to promote a work unlawful interference with privacy online. We ensure of contact and support on health and wellness issues environment of ethics, transparency and trust. Employee this through our Business Code of Conduct and the for our employees and operations globally. We also feedback helps shape the direction of our policies and respective Privacy policies. encourage our employees to design actions and build initiatives to drive a great employee experience while groups on their own initiative that are tailored to their maintaining a positive employer brand. Against forced and child labor personal interests, time and work-life balance. These At Temenos, we condemn forced or compulsory labor policies indicatively include: Temenosity culture promotes transparent communication practices. We comply fully with local minimum age and our open door policy is greatly supported by the laws and requirements and do not employ children. • Work from home options, in order to balance latest communication technologies. Temenos continues We ensure this through our global and local HR and work and personal life to invest in latest telecommunications, digital and webrecruitment policies. • International travel and medical insurance, conferencing technologies to facilitate project delivery including health screening and business operation while ensuring each employee Global mobility, health and safety • On-site and offsite team bonding and recreation feels included and engaged in the Company culture. As a software company, we rely heavily on our people opportunities The Company has invested in Zoom, Skype for Business to conduct our business. At Temenos, we are committed • On-site recreational rooms and stress management software, which serves as the basic communication tools to supporting our employees’ wellbeing and creating programs within Temenos globally. In addition, the other tools we a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, • Energy corners with healthy office snacks use for internal and/or external collaboration are our contractors and visitors by integrating appropriate health • Training and development programs Company intranet, email, blogs, MS-teams, yammer and safety (H&S) practices within our operations, as well • Multiple channels of internal communication and and Sharepoint. as when traveling on business trips. We have integrated engagement with our employees across countries (H&S) in the management of our business in such a way and at all levels We have established multiple channels to communicate that all activities are considered through the protection • Recognition of their work and contribution, as well and engage with our employees across countries and and prevention perspective. as opportunities to learn more about Temenos and at all levels, including intranet, yammer, blogs, video spend time with the leadership team updates, internal newsletters targeting different corporate All employees and contractors are expected to perform areas, town halls with leaders, employee engagement their work in compliance with the H&S laws, regulations, • Employee engagement in community service and volunteering projects. survey, new hire survey, other internal operational surveys, policies and procedures of their locations. We meet the helpdesks and an anonymous reporting mechanism. All requirements of the H&S laws applicable in the countries employees are provided regular updates throughout the in which we operate, having established local H&S year on the Company’s strategy through CEO business procedures and identified and assigned responsibilities updates, supplemented by clear communication from and accountabilities at the local level of our offices. regional management, HR and Marketing. As a global organization, international mobility forms an integral part of our service delivery to clients and our strategic plans for future growth. A globally mobile and dynamic workforce is key to providing and developing our expertise across the globe and maintaining our competitive advantage. The Company has created global mobility and travel policies and procedures, so as to provide the framework for properly managing and addressing issues arising from working from anywhere on an international assignment or traveling globally. In that regard, Temenos offers all its employees extended coverage with additional benefits in our regular international travel insurance program to adapt to the latest developments related to global travel: • International travel insurance with worldwide cover with no territorial exclusion for all employees and their dependents traveling with them • International medical assistance when traveling and reimbursement of medical expenses for the employees Case study: and their dependents traveling with them • International liability and life insurance Bolder Boulder marathon • Approval from HR and monitoring of employees traveling in high-risk countries through the Temenos “On Memorial Day in May 2019, Travel Application and Global Travel Desk our Temenos Avoka office in • Travel security services and registration of high-risk Broomfield, Colorado participated travel on customized Insurance Company platform for tracking purposes in the Bolder Boulder, a 10k race • Additional customized transportation and 24x7 in Boulder with over 50,000 security. runners and walkers.” We are constantly enhancing the security measures and training of our employees, aiming at mitigating the travel risk for our employees. 070 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Case study: Temenosity workshop “Temenosity, the magic that makes Temenos, Temenos and the principles that make up Temenosity – Tenacity, Velocity, Responsibility, Authenticity, and Community.” In 2019, during the onboarding process of new joiners, we organized Temenosity workshops in various Temenos as well as Kony offices, to familiarize new joiners with the Temenos culture: Temenosity, the magic that makes Temenos, Temenos and the principles that make up Temenosity – Tenacity, Velocity, Responsibility, Authenticity, and Community. This activity was inspired by the Marshmallow challenge with some modifications. The participants split themselves into teams and each team was given a set of Satay sticks, tape, and rubber bands. The challenge was to build the tallest tower using the materials given, in specific time. The team that constructed the tallest tower and deployed an innovative design won the challenge. The activity and the post-activity deliberations covered the five Temenosity principles and attributes under each Temenos quality. We introduced a different difficulty level in these activities. A colleague from another team would give one big blow using a straw to try to collapse the other team’s tower. The learning-point is to link this activity to “daily work-life” which can be full of surprises and unexpected events, challenges that we must be able to overcome. Employee experience As scheduled, we aim to launch our next MyVoice MYVOICE 2020 preview snapshot: The focus on consistently enhancing the employee engagement survey in 2020. Temenos management not • Frequency – Always-on survey triggered by work experience is a significant aspect of our culture as we only believe that employee engagement and feedback anniversary date of employees on a monthly basis continue to grow as a business. Hence, to capture the is significant, but also show their support in embedding • Survey design – 43 questions offered in English, relevant information on the employee experience drivers the Temenosity culture through this organizational French, German, Spanish and Mandarin (simplified to align strategic actions, we utilize two key listening investment. As Temenos continues to grow, we also Chinese) mechanisms: enhance our employee engagement practices by • Reporting – Quarterly review and analysis, with an aligning to the dynamic and progressive changes in work aim at first global communication in Q4-2020 • MYVOICE – A long term engagement monitor environment and industry. • Action planning – Strategic action plans for key to capture feedback on key areas from tenured engagement drivers aligned globally and regionally employees (1 year or more at Temenos) Gartner, our engagement survey Partner has supported • NEW HIRE SURVEY – A short term engagement us with latest research and guidance to understand New hire survey monitor that captures feedback on the early days the reasons for the decline of annual employee survey Gartner guided us in testing the 90-day New Hire survey of our new employees (90-day survey). model and the benefits from an ‘always-on’ listening throughout the year, which supported us in gathering and mechanism. Therefore, going forward we will redefine analyzing useful data about new hires’ early experience MyVoice survey our MyVoice survey execution with the following key of Temenos culture. During an onboarding enhancement MyVoice, our employee engagement survey has been purpose: project being planned in India, the 90-day survey rolled out every two years until 2018 to gain feedback insight helped us focus on key action areas, which had on what it is like to work at Temenos and how we can • As we operate in a fast-changing environment, we a significant impact in being able to design and deliver work together to make Temenos an even better place aim to ensure that our employees are supported to a structured 30, 60 and 90-day onboarding to work as we continue to grow. The survey is conducted adapt to these changes and are aligned with current engagement activity with new hires, managers, on an anonymous and confidential basis by Gartner, and future business goals leadership team and HR to maximize the adoption of a third-party survey provider, so that employees openly • Employee engagement is a key driver of enhanced onboarding best practices. The global review of the give their feedback and is administered under the Safe employee experience, evolving Temenosity culture new hire survey – planned in 2020 – will support us in Harbour certification which guarantees confidentiality and business performance through ‘alwaysexpanding on the achievements and plan future priorities to all respondents that participate in their surveys. on’ measures to achieve a long term impact on new hire experience and engagement initiatives Previous surveys have identified career management, organizationally across regions and departments. business communication, learning and development • A dynamic approach to engagement incorporates as some of the key areas and these have all been a broader view of employee expectations and addressed through strategic action plans over the years. perceptions to drive real-time actions to empower The 2018 MyVoice engagement survey snapshot: 85% our people to make Temenos a great place to work response rate, 58 questions, 16 engagement categories • Adapting this agile approach to Temenos, we aim measured, 3 new categories: Agility, Diversity and to measure engagement throughout the year and Inclusion, and Alignment as a distinct category. focus on both the impact and sustainability of our improvement strategies to enable us to advance near and long-term performance. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 071 Investing in our people continued Talent and development Career development framework (pathfinder) In 2018, we introduced the talent review process Every employee brings their unique skills and knowledge Pathfinder is the career development framework at moderated by HR by engaging group of team to work, and with continuous learning and development Temenos that has been developed and rolled out to managers to share feedback on individual team opportunities, we help them to further optimize their provide employees with a clear understanding of the members’ contribution, initiating healthy discussions with career potential, which is key to Temenos’ success and expectations in their current roles and the opportunities other participating managers to maintain fairness and growth. We believe learning and development is not they have to develop their future career aspirations at accuracy of the outcome. These sessions helped to: limited to formal instruction, so our learning philosophy Temenos. Pathfinder’s bespoke Career Development • achieve consistent performance assessment across focuses on career development frameworks (Pathfinder), Framework sets out what skills, knowledge and behaviors departments career and performance management initiatives (competencies) are needed in a particular job family • identify who should be promoted or could be (Compass), diverse learning opportunities and and role at a specific level within a department. The promoted in future open roles employee recognition programs which overall framework defines a structure where all roles within a • define individual strengths and development needs support the leadership and organizational job family carry out similar tasks and require broadly • allocate rewards based on merit, and development strategies at Temenos. similar skills and competencies, but operate at different • succession planning levels of bands, where competencies are aligned as At Temenos, we invest a substantial part of our revenue per career progression and growth. Pathfinder clarifies The talent review session is also a good way for in R&D activities, which is directed towards the the “paths” for development of competencies and less experienced team managers to learn from their enhancement of our products. We also invest significantly progression criteria that enable individuals to proactively colleagues and gather comprehensive feedback in to be able to offer a variety of learning and development manage their own career, performance, training and order to have a more effective discussion with each opportunities for employees across all levels from – early development needs at Temenos by aligning both their team member. to experience career levels, and potential future leaders technical/functional and soft skills (behavioral). The to mid-management and senior managers. Pathfinder behavioral competency framework has now As we continue our journey toward a progressive been aligned to our Temenosity culture principles. and agile career development approach that is businessThe categories of our learning and development driven, people-focused and work-centered, we are now initiatives extend from technical and functional The innovation in our product development and looking at: skills to soft-skills and management development integration of our new M&A, has guided us to initiate a opportunities provided through diverse channels, which project in 2020 to review and/or redefine our current • promoting regular check-ins between managers allow employee to execute their individual or team career development frameworks to align it to the current and direct reports to have meaningful conversations development by using a style that suits their needs and organizational growth to cover functions such as – Cloud, about career achievements and forward focused personality to continuously improve the overall learning Security and TLC (Temenos Learning Community). development actions experience at Temenos. • reviewing our online career management tool with an Career and performance objective of improving the user experience by making By December 2019, we achieved 132 hours of management (compass) it user-friendly and relevant to our employees’ growth. average training hours per employee, excluding on-site Our people are innovators who disrupt the status quo, coaching by supervisors and other self-service or local are ambitious, growth-minded and results-driven. We are planning to make the process and practice development activities not recorded in our systems. For Now the aim is to align the Temenos performance and significantly more manager-led and employee2019, the annual recorded average training hours by career development process with our culture, to drive empowered as opposed to an HR-led policy. In order gender and employee category by department are the business as well as develop, motivate and inspire to achieve this, Temenos will continue to enhance the shown in the figures below. our people. tools and provide training on promoting the importance of career development, open feedback and constant As Temenos continues to grow, in order for us to align dialogue. At Temenos, we promote an open dialogue to Average training hours – by gender with new industry trends and address the changing foster an environment in which people feel encouraged organizational needs, we need to change the way and excel in their career. Hence, we support both Female 173 we report on performance and career development managers and their team members with key learning and Male 110 activities. The enhanced way of reporting will reflect the development initiatives to help them deliver and receive outcome of the initiatives from now (shown at the end effective feedback. Average training hours – employee of this part), rather than the completion status (data not gathered in 2019 due to change in process) as done in Temenos also invests in core leadership training across category by department the organization to help our managers: previous years. So, the 2019 status under this section will Cloud 62 not be comparable to previous years, as Temenos culture • become better leaders evolves and embeds forward-focused practices. • understand development needs and adapt to different Services 82 Sales & Marketing 80 For the past couple of years, Temenos started the behavior styles of team members transition journey from using an annual performance • use team diversity to explore and co-create R&D 200 appraisal towards an ongoing and comprehensive effective solutions General 15 career development approach. First, by eliminating • build high performing teams by encouraging an Administration ratings which were backward looking and perceived inclusive culture of collaboration. as a roadblock to a constructive and forward-looking To help us assess whether our program works, we get * The table above covers the entire 2019 and does not include Kony employees. career discussion. Then, by adopting an agile way where direct feedback from employees as well as focus groups, employees could update individual business priorities engagement surveys, talent review outcomes and last but throughout the year and have regular feedback, rather not least our Great Place To Work recognition initiatives. than setting objectives only at the beginning of the year to review during year end. Through a global briefing on We took the approach of decoupling the career Temenos strategy, all employees and managers were development activities such as feedback/check-ins from communicated the corporate, regional and departmental the talent review process that confirms the performanceobjectives to help them relate their own and the team based rewards, enabling us to focus on the impact and objectives to company goals. value from both processes. The talent review process was held in March 2019 and was based on the headcount in September 2018, with 4,107 eligible employees who joined by end of August 2018. The number of employees who received career progression during the talent review process are reported by gender and employee category with department below, while Temenos offered the remaining people with career developmental feedback/ learning opportunities. In addition, throughout 2019, there were out of cycle career progression done as shown below, which reflects our investment in our employees’ career growth. 072 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements During talent review cycle – 2019 Case study: Case study: Temenos India Apprentice program Temenos Sales Academy By gender Female 1,219 “Every year more than 150 “Temenos is committed to Male 2,326 students are identified from these attracting, developing and campuses to join Temenos. They retaining untapped talent in By employee category (department) are a significant part of our the global market.” 47 employment pipeline.” Academy is an one-year program, which was initially Cloud Temenos India provides five to six month classroom and launched in 2016, targeting fresh graduates and early Services 1,012 on-the-job training to apprentices from top engineering professionals designed to cultivate the next generation Sales & Marketing 336 of Sales champions. Temenos is committed to attracting, campuses every year. The four-week classroom R&D 1,793 training takes them through product development and developing and retaining untapped talent in the global General 357 business processes of financial technology products. market. In 2019, we had 24 participants and expanded Administration This is followed by scenario-based on the job training, the Academy beyond Sales, Business Solutions group workshops and presentations for four to five months and Marketing to include Business Analysts for Product of mentor led training program. Every year more than Management as well. The 24 participants have 16 different nationalities and speak all together 14 different Out of talent review cycle – 2019 150 students are identified from these campuses to join Temenos. They are a significant part of our employment languages, while 33% among them are female trainees. By gender pipeline. In 2019, we had 168 fresh graduates joining Their training focuses on fundamental concepts of Sales this program. and Business Solutions. Based in Luxembourg for their Female 128 first 3.5 to 6.5 months, depending on their respective Male 255 direction, participants are taught a comprehensive set By employee category (department) 4-5months of skills from banking, industry knowledge, product and software knowledge, to the soft skills of selling, communication and presentation. Once their classroom Cloud 31 Of mentor led training training is completed, participants move to their Services 98 respective regions, where they put into practice 66 what they have learned. 150+ Sales & Marketing R&D 130 Sales trainees will become members of the Regional General 28 Sales team and will work directly with Regional Administration Marketing on lead generation for the remainder of their Students are identified from 12 months while participating and contributing to sales campuses to join Temenos cycles. Business Solutions trainees will become members of their respective Temenos Regional Business Solutions teams and will be involved in indoor engagements first 168 to get additional practice experience; they will then start to work outdoor at client sites after having developed their first hands-on knowledge and having been Fresh graduates in 2019 joining mentored and coached by successful industry leaders. the program Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 073 Investing in our people continued Employee recognition Recognition of great work and key contributions Case study: by both individuals and teams is critical to Temenos. Great Place to Work Through these recognition programs, we encourage all employees at all levels to embrace the opportunity In April 2018, the Temenos Greece office was to appreciate great work and recognize efforts of recognized as one of the Best Workplaces in Greece performance excellence of their colleagues, team by Great Place to Work®. Following the success of our members, peers and supervisors. Athens office, in 2019, we were recognized as number one Best Workplace in Luxembourg, as well as one of the Best Places to Work in Europe and United Arab Emirates by the Great Place to Work Institute. In 2019, Celebrating excellence we also became Great Place to Work certified in India. 2020-25 Goal: • To participate in a GPTW competition in the Americas and/or Australia. Group C level Annually Chairman’s Club Club Regional/ Divisional Quarterly Quarterly Regional Awards Shared Services Awards Individual Daily Temenosity Badges We have achieved the Frequency goal we set in 2018 to duplicate the effort in other The C-Level award, Club and Chairman’s Club The C-Level award recognises Temenosians outside sales Temenos offices globally, who had significant business impact and are role model covering Europe and Asia, of Temenosity culture. The winners are invited to our Temenos Kick Off (TKO) event. They are also invited to two significant continents have lunch with Temenos Executive Committee members and receive a cash award. In 2019, there were 23 of operation. winners (16 men – seven women) vs. there were 12 winners (10 men – two women) in 2018. The Club celebrates our top performing Sales and Business Solutions colleagues from around the world in a unique way – a trip with our Chief Executive Officer. In previous years, the Club awardees traveled with their partners to Scotland, Iceland, Vietnam, Barbados, Capri, Kenya and India. In 2019, there were 80 winners. In 2020, there were 95 winners. In addition, through the Chairman’s Club we recognize people who for several years have significantly contributed to Temenos growth from diverse parts of the Company. The Chairman invites the winners and their partners to an exclusive weekend hosted by himself and his wife. This recognition program started in 2018 with five winners (three men – two women). In 2019, there were six winners (five men – one woman). In 2020, there were again six winners (five men – one woman) from a range of departments (sales, R&D, services, finance and human resources). 074 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements These awards are a vote of confidence in the continuing hard work and commitment of our talented and inspirational people. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 075 Investing in our people continued DIVERSITY DASHBOARD Total headcount* Last five years By employee type By employee type and gender 2019 7,854 Board of 7 Board of 16 Directors** Directors** 2018 5,744 Business 316 Business 59 257 2017 4,945 Partners Partners 2016 4,351 External 432 External 308 124 Contractors Contractors 2015 4,440 Temenos 7,099 Temenos 2,372 4,727 Employees Employees * Including newly acquired Kony employees. Female Male ** Independent and Non-Executive Directors only. Temenos employees % by gender By gender and age By function and gender 50+ 152 516 Cloud 42 203 Male – 67% Female – 33% 30-50 1,156 3,553 2,988 Services 579 1,510 <30 1,064 1,223 Sales and 269 464 Marketing Female Male R&D 1,177 2,119 General 305 431 Administration Female Male % by region By region and gender By function and age Americas 279 635 Cloud 79 148 18 Asia Pacific – 7% Europe – 20% Middle East 27 161 Services 520 1,312 257 and Africa India – 57% India 1,429 2,640 Sales and 130 453 150 Middle East Marketing 171 and Africa – 3% Europe 495 945 R&D 1,422 1,703 Americas – 13% Asia Pacific 142 346 General 136 528 72 Administration Female Male <30 30-50 50+ 076 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements New employee hires* % by gender By region and gender By gender and age Americas 98 237 50+ 27 77 Male – 66% Female – 34% Middle East 5 27 30-50 282 911 and Africa India 646 1,219 <30 550 694 Europe 88 139 Female Male Asia Pacific 22 60 Female Male % by region** % rate by region and gender By gender and age Americas 1.4 3.3 50+ 0.4 1.1 Asia Pacific – 3% Europe – 9% Middle East 0.1 0.4 30-50 4.0 12.8 and Africa India – 74% India 9.1 17.2 <30 7.7 9.8 Middle East and Africa – 1% Europe 1.2 2.0 Female Male Americas –13% Asia Pacific 0.3 0.8 Female Male * Including newly acquired Kony employees as new hires. ** New employee hires at a region/total number of employee hires. Employee turnover % by gender By region and gender By gender and age Americas 38 76 50+ 25 73 Male – 63% Female – 37% Middle East 3 11 30-50 1,794 124 274 3,553 and Africa India 147 206 <30 139 154 Europe 68 120 Female Male Asia Pacific 32 88 Female Male % by region* % rate by region and gender By gender and age Americas 0.5 1.1 50+ 0.4 1.0 Asia Pacific – 15% Europe – 24% Middle East 0.0 0.2 30-50 1,794 1.7 3.9 3,553 and Africa India – 45% India 2.1 2.9 <30 2.0 2.2 Middle East and Africa – 2% Europe 1.0 1.7 Female Male Americas –14% Asia Pacific 0.5 1.2 Female Male * Leavers at a region/Total number of leavers. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 077 Enabling access to financial services OPENING DOORS Strengthening local financial intermediation The mobile phone for voice and data became a viable Bankserv Africa did a recent study of payments in South According to the World Bank, around two billion people last mile technology and transformed the way banking Africa. Including cash, South Africans make on average do not use formal financial services and more than 50% was organized. A market opened for transactions and 1,500 payments per year, mostly in cash. With the of adults in the poorest households are unbanked. Others payments for the mass market. population economically active population between the are exploited by opportunistic micro lenders at usurious age of 15 and 65 representing 63.7% of South Africa’s Over the past 10 years mainstream banking, led by 57.7M people, that is 55,132,350,000 payments per rates. The world’s most vulnerable communities need great successes in mobile payments like Mpesa in year, or 151M payments each day. This is just South access to affordable, trusted financial services. Financial Kenya and the large commercial microfinance networks, Africa. Africa-wide this could be three trillion payments inclusion is a key enabler to reducing poverty and retail banks have begun to discover the potential of per day, mostly in cash. The Temenos approach to boosting prosperity. At the same time, digital is creating transactional banking for the poor. Temenos has been inclusive finance is more comprehensive. The integration world-changing innovations, but also disrupting industry leading the fintech discovery throughout this journey. of core banking, modern digital channel interaction, and how people work. Today Temenos can be proud to have been the first to digital payments and data analytics are all elements of Credit unions, savings banks, microfinance, community bring mainstream core banking technology to the cloud a sophisticated mass-market retail and inclusive banking banks and other non-bank financial institutions are with Microsoft, in Mexico with 5 microfinance banks in strategy. This has moved the Temenos inclusive banking the foundation to sustainable financial inclusion and 2011. Temenos has supported every major microfinance effort from a niche vertical into a wider companythe development of healthy sustainable local financial network and most of the large mainstream microfinance wide offering to all commercial banks and non-bank markets. At Temenos, we understand the need to banks who have been developing leading solutions to financial institutions embracing the challenge of digital strengthen and support community based banking. financial inclusion with Temenos technology. We can transformation in emerging markets. Our approach to support the development of healthy proudly claim to now have 230 banks as clients that and productive local economies is to provide community associate with financial inclusion in 49 countries running Today it is hard to find a tier 1 retail bank in Africa that banks, cooperative financial institutions and various nonthe Temenos Transact Inclusive Banking model bank. does not have a declared financial inclusion strategy. bank financial institutions with modern digital technology Social and economic development policy depends The inclusive banking sector has shifted emphasis from on the majority participating in the formal economy. and services to strengthen their business to serve their a definition of inclusion or being ‘banked’ as having a People need a safe place to save and a source of communities and expand their outreach to the unbanked. transaction account. However, a transaction account financial services to finance their various stages of their Financial inclusion strategy alone or a virtual wallet is not sufficient to achieve life and to have access to investment for provident and Temenos financial inclusion strategy is to provide the financial inclusiveness. The World Bank defines financial productive purposes. It is said the best police officer same technology infrastructure used by modern digital inclusion as “individuals and businesses having access is a homeowner. The same applies to the market banks in established financial markets to empower small to useful and affordable financial products and services economy. If the majority of people are excluded from the financial institutions in emerging markets to compete that meet their needs – transactions, payments, savings, market economy, there is no foundation to the economy. and exponentially grow their client base providing credit and insurance – delivered in a responsible and People who have no stake in the economy, have no quality, affordable, digital financial services to the poor. sustainable way.” The World Bank further notes that reason to care about the success of the economy. Temenos provides the technology and expertise to financial inclusion “is a key enabler to reducing Financial inclusion is fundamental to the social and build digital services to compete with mobile network poverty and boosting prosperity”. economic stability of our global economy. Unlocking operators, Fintech and commercial banks that are after the potential of the individual to have meaningful Notably Temenos is the only fintech in the group, not the very valuable membership base community banks participation and giving people a stake specifically associated to the card and payments and credit unions have developed over decades. It is in the market economy provided a foundation industry alone, and the only one in the group that essential that the community banks keep their client spend for development. Fintech is central to this process. brings together core banking and payments in a suite within their own community-banking network, generate To bank, the poor have to be a market. Banking the poor of solutions to the sector. Temenos Inclusive Banking new revenue and build on their greatest asset – the has to be profitable, and to achieve this conversion from has evolved from the traditional microfinance end-totrusted client relationship. demand into effective demand for financial services end ‘bank-in-a-box’ solution strategy to a wider digital We do this as part of our mainstream business. transformation on the digitization of payments. The requires very sophisticated use of data and ICT to drop We bundle our latest release Temenos core banking digitization of payments relieves enormous friction in the costs of high volume low value transactions to create technology in a mature model bank for community the market economy, especially where cost effects a competitive market for the business of the poor. and cooperative banking and provide access to the productivity and investment in emerging markets. The The Temenos experience has been a journey of integration and digital channels in a cloud-based cost and risk of cash in high-density poor urban and discovery with our clients and Partners as fellow travelers Software as a Service (or local) basis. This helps smaller peri-urban areas retard business development and in a common mission to make a meaningful contribution financial institutions gain access to the same technology excludes millions. The International Finance Corporation to our community, our global economy and the lives of used by some of the largest and most modern banks in of the World Bank Group estimates that there are 120 the tens of millions of women and men our technology the world but made accessible by subscription service SMEs for every 1,000 inhabitants in Sub-Saharan Africa has helped to server. We are now on the cusp of a new and packaged for rapid implementation. (SSA) and four out of five jobs are created in this sector. frontier. Africa will provide the world with the next billion Empowering and growing the SME and SMME sector people, all of whom need to be freed from the limitations In the year 2000, Temenos took a decision to commit is essential to a successful and stable economy in SSA. to microfinance, the forerunner to what we know today of the cash economy and informal finance. The internet Access to finance and quality financial services is cited and the mobile phone are the tools, and Temenos will as financial inclusion. Temenos configured its then by the World Bank as the most critical constraint to Globus Banking SW to create a microfinance model continue to lead with financial technology to continue growth and development of the sector. However, most the mission. bank with the thought to create a “bank-in-a-box” that SMEs are for the most part trapped in the informal cash would be easy and affordable to deploy. It aimed economy excluded from formal finance. to meet the varied and idiosyncratic ways of banking the unbanked at the time, serving the many variants of non-bank financial institutions that were experimenting with financial products and services for the poor. Banks were not able to address this market for reasons of cost, culture and focus. Eventually with the ever-expanding terrestrial 2G and 3G mobile networks across much of the developing world the ability to centralize and aggregate transaction processing costs began to fall. 078 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Investing in our communities CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Community investment Corporate Monetary Contributions As a global corporation, we are committed to supporting We rely on the efforts of all our employees to help us Contribution to the SDGs and enhancing the quality of life of the communities identify emerging issues and local community needs where our employees, Partners, and clients live and where Temenos can reach out, design programs and work. By using our technology and resources, offering contribute to the communities in the regions where we financial support, sharing our business expertise as operate and monitor the progress. We cooperate with well as the passion, effort and talent of our employees, our people in our local offices on the review, evaluation collaborating with clients and Partners, we are and selection procedure that is based on local making positive, measurable contributions to the local community-need assessments. Our community investment communities, while responding in times of need. is aligned with our mission, business strategy, employee concentration and CSR strategic priorities, ranging from Our Approach long term programs to short term initiatives. In 2017-2019 • Corporate monetary contributions we awarded around USD 500,000 to community • Corporate monetary contributions that complement development projects mainly in India and Romania. the donations or volunteer efforts of our employees Temenos evaluates the effectiveness and impact of • In-kind contributions of used IT equipment its community investment by maintaining contact with • Employee fundraising (volunteering their time and/or organizations it supports and through Temenos employee money) and volunteering, aiming at improving management of • Volunteering (donation of professional service, existing projects and identifying future opportunities. management expertise, skills and time to non-profit During the Temenos Kony integration project, we organizations or local communities). will align our community investment and employee As per our Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy as well volunteering initiatives. as the Charitable Donations and Non Commercial Poverty alleviation and local economic development Sponsorships’ policy, Temenos does not make any remains a key priority area for our community investment. contributions to political parties. In order to maximize the social impact of our community In addition, the Temenos Internal Audit team conducts At Temenos we are looking for ways to go beyond investment, we focus on this area, with 96% of our yearly independent, objective audits of the Company’s financial resources and consider how to make best community investment towards empowering underserved corporate monetary contributions, in relation to the use of our assets, resources, expertise, advocacy, and poor communities. Our goal is to provide young Anti-Corruption and Bribery and Conflict of Interest and relationships to support and enhance the local students from disadvantaged local communities with policies. The results of these audits are shared with the communities. In addition, we have aligned our digital skills and capabilities – promoting gender equality CSR and Ethics Committee and the Audit Committee. community investment with our mission and the and inclusive education for all – and enhance their lives All donations and non-commercial sponsorships requests strategic issues of our business to create shared and their communities, by contributing to their financial are submitted online through the Temenos intranet for value. We look for Partners rather than as the principal literacy, education, improved health and economy. review and evaluation by the CSR and Ethics Committee actor in promoting local development and creating during its regular meetings. long term benefits and sustainable results that can Our strategic priorities outlast company support. • Poverty Alleviation and Local Economic Development • Children • Youth Development • Technology and Innovation • Environment • Emergency Relief Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 079 Investing in our communities continued Community investment continued Corporate Monetary Contributions and Employee Fundraising Temenos encourages all employees to actively engage in community service and fundraising activities for a social cause of their choice for non-profit organizations, based in the countries where we operate, by giving them the chance to boost their fundraising efforts through corporate matching of the raised funds. The activities to be considered for corporate matching need to be aligned with the corporate CSR priorities. Donations of Used IT Equipment We work at a local level to donate desktops, laptops, screens, printers and other IT equipment that are no longer used by the Company to non-profit organizations or schools based in the countries where we operate. All laptops and desktops are cleaned of all data and software before being donated due to confidentiality, At Temenos, we encourage licensing and data protection issues. and support the efforts of Employee volunteering and community service our employees as well as At Temenos, we encourage and support the efforts of our employees as well as our management to offer their our management to offer time and expertise to help local communities or nongovernmental organizations during paid working hours their time and expertise. in activities organized by the Company and in line with our CSR strategic priorities. In 2019, we set a target to evaluate our volunteering program and the impact of our volunteers. Our key aims were: • To measure the social impact on the local communities • To explore new ways to give back to the local communities • To identify areas of improvement • To uncover – through volunteering – new skills or talent of our people • To identify the impact that volunteers have on Temenos, in terms of their contribution and economic value • To have documentation for audit and third-party verification. In order to be able to better monitor, track and report the number of volunteers, volunteering hours and the impact of these activities not only to the community, but also to Temenos, we have created an online Employee Volunteering Tracking form for volunteering activities organized by Temenos. The program was initially rolled out in India, focusing on the Adopt-iT program and the work we are doing in the schools and universities. Gradually, it was expanded to the rest of the company offices globally. For 2019, it includes all the India volunteering activities, but not the entire global activities. Employee time Employee time Employee volunteering by CSR strategic priority areas in USD in hours Environment 2,511 193 Children 821 54 Poverty alleviation and local economic development 17,707 1,132 Technology & innovation 7,063 48 Total 28,102 1,427 * The tables do not include Kony volunteering. ** To calculate the cost, base salary and social charges were used for each employee. 080 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Supporting local communities India CSR School program Temenos is committed to finding ways to use technology to enable social change, by supporting disadvantaged local communities, enhancing their living standards as well as their work skills and capabilities and helping them gain access to finance, health and jobs. India is a material location for Temenos as it represents 57% of our total employee concentration. Education is one of the most powerful instruments for reducing poverty and inequality and enhancing India’s competitiveness in the global economy. In 2017, Temenos launched a comprehensive CSR program in India “Adopt iT” to help improve the quality watch the video online of secondary education in India and eventually access to quality education for more. The concept was to identify secondary schools in need (government aided schools) and use technology to enable social change, by supporting disadvantaged local communities in India. Adopt iT aims to transform the lives of individuals in these communities by improving their work skills and capabilities, promoting gender equality and inclusive education for all and helping them access to finance, healthcare and jobs. During 2017-2019, through the Temenos Adopt iT project, we built computer labs in five schools in India: • MCN school in Chennai: computer lab • St Columbus Higher Secondary school in Chennai: computer lab and girls’ restrooms • Government Kannada Higher Primary School in Bangalore: computer lab and girls’ restrooms • RBANC School in Chennai: solar-powered computer lab • Prakash Nagar Government High School in Bangalore: solar-powered computer lab. In 2019, our CEO visited the schools in Chennai and Bangalore twice to join the Temenos India volunteers and meet in person with the students and the teachers. watch the video online Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 081 Investing in our communities continued Supporting local communities continued India CSR University program In 2019, we also expanded the Adopt-iT program to promote innovation and digital skills and create employment opportunities to University students. As part of the program, Temenos provided Anna University in Chennai with a fully equipped and sustainably-powered Innovation Lab. The lab will give students the opportunity to learn about the Fintech sector, partner with Temenos employee volunteers and provide opportunities to learn through hands-on experience. Temenos plans to expand the collaboration with Anna University to cover other areas and will continue to grow the Adopt-iT University program to reach other higher education institutions in Bangalore and Hyderabad, India. In addition, we launched a scholarship program for students at Anna University in Chennai, India. Temenos will award needand merit-based scholarships to qualifying 2nd, 3rd and 4th year students for the coming years and provide employment opportunities to outstanding performance graduates. As part of its gender diversity program, Temenos will allocate 60% of the scholarships to young women, encouraging them to choose a career in the IT industry. In 2019, we launched the scholarship program by providing 46 need and merit-based scholarships to 2nd year Anna University College of Engineering in Chennai. To date, the Temenos Adopt iT program has assisted nearly 8,300 students, by providing them with IT equipment, training and mentoring and by helping create safe, clean environments in which they can learn. In 2019, Temenos India employees volunteered for more than 1,000 hours to teach and coach the Adopt iT students. Our vision is to keep finding ways to engage with local communities, provide them with access to the benefits and opportunities technology creates and the skills to deploy it. In doing this, we aim to encourage innovation and sustainable economic growth. Adopt iT Our vision is to keep not only benefits individuals and communities outside our business, it reinforces our Temenosity principles finding ways to engage of operating responsibly and using our technology, with local communities, expertise and resources for good within Temenos, inspiring many to dedicate their time to helping others. provide them with access to 2020 Goals the benefits and opportunities • To expand the Adopt iT school program to more schools in India technology creates and the • To expand the Adopt iT University program to more Universities in India skills to deploy it. • To continue to award needand merit-based scholarships to qualifying 2nd, 3rd and 4th year students of Anna University for the next three years • To create more volunteering opportunities for our employees in line with our CSR strategic priorities Priority 2025 area Objective Indicator target Investing in our Digital Inclusion & Innovation Number of students reached/ 20,000 communities benefited through the Adopt iT CSR India program, since the program was launched Volunteering & Community Service Percentage of volunteers 10% (percentage of the total headcount of that year) Employee fundraising & Corporate Percentage of India employees’ 100% Matching funds raised and company matched – Adopt a Kid program 082 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Kenya CSR program In 2018, 380 Temenos employees and partners ran 5K during our two Temenos events: Global Sales Meeting (GSM) 2018 in Lisbon and Temenos Community Forum (TCF) 2018 in Dublin to support the local community of Kivandini village in Kenya, in partnership with Hand in Hand International. The funds raised from these activities, along with the funds raised from the Client Voice surveys in 2018 and 2019, a total of USD 49,000, were used to support the local community to get out of poverty, through this poverty alleviation and local economic development program, that started in 2019 and is scheduled to be completed in 2021. Kivandini village is in Machakos County, 65km southeast of Nairobi. The people of Kivandini village are struggling due to poverty and climate change. Roughly, 24% of people living in Machakos County live in poverty (earning less than USD 2 per day), resulting in high malnutrition and school dropout rates and creating a multi-generational poverty trap. With agriculture Case study: constituting over 70% of household income in the county, Meet Susannah Katite, Poultry entrepreneur people have been hard-hit by a recent drought in 2017, one of the worst in Kenya’s living memory, making “Hand in Hand taught Susannah the idea of escaping poverty unassisted seem ever how to improve her business.” more distant. Susannah used to struggle to make ends meet on just This program aims to lift the entire community in this KES 1,500 (USD 15) a month. Today, Susannah runs village including 345 people out of poverty in 27 a small poultry farm, selling eggs and mature chickens, months. First, we create community self-help groups of earning an average of KES 4,000 (USD 40) a month. trainee entrepreneurs, mainly women, who support each other, save money and learn together. The trainees are Hand in Hand taught Susannah how to improve her recruited after consultations with local communities and business by switching breeds, how to feed the chickens their leaders to identify community members’ needs and properly and keep them healthy and how to keep track identify existing service providers and gaps. Groups of expenses and profit. Looking ahead, Susannah plans are trained to establish formal structures such as a to save enough money to buy a water tank, so that she group constitution and elected leadership to ensure the does not have to walk far in search of water. group can continue to operate sustainably. Each group The increased income will help Susannah and her family members contributes small weekly savings to a collective to have three meals a day and to fund her grandchildren pot, which is used to distribute loans to members. In this to go to school. way, members learn to manage and repay borrowed capital so they can access credit from banks in the future. Once a group has been set up, we provide business training through bi-weekly training sessions, learning basic business skills such as: saving; bookkeeping; 67 business planning and registration; pricing; market Members mobilized demand and supply; and borrowing and repaying from banks. It typically takes between six to nine (6-9) months for groups to complete the training. Self-help group members develop businesses based on their own skills and local market opportunities, and enterprises vary 30 hugely, including tailoring; beekeeping; poultry rearing; Enterprises created and shop-keeping. 41 Finally, we help members to grow their business by connecting them with larger markets, enabling them to source cheaper suppliers and more. For instance, they partner with Kenya’s Ministry of Agriculture to link the members into their priority value chains that are centered Jobs created in the community on specific crops, such as passion fruit and avocado. In 2019, three months into the project, we have achieved: What’s next? Through the program, we will work hard to recruit the remaining 278 people into our village program where Activity Results Target they will learn about: financial planning, borrowing and repaying credit, and building resilience to climate Members mobilized 67 37 change. By the completion of the program, we plan Enterprises created 30 26 to have supported the creation of 241 businesses and 314 jobs. Jobs created in the community 41 34 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 083 Investing in our communities continued Case study: Bring your child to work day – US “This event encourages young In February 2019, our Temenos Miami employees organized the “Bring Your Child to Work Day”. Miami people to stay in school, seek schools allow their students to join parents at work for post-secondary education one day. This event encourages young people to stay and pursue a greater variety in school, seek post-secondary education and pursue a greater variety of careers. of careers.” Our Temenos Avoka employees in Broomfield organized the same initiative in April. After having a tour of the office, the kids ‘took a stab’ at advertising and branding with the Marketing team and engineering a “drop proof” egg with Client Services and Product Development. Case study: Adopt a kid – India “True Temenosity in action! ” As part of our Temenos employee fundraising program, our Temenos India employees continued to support the Temenos Education Sponsorship program, Adopt a Kid. In 2019, our Temenos India employees covered themselves the school tuition fees, books and stationery for 47 poor children who could not afford a decent education. Thanks to our employees’ support in 2019, USD 8,061 were raised by the employees and 47 children were able to go to school and pursue their dreams. True Temenosity in action! Adopt a Kid – India 2017-2019 highlights 17,332USD Raised by employees 87 Children were able to go to school and pursue their dreams Number of children supported/year Boys Girls Total 2017 8 4 12 2018 10 18 28 2019 18 29 47 Total 36 51 87 Funds raised in USD by Temenos India employees/year Total 2017 $2,727 Boy $1,773 Girl $954 2018 $6,545 Boy $2,062 Girl $4,482 2019 $8,061 Boy $2,773 Girl $5,288 Grand total $17,332 084 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Our targets at a glance Priority 2025 area Objective Indicator target Achieving Client Engagement Client Voice: Number of participants from our clients compared to 2016 baseline x2 Business Excellence Improve Client Satisfaction: Percentage points in the Net Promoter Score, since the +55p metric was launched Operating Ethical Business Percentage of completion of Ethical Business Code of Conduct and mandatory trainings compliance >97% Responsibly Conduct and Governance Responsible Sustainability assessment as part of the qualification and annual performance and risk assessment 100% Procurement implemented to all focus categories of suppliers Percentage of new or renewed focus categories of suppliers, providing goods or services with Supplier Code 100% of Conduct applicable clause Environment policy & Roll out EMS to additional locations and increase the ISO 14001:2015 certification coverage 4 offices Management Energy Efficiency & Organize sustainable and carbon neutral events 4 events Carbon Neutrality Percentage of overall decrease of Scope 2 Indirect energy consumption per capita for certified ISO 14001 10% offices, compared to 2018 baseline (first certification) Investing in our Gender Diversity Percentage of women in the Temenos total headcount 36% People Employee Recognitions in Great Place to Work competitions (since first recognition) 7 Engagement & recognitions Recognition Investing in our Digital Inclusion & Number of students reached/benefited through the Adopt iT CSR India program, since the program 20,000 Communities Innovation was launched Volunteering & Percentage of volunteers (percentage of the total headcount of that year) 10% Community Service Employee Fundraising Percentage of India employees' funds raised and company matched – Adopt a Kid program 100% & Corporate Matching Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 085 About this report Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided Our Scope 3 business travel related emissions from Our headcount related figures are based on the in this report reflects the situation as of 31 December flights cover the financial year 2019 and all the countries GRI Standards’ requirements and cover all Temenos 2019 and covers all Temenos operations globally where Temenos operates, representing 100% of the operations globally, in full alignment with the Annual during the financial year 2019. This report is prepared total employee concentration (prior to Kony acquisition). Report and Financial Statements section. The data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative The data were collected from the Company travel sources are the corporate internal IT and HR systems, (GRI) Standards (Core), a set of internationally management system as well as travel agency providers. which provide data on full-time and part-time employees recognized reporting standards. Please see our online Our Scope 3 employee commute related emissions and permanent and temporary employees. The total GRI Standards Index for detailed data and additional were gathered through an online, global, internal Temenos headcount includes the number of employees information. In addition, it serves as Temenos’ annual employee survey. The response rate was 92%. 3% (200 from the recent acquisition of Kony that was completed Communication on Progress under the United Nations employees) of the total headcount were exempt from in September 2019. Below the charts, we mention if (UN) Global Compact. This is our fourth Corporate this requirement due to job role (teleworking and not Kony employees are included or not in the Responsibility Report. No restatements were done. commuting to an office) or long-term leave reasons corresponding chart data. We have assured the content through an internal review (sickness, maternity). The remaining 5% was calculated process, including Board of Directors and executive based on extrapolation. The survey covered various When referring to Governance Bodies, we include: oversight of reviews and validation. Apart from the aspects such as distance between home and the office, Board of Directors, Executive Committee and Leadership internal review process, an independent third party, modes of transport – private vehicles, mass transit, team. Compliance Trainings, Training and Development, Grant Thornton S.A. has provided their assurance on cycling, carpooling, walking, fuel efficiencies of private Environmental and Community Investment data for Temenos CSR Report 2019. The scope of the assured vehicles used, average number of work from home or financial year 2019 do not include Kony employees. information is indicated in the independent practitioner’s client locations. The data gathered cover private vehicles All references to currency are in USD unless assurance report. Our first report with GRI was published owned by our employees, since the Company does otherwise stated. in 2017. not provide any company cars. The emissions have been calculated based on fuel efficiency, total distance Contact Temenos operates 68 offices in large, leased, multitraveled, fuel types and characteristics and emissions The 2019 Temenos CSR Report explains our policies, tenant buildings in 40 countries (including acquisitions). factor for the fuel used. procedures, programs and performance on our material, Temenos’ energy reporting and corresponding Scope 1 environmental, social and governance (ESG) issue and 2 emissions cover the time period from 1 December Energy and emissions calculations follow the areas as well as how we address other important CSR 2018 to 30 November 2019. In 2019, we measured Greenhouse Gas Protocol with reference to ISO issues. We welcome your feedback on the activities and and reported 99% of the total energy consumption and 14064:2006 –‘Greenhouse gases, Part 1: Specification programs described in the report, as well as the issues GHG emissions, excluding only a few individual small with guidance at the organization level for quantification you expect to see addressed in the future. Please email offices with limited headcount (10 people or less). The and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and your comments to the below address. energy consumption of these offices represents actual removals. In the report, the metric ton/UK ton equivalent consumption as reported on invoices from utility providers to 1,000 kilograms is stated solely as ton. Emissions are and management companies. calculated based on the miles flown using one DEFRA Kalliopi Chioti emissions’ factor. All emissions figures are in tons of Director of Sustainability and Social Responsibility Our water consumption covers 72% of the total Temenos carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2e). population (excluding population working in serviced Tel.: +30 211 1094604 offices with less than ten employees). The data do not csr@temenos.com include recently acquired Kony. 086 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Independent assurance report To the Board of Directors of Temenos Grant Thornton responsibility Independence The Board of Directors of Temenos AG (the “Company”) Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance Grant Thornton implements the requirements of engaged “GRANT THORNTON S.A. CHARTERED engagement and to express our conclusions based on International Standard on Quality Control 1. Based ACCOUNTANTS MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS” the procedures carried out for the selected data, as on this, Grant Thornton maintains an integrated quality (“Grant Thornton”) to review selected non-financial/ described in the “Scope” section. control system that includes policies and procedures for sustainability data included in the Annual Report of compliance with moral principles, professional standards Temenos (in section Operating Responsibly) for the fiscal The procedures we carried out were designed to and relevant legal and regulatory requirements. We year ended on 31 December 2019 (“selected data”), provide limited assurance, as specified in ISAE 3000, comply with the independence requirements and in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative based on which we have shaped the conclusion to our other ethical standards of the IFAC Code of Ethics for (GRI) Standards (“GRI-Standards”). For the purposes engagement. These procedures are not as extensive Professional Accountants of the International Ethics of this Report, Temenos encompasses the 68 offices as those required for providing reasonable assurance; Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which which operates in 40 countries. There is an exception consequently, a lower level of assurance is obtained. is based on the fundamental principles of integrity, to the environmental data presented in the Report, as Our responsibility is limited to the information related to impartiality, professional adequacy, confidentiality the Company measured and reported 99% of the total the fiscal year that ended on 31 December 2019, as and professional conduct. In this context, the assurance energy consumption and GHG emissions, excluding these were included in the Temenos Annual Report 2019. team is independent from the Company and has not only a few individual small offices with limited headcount participated in the preparation of the Temenos Annual (10 people or less). To the extent it is permitted by the legislation in force, we Report 2019. neither accept nor assume any responsibility for our Scope engagement or this report towards anyone other than the Conclusion We performed our engagement in accordance with Company, unless the terms have been agreed explicitly Based on the procedures performed and evidence International Standard on Assurance Engagements in writing, with our prior consent. obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or us to believe that there are any errors or misstatements Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE Limitations that would materially affect the sustainability disclosures 3000”), in order to provide limited level assurance • To conduct our work, we relied exclusively on the (including explanatory notes and relevant references) opinion on the selected non-financial/sustainability data information provided to us by Temenos executives, as presented in the Annual Report of Temenos for the of the Annual Report 2019, with regard to: which we accepted in good faith as being complete, year ended 31 December 2019. Moreover, nothing accurate, real and not misleading. Therefore, we did has come to our attention that causes us to believe that • The “In accordance” – Core adherence related to not submit it to any verification procedures, apart from the sustainability data presented, are not prepared, in GRI Standards. the procedures explicitly stated in our Report and all material aspects, in accordance with the criteria • The completeness and accuracy of quantitative data which arise from our mutually agreed methodology. mentioned above, in the “Scope” section. and the plausibility of statements related to GRI 102: • Our engagement was limited to the English version of General Disclosures. the report. • The completeness and accuracy of the GRI Topic • No work has been conducted on data for previous Marilena Bouzoura specific Standards on fifteen (15) material issues reporting periods, as well as on data related to Athens, 18 March 2020 (Disclosures 201-1, 203-1, 204-1, 205-2, 302-1, forecasts and targets. The Chartered Accountant 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 308-1, 401-1, 404-1, • No work has been conducted on anything other than CPA (GR) Reg. No.30511 404-3, 405-1, 414-1), as well as the two (2) specific the agreed scope and consequently, our opinion is Grant Thornton Temenos’ indicators. limited to that scope. • The completeness and accuracy of quantitative data and the plausibility of statements that correspond to Work conducted the aforementioned fifteen (15) material issues and We conducted our work so as to collect all the data, the two (2) specific Temenos’ indicators, against the relevant documentation, information and explanations requirements of GRI 103 Standards “Management we considered necessary as to the selected data Approach”. described in the “Scope” section. The procedures followed with regard to the selected data included: Management responsibility The Temenos Management is responsible for • Read the Annual Report 2019 (in its entirety) to ensure the preparation and presentation of the selected it is in accordance with the guidelines and reporting sustainability data provided to us, as incorporated in the principles of GRI Standards. Annual Report 2019, as well as for the completeness and • Interview key personnel responsible for the accuracy of these data. Furthermore, the Management preparation of the “Operating Responsibly” section is responsible for maintaining records and adequate of the Annual Report 2019, providing the sustainability internal controls that are designed to support the performance information, in order to understand and reporting process. evaluate processes, internal controls and information systems related to the data included in the Report. • Review and assessment of the processes and controls used to collect, aggregate, validate and report the data; • Perform sample-based audits on the collected data, conversion factors and formulas, where required. • Review of the GRI Content Index, as well as the relevant references included therein, against our scope of work. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 087 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Our commitments strongly align with the UN SDGs. We support the UN SDGs and publicly report ways in which we are contributing to the global effort to achieve the SDGs. a/a Temenos material Relevant Relevant Relevant SDG More issue SDGs SDG target indicator information 1 Business performance 8.2 8.2.1, 9. B. 9.4.1 Revenue, Value added, Net value added 9.4 9.B 2 Ethical Business Conduct and 16.5 16.5.2 D.2.2 Average number of hours of training in antiGovernance corruption issues per employee per year (as total hours of training in anti-corruption issues per year divided by total employees) 3 Diversity and inclusion 5.5 5.5.2 Number of women in managerial positions to total number of employees (in terms of headcount or FTE) 4 Talent and Development 4.3 4.3.1 Training & development – Training hours by gender & departments 5 Human Rights 5.5 5.5.2 Number and percentage of women board members 8.8 8.8.2 Number of employees covered by collective agreements to total employees (in terms of headcount or FTE) 6 Client Engagement n/a 7 Information Security and Data 16.10 n/a Total number of substantiated complaints received Privacy concerning breaches of customer privacy 8 Responsible Procurement 9.3 9.3.1 Proportion of procurement spending of a reporting entity at local suppliers in percentage terms 9 Community Investment and 17.17 17.17.1 Total amount of charitable/voluntary donations and Employee Volunteering investments of funds (both capital expenditure and operating ones) in the broader community where the target beneficiaries are external to the enterprise incurred in the reporting period in absolute amount and in percentage terms 10 Raising Environmental Awareness 13.3 Environmental policy, Awareness and Management 13.B Energy Efficiency and Carbon Neutrality Sustainable and Carbon Neutral Event Planning 11 Energy Efficiency and Carbon 7.2 7.2.1 Energy consumption & GHG emissions Neutrality 7.3 7.3.1 12 Technology and Product 9.5 9.5.1 Total amount of expenditures on research and Innovation development by the reporting entity during the reporting period in percentage terms 13 Financial inclusion 1.4 & 9.3 Number of MSMEs and/or smallholders who have benefited from the Company’s investments to upgrade production and services along the value chain. Provide details on value created for poorest stakeholders • Inclusion of MSMEs into value chain and local purchasing • Innovative financing mechanisms • Financial inclusion 088 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements UN Global Compact Index The table below describes the location of relevant report content for each of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Principle Description Report section GRI standards Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Investing in Our People 412-2 proclaimed human rights; and 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Investing in Our People 414-1 Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Investing in Our People 102-41 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Investing in Our People 409-1 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Investing in Our People 406-1 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Investing in Our People 102-8, 401-1, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, and occupation. 406-1 Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 308-1 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally – Operating Responsibly 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 308-1 friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Operating Responsibly 102-16, 102-17, 205-2, 205-3 extortion and bribery. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 089 GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The table below describes the location of relevant report content correlating to the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards. While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include Temenos Business Code of Conduct, Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and our corporate website: www.temenos.com. General External disclosures Reference assurance Organizational profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization Annual Report: Overview; About Temenos v General Disclosures 2019 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Annual Report: Overview; About Temenos v and services 102-3 Location of headquarters About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v Governance, Financial Statements 102-4 Location of operations About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v Governance, Financial Statements 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v Governance, Financial Statements 102-6 Markets served About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v Governance, Financial Statements 102-7 Scale of the organization About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v Governance, Financial Statements 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Investing in Our People; no seasonal variations v 102-9 Supply chain Responsible Procurement v 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply About Temenos; About this Report; Annual Report: Overview, v chain Governance, Financial Statements 102-11 Precautionary principle Environmental Responsibility v or approach 102-12 External initiatives Our Endorsements v 102-13 Membership of associations Our Endorsements v Strategy GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior Message from the CEO v General Disclosures decision-maker 2019 Ethics and integrity GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Temenos Culture; Ethical Business Conduct and Governance v General Disclosures 2019 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical Business Conduct and Governance 090 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements General External disclosures Reference assurance Governance GRI 102: 102-18 Governance Structure Annual Report: Governance v General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating Authority Annual Report: Governance 2019 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Annual Report: Governance environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Annual Report: Governance committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report: Governance 102-25 Conflicts of Interest Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability About this Report reporting 102-35 Remuneration Policies Annual Report: Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report: Governance 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Annual Report: Governance Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement v General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee Relations v 2019 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement v 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement v 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement; Materiality Analysis v Reporting practice GRI 102: 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About this Report v General Disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Report; Materiality Analysis v 2019 102-47 List of material topics About this Report; Materiality Analysis v 102-48 Restatements of information About this Report v 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report v 102-50 Reporting period About this Report v 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report; March 2018 v 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report; Annual v 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report; Contact v 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI content index; Core v Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index; Core v 102-56 GRI External assurance Independent Assurance Report v Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 091 GRI content index continued Material External topics Reference assurance Business performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Annual Report: Financial Statements v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Annual Report: Financial Statements v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Annual Report: Financial Statements v approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Economic Impact; Annual Report: Financial Statements v Economic Performance generated and distributed 2019 201-3 Defined benefit plan Annual Report: Governance, Financial Statements obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received Economic Impact from government Social responsibility and community investment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Community Investment; Responsible Procurement v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Community Investment; Responsible Procurement v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Community Investment; Responsible Procurement v management approach GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Community Investment v Economic Impacts services supported 2019 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on Responsible Procurement v Practices 2019 local suppliers 092 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Material External topics Reference assurance Ethical business conduct and governance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of v Management topic and its Boundaries Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Approach 2019 Responsibility 103-2 The management approach Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of v and its components Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Responsibility 103-3 Evaluation of the management Anti-Corruption and Bribery; Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of v approach Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting; Environmental Responsibility GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training Anti-Corruption and Bribery v Corruption 2019 about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Anti-Corruption and Bribery corruption and actions taken GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of non-discrimination Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of Harassment; Ethical Business Conduct Non-Discrimination and corrective actions taken Monitoring and Reporting 2019 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-Compliance with laws Environmental Responsibility Socioeconomic and regulations in the social and Compliance economic area 2019 Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Environmental Responsibility v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Environmental Responsibility v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Environmental Responsibility v approach GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within Environmental Responsibility v Energy 2019 the organization Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Environmental Responsibility v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Environmental Responsibility v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Environmental Responsibility v approach GRI 303: Water 2019 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental Responsibility v Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 093 GRI content index continued Material External topics Reference assurance Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Environmental Responsibility v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Environmental Responsibility v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Environmental Responsibility v approach GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Environmental Responsibility v Emissions emissions 2019 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Environmental Responsibility v GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Environmental Responsibility v GHG emissions Responsible procurement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Responsible Procurement v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Responsible Procurement v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Responsible Procurement v approach GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 Percentage of new Responsible Procurement v Environment suppliers that were screened using Assessment 2019 environmental criteria GRI 414: Supplier 414-1 New Suppliers that were Responsible Procurement v Social Assessment screened using social criteria 2019 Talent & development GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Talent and Development v Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Talent and Development v and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Talent and Development v management approach GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per Talent and Development v Education 2019 year per employee 404-3 Percentage of employees Talent and Development v receiving regular performance and career development reviews 094 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Material External topics Reference assurance Diversity & inclusion GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Inclusion v Management topic and its Boundaries and Equal Opportunity Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Inclusion v and its components and Equal Opportunity 103-3 Evaluation of the management Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard; Diversity, Inclusion v approach and Equal Opportunity GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and Investing in Our People; Diversity Dashboard v Employment 2019 employee turnover GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity; Diversity Dashboard v Equal Opportunity bodies and employees 2019 Human rights GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Corporate Policies Management topic and its Boundaries Approach 2019 103-2 The management approach Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Corporate Policies and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor; Corporate Policies approach GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor Child Labor 2019 significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Human Rights; Against Forced and Child Labor Compulsory Labor significant risk for incidents of forced 2019 or compulsory labor GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human Human Rights; Corporate Policies Assessment 2019 rights policies or procedures Data privacy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Information Security and Data Privacy Approach 2019 topic and its Boundaries 103-2 The management approach Information Security and Data Privacy and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management Information Security and Data Privacy approach GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints Information Security and Data Privacy Privacy 2019 concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Technology and innovation Temenos 1 % of revenue spend on R&D Annual Report: Overview – Research and Development v Client focus Temenos 2 Client Satisfaction: improvement by Focus on Client Engagement v % points Client Voice: Number of participants Focus on Client Engagement v annually and Net Promoter score Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 095 Board of Directors FORWARD-LOOKING LEADERSHIP 1 2 Andreas Andreades 1 Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio 2 Executive Chairman Vice-Chairman Cypriot, born in 1965 Independent and Non-Executive Director After early careers with KPMG in London Swiss, born in 1949 and Pepsico, Mr. Andreas Andreades joined Temenos in 1999, initially in the Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio has served since position of Chief Financial Officer, before 2009 in multiple public and private assuming the responsibilities of the Deputy company Boards, after retiring from Chief Executive Officer in 2001 and then Oracle Corporation where he had been 3 4 the Chief Executive’s role from July 2003 a Company Officer and Executive Vice until July 2011, when he was appointed President for Europe, Middle East and Chairman of the Board of Directors. In Africa since 2000. Since 2009 until July 2012 he was appointed Executive 2019 he was an Operating Partner with Chairman of the Temenos Board of Advent International, a leading global Directors. Since he joined Temenos, the Private Equity company. He was most Company has grown from less than 150 recently Chairman of the Supervisory employees to more than 8,000 and Board of Oberthur Technologies Group, to more than 3,000 clients generating Paris from April 2013 until May 2017. approximately USD 1 billion in annual Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Mr. revenues and achieving a market Giacoletto-Roggio was President, Value 5 6 capitalization of circa USD 12 billion, Added Services for Europe at AT&T. establishing it as the global leader in Earlier in his career, Mr. Giacolettobanking software. Since 2003 the market Roggio spent 20 years with Digital capitalization of Temenos has grown by Equipment Corporation in various senior 298 times or a compound average of management and executive roles in 40% per annum. services, sales, marketing and information management. Mr. Andreades holds a Master’s engineering degree from the University Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio holds a Master of Cambridge and is a United Kingdom Degree in Computer Science from the qualified chartered accountant. University of Turin, Italy. 7 8 As Executive Chairman Mr. Andreades supports, advises, counsels and provides 3 guidance to the Executive Committee. He George Koukis  provides guidance and support directly Non-Executive Director to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Greek and Australian, born in 1946 Financial Officer on a regular basis. He also attends the monthly Product Board As founder of Temenos, Mr. George where product strategy and funding are Koukis was Chairman of the Board of decided and execution is monitored. Directors until July 2011. The Chairman is very heavily involved in acquisitions and in key client/prospect Mr. Koukis has been active in the relationships that often require the Chief software industry for more than 40 Executive Officer and/or Chairman’s years, having begun at Qantas where participation to bring key deals to fruition he was heavily involved with the as well as representing Temenos on computerization of the company’s key project deliveries through Steering management accounting department. committee representation. He therefore He then spent six years with Management works full time in an executive capacity Science America in Australia where he and is jointly responsible together with held various management positions, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief including managing director. Mr. Koukis Financial Officer to the Board of Directors holds a degree in Commerce from the for the development and delivery of the University of Technology in Sydney, strategic plan and the annual business Australia and is a registered Certified and financial plan. Practising Accountant (CPA). Mr. Koukis is currently Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Classical Opera, a nonprofit organization based in the United Kingdom and is a Board member in eight private companies operating mainly in IT and Green Technologies. Mr. Koukis is a Fellow of King’s College London and he is also an Adjunct Professor at the University of Technology Sydney, Australia. 096 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Ian Cookson  4 Erik Hansen  6 Peter Spenser 8 Independent and Independent and Independent and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Swiss, born in 1947 Danish, born in 1952 British and American, born in 1954 Mr. Ian Cookson has been active in the Mr. Erik Hansen is a recognized software Dr. Peter Spenser has over 39 years of financial services sector for over 30 years industry veteran with over 30 years of experience in the financial services sector and has built one of the most efficient IT experience as a senior executive at and technology. operations in Private Banking worldwide. leading software companies. Until June 2016 he was a senior Partner Mr. Cookson acted as Chief Operating Mr. Hansen has previously been at Deloitte Consulting in the US where Officer of EFG International and Chairman of Myriad Group AG (2012in addition to serving a number of major a member of the Executive Committee 2018) and has served as CEO and Board clients (Global Banks, Brokerages and until September 2007, and he was Member at Day Software (2008-2011) Wealth and Asset Managers), he led previously a member of the Executive which was acquired by Adobe in 2010. a number of practice areas including Committee of EFG Bank (since 2002). Prior to this, Mr. Hansen held several senior the Investment Management practice Prior to this, Mr. Cookson was the Deputy leadership roles at companies including and also the Global Financial Services Chief Executive Officer of EFG Bank TIBCO Software (2000-2004), Siemens IT and Data Analytics practices. Prior to (1997-2002), Chief Operating Officer Pyramid Technology Inc. (1997-2000) this he was Director of Engineering at of Banque de Dépôts, Geneva and Apple (1990-1994), both in Europe AcquiData, Inc. which he co-founded (1991-1997) and the Head of and in the United States. (1985-1990), Director of Software Management Services of CBI-TDB Systems at Magnaflux, Inc. (1982-1985) Union Bancaire Privée (1986-1991). Mr. Hansen holds a degree from the and a developer/analyst at Logica business college in Horsens, Denmark. (1979-1982). 5 Dr. Spenser holds a BA and MA in Thibault de Tersant 7 Theoretical Physics from Cambridge Independent and Amy Yip Independent and University and a Ph.D. in Astrophysics Non-Executive Director from University College London. Non-Executive Director French, born in 1957 Chinese (Hong Kong), born in 1951 Mr. Thibault de Tersant is a member of the Board of Dassault Systèmes and has Ms. Amy Yip has over 40 years of been executive vice president and CFO experience in global financial markets of the company since 1988 and Senior covering different aspects of the industry. EVP since 2006. He was named Senior She is currently a Partner of RAYS Capital executive vice-president and General Partners Limited, an independent and nonSecretary in January 2018. executive director of AIG Hong Kong, an independent non-executive director During his tenure in Dassault Systèmes, of Fidelity Funds Board, a member of the Mr. de Tersant, who, as CFO, managed Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse an organization in charge of Finance, AG, and independent non-executive Legal, Sales Administration, Pricing, director of Prudential plc. Contracts Negotiations, Internal Control and M&A, has conducted Ms. Yip began her career at the more than 80 successful acquisitions Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of totalling around USD 5 billion. He New York (1978-1985), going on to oversaw Dassault Systèmes’ successful hold progressively senior appointments initial public offering on the Paris and at Rothschild Asset Management Nasdaq stock exchanges in 1996, as (1988-1991) and Citibank Private Bank well as a secondary offering in 1997. (1991-1996). Mr. de Tersant, in his capacity of General Ms. Yip also served as a Director of Secretary is responsible for new business Vitagreen, Hong Kong (2011 to 2018), models definition, pricing, corporate as an Advisor of Vitagreen, Hong Kong structure and governance, compliance, (since 2019) and an Executive Director internal audit and various business of Reserves Management at the Hong assignments. He has more than 30 years Kong Monetary Authority from 1996 to of experience in the software industry. 2006, where she was responsible for the Mr. Thibault de Tersant is a graduate of investment of the assets of the Exchange the ESSEC Business School and of the Fund of Hong Kong. In 2006, Ms. Yip Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris. returned to the private sector as the Chief Executive Officer of DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (2006 to 2010), where she was concurrently Head of the Wealth Management Group at DBS Bank. Ms. Yip was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in July 2000. Ms. Yip holds an MBA from Harvard Business School and a BA from Brown University. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 097 Executive Committee EXPERT MANAGEMENT 1 2 Max Chuard 1 Panagiotis “Takis” 2 Chief Executive Officer Spiliopoulos Swiss, born in 1973 Chief Financial Officer Greek, born in 1970 Mr. Max Chuard has been serving as CEO of Temenos since 2019 and is Before being appointed CFO in 2019, responsible for the company’s strategic Mr. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos was direction and growth. He brings more Head of Research and member of the than 20 years of technology and global Investment Banking management team leadership expertise to the company. at leading Swiss bank Vontobel, where 3 4 he successfully built the #1 franchise in He has been instrumental in positioning Swiss equities over the last ten years, as Temenos as the World’s Number 1 recognized by Thomson Extel. He has Banking Software company and driving been advising institutional clients as key the next generation of cloud and AIopinion leader on technology investments. based solutions. An inspiring thought Before that, he led the technology leader, Mr. Chuard speaks regularly research practice at the same bank and at large scale events and is a strong had the lead on numerous capital market advocate for CSR, diversity and inclusion. transactions. Before joining Vontobel in Mr. Chuard joined Temenos in 2002 2001, Mr. Spiliopoulos was Head of leading the company’s mergers and Investments and Member of the Executive 5 6 Management Board at a venture capital acquisitions strategy and has successfully driven 15 successful transactions including technology where he was responsible Akcelerant, Multifonds, Avoka and Kony. for due diligence, company valuation, In 2012 he became Chief Financial investment proposal, deal negotiations Officer of Temenos and in 2015 he and setup of deal structure. was appointed Chief Operating Officer Before switching to the investment side in addition to his Chief Financial Officer in 1999, Mr. Spiliopoulos worked as role. During his time at Temenos, the management and technology consultant company has increased its market value for leading international players, among from USD 700 million to in excess of others Accenture (formerly Andersen USD 12 billion becoming the fourthConsulting, where he started his career largest software company in Europe in 1995), advising financial institutions and one of the fastest growing global on strategy and information technology technology organizations. matters, including the implementation of Mr. Chuard began his career as a new processes and applications. business analyst at JP Morgan and Mr. Spiliopoulos holds a Master’s subsequently held a senior position at Degree in Computer Science and SWICORP, a Swiss merchant bank. Business Economics from the Swiss Mr. Chuard holds a Master’s of Science Federal Institute of Technology in Finance from the University of Lausanne. (ETH Zürich), Switzerland. He also holds an Executive MBA and a degree in financial analysis (CEFA/EFFAS). 098 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Mark Winterburn  3 Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf 4 Alexa Guenoun 5 Colin Jarrett 6 Chief Product and Technology Officer Chief Operating Officer President of the Americas and Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer British, born in 1960 French, born in 1963 Global Head of Partners British, born in 1969 French, born in 1972 Mr. Mark Winterburn is Chief Product Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was Dr. Colin Jarret is Chief Cloud and and Technology Officer and Member appointed Chief Operating Officer Ms. Alexa Guenoun is President of Delivery Officer and Member of the of the Executive Committee. He of Temenos in February 2019. the Americas and Global Head of Executive Committee. In his current role, is responsible for the product and Mr. Hilsenkopf is one of the original Partners and Member of the Executive he leads Temenos’ SaaS and cloud technology organizations within Temenos. members of the Company, having joined Committee. In her current role, she has business as well as the Company’s global Mr. Winterburn is responsible for in 1993. His deep understanding of the full P&L responsibility, and leads strategy services organization. managing Temenos’ banking software company, its culture, and passion for and customer success for both North products and technology development delivery gives him the vision to drive the and South America. Ms. Guenoun Prior to this role, Dr. Jarrett was as well as leading the overall innovation regional strategy forward. is also leading the Temenos’ Partner the Managing Director of Global agenda. Temenos has always been in organization globally. Client Services and Support and the forefront of technology innovation; it Prior to taking up his current role, before that Global Head of Product was the first company to offer a real-time, Mr. Hilsenkopf was the Chief Revenue Prior to that, Ms. Guenoun was Development at Temenos since 2016. 24x7 banking system, and the first to Officer. He previously held the position of Chief Client Officer at Temenos since He was responsible for driving rapid launch a banking system in the cloud. managing director for Temenos in Europe, 2017 and had responsibility for Services, expansion in development capability, Middle East, Africa and Latin American Partners, Cloud Operations and Support delivering scalability and efficiency, Mr. Winterburn joined Temenos in regions, as well as Temenos Cloud, globally. Ms. Guenoun joined Temenos while maintaining quality and timely 2011 to lead product organization. regional general manager for Europe. in 2006 and has held a number of development of Temenos’ products. He has over 40 years’ experience in IT, Mr. Hilsenkopf has also successfully leadership roles within sales and over 30 of them in financial services. integrated several acquired companies, business development including the Dr. Jarrett joined Temenos in 2016 from Prior to joining Temenos, Mr. Winterburn such as Odyssey and Viveo. Before role of Regional Director for French Accenture where he was Managing held the position of VP Solutions joining Temenos, Mr. Hilsenkopf worked Speaking Territories. Director. He has spent 20 years working Management & Product Development as a consultant in the banking sector. in large-scale technology delivery at Finastra, and held a number of senior Ms. Guenoun has over 20 years of projects across the financial services positions at Lloyds TSB, with a proven Mr. Hilsenkopf holds an MBA in experience in global banking technology industry with Accenture and has extensive track record of driving large and complex international marketing from the University having worked in Luxembourg, Hong experience of global delivery. Dr. Jarrett IT change programs. of Geneva, Switzerland as well as a Kong, Singapore and New York. Prior spent five years working in India building Master degree in Computer Engineering to joining Temenos, she held a number the Financial Services Delivery Excellence He has studied Leadership, Product, from the Polytech of Clermont-Ferrand, of positions at Finastra including Head practice and five years in the Philippines Cultural and Change Management France. of Regional Business Development leading the Banking and Payments at Harvard Business School, for APAC. Technology Delivery group. Cranfield University and Henley Management School. Ms. Guenoun holds a Bachelor’s Degree Dr. Jarrett holds a Ph.D. from Cambridge in Marketing and Finance from the University where he studied Condensed Mr. Winterburn studied a Software American BBA INSEEC in Paris. Matter Physics and was elected as a Engineering diploma at Coventry bye-fellow of Magdalene College. He University, England. is also a named inventor holding patents both with Accenture and Philips. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 099 Corporate governance GOVERNING THE GROUP Our governance framework General meeting of shareholders Main responsibilities: l Approves the annual financial statements; l Elects the members of the Board of Directors and of the Compensation Committee; l Approves the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee; and l Adopts and amends the Articles of Association. Board of Directors Main responsibilities: l Chaired by the Executive Chairman whose role is defined on page 106; l Approves the strategy of the Group; l Appoints and oversees the members of the Executive Committee; and l Approves acquisitions and major investments. Chief Executive Officer Main responsibilities: l Is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the Group; and l Chairs the Executive Committee. Executive Committee Main responsibilities: l Develops the three year strategic plan of the Group and monitors performance against it; l Submits to the Board of Directors proposed acquisitions, divestments and product capex investments; and l Deals with any other matters as assigned by the Board of Directors. Compensation Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: l Recommends to the Board of Directors compensation l Reviews and challenges where necessary, the actions l Reviews the structure, size and composition practices and policies that are equitable, performance and judgments of management, in relation to the of the Board of Directors; based and in line with market norms; financial statements; l Establishes the qualification criteria for Board l Reviews the competitiveness of the executive l Reviews the internal controls environment of Directors membership; compensation programs; and risk management framework; l Reviews and proposes to the Board of Directors l Submits to the Board of Directors proposals for l Oversees CSR & Ethics matters; candidates to be recommended for election; and approval by the Annual General Meeting of l Monitors the performance and effectiveness l Considers succession planning for both Board of Shareholders of the total compensation of the Board of the internal audit function; and Directors and Executive Committee members. of Directors and of the Executive Committee members; l Reviews the findings of the external audit reports and and monitors their implementation. l Prepares the Compensation Report to be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. 100 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Introduction 1. Group structure and shareholders This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directive on Information 1.1 Group structure Relating to Corporate Governance as at 1 May 2018 (DCG) available at The ultimate holding company, Temenos AG, is registered in Geneva, where the https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/dam/downloads/regulation/ Group is also headquartered. admission-manual/directives/06_16-DCG_en.pdf, its Guidelines available at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/dam/downloads/publication/ 1.1.1 The Temenos Group is organized and managed by the Chief Executive Officer obligations/guidelines/guideline-dcg-en.pdf and with the Ordinance against who is heading and supported by the Executive Committee. Excessive Remuneration in Listed Companies limited by Shares as at 1 January 2014 (OaEC) available at https://www.admin.ch/opc/fr/classifiedAs of the publication date of this Annual Report, the Executive Committee is compilation/20132519/index.html. composed of the following members: In the present Annual Report, the corporate governance information has been summarized in a separate section, whereas references to other parts of the Annual Max Chuard Report have been included in an effort to avoid duplication. Chief Executive Officer In order to enhance readability, the present corporate governance section follows the suggested structure as described in the annex of the DCG. Panagiotis “Takis” Mark Winterburn There are some references to the Articles of Association and to the Organization Spiliopoulos bylaws of the Company; both documents are available at http://www.temenos. Chief Product and com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/corporate-governance/. Chief Financial Officer Technology Officer Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in this report reflects the situation as of 31 December 2019. Alexa Guenoun Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf Temenos AG (formerly named Temenos Group AG) is hereinafter referred to as President of the Americas and ‘the Company’. Chief Operating Officer Global Head of Partners Temenos AG and its affiliated companies are hereinafter referred to as ‘Temenos Group’, ‘Temenos’ or ‘the Group’. The executive management of the Group is hereinafter referred to as Colin Jarrett ‘the Executive Committee’. Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer Governance dashboard The Group is managed using a matrix of regional and global business functions incorporating activities of sales, service operations, product development, product Executive Chairman management, services management, marketing, key client relationship management remuneration mix and product support functions. Fixed fee/salary 11% Other compensation 2% The Group’s product sales and services operations are divided into five main Variable short term incentives 8% geographic regions: LTIP earned 26% LTIP not yet earned 53% ● Europe; Read more on page 120 ● Middle East and Africa; Total compensation at risk 86% ● Asia Pacific; ● North America; and Executive Committee ● Latin America and Caribbean. remuneration mix Temenos being a truly global multi-product company leverages skills from around the Fixed salary 13% world, having its principal software development facilities in Chennai, Bangalore and Other compensation 2% Hyderabad (India). The Group has additional software development facilities in the Variable short term incentives 10% United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, Romania, Belgium, LTIP earned 25% Luxembourg, Australia, Ecuador and China. LTIP not yet earned 50% Read more on page 121 1.1.2 Temenos AG is the sole listed company of the Group. Total compensation at risk 85% Name Temenos AG Meetings held in 2019 Domicile 2 Rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie 1205 Board of Directors 8 Geneva, Switzerland Audit Committee 4 Listed at SIX Swiss Exchange Compensation Committee 4 First listing date 26 June 2001 Nomination Committee 3 Market capitalization CHF 11,146,443,791* Security Number 1245391 ISIN number CH0012453913 Symbol TEMN Reuters TEMN.S Bloomberg TEMN SW * Based on the issued share capital as of 31.12.2019 composed of 72,757,466 shares. Please refer to the Information for Investors’ section on page 198 for statistics on Temenos shares. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 101 Corporate governance continued 1.1.3 Please find below the main non-listed companies belonging to the Group as of 31.12.2019: (All companies are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Temenos AG, unless otherwise indicated. A complete list of all companies belonging to the Group is available in the note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.) Name Domicile Country of incorporation Share capital Avoka (Germany) GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Avoka (USA), Inc. Broomfield USA 0.1 USD Avoka Europe Limited London United Kingdom 1,900,199 GBP Avoka Technologies Pty Limited Manly Australia 43,561,356.50 AUD Avoka Technologies Canada Inc. Vancouver Canada 100 shares (no par value) Edge IPK Limited London United Kingdom 2,764 GBP Financial Objects (UK) Limited London United Kingdom 466,667 GBP Financial Objects Limited London United Kingdom 950,528 GBP hTrunk Software Solutions Private Limited Bangalore India 100,000 INR Igefi France Sàrl Paris France 7,500 EUR Igefi Group Sàrl Strassen Luxembourg 31,000 EUR Igefi Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 1,000 HKD Igefi Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 100 EUR Igefi Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 20,000 SGD Igefi UK Limited London United Kingdom 5,000 GBP Kony, Inc. Wilmington USA 1 USD Kony India Private Limited Hyderabad India 33,468,980 INR Kony IT Services Private Limited Hyderabad India 20,098,900 INR Kony Marketing Services Private Limited Hyderabad India 3,700,000 INR Kony Services, Inc. Dover USA 0.001 USD Kony Services India LLP Hyderabad India 6,000,000 INR Kony Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 1 USD Kony Solutions BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,000 EUR Kony Solutions Limited Port-Louis Mauritius 676,466 USD Logical Glue Limited London United Kingdom 623.63 GBP Odyssey Financial Technologies PLC London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Odyssey Financial Technologies SA La Hulpe Belgium 62,000 EUR Odyssey Group SA Bertrange Luxembourg 21,904,670 EUR Rubik ESOP Trusco Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik IP Holdings Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik Mortgages Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Sky Technologies Pty Limited Mulgrave Australia 12 AUD Sky Technologies Consulting Pty Limited Mulgrave Australia 10 AUD Sky Technologies Holdings Pty Limited Mulgrave Australia 1,344,293.80 AUD Stargate Information Systems Pty Limited Sydney Australia 261 AUD Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Shah Alam Malaysia 500,000 MYR Temenos (NL) BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,152 EUR Temenos (Thailand) Co. Limited Bangkok Thailand 100,000,000 THB Temenos Africa (Pty) Limited Sandton South Africa 100 ZAR Temenos Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 2 AUD Temenos Australia Financial Pty Limited Sydney Australia 85,977,680 AUD Temenos Australia Messaging Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Temenos Australia Operations Pty Limited Sydney Australia 7,500,181 AUD Temenos Australia Services Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Temenos Australia Technology Solutions Pty Limited Sydney Australia 1 AUD Temenos Belgium SA La Hulpe Belgium 200,000 EUR Temenos Bulgaria EOOD Sofia Bulgaria 10,000 BGN Temenos Canada Inc. Vancouver Canada 560,586 shares (no par value) Temenos Cloud Americas LLC Wilmington USA No par value Temenos Cloud Switzerland SA Geneva Switzerland 100,000 CHF Temenos Denmark ApS Copenhagen Denmark 50,000 DKK Temenos Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Temenos East Africa Limited Nairobi Kenya 10,000 KES Temenos Ecuador SA Quito Ecuador 672,000 USD Temenos Egypt LLC Cairo Egypt 200 EGP Temenos Finance Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 4,767,600,001 HKD Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sàrl Bertrange Luxembourg 37,500 EUR Temenos FOFL Limited (fka Fairs Limited) London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Temenos FOGT Limited (fka Genisys Technology Limited) London United Kingdom 51,505 GBP Temenos France SAS Paris France 500,000 EUR Temenos Headquarters SA Geneva Switzerland 100,000 CHF Temenos Hellas SA Athens Greece 105,000 EUR Temenos Hispania SL Madrid Spain 10,000 EUR 102 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos Holdings France SAS Paris France 28,010,000 EUR Temenos Holdings Limited Road Town British Virgin Islands 40,105 USD Temenos Holdings USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 1 USD Temenos Holland BV Amsterdam Netherlands 19,000 EUR Temenos Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 2 HKD Temenos India Private Limited Chennai India 2,962,000 INR Temenos Investments BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,000 EUR Temenos Israel Limited Ramat Gan Israel 100 NIS Temenos Japan KK Tokyo Japan 10,000,000 JPY Temenos Kazakhstan LLP Almaty Kazakhstan 14,400,000 KZT Temenos Korea Limited Seoul Republic of Korea 50,000,000 KRW Temenos Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 1,181,250 EUR Temenos Mexico SA de CV Mexico City Mexico 10,760,900 MXN Temenos Middle East Limited Nicosia Cyprus 17,100 EUR Temenos North Africa LLC Casablanca Morocco 10,000 MAD Temenos Philippines, Inc. Makati City Philippines 10,000,000 PHP Temenos Polska Sp. Zo.o Warsaw Poland 100,000 PLN Temenos Romania SRL Bucharest Romania 120,000 RON Temenos Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 65,010,000 SGD Temenos Singapore FT Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 1 SGD Temenos Software Brasil Limitada Sao Paulo Brazil 150,000 BRL Temenos Software Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 29,500,000 EUR Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Limited Shanghai China 140,000 USD Temenos Solutions Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 439,195,301 AUD Temenos Systems Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 4 EUR Temenos UK Limited London United Kingdom 2,198,844 GBP Temenos USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 1 USD Temenos Vietnam Company Limited Hanoi Vietnam 890,000,000 VND Viveo France SAS Paris France 5,300,000 EUR Viveo Group SAS Paris France 16,248,900 EUR Wealth Management Systems Limited London United Kingdom 525,000 GBP 1.2 Significant shareholders Please find below the list of shareholders who hold more than 3% of the voting rights as of 31 December 2019 as per information that has been published on the reporting and publication platform of the Disclosure Office of SIX Swiss Exchange pursuant to Art. 120 ff. of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act. Beneficial owner Number of voting rights Percentage of share capital Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 7,695,000 10.83% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7,105,217 10.00% BlackRock, Inc.1 3,512,000 4.94% T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.2 3,489,446 4.91% Baillie Gifford & Co3 2,943,011 4.14% Amundi Asset Management4 2,823,604 3.97% (1) Out of this number, 524,167 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. (2) Out of this number, 3,489,446 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. (3) Out of this number, 2,943,011 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. (4) Out of this number, 40,911 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be exercised at one’s own discretion. Based on the registered capital as of 31.12.2019 composed of 71,044,267 shares. For more recent information on major shareholders, please refer to page 198. Disclosure notifications made in accordance with Article 120 ff. of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act are publicly available on the SIX website at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html?companyId=TEMENOS. 1.3 Cross-shareholdings There are no cross-shareholdings to report. 2. Capital structure 2.1 Capital On 31 December 2019, the registered ordinary share capital amounted to CHF 355,221,335 consisting of 71,044,267 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. All the shares are fully paid-up. Each recorded share with voting rights entitles its holder to one vote. The Company has an authorized capital totaling CHF 35,500,000 and a conditional capital totaling CHF 34,028,285 for shares that may be issued on the exercising of share options granted to employees of the Group. Additional conditional capital totaling CHF 33,039,520 exists for shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 103 Corporate governance continued 2.2 Authorized and Conditional capital The Board of Directors shall be authorized to restrict or exclude the advance Authorized capital subscription rights of shareholders: (1) if debt issues in connection with conversion Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3ter), the Board of Directors is rights or warrants or other financial instruments or options issues are for the purpose authorized to increase the share capital by 15 May 2021, by an amount not of financing or refinancing the acquisition of an enterprise, parts of an enterprise, or exceeding CHF 35,500,000 by issuing up to 7,100,000 fully paid-in registered participations or new investments; or (2) if such debt or other financial instruments shares with a nominal value of CHF 5 each. An increase in partial amounts or options are issued on the international capital markets and for the purpose of a is permitted. firm underwriting by a banking institution or a consortium of banks with a subsequent offering to the public; or (3) if such debt or other financial market instruments or The Board of Directors shall determine the date of issue of such new shares, the issue options are issued for the purpose of the participation of strategic Partners. In such price, type of payment, conditions of exercising pre-emptive rights, and the beginning cases, the following shall apply: the terms and conditions of the convertible bonds of the dividend entitlement. The Board of Directors may issue new shares by means of or warrants or other financial instruments or options shall correspond to market a firm underwriting by a banking institution or syndicate with subsequent offer of those conditions (including dilution protection provisions in accordance with market shares. The Board of Directors may allow the expiry of pre-emptive rights which have practice), taking into account the specific situation, and the new shares shall be issued not been exercised or it may place these rights as well as shares, the pre-emptive pursuant to the relevant conversion or exercise rights in connection with bond or rights for which have not been exercised, at market conditions. warrant or options issuance conditions. Conversion rights may be exercised during a maximum ten (10)-year period, and warrants or options may be exercised during The Board of Directors is authorized to restrict or withdraw the pre-emptive rights a maximum seven (7)-year period, in each case from the date of the respective and rights of advance subscription of existing shareholders and allocate them to issuance. third parties if (i) the shares are to be used for the take-over of another company or enterprise, of parts of an enterprise or of participations or for the financing of such 2.3 Changes in capital transactions; or if (ii) the shares are to be used for the purpose of expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and 31.12.19 31.12.18 31.12.17 foreign stock exchanges. CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 Conditional capital for employee participation Issued Ordinary share capital 363,787 355,221 354,250 Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (1)) as at 31 December Remaining Conditional share capital 58,502 67,068 47,767 2019, the share capital may be increased by an amount not exceeding Authorized share capital 35,500 69,500 69,500 CHF 34,028,285 by issuing up to 6,805,657 new registered shares to be fully paid-in with a nominal value of CHF 5 each through the exercise of the rights that the direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Company (the ‘Subsidiaries’) or the Company As at 31 December 2013, the registered share capital amounted to itself may grant to officers, Directors and employees at all levels of the Company CHF 360,115,740 consisting of 72,023,148 registered shares, each with a par and the Subsidiaries. The pre-emptive rights as well as the right for advance value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held subscription of existing shareholders are precluded. on 28 May 2014, the capital was reduced by cancellation of 2,134,786 shares repurchased under a share buyback program. The issue of shares or respective option rights through the Subsidiaries or through the Company to officers, Directors and employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries, As at 31 December 2014, the registered share capital amounted to is subject to one or more regulations to be issued by the Board of Directors on CHF 349,441,810 consisting of 69,888,362 registered shares, each with a par the basis of the following general rules: (i) new shares may only be issued to the value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General Meeting of Shareholders held Subsidiaries or to the Company for purposes of distribution to Directors, officers on 6 May 2015, the capital was reduced by cancellation of 3,270,794 shares or employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries; (ii) new shares to be issued repurchased under a share buyback program. through the Subsidiaries or through the Company to employees of the Company or the Subsidiaries shall be issued against paying-in the nominal value of CHF 5 As at 31 December 2015, the registered share capital amounted to per each share in cash. CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. Conditional capital for financial instruments Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (2)), the share capital As at 31 December 2016, the registered share capital amounted to may be increased by an amount not exceeding CHF 33,039,520, by issuing up CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with a par to 6,607,904 new registered shares to be fully paid-in with a nominal value of value of CHF 5. No change of capital occurred during 2016. CHF 5 each, to be divided as follows: first, for the amount of CHF 8,386,120, that corresponds to 1,677,224 new registered shares, through exercise of On 15 February 2017, the registered share capital was increased to conversion and/or option rights, which are granted in connection with bonds or CHF 348,105,620 consisting of 69,621,124 registered shares, each with a par similar obligations or other financial instruments of the Company or one of its group value of CHF 5, further to the registration of 3,003,556 shares that were created out companies; and second, for the amount of CHF 24,653,400, that corresponds of conditional capital during 2016 (for Employee Share Option Schemes). to 4,930,680 new registered shares, by the exercise of option rights which are granted by the Company or one of its group companies to existing shareholders As at 31 December 2017, the registered share capital amounted to or third parties. In the case of the issuance of bonds, similar obligations, or other CHF 354,249,620 consisting of 70,849,924 registered shares, each with a par financial instruments linked with conversion and/or option rights, and in the case of value of CHF 5 further to the registration on 19 October 2017 of 1,228,800 shares the issuance of option rights, the pre-emptive rights of shareholders are excluded. The that were created out of conditional capital during 2017 (for Employee Share owners of conversion or option rights from time to time are entitled to the new shares. Option Schemes). The conditions of the option rights, including the exercise period and exercise price, As at 31 December 2018, the registered share capital amounted to are to be determined by the Board of Directors, whereby the exercise price may be CHF 355,221,335 consisting of 71,044,267 registered shares, each with a par fixed at a price lower than the market or intrinsic value. value of CHF 5 further to the registration on 17 October 2018 of 194,343 shares that were created out of conditional capital during 2018 (for Employee Share Option Schemes). As at 31 December 2019, the registered share capital amounted to CHF 355,221,335 consisting of 71,044,267 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. No change of capital occurred during 2019. Further to the registration in February 2020 of 1,713,199 shares that were created out of conditional capital during 2019 (for Employee Share Option Schemes), the registered share capital currently amounts to CHF 363,787,330 consisting of 72,757,466 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. 104 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.4 Shares and participation certificates 3. Board of Directors All equity securities of Temenos are in the form of registered shares, each with 3.1 Members of the Board of Directors a par value of CHF 5. Each share confers the right to one vote at the Annual As at 31 December 2019, the Board of Directors comprised the following members: General Meeting of Shareholders and all shares are fully entitled to receive dividends. The Articles of Association do not provide for privileged voting rights Name Position shares. The Company does not issue participation certificates. Andreas Andreades Executive Chairman In compliance with Temenos policy to distribute a growing dividend and taking Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman, Independent and into account the growing maturity of the Group and the strength of future cash Non-Executive Director flows, the Company intends to pay an annual dividend of CHF 0.85 per share George Koukis Non-Executive Director, Temenos founder on 26 May 2020, subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting Ian Cookson Independent and Non-Executive Director of Shareholders on 20 May 2020. The dividend record date will be set on 25 May Thibault de Tersant Independent and Non-Executive Director 2020 with the shares trading ex-dividend on 22 May 2020. According to new Erik Hansen Independent and Non-Executive Director measure introduced by the Swiss Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing Amy Yip Independent and Non-Executive Director (TRAF) effective as from 1 January 2020:, half of the 2019 dividend will be paid Peter Spenser Independent and Non-Executive Director from retained earnings, subject to ordinary Swiss dividend withholding tax rules; the other half will be paid from the reserve from capital contributions and be exempt from As per the press release of 16 October 2019, Dr. Homaira Akbari will be proposed Swiss withholding tax. for election as a new member of the Board of Directors at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 20 May 2020. 2.5 Dividend-right certificates The Company does not issue profit sharing certificates. Please refer to pages 96 and 97 for their biographies. 2.6 Limitations on transferability and nominee registrations Except George Koukis who was Executive Chairman of Temenos until July 2011, There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares. none of the non-executive members of the Board of Directors has or has had any senior management position within the Group, nor any significant business 2.7 Convertible bonds and options connections with the Group. Regarding options please refer to note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 3.2 Other activities and vested interests In April 2013, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value Except those mentioned in the biographies section of this Annual Report, no member of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.75% paid annually on 25 July. The bond of the Board of Directors has any: was repaid on 25 July 2017 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. ● Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss and foreign In March 2014, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal organizations, institutions and foundations under private and public law; value of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 31 January. ● Permanent management and consultancy functions for important Swiss and foreign The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at a redemption price of 100% of the interest groups; or principal amount. ● Official functions and political posts. In May 2015, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of 3.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted activities CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 17 June. The bond pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. will mature on 17 June 2022 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member of the Board of Directors may hold more than four additional mandates in listed companies and ten In April 2017, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of additional mandates in non-listed companies. CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: In November 2018, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or which control a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 1.875% paid annually the Company; on 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at a redemption b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies controlled by it. price of 100% of the principal amount. No member of the Board of Directors or of the executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates; and In November 2019, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, trusts and a nominal value of CHF 220 million and a coupon rate of 1.50% paid annually employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board of Directors or executive on 28 November. The bond will mature on 28 November 2025 at a redemption management shall hold more than ten of such mandates. price of 100% of the principal amount. ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of a legal entity which is required to be registered in the commercial register or a comparable foreign register. Mandates in different legal entities that are under joint control are deemed one mandate. All members of the Board of Directors comply with these provisions. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 105 Corporate governance continued 3.4 Elections and terms of office 3.5.2 Members list, tasks and area of responsibility for each Committee of the Board of Directors The Audit, Compensation and Nomination Committees are governed by terms Name First elected of reference defining their duties and compositions which are available at Andreas Andreades 2001 https://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/corporateSergio Giacoletto-Roggio 2012 governance/. These Committees are composed mainly of Independent and George Koukis 2001 Non-Executive Directors. These Committees report regularly and make Ian Cookson 2012 recommendations to the Board of Directors which is empowered to make decisions. Thibault de Tersant 2012 Erik Hansen 2013 Name Audit Compensation Nomination Amy Yip 2014 Committee Committee Committee Peter Spenser 2017 Andreas Andreades Member Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Member Chairman Member 3.5 Internal organizational structure George Koukis 3.5.1 Allocation of tasks within the Board of Directors Ian Cookson Member Member Chairman The Board of Directors shall elect a Vice-Chairman from amongst its members and a Thibault de Tersant Chairman secretary. It may also appoint one or more committees from amongst its members. Erik Hansen Member Amy Yip Member Member Executive Chairman Peter Spenser Member The Executive Chairman is responsible for preparing and convening the meetings of the Board of Directors as well as for the implementation of the Board resolutions. In case of his absence, the Vice-Chairman shall call the Board meetings. The Executive Audit Committee Chairman monitors the preparation of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Audit Committee is composed of four members, each of whom being independent and holding relevant financial expertise and understanding of the IFRS Temenos is a typical software company where product, technology vision and deep accounting standards. The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s financial reports, market knowledge are instrumental in the success of the Company and it is common internal controls, compliance with corporate governance rules, CSR & Ethics matters to have executive chairmen structures where founders/near founders have a critical and any other matters that may be brought to its attention by the internal and/or role to play in the running of the Company. It is of paramount importance that external auditors. The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board Temenos retains the vision that has established it as a leader in its industry. of Directors on the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations; the Board of Directors being ultimately responsible to approve the annual financial statements. The Executive Chairman attends the Product Board and some of the Executive Please also refer to paragraph 8.4 below. Committee meetings. He therefore works full time in an executive capacity and is jointly responsible for the delivery of the strategic plan and financial results. Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee shall support the Board of Directors in reviewing and Taking into account his deep understanding of the market, his previous Chief making recommendations on compensation practices, guidelines and procedures Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer roles within the Group, the Executive and in preparing the proposals to the General Meeting of Shareholders regarding Chairman’s input and significant value add are key and instrumental for the other compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive members of the Board of Directors and for the Executive Committee members, Committee. It may submit proposals and recommendations to the Board of Directors especially on all strategic matters. in other compensation-related issues. Vice-Chairman For more details on the role of the Compensation Committee please refer to its terms In case the Executive Chairman is unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman of reference at https://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/ calls meetings of the Board of Directors; also, in case the Executive Chairman is corporate-governance/and to the Compensation Report on page 110. unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman chairs meetings of the Board of Directors. The Vice-Chairman has the authority to call meetings reserved exclusively for Nomination Committee independent Directors to allow them to discuss certain issues outside full Board of The main duties of the Nomination Committee are: (i) to annually review the structure, Directors meetings. The agenda of such meetings are set by the Vice-Chairman. size and composition of the Board with a view to establish a Board that can provide effective governance and perform all Board duties taking into account expertise, The Vice-Chairman serves as liaison between the Independent Directors, the experience, skills needed, and work towards achieving a balance in terms of diversity Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. The Vice-Chairman acts as the including gender and origin and make recommendations to the Board of Directors preferred contact for the other Independent Directors. with regard to any changes, (ii) to review and propose to the Board candidates for membership on the Board to be recommended for election by the AGM and (iii) The Vice-Chairman makes himself available to hear the shareholders’ comments and to give full consideration to succession planning for both members of the Board of suggestions and, where possible, answers their questions after consulting with the Directors and Executive Committee. Executive Chairman. 3.5.3 Working methods of the Board of Directors and its Committees In 2019, the Vice-Chairman acted as Lead Independent Director. The Board of Directors meets as often as business requires, but at least four times a year. The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year. The Compensation and Nomination Committees meet at least once a year. In 2019, the following meetings were held: Number of Average meetings Attendance duration Board of Directors 8 97% 2.5h Audit Committee 4 100% 3.5h Compensation Committee 4 94% 1h Nomination Committee 3 100% 1h All physical meetings were held at Temenos offices in Geneva. Both the external and internal auditors attended all the Audit Committee meetings in 2019. 106 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements At the meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Committees, those members 4. Executive Committee of the Executive Committee who have the relevant information and expertise required 4.1 Members of the Executive Committee for the respective body to perform its duties are present. However these persons do As at 31 December 2019, the Executive Committee comprised the following not take part in any resolutions. members: At each Board of Directors’ meeting, a business report is presented by the Chief Name Position Executive Officer. Together with the financial report presented by the Chief Financial Officer, this information enables the Board members to assess the course of the Max Chuard Chief Executive Officer Company’s business activities on a regular basis. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos Chief Financial Officer Andre Loustau Chief Technology Officer The Board of Directors conducts an annual evaluation of its performance. Such Mark Winterburn Chief Product Officer process is carried out by way of an anonymous self-evaluation questionnaire on the Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf Chief Operating Officer performance and effectiveness of the Board of Directors to be completed by each of Alexa Guenoun Chief Client Officer its member. The results and comments are consolidated by the Company Secretary Thomas E. Hogan President of North America and then discussed at the next meeting during which proposed improvements are agreed. The 2019 evaluation results were discussed at the meeting held in July 2019 where it was concluded that the Board of Directors operates effectively. Mr. David Arnott resigned as Chief Executive Officer effective 28 February 2019. 3.6 Definition of areas of responsibility Mr. Max Chuard was appointed as Chief Executive Officer effective 1 March 2019. The Board of Directors is the ultimate governing body of the Company. Together with its Committees, it exercises inalienable and non-transferable functions as provided Mr. Paniagotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos was appointed as a member of the Executive by law, by the Company’s Articles of Association and by its bylaws. The Board Committee (Chief Financial Officer) effective 31 March 2019. of Directors decides in particular on significant acquisitions, disposals, strategic alliances, changes in the Group’s structure and share repurchase programs though Ms. Alexa Guenoun was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee its responsibilities are not limited to this. (Chief Client Officer) effective 12 February 2019. Based on Article 17 of the Articles of Association and Article 3.5 of the bylaws of Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was appointed Chief Operating Officer effective the Company, the Board of Directors has delegated the day-to-day operational 12 February 2019. management and conduct of business operations of the Company to the Chief Executive Officer who is heading and supported by the Executive Committee, except Mr. Thomas E. Hogan was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee where the law or the Articles of Association provide differently. (President of North America) effective 25 September 2019. The Executive Committee is responsible for execution of strategy and monitoring Mr. Thomas E. Hogan resigned as President of North America effective performance against it. The Executive Committee also sets targets for Group organic 12 February 2020. and acquisitions growth on a three year basis i.e. strategic plan to be then formally approved by the Board of Directors. Finally, the Executive Committee approves all Mr. André Loustau resigned as Chief Technology Officer effective 12 February 2020. product investments as well as acquisitions to be proposed to the Board of Directors. Ms. Alexa Guenoun was appointed as President of the Americas and Global Head 3.7 Information and control instruments vis-à-vis the Executive Committee of Partners effective 12 February 2020. The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group’s risk management, security and system of internal controls. Overseeing the risk management process, effectiveness Mr. Mark Winterburn was appointed as Chief Product and Technology Officer and efficiency of operations, accurate reporting, compliance with laws and effective 12 February 2020. regulations and safeguarding the interests of the Group are some of the main responsibilities of the Board of Directors. Dr. Colin Jarrett was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee (Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer) effective 12 February 2020. Prior to each meeting, members of the Board of Directors receive reports that allow them to discharge their above duties. Please refer to pages 98 and 99 for their biographies. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer personally report at each 4.2 Other activities and vested interests meeting of the Board of Directors. Except those mentioned in the biographies section on pages 98 and 99, no member of the Executive Committee has any: The performance management process ensures that Company’s targets, as agreed with the Board of Directors, are delegated to senior management during the first ● Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss and foreign quarter of every financial year. organizations, institutions and foundations under private and public law; ● Permanent management and consultancy functions for important Swiss and foreign The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance to the Board and Audit interest groups; or Committee on the continuing appropriateness and effectiveness of Temenos’ systems ● Official functions and political posts. of governance, risk management and internal controls. This function’s independent status is assured by the fact that the Group Head of Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Findings and related action plans from internal audit reviews and/or internal control self-assessments are reported to senior management; summary reports are provided to the Audit Committee at every meeting. Implementation of action plans is monitored on a monthly basis and status is reported to the Audit Committee. Risk management is an integral part of the business process. Key risks are reviewed by the Audit Committee and then by the Board of Directors itself. The organizational structure ensures that specialized functions such as Quality, Security and IT continuously support the management of risks. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 107 Corporate governance continued 4.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted activities According to Article 26 of the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member of the executive is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members who become management may hold more than one additional mandate in a listed company and members of or are being promoted within the executive management during five additional mandates in non-listed companies. a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already approved the compensation, the Company or companies controlled by The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: it shall be authorized to pay to such member(s) a supplementary amount during the compensation period(s) already approved. The total supplementary amount a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or which control per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of the Company; compensation of the executive management last approved by the General Meeting b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies controlled by it. of Shareholders. No member of the Board of Directors or of the executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates; and 5.2.2 There are no rules in the Articles of Association on loans, credit facilities and c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, trusts and post-employment benefits for members of the Board of Directors and Executive employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board of Directors or executive Committee. management shall hold more than ten of such mandates. 5.2.3 According to Article 25 of the Articles of Association, the General Meeting ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of a legal entity of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately the proposals of the Board which is required to be registered in the commercial register or a comparable foreign of Directors in relation to the maximum aggregate amount of: register. Mandates in different legal entities that are under joint control are deemed one mandate. ● Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; ● Compensation of the executive management for the next fiscal year. All members of the Executive Committee comply with these provisions. The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General Meeting of 4.4 Management contracts Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate amounts of compensation No management tasks have been delegated to third parties. relating to different periods, in relation to amounts for specific compensation elements for the same or different periods. 5. Compensation, shareholdings and loans 5.1 Content and method of determining the compensation In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been approved by the and the shareholding programs General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall determine, taking The executive management compensation plans seek to align executive management into account all relevant factors, the respective maximum aggregate amount of and shareholders’ interests by making a significant portion of compensation depend compensation or partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, on achieving increased shareholder value for the long term and to enforce a and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General Meeting of performance-orientated environment that rewards superior value creation and the Shareholders. achievement of outstanding results. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Company or companies controlled Compensation of the non-executive members of the Board of Directors comprises by it may pay out compensation prior to approval by the General Meeting of fixed compensation only. Shareholders subject to subsequent approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. The executive members of the Board of Directors and the executive management may 6. Shareholders’ participation rights be paid fixed and variable compensation. Variable compensation is dependent on 6.1 Voting-rights restrictions and representation the achievement of certain performance criteria. 6.1.1 According to the Company’s Articles of Association, only shareholders entered in the share register as shareholders or as usufructuaries may exercise the voting rights Temenos applies a policy for share ownership and retention that is applicable linked to the shares or the other rights connected with these voting rights. The Articles to the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the members of the of Association do not contain any restrictions to voting rights. Executive Committee. Further information is available in the Compensation Report on page 110. 6.1.2 Not applicable. 5.2 Rules in the Articles of Association 6.1.3 Not applicable. 5.2.1 According to Article 27 of the Articles of Association of the Company, performance criteria shall be determined by the Board of Directors or, where 6.1.4 Not applicable. delegated to it, the Compensation Committee and may include criteria relating to individual performance, performance of the Company or parts thereof as well as 6.1.5 Shareholders registered in the share register with voting rights on a determined performance in relation to the market or other companies, taking into account the date are entitled to attend the General Meeting of Shareholders and to exercise their position and level of responsibility of the employee. The Board of Directors or, where votes. Each shareholder may be represented at the General Meeting of Shareholders delegated to it, the Compensation Committee shall determine the performance by any other person who is authorized by a written proxy, by a legal representative criteria impact on variable compensation (short and long term incentives), including or by the independent proxy holder. actual achievement and potential maximum achievement, the relative weight of the performance criteria and the respective target-levels. 6.1.6 There are no rules in the Articles of Association about electronic participation to the General Meeting of Shareholders or instructions to the independent proxy holder. Compensation may be paid or granted in cash, shares, or in the form of other types of However the shareholders may provide electronically their voting instructions to the benefits. Compensation of executive members of the Board of Directors or members independent proxy holder. of the executive management may also be granted in the form of stock appreciation rights and similar financial instruments. The Board of Directors or, where delegated to 6.2 Quorums required by the Articles of Association it, the Compensation Committee shall determine grant, vesting, blocking, exercise and There are no statutory quorums. The General Meeting of Shareholders shall pass its forfeiture terms and conditions of these kinds of compensation; in particular, it may resolutions and carry out its elections by a simple majority, unless qualified majority is provide for continuation, acceleration or removal of vesting and exercise conditions, required by law for a specific agenda item. for payment or grant of compensation based upon assumed target achievement, or for forfeiture, in each case in the event of pre-determined events such as a change-of6.3 Convocation of the General Meeting of Shareholders control or termination of an employment agreement. The General Meeting of Shareholders is convened by publication of the invitation and the agenda, at least twenty days before the date of the meeting, in the Swiss The Company may procure the required shares through treasury shares or upon Official Gazette of Commerce (Schweizerische Handelsamtsblatt, Feuille Officielle creation of shares out of conditional capital. Suisse du Commerce). Shareholders representing at least 10% of the share capital may convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Compensation may be paid by the Company or companies controlled by it. 108 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 6.4 Inclusion of items on the agenda 8.4 Information instruments pertaining to the external audit One or more shareholders representing shares of an aggregate nominal value of at The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of external least CHF 1 million may, up to 45 days before the date of the General Meeting of auditors, checking their independence, approving their annual audit plan and fees, Shareholders, request an item to be included on the agenda. Such request must be in and reviewing their findings on internal control procedures as well as steps taken writing and shall specify the items and the proposals of these shareholders. by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory audit standards and other requirements. At the end of at least one Audit Committee meeting during the year, the 6.5 Entries in the share register Audit Committee members spend time with the external auditors without the presence Pursuant to Article 13 paragraph 1 of the Articles of Association, shareholders of management. The external auditors formally report to the Audit Committee during entered in the share register as shareholders with voting rights on a specific date its meetings and have direct access to its Chairman when necessary. The Chairman determined by the Board of Directors are entitled to attend and vote at the General of the Audit Committee then reports at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Please Meeting of Shareholders. also refer to paragraphs 3.5.2 and 3.5.3 above. 7. Changes of control and defense measures At the beginning of the year, the Audit Committee pre-approves an amount of 7.1 Duty to make an offer permitted services that may be performed by the external auditors. Such services are There is no ‘opting out’ or ‘opting up’ clause in the Articles of Association. then reviewed on a regular basis at Audit Committee meetings. For any other audit or non-audit related services beyond the above-mentioned limit, authorization is 7.2 Clauses on changes of control required from the Chairman of the Audit Committee upon recommendation from the In case of change of control in Temenos, all outstanding stock appreciation rights Chief Financial Officer. (SARs) will become immediately vested and exercisable. 9. Information policy SARs are considered to be outstanding only if the corresponding/relevant service Temenos is committed to open and transparent communication with its shareholders period has started (where such relevant service period is specified as part of the grant and wider stakeholders. documentation). If not specified, they will be considered as outstanding automatically. Updates 8. Auditors Temenos publishes an audited Annual Report for the year to 31 December and an 8.1 Duration of the mandate and term of office of the lead auditor unaudited interim report for the six months to 30 June. Temenos also reports figures on 8.1.1 PricewaterhouseCoopers SA was re-elected as the statutory and group auditor a quarterly basis. All of this information and additional company-specific information at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 15 May 2019 for a period is available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/. of one year (first elected in 2003). In addition, those interested can sign up on the Temenos website by clicking to 8.1.2 Since 2018 the lead auditor for the Group audit is Mr. Mike Foley. the Subscribe button at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorrelations/to receive financial news, key client signings as well as all press releases 8.2 Auditing fees issued in accordance with the ad hoc publicity rules; moreover, all these press Included in general and administrative expenses is an amount of USD 1,965,756 releases are available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorrepresenting audit fees charged to the Company by PricewaterhouseCoopers for (i) relations/financial-press-releases/. the audit of the Group consolidated financial statements and of statutory accounts in various jurisdictions (USD 1,835,756) and (ii) other audit fees related to work than Contacting Temenos can only be performed by the Group auditor such as the audit of the compensation For any investor relations inquiries please contact the Company at report (total of USD 130,000). TemenosIR@temenos.com and for management dealings inquiries/disclosures of shareholdings notifications at companysecretarial@temenos.com. 8.3 Additional fees In addition, other fees of USD 1,011,000 have been incurred by Meeting Temenos PricewaterhouseCoopers through the provision of tax advisory and other On 20 May 2020, Temenos will hold its Annual General Meeting in Geneva, professional services. Please find below a breakdown of the additional fees: Switzerland. This occasion affords shareholders the opportunity to put their questions to the Board and learn more about the Group’s strategic direction. USD 000 Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other market professionals Tax Compliance 173 are held regularly as a part of Temenos’ investor relations program. Furthermore, all Transactions 86 Directors are available to meet shareholders if requested. Non Audit Fees – Audit related 259 Dates of publication of 2019 quarterly results and Temenos conferences Tax Advisory 348 are published on the Company’s website and updated regularly at Other Advisory 404 http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/calendar/. Non Audit related 752 Total Non Audit Fees 1,011 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 109 Compensation Report “I would like to thank our shareholders for the Letter from the Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Company Performance and Growth positive feedback we have received in our 2019 saw a significant step again in the growth of Temenos with the acquisition of engagement sessions and at the 2019 AGM Kony. We have continued to grow shareholder returns by 130% over three years and to our Compensation structure. The high proportion 548 % over the last ten years. Below is the historical growth compared to the average of “at risk” compensation linked to challenging of our peer group: performance measures has been appreciated and encouraged. 10 year Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 3 years 5 years 10 years average Further, the positive reaction to the changes Temenos 130% 357% 548% 55% in the management structure following the Average of peer group 69% 116% 382% 38% appointment of Max Chuard as CEO in February 2019 reaffirms the effort we have put into Product Revenue Growth 2016 2017 2018 2019 our succession planning. Non-IFRS Product Revenues USD m 507 591 691 803 Growth year on year % 17% 17% 16% CAGR growth 2016 to 2019 17% A warm welcome to our new colleagues following the acquisition of Kony extending further the EPS Growth 2016 2017 2018 2019 Temenos family to almost 8,000 people.” Non-IFRS EPS USD 2.07 2.45 2.95 3.47 Growth year on year % 18% 20% 18% CAGR growth 2016 to 2019 19% Employee Growth 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees including externals 4,300 4,945 5,744 7,879 Growth year on year % 15% 16% 37% CAGR growth 2016 to 2019 22% Compensation Objectives As part of its mandate, the Compensation Committee continues to monitor and ensure that: ● We have a strong link between pay and performance and that the success of management mirrors that of our shareholders; ● Variable compensation is based on achievement of business goals, which continue to be stretch targets. Final realized compensation is highly correlated with share price performance; this correlation is already reflected in the cost of our programs that is expensed in our profit and loss account; ● Compensation is competitive and drives motivation and retention of our key management. Benchmark The Compensation Committee monitors compensation against our peer group, both in terms of quantum and structure of compensation. Temenos is at the mid-point of the benchmark in terms of market capitalization and compensation. The peer group is a mix of software companies in Europe and in the US. Many European software companies have been acquired in recent years leaving very few true peers in Europe, and most of our competitors globally are US based (Fiserv, Fidelity). Successful software companies run an entrepreneurial type structure and the most effective compensation structure is the US model with a very high variable element. This is the model Temenos believes is most appropriate and has been applying for many years with exceptional company performance. “At risk” Compensation Explained For the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee, only 15% of their total compensation package in 2019 is fixed salary and benefits, 85% is for short and long term incentives, which are subject to delivering stretch targets for 1 year and three years respectively. This compares to the average for the CEO’s in the peer group of 55% at risk compensation. The following table shows that while for short term compensation the thresholds and payouts are largely comparable between Temenos and our peer group, for long term compensation Temenos has far more stringent thresholds with significantly lower payouts than the peer group. 110 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Median Median Minimum Maximum Temenos Temenos for Peer for Peer Minimum Maximum group group Short term Achievement 90% 125% 90% 108% Payout 0% 150% 0% 150% Long term Achievement 85% 120% 50% 150% Payout 0% 140% 0% 175% Dilution and cost of Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) programme The cost of the SAR programme in the profit and loss account is the fair value at grant and is disclosed. The fair value per SAR is calculated by Algofin, third party option valuation experts, using the using the Enhanced American Model, a standard model for valuing option contracts. At the end of each period an assumption is made on how many SARs will vest and the resulting cost is spread over the period of vesting. The cost for Temenos is recognized in the profit and loss account and is treated identically for both IFRS and non-IFRS reported numbers, unlike some other major software companies in Europe and the US that adjust their non IFRS reported numbers. In 2019, Temenos used available conditional capital to satisfy vested and exercised SARs. The resulting dilution from the issuance of conditional capital is reflected in our basic and fully diluted Earnings per share calculation. The dilution over the last three years is shown in the table below. The target set by the Compensation Committee is for average dilution to remain at less than 2% per annum which compares with an exceptional EPS accretion over the same period of 19%. We are well within that target. CAGR 2016-2019 Dilution before buyback 1.4% Non IFRS EPS 19% The table below shows various simulations of future potential cumulative dilution which range from 3.5% to 8.4% which prove that we are well within the guideline maximum of 10% potential cumulative future dilution for fast growing companies as recommended by certain proxy advisors and significantly lower than the peer group average which stands at at 14%. If the share price growth is 15% then the dilution assuming SARs are exercised on vesting date at a stock price of USD 240.8 is 4.8%. If the share price grows by 30% per annum and all SARs including those already vested are exercised at the resulting stock price of USD 347.8 in three years then the dilution would be only 5.6%. No of SARs/ Assumed No of shares No of shares shares Average share price to be created Simulations million million price USD on exercise million Dilution Closing share price 71.0 5.6 86.31 158.3 2.6 3.5% 15% growth 71.0 5.6 86.31 240.8 3.6 4.8% 30% growth 71.0 5.6 86.31 347.8 4.2 5.6% Maximum dilution (infinite share price) 71.0 6.5 92.93 na 6.5 8.4% If we look at future cumulative dilution from the perspective of outstanding SARs as at 31 December 2019, including maximum overachievement on all KPI’s to give 6.5 million outstanding SARs, then we can conclude that the maximum dilution that would be mathematically possible is 8.4%. The conditional capital of five million shares that is available at 31 December 2019 is enough to cover the outstanding programme up to a CAGR growth in share price of 75%. Continued improvements in Governance We are this year introducing share ownership rules for Non-Executive Directors following the introduction of this a few years ago for the executives. Non-Executive Directors will be required to retain shares to the value of the annual retainer with effect from May 2023. Conclusion Our compensation structure is built to motivate the executive team to deliver strong short and long term achievement. We continue to have stretch targets for 2020 at 15% growth on non-IFRS product revenues and non-IFRS EPS. 87% of compensation is dependent on delivering on these targets. In addition, the SAR plan ensures that realized value is correlated to shareholder results, since the SAR plan delivers value to the executives only if the share price increases. Feedback from our Shareholders is important for us and we continue our annual engagement programme on compensation specifically. We continue to proactively seek views in advance on any changes we are considering to our compensation structure. The Compensation Committee remains committed to this dialogue with shareholders, and we welcome regular feedback on our compensation policies. We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 111 Compensation Report continued A. Compensation policy and principles A.1. Compensation objectives This report has been prepared in accordance with articles 13-17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies. Temenos’ executive compensation programs are designed with two main goals in mind: ● Pay for Performance alignment: by making the major portion of compensation dependent on achieving increased shareholder value through the achievement of long term performance indicators; and ● Fostering a performance-based corporate culture through variable compensation. Temenos has a 21 year track record in building long term shareholder value and is committed to continuing to do so. Executive compensation consists of: (i) fixed cash compensation and benefits; (ii) variable cash linked to short term performance targets (i.e. current financial year); and (iii) equity based variable compensation that is linked to long term performance targets. Compensation of the Non-Executive members of the Board of Directors comprises fixed compensation only. Performance criteria are set by the Board of Directors and may include criteria relating to the performance of the Company or parts thereof, performance in relation to the market or other companies, as well as individual performance. The Board of Directors determines the extent to which the performance criteria impact variable compensation, including maximum opportunity, and the relative weight of the performance criteria. The Board of Directors also oversees the conditions linked to the grant, vesting, exercise and the forfeiture of equity based incentive programs. A.2. Organization and competencies Executives The Executives who served in the 2019 financial year are: Board of Directors: ● Andreas Andreades, Executive Chairman Executive Committee: ● David Arnott, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) until 28 February 2019 ● Max Chuard, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) from 1 March 2019, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer (CFO/COO) until 28 February 2019 ● Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) from 31 March 2019 ● Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf, Chief Operating Officer (COO) from 12 February 2019, Chief Revenue Officer (CRO) between 12 January 2018 and 11 February 2019 ● André Loustau, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) ● Mark Winterburn, Chief Product Officer (CPO) ● Alexa Guenoun, Chief Client Officer (CCO) from 12 February 2019 ● Thomas Hogan, President North America, from 25 September 2019 The Executive Chairman and the Executive Committee are hereinafter referred to as the ‘Executives.’ Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors who served in the 2019 financial year are: ● Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Vice Chairman ● Ian Cookson ● Erik Hansen ● George Koukis ● Thibault de Tersant ● Amy Yip ● Peter Spenser 112 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements A.3. The role of the Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee is authorized by the Board of Directors to: ● Recommend to the Board of Directors compensation practices and policies for Executives; ● Align the interests of the Executives and senior managers to the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders by recommending compensation practices and policies that are equitable and performance based; ● Review the competitiveness of the Company’s executive compensation programs and thereby ensure the attraction and retention of the Executives and senior managers who are key in delivering the Company’s business objectives; ● Confirm that compensation packages for Executives and senior managers are in line with market norms. To fulfill its duties, the Compensation Committee typically meets at least three times during the year on the following cycle: ● November – to review the Compensation Committee terms of reference, to review compensation practices and policies for the forthcoming financial year, to approve fixed compensation and principles for variable short term and long term incentives for Executives; ● February – to approve the performance targets for variable short term incentive, and to approve the long term variable compensation grant including performance targets; and ● March – to recommend prospective compensation to be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2019, the Compensation Committee met four times as per the above cycle. The Compensation Committee comprises four Independent and Non-Executive Directors: ● Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Chairman ● Ian Cookson ● Erik Hansen ● Amy Yip The Compensation Committee members are elected annually by shareholders. Approval process Before submission to the shareholders for approval, the recommendation of compensation packages for Board and Executive Committee members are governed as follows: Compensation of Recommended by Approved by Executive Chairman of the Board Compensation Committee Board of Directors Executive Committee Compensation Committee Board of Directors Non-Executive members of the Board Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board Benchmarking process To ensure executive compensation is correctly set in the context of industry practice, the Compensation Committee reviews benchmark data collated from a range of organizations in the technology sector. Temenos has reviewed its Comparator Group for 2019. The Comparator Group has been selected based on the following criteria: ● Companies targeted for hiring talent into Temenos; ● Software companies that have similar operating characteristics to Temenos in terms of global reach, target markets, competitive dynamics, high growth and complexity; and ● Financial services software companies that industry analysts rank as global top performers. The companies are the same as those used in 2018. Temenos is at the median market capitalization of our peer group of USD 11 billion, and at approximately USD 1 billion of revenues in 2019 we are approaching the median revenue of our peer group. Our CAGR revenue growth over three years is 15% compared to the median of the peer group at 10%. A large part of the Comparator Group are companies based in the USA. This is due to the fact that the majority of the global software players originate in the USA and therefore they represent a significant part of our direct competitors. Very few software companies remain in Europe. The following 17 companies are those used for the benchmark: Organization Country Organization Country ACI Worldwide USA Nextgen Healthcare USA Broadridge Financial Solutions USA SDL UK Citrix USA Simcorp Denmark Fidelity National Information Services USA Software AG Germany Fiserv USA SS&C USA Jack Henry and Associates USA The Sage Group UK Intuit USA Wirecard Germany Logitech International Switzerland Workday USA Micro Focus International plc UK Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 113 Compensation Report continued Shareholder engagement Regular shareholder dialogue is a key priority of our management and Board and therefore we routinely engage with shareholders to discuss business, performance, compensation and governance matters. Specifically with regard to executive compensation, in November 2019 we communicated by letter with our major shareholders outlining our compensation structure and inviting them to a meeting with Temenos management or Board members at their convenience and as a result, the Chairman of the Compensation Committee engaged in face-to-face meetings or conference calls with a number of our largest shareholders and some shareholder advisory groups mostly during December 2019. One of the key topics discussed was the shareholder views on our non-executive compensation which is no longer competitive compared to our peer group. For non-executive compensation we compare with the SMIM and with our executive peer group. Our non-executives are paid significantly lower than the average of the SMIM. US companies and our executive peer group are even higher. Votes on compensation As set out in the Articles of Association, the General Meeting of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately the proposals of the Board of Directors in relation to the maximum aggregate amount of: ● Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; and ● Compensation of the Executive Committee for the next fiscal year. The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate amounts of compensation relating to different periods, or in relation to amounts for specific compensation elements for the same or different periods. In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall determine, taking into account all relevant factors, the respective maximum aggregate amount of compensation or partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. The Company may pay out compensation prior to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders subject to subsequent approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders. As stated in the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members who become members of, or are being promoted within, the Executive Committee during a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already approved the compensation, the Company is authorized to pay the member a supplementary amount during the compensation period already approved. The total supplementary amount per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of compensation of the Executive Committee last approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. B. Pay for performance appraisal To align with shareholders’ interests, Temenos’ executive compensation program is designed to foster a pay-for-performance culture. The chart below shows a percentage split of aggregate compensation of the Executives for 2019. 2019 Executive Chairman and Executive Committee Fixed fee/salary 13% Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 10% LTIP earned 25% LTIP not earned 50% At risk compensation 85% The fixed salary and benefits are the only unconditional, i.e. non risk components; short term variable compensation is dependent on the achievement of the results for 2019 and long term variable (LTIP) is dependent on the achievement of the results for the three year period 2019 to 2021 inclusive. Compared to our peer group, the portion of our at-risk compensation is higher and corresponds to significantly more stretching threshold goals. The minimum threshold for our LTIP programme is 85%, compared to our peer group median of 50%. The maximum threshold is 140%, compared to our peer group median of 175%. In 2019, 85% of total compensation was variable and conditional upon performance targets and therefore at risk. Based on the outstanding growth delivered in 2019 one third of the long term incentive is earned and the short term targets were exceeded. The ‘LTIP earned’ is the part of the 2019 grant relating to the delivery of non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial year 2019. The target for 2019 has been met and the component of the 2019 LTIP grant can no longer be forfeited. The LTIP is subject to time vesting criteria and will not vest until February 2022. 114 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SAR payout vs Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth for three year plan With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the chart below shows the trend of payout vs CAGR growth of non-IFRS EPS targets during the vesting period of the scheme. 140% 35% Year of SAR plan Payout 30% 120% 2007 100% 25% 2008 0% 100% 2009 60% Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth 20% 15% 2010 30% 80% SAR payout 2011 0% 10% 60% 2012 13% 5% 2013 101% 40% 0% 2014 100% -5% 2015 110% 20% -10% 2016 121% 0% -15% 2017 120% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Year of SAR plan SAR payout Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth for 3 year period Targets have always been set at challenging levels and reflect long term performance in order to maintain the direct link between pay and performance. Since 2013 the Company has performed exceptionally, the metrics since 2016 being shown in the letter of the Chairperson of the Compensation Committee on page 110 and this is reflected in the payouts of the schemes. C. Compensation components C.1. Summary of Compensation elements for employees The table below explains the compensation elements for 2019: Variable Short Term Incentive Variable Long Term Equity Fixed Salary and Benefits (bonus or commission) Incentive Eligibility All employees All employees Executive Chairman, Executive Committee members and senior managers Basis for funding Continuity of service, role and Role and experience with a 90% Continuity of service over three experience threshold on the global targets years plus achievement of three year (80% on regional revenue targets) non-IFRS EPS targets and non-IFRS to be achieved prior to the fund product revenue targets accumulating, allocation based on performance Payout Monthly or bi-weekly depending on After performance for the financial On Board of Directors approval of jurisdiction year has been audited the results for the final year of the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) plan Payout subject to Forfeiture rules No Yes Yes KPIs No Yes Yes Performance range for Executive Directors, Executive None 0% to 150% of fixed salary, 0% Up to 140% of on-target LTIP value if Committee members and senior managers below 90% target threshold (80% all targets are exceeded by 20%, 0% target threshold for regional revenue below 85% target threshold targets of Regional Directors) Settlement Cash Cash and deferred shares Shares Malus and clawback clauses Not applicable Yes Yes Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 115 Compensation Report continued C.2. Compensation elements for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members The elements of the above table, together with their objectives, are as follows: Fixed salary ● To compensate Executives for their expected day-to-day management, leadership and contribution to the business. Benefits ● To provide a level of security in health and retirement and, should it be required, in disability and death. Variable Short Term Incentive ● To make a significant portion of Executive overall annual compensation variable and dependent on delivery of the Company’s annual key targets of license revenue, cash collection, non-IFRS EBIT and/or non-IFRS EPS growth. ● The variable short term incentive is paid in cash. Variable Long Term Equity Incentive ● To provide a balance of total compensation, via long term equity incentives, that is variable and linked directly to long term performance indicators. ● To incentivize sustainable future performance in non-IFRS EPS growth and non-IFRS product revenue growth. Product revenue is defined as software licensing, including Software as a Service, and maintenance revenues. ● To retain Executives for the long term. The Executive Chairman works in an executive capacity full time and is jointly responsible, together with the Executive Committee for the delivery of the business plan. His role is described in more detail on page 106 in the governance section. His compensation reflects his executive role and as such is made up of a fixed salary, benefits, variable compensation as a short term incentive and Stock Appreciation Rights as a variable long term incentive. C.3. Summary of Key Compensation changes in 2019 ● The main change in 2019 was the resignation of David Arnott in February 2019 and subsequent restructuring of the Executive Committee, followed by the addition of Tom Hogan to the Executive Committee on 25 September 2019. ● Mr. David Arnott had a 12 month notice period. His LTIPs vested on a pro-rata basis up to the end of this period. ● Mr. Max Chuard was appointed as CEO effective 1 March 2019 and his compensation adjusted from that date onwards in line with Mr. Arnott’s package. ● Mr. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos was appointed on 31 March 2019. He was given a pro rata bonus for 2019 and in addition was given a special sign-on bonus of CHF 350,000 to compensate for losing stock related compensation from his previous employer. ● Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was promoted from CRO to COO effective 12 February 2019 and his compensation adjusted from that date. Ms. Alexa Guenoun was appointed on 12 February 2019 as CCO with responsibility for services, partners and client support. This is a new role on the Executive Committee since Max Chuard covered this prior to his appointment to CEO. ● Mr. Thomas Hogan was appointed on 25 September 2019 as President North America following the acquisition of Kony. North America is a strategic market with high growth expectations for Temenos and as such warrants a role on the Executive Committee. ● The Short Term Variable included in the compensation is pro rata for their tenure in the Executive Committee for all executive committee members. The LTIP grant included is the full value to deliver the three year plan, that is no pro rata calculation has been made for the different joining dates. C.4. Variable Short Term Incentive The incentive for 2019 is due in cash on approval of the results for the financial year 2019 by the Board of Directors. Performance criteria Annual targets for Executives are set by the Board based on recommendations by the Compensation Committee. For 2019, the short term incentive plan was based on the following targets: ● Non-IFRS software licensing (40%) ● SaaS ACV (15%) ● Non-IFRS EPS (20%) ● Operating cash flow (25%) On-target performance is rewarded at 100% of fixed salary. Final overall payout for the Executives is 79%. The targets and respective achievements are set out in the table below: Percentage Target Actual % of % 2019 Target of Bonus USD USD Threshold Achievement To be paid Non-IFRS software licensing 40% 432m 445m 90% 103% 106% SaaS ACV1 15% 17m 17m 90% 101% 102% Non-IFRS EPS 20% 3.39 3.47 90% 102% 105% Net Operating Cash flow 25% 420m 364m 90% 87% 0% Total 79% (1) ACV target excludes certain non-core products. Annual incentive payouts for other senior managers are based on a mix of corporate and specific regional objectives. 116 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements C.5. Long Term Equity Incentive The Company grants Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) to Executives and senior managers with performance and vesting criteria. We continue to favor the use of SARs over restricted stock as they necessitate a growth in the share price, which itself is dependent on strong Company performance, before they have any value to the recipient. In this way, we incentivize the management team to deliver strong revenue growth and profitability over the long term. The SAR plan is available for the Executive Chairman, Executive Committee members and senior managers. Grant conditions are linked to the achievement of annual and three year cumulative non-IFRS EPS and/or non-IFRS product revenue targets, vesting after more than three years. SARs are valued on a fair value basis by an independent organization, Algofin AG, using the Enhanced American Model, a sophisticated binomial model, so as to comply with IFRS 2. Algofin AG is a consulting company domiciled in St. Gallen, Switzerland, specializing in Quantitative Finance, Modern Financial Instruments, and Consulting in Asset Management. To ensure pricing integrity, long term equity awards are not issued at a discount to market price; they are priced at the closing market price on the day preceding the grant date. The fair value at time of grant is expensed over the vesting period based on the latest probable outcome of the final number of SARs to be granted. The cost for Temenos is a true cost borne in both IFRS and non-IFRS reported numbers, unlike some other major software companies in Europe and the US. Temenos SAR programme is a stock settled programme. Employees are given the shares at time of exercise and they can choose to exercise and sell or exercise and hold. Temenos ensures it can meet its demand for shares through available conditional capital. Conditional capital increases are approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Conditional capital has been used for all exercises in 2019. Bank Havilland holds the treasury shares and administers the conditional capital issuance when required in relation to the share scheme. UBS will administer this from 1 April 2020, on the same basis. Our treasury shares are used as a guarantee to cover an administrative timing issue between granting the shares to our employees and issuing conditional capital at the end of each month. The tables below provide an overview of the schemes in place together with their performance criteria and pricing. The level and value of awards is commensurate with an Executive’s contribution to the business. Overview of Executive SAR schemes The Schemes that are not vested as at 31 December 2019 are outlined in the table below, including 2019 scheme granted in this compensation year: No. of SARs awarded Exercise Price Fair Value Year of Grant for Executives1 USD USD Grant Date Vesting date 2019 520,085 136.94 33.76 13 February 2019 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2021 2019 70,000 147.43 32.10 30 March 2019 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2021 20192 50,000 144.77 32.63 18 October 2019 31 December 2022 but not exercisable until Board or Directors approval of results for the year ending 31 December 2022 2018 635,400 127.00 30.10 14 February 2018 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2020 2017 974,600 70.87 16.03 15 February 2017 On Board of Directors approval plus overachievement of the results for the year ending of 20% 31 December 2019, ie 12 February 2020 (1) The number of SARs granted includes the number of SARs granted to those who were Executives at the time of grant, this is not equal to the current members. (2) Mr. Hogan was given SARs directly linked to the acquisition of Kony. The performance targets were for 2020-2022 with vesting on 31 December 2022 (which is greater than our standard three years) and exercisable on Board of Director approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2022. Since his resignation the SARs have been forfeited. Vesting conditions Vesting of the SAR awards is for a period of three years, subject to continued employment, and subject to achievement of performance targets described below. The targets for the SAR schemes are outlined below: Weighting Weighting 2018 and KPI 2017 SARs 2019 SARs Non-IFRS EPS Targets 60% 40% Non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% 60% The targets for the 2019 plan for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period to the vesting of each grant and for non-product revenues are based on a CAGR of 14% for the three year period to the vesting of each grant. This has been increased from the 13% growth for the 2018 plan as the business continues to accelerate. Mr. Hogan was given SARs directly linked to the acquisition of Kony with targets for the growth in the Americas region. Since Mr. Hogan has resigned effective 12 February 2020 and his SARs are forfeited the targets are no longer relevant and therefore not disclosed. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 117 Compensation Report continued Vesting outcome The vesting outcome for the number of SARs to be granted is the greater of: i. The sum of the result of each of the individual years, where one third of the the three year plan is based on achievement of annual results for each year of the three year plan. There is no overachievement element on the awards linked to annual targets and achievement is binary either 0 or 100%. ii. Cumulative target achievement being greater than 85% of the sum of the annual targets. On the cumulative target there is a potential overachievement as explained below. Over/under achievement of SAR schemes For achievement between 85% and 100% of target a pro-rated reduced amount will vest. For every 1% overachievement of the three years cumulative non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue target, an additional 2% of SARs may be granted up to a maximum of 140% of the total grant. For every 1% underachievement, 6.67% of the number of SARs are forfeited. Any over or underachievement is calculated based on the table below. Intermediate performance is pro-rated on a straight-line basis between the data points shown. Cumulative non-IFRS EPS or non-IFRS product revenues: Achieved as % of Cumulative target 85% 92.5% 100% 110% 120% Proportion vesting 0% 50% 100% 120% 140% Achievement of the 2017 SAR scheme Under the 2017 SAR scheme, which vested on 13 February 2020, the non-IFRS EPS performance targets and respective achievements were: Actual Target achievement Growth on Year USD USD prior year 2017 2.27 2.45 18% 2018 2.62 2.95 20% 2019 3.13 3.47 18% Cumulative 8.02 8.87 19% CAGR Achievement for non-IFRS EPS 111% The non-IFRS product revenue cumulative performance target and cumulative respective achievements were as follows: Actual Target achievement Year USD m USD m* Growth Cumulative 2017-2019 non-IFRS Product Revenues 1,896 2,062 16% CAGR Achievement for non-IFRS Product Revenues 109% * Actual results are restated at constant currency compared to plan. The combined payout for the 2017 SAR plan as a result of overachievement on both KPIs is as follows: Actual Combined Payout for 2017 SAR plan Weighting achievement Payout Cumulative 2017-2019 non-IFRS EPS 60% 111% 121% Cumulative 2017-2019 non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% 109% 118% Combined Achievement and Payout 110% 120% C.6. Share ownership The following minimum amount of shares must be held: Executive Chairman 4 times annual fixed salary CEO 5 times annual fixed salary CFO 2 times annual fixed salary COO, CTO, CPO, CCO 1 time annual fixed salary The Executive Chairman, CEO, COO, CTO and CPO met the requirements as at 31 December 2019. The previous CFO/COO was required to hold 3 times annual fixed salary, but since his role was split into two different roles: CFO and COO, the requirement for CFO and COO was put in line with other Executive Committee members and in line with our peer group. New members must satisfy the requirement by the later of two years after appointment to the Executive Committee or as soon as the first SARs received for a new joiner deliver the required number of shares to cover the above mentioned minima. The number of shares to be held are calculated based on the closing stock price of 31 December of the prior year and the fixed salary for the year. For example, the number of shares required to be held on 31 December 2019 is calculated based on the share price of 31 December 2018 and fixed salary for the year 2019. This allows the Executives sufficient time to take any required actions. Unexercised SARs do not count towards meeting the guidelines. The shares that count are Temenos ordinary shares. The shareholdings are shown in section F.1. 118 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements C.7. Dilution and Capital Requirements A Stock Appreciation Right (SAR) is an incentive given to employees that aligns their interest with shareholders and is equal to the appreciation of Company stock over an established time period. Similar to employee stock options, SARs are beneficial to the employee when Company stock price rises; the difference with SARs is that employees do not pay the exercise price but only receive the sum of the increase in stock or cash. The dilution on outstanding SARs is only known at the time of exercise as it is dependent on the share price at that time. As an example, if 1,000 SARs at a grant price of USD 44 are exercised when the share price is USD 130, then the gain is USD 86,000, equivalent to a 662 share dilution. When issuing SARs, the Compensation Committee reviews the planned dilution to ensure that it remains within our target of no more than 2% pa on a CAGR basis. The dilution for the period 2016-2019, the period over which the 2017 SAR scheme vested on a CAGR basis, was 1.4% pa. This compares to an EPS growth of 19% pa on a CAGR basis for the same period. The CAGR from 2013 to 2019 is 1.7%. Proxy advisors such as ISS consider cumulative dilution to be acceptable at 5% and 10% for fast-growing companies. The total cumulative dilution as of 31 December 2019 from all outstanding SARs, stock options and STI shares has been calculated based on various simulations in the table in the Compensation Committee Chair’s letter on page 111. Note that 3.1 million of the SARs are included already in the EPS dilution. The conditional capital of 5 million shares that is available at 31 December 2019 covers this requirement and our dilution cannot exceed 8.4% no matter how much the price increases. The maximum is calculated as the number of SARs outstanding including maximum overachievement divided by this plus the number of outstanding shares (ie (5,613,241 + 892,526) /( 5,613,241 + 892,526 + 70,953,199). C.8. Contract terms for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members The contractual notice periods of the Executive Chairman, being the sole executive member of the Board of Directors, and members of the Executive Committee do not exceed 12 months; there are no non-statutory severance payment clauses. In case of a change of control of Temenos AG, all SARs granted will become immediately vested and exercisable provided that their respective vesting period has started. A case of change of control occurs when a third party acquires the control of more than 50% ownership in Temenos AG. In case of dismissal for cause, all unvested options and SARs are forfeited. In case of termination, conditions vary by role and are described in each plan. C.9. Compensation elements for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors were compensated in 2019 with a fee for their Board duties, together with a supplementary fee for their role as Chairperson of the Audit and Compensation Committees respectively. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 119 Compensation Report continued D. Compensation for financial year under review – audited This section (section D on pages 120 to 122) has been audited by Temenos’ auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers SA. As individuals are paid in currencies other than US dollars, the amounts in the tables below are converted into US dollars using the average exchange rate for 2019 and the average exchange rate for 2018 respectively. Comparison between these two years may be distorted through the exchange rate fluctuations. The LTIP value included in the compensation tables below represents the full fair value of the on-target achievement at the time of grant i.e. for 2019 it includes 100% of the fair value of the 2019 grant calculated by a third party using the binomial method. The SARs grant (number of SARs) is only realized if (i) non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets are achieved AND (ii) the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. For any value to be realized by the executives, even if the SAR is granted, the stock price has to rise above the grant price. The valuation method, conditions and grant details are explained in the paragraph titled Compensation Components. In order for the 2019 fair value (ie the LTIP value recorded in the compensation tables below) to be realized at 100% for the employee, the following conditions need to be satisfied: ● Non-IFRS Product revenues of at least 14% CAGR growth over the three years AND ● Non-IFRS EPS CAGR growth of at least 15% (or a different combination between the two in accordance with the weightings and over/under achievement) AND ● Stock price CAGR growth of at least 7.6% compared to the grant stock price of USD 136.94, ie the 7.6% increase at 100% vesting will deliver a gain equivalent to the LTIP value in the tables below. D.1. Board of Directors The total compensation for the Board of Directors including social security charges totals USD 6.8 million compared to a total maximum compensation of USD 7.5 million approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2018. Out of the total Executive Chairman’s 2019 compensation of USD 5.9 million, USD 2.8 million has been earned, and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2020-2021 are achieved and the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs at fair value for which targets have been achieved but not yet vested because vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. Total compensation Employer including All numbers in USD Variable Total social social Maximum Name Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security shareholder Board Function Year salary incentive compensation1 before LTIP value compensation charges2 charges approval A. Andreades3 2019 629,174 497,048 142,482 1,268,704 4,679,136 5,947,840 9,179 5,957,019 Executive Chairman 2018 639,846 728,536 138,763 1,507,145 4,679,045 6,186,190 141,380 6,327,570 S. Giacoletto-Roggio4 2019 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 9,828 154,828 Vice Chairman 2018 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 9,716 154,716 G. Koukis 2019 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 7,782 112,782 Member 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 7,712 112,712 T. de Tersant5 2019 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 12,719 157,719 Member 2018 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 12,616 157,616 I. Cookson 2019 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,761 111,761 Member 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,673 111,673 E. Hansen 2019 114,179 – – 114,179 – 114,179 – 114,179 Member 2018 114,160 – – 114,160 – 114,160 – 114,160 A. Yip 2019 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,761 111,761 Member 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,673 111,673 P. Spenser 2019 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 – 105,000 Member 2018 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 – 105,000 Total Board 2019 1,453,353 497,048 142,482 2,092,883 4,679,136 6,772,019 53,030 6,825,049 7,500,000 of Directors 2018 1,464,006 728,536 138,763 2,331,305 4,679,045 7,010,350 184,770 7,195,120 7,415,000 (1) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (2) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIPs (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. (3) Mr. Andreades’ total compensation includes fees of USD 105,000 for his Board duties, the remainder represents compensation for his executive duties. Mr. Andreades’ long term incentive plan compensation corresponds to the full fair value, as at grant, of the 2019 executive team SAR award. The variable short term incentive is 79% of the on-target amount, payable in February 2020. The LTIP for Mr. Andreades consists of 138,600 SARs which were granted on 13 February 2019 at a grant price of USD 136.94 and a fair value of USD 33.76 per grant. (4) Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 105,000 for 2018) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 40,000 for 2018) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Compensation Committee. He does not receive additional fees for his duties as Vice-Chairman of the Company. (5) Mr. de Tersant’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 105,000 for 2018) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 40,000 for 2018) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 120 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements D.2. Executive Committee The total compensation for the Executive Committee including social security charges totals USD 24.6 million. Shareholders approved USD 23.1 million at the AGM on 15 May 2018. As per the Articles of Association, an additional 40% of the approved amount can be added in case of a new member joining the Executive Committee. With the addition of the roles of Mrs. Alexa Guenoun and Mr. Thomas Hogan we were therefore permitted to exceed the approved amount by up to 40%, that is USD 9.2 million, of which only USD 1.6 million was utilized. The compensation of the existing five roles was USD 20.6 million compared to the approved USD 24.6 million. The addition of Ms. Alexa Guenoun and Mr. Thomas Hogan is an additional cost of USD 4.0 million. The total of all compensation, in US dollars, earned in 2019 and 2018 by the members of the Executive Committee is shown below. From the total compensation of USD 22.4 million, USD 10.7 million has been earned and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2020-2021 as set out in the report are achieved. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs for which targets have been achieved even though the time vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. The Executive Committee members included in 2019 were Mr. Arnott until 28 February 2019, Mr. Chuard, Mr. Hilsenkopf, Mr. Loustau, Mr. Winterburn, Mrs. Alexa Guenoun joined the Executive Committee on 12 February 2019 and Mr. Thomas Hogan joined the Executive Committee on 25 September 2019. Mr. Chuard was promoted to CEO effective 1 March 2019 and is the highest paid member of the Executive Committee and of the Company. The reason for the increase from 2018 to 2019 is as a result of the addition of Ms. Alexa Guenoun effective 12 February 2019 and Mr. Thomas Hogan joining the Executive Committee on 25 September following the acquisition of Kony. Mr. Thomas Hogan has received SARs in 2019 with specific targets for the Americas region for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 as described in section C5. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Maximum All numbers in USD Base short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security shareholder Year salary incentive1 compensation2 before LTIP value3 compensation charges4 charges approval 20195 2,948,901 2,348,689 353,749 5,651,350 16,757,433 22,408,783 2,226,880 24,635,663 23,100,000 plus max of 9,240,00 for new member 2018 2,488,210 2,834,072 303,167 5,625,449 14,446,495 20,071,944 1,986,832 22,058,776 18,500,000 plus max of 7,400,00 for new member (1) The variable short term incentive is 79% of the on-target payable amount. The variable short term incentive is payable in February 2020. (2) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (3) The LTIP for the Executive Committee consists of 640,085 SARs which were granted on 13 February 2019 at a grant price of USD 136.94 and a fair value of USD 33.76. (4) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIPs (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. (5) Base salary includes the amounts paid to Mr. Arnott during his notice period. D.3 Highest paid member of the Executive Committee Mr. Chuard, our CEO, was the highest paid member of the Executive Committee in 2019 with compensation, in US dollars, as shown below. 88% of his total compensation in 2019 was variable and conditional upon the 2020-2021 performance targets to be achieved. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social All numbers in USD Base short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security Year salary incentive1 compensation before LTIP value2 compensation charges charges 2019 Mr. Chuard3 747,592 627,465 79,602 1,454,660 5,674,549 7,129,209 586,428 7,715,637 2018 Mr. Arnott 823,239 937,669 68,497 1,829,405 5,674,452 7,503,857 647,832 8,151,689 (1) The variable short term incentive is 79% of the on-target payable amount. The variable short term incentive is payable in February 2020. (2) The LTIP for the CEO consists of 168,085 SARs which were granted on 13 February 2019 at a grant price of USD 136.94 and a fair value of USD 33.76. (3) Mr. Chuard’s base salary is for two months as CFO/COO and ten months as CEO. On an annualized basis his total on target compensation would be the same as Mr. Arnott. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 121 Compensation Report continued D.4. Compensation in CHF Pursuant to Article 958d alinea 3 of the Swiss Code of Obligations compensation amounts may be quoted in the most significant currency of the business activity, in Temenos’ case it is USD, but must also be quoted in CHF. The amounts quoted below in CHF for the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and highest paid Executive Committee member respectively are calculated taking the USD amount converted at the average exchange rate for the year. The exchange rate used in 2019 was 0.9946 (2018: 0.9784). Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF Year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Board of Directors 2019 1,445,559 494,382 141,718 2,081,659 4, 654,043 6,735,702 52,745 6,788,447 2018 1,428,960 712,786 135,763 2,277,509 4,577,889 6,855,398 180,776 7,036,174 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF Year Base salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Executive Committee 2019 2,933,087 2,336,104 351,852 5,621,043 16,667,567 22,288,610 2,214,938 24,503,548 2018 2,434,419 2,772,803 296,611 5,503,833 14,134,176 19,638,009 1,943,879 21,581,888 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF Year Base salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Max Chuard, CEO 2019 743,584 624,100 79,175 1,446,859 5,644,118 7,090,977 583,283 7,674,260 David Arnott, CEO 2018 805,441 917,396 67,018 1,789,855 5,551,776 7,341,631 633,827 7,975,458 D.5. Loans granted to members of governing bodies As of 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 the Company has no outstanding loans to members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee other than a bridging loan of USD 0.4 million to CPO which is to compensate his adverse tax position from his combined residence in both UK and Switzerland, where he spends time at the request of Temenos. No loans were granted to persons related to the Board of Directors or Executive Committee. 122 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements E. The year ahead: compensation of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee for 2020 At the Annual General Meeting in 2019, the shareholders approved total compensation including social charges for year 2020 for the Board of Directors of USD 7.8 million and for the Executive Committee of USD 27.2 million. E.1. Changes that affect 2020 fixed compensation The Executive Committee has been changed in 2020. Mr. Thomas Hogan, the President of North America, has resigned effective 12 February 2020. He will be replaced by Mrs. Alexa Guenoun as President of the Americas and Global Head of Partners, Mr. Colin Jarrett will take the position of Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer, responsible for Temenos’ cloud and SaaS operations and global delivery of implementation projects . Mr. André Loustau will be stepping down with a view to retiring at the end of the year. Mr. Mark Winterburn will take over the responsibilities of Mr. Loustau in addition to those he holds currently. The new Executive Committee, effective from 12 February 2020, is as follows: Max Chuard, CEO (Chief Executive Officer) Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos, CFO (Chief Financial Officer) Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf, COO (Chief Operating Officer) Mark Winterburn, CPTO (Chief Product and Technology Officer) Alexa Guenoun, President of the Americas and Global Head of Partners Colin Jarrett, CCDO (Chief Cloud and Delivery Officer) The compensation of the CEO, CFO and COO are increased in line with AGM 2019 approval, that is a 10% increase on LTIP. No other changes have been made. The compensation for the “CPO and CTO” and for the “President of the Americas and Global Head of Partners” have been increased to reflect their promotions. ● The Board fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the fees for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and for the Chairman of the Compensation Committee are increased by 3% compared to 2019 representing an inflation increase and a small step towards aligning to the SMIM, our benchmark group for non-executives. ● The variable Short Term Incentive for the Executives will remain at a maximum of 150%. E.2. 2020 Variable Short Term Incentive for Executives For 2020, the performance metrics will remain the same as in 2019, but the weighting will be amended slightly with more focus on the SaaS target as this part of the business is highly strategic for Temenos and continues to grow at a fast rate, that is: ● 37.5% (2019: 40%) Non-IFRS Software Licensing ● 17.5% (2019: 15%) SaaS Annual Contract Value ● 20% Non-IFRS EPS ● 25% Non-IFRS Operating Cash The targets are considered commercially sensitive and are not disclosed in advance. E.3. 2020 Long Term Incentive Plan Awards for Executives The LTIP award for 2020 was issued in February 2020. 40% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS EPS targets, 60% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS product revenue targets. The targets for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period 2020-2022. The targets for non-IFRS product revenues are based on a CAGR of 15 % for the three year period 2020-2022. This is higher than the 13% CAGR growth for product revenues for the 2018 scheme and higher than the 14% CAGR growth for the 2019 scheme as the Board continues to drive stretch targets for management. The performance against those measures will be disclosed in the year of vesting. As approved by the shareholders, the maximum threshold for the LTIPs for the 2020 scheme was increased from 120% achievement resulting in 140% payout to 137.5% achievement resulting in 175% payout. E.4. 2020 Compensation Plan components For 2020, the split of aggregate compensation for the Executives at the on-target level is shown below. The majority of compensation (87%) is at risk and dependent on achieving the annual total software licensing, operating cash flow and annual non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the 2020 to 2022 financial years. The only fixed compensation which is guaranteed is the fixed salary and benefits which, in aggregate amount to 13% of the on-target total compensation. 2020 Executives Fixed fee/salary 11% Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 17% LTIP 70% At risk compensation 87% The LTIP for 2020 is subject to delivery of the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial years 2020, 2021 and 2022 that are still at risk, hence not yet earned. E.5. 2020 Share Ownership Share ownership guidelines for the Board of Directors have been introduced in 2020. Non-Executive Directors must hold shares with a value equivalent to the annual retainer fee. This must be effective by May 2023. New Non-Executive Directors must adhere to this guideline within three years of election at AGM. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 123 Compensation Report continued F. Other information F.1. Shareholdings and equity incentives Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 9,000 9,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 15,500 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member 15,000 15,000 A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – – Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members Shares SARS Number of Number of Number of vested unvested unvested Grant Exercise SARs SARs SARs Name Position 2019 2018 Year Plan price USD 2019 2019 20181 A. Andreades Executive Chairman 607,369 582,369 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 393,707 – 393,707 2016 scheme1 49.12 55,725 – 55,725 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 349,469 291,900 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 155,450 155,450 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 138,600 – D. Arnott3 CEO until 28 February 2019 na 35,000 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 na na 523,328 2016 scheme1 49.12 na na 79,953 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 na na 354,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 na na 188,520 M. Chuard CEO 75,000 65,000 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 312,543 – 312,543 2016 scheme1 49.12 42,399 – 42,399 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 304,454 254,300 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 135,430 135,430 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 168,085 – P. Spiliopoulos CFO – na 2019 2019 scheme 147.43 – 70,000 na J. Hilsenkopf4 COO 13,766 – 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 92,000 92,000 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 98,400 – A. Loustau CTO 8,298 3,673 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 54,513 – 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 35,198 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 27,000 29,400 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 37,000 27,000 M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 3,975 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 23,741 – 78,741 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 53,875 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 37,000 37,000 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 41,000 – A. Guenoun4 CCO – na 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 37,000 na T. Hogan President North America – na 2019 2019 scheme 144.77 – 50,000 na (1) The SARs granted under the 2016 scheme vested on 13 February 2019. The numbers above include the overachievement of 121%. 2018 has been restated to include the overachievement. (2) The SARs granted under the 2017 scheme vested on 13 February 2020. The numbers above include the overachievement of 120%. (3) Mr. Arnott stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2019. He did not receive any SARs in 2019 other than overachievement SARs for 2017-19 scheme since these vested during his notice period. (4) The SARs shown above for Mr. Hilsenkopf and Mrs. Guenoun only include outstanding SARs granted since appointment to the Executive Committee. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2019 and 2018 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee. 124 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements F.2. Options and SARs outstanding The following table lists all options and SARs outstanding as at 31 December 2019. This includes the SARs outstanding for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members shown in the tables on page 124 and all other staff eligible for options and SARs. Total number of Exercise outstanding Number of Number of Number of price SARs/ vested unvested unvested Grant year Plan USD1 STI shares SARs SARs STI shares 2008 2008 20.63 1,097 1,097 2009 2010 21.04 3,013 3,013 2010 2010 23.04 9,569 9,569 2010 2010 26.55 815 815 2011 2011 13.81 28,427 28,427 2011 2012 13.94 2,657 2,657 2012 2012 11.76 4,835 4,835 2012 2012 14.21 1,529 1,529 2012 2012 15.52 4,342 4,342 2012 2013 12.81 80,700 80,700 2013 2013 16.71 15,210 15,210 2013 2013 18.89 77,766 77,766 2014 2014 35.33 19,000 19,000 2014 2015 35.15 50,318 50,318 2014 2015 35.45 76,337 76,337 2015 2015 32.83 2,105 2,105 2015 2015 35.34 2,500 2,500 2015 2015 35.29 207,000 207,000 2016 2015 46.53 7,177 7,177 2016 2016 57.07 20,214 20,214 2016 2016 43.69 886,383 886,383 2016 2016 49.12 98,124 98,124 2016 2016 57.07 138,174 138,174 2016 2016 63.10 3,634 3,634 2016 2016 65.92 7,191 7,191 2017 2,3 2017 70.87 1,545,605 1,545,605 2017 2,3 2017 75.04 11,972 11,972 20173 2017 80.86 2,394 2,394 2017 3 2017 88.81 1,197 1,197 2017 3 2017 90.20 17,959 17,959 20173 2017 101.86 1,197 1,197 2017³ 2017 103.74 17,959 17,959 2018 2018 127.00 811,880 811,880 2018 2018 127.68 2,500 2,500 2018 2018 161.33 3,000 3,000 2018 2018 164.00 5,000 5,000 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 125 Compensation Report continued Total number of Exercise outstanding Number of Number of Number of price SARs/ vested unvested unvested Grant year Plan USD1 STI shares SARs SARs STI shares 2018 2018 138.63 1,000 1,000 2018 2019 113.64 53,500 53,500 2019 2019 136.94 937,285 937,285 2019 2019 144.09 22,400 22,400 2019 2019 147.43 70,000 70,000 2019 2019 164.57 2,000 2,000 2019 2019 182.26 2,000 2,000 2019 2019 149.37 4,000 4,000 2019 2019 160.90 15,000 15,000 2019 2019 151.75 2,000 2,000 2019 2020 144.77 296,750 296,750 2019 2020 147.06 3,000 3,000 2018 Profit shares 18 – 8,161 8,161 2019 Profit shares 18 – 24,054 24,054 2019 Profit shares 19 – 3,311 3,311 Total 5,613,241 1,748,117 3,829,598 35,526 (1) The weighted average exercise price is USD 86.31. (2) The SARs from the 2017 plan vested on 12 February 2020. (3) The numbers above for 2017 plan include the overachievement of 120%. 126 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Report of the statutory auditor on the Compensation Report Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva We have audited pages 120 to 122 of the accompanying remuneration report of Temenos AG for the year ended 31 December 2019. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the remuneration report of Temenos AG for the year ended 31 December 2019 complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Yazen Jamjum Pierrick Misse Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 20 February 2020 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 127 Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Temenos AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2019 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession, as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: USD 10’000’000 The group audit team performed the audit over selected financial statement line items such as revenue, accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities, cash balances, and capitalized development costs, in addition to auditing the consolidation which includes pension and share based compensation. We performed a full scope audit over one entity located in Switzerland and audits of selected financial statement line items were performed on ten additional entities located in nine different countries. Audit scope Our audit scope addressed all of the Group’s revenue, approximately 96% of the Group’s total assets and approximately 66% of the Group’s total expenses. Key audit matters As key audit matters the following areas of focus were identified: ● Software licensing revenue recognition ● Services revenue recognition ● Recoverability of account receivables and contract assets ● Purchase price allocation for the Kony acquisition Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality USD 10’000’000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, rounded Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above USD 0.5 million identified during our audit, as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 128 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. The group audit team performed the audit over selected financial statement line items such as revenue, accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities, cash balances, and capitalized development costs, in addition to auditing the consolidation, which includes pension and share based compensation. We also considered where subjective judgments were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including, among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Furthermore, we performed a full scope audit over one entity located in Switzerland and audits of selected financial statement line items were performed on ten additional entities located in nine different countries. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Software licensing revenue recognition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter For the year ended 31 December 2019, revenue from software licensing was Firstly, we evaluated the compliance of Temenos’s accounting policies with IFRS 15 USD 378 million (which includes software developments and customizations). key considerations. We focused on initial license revenue because of its significance and the risks For all license deals that we considered to be individually significant and for a sample related to the numerous inherent complexities and critical judgments involved in the of the remaining software arrangements, we performed the following: measurement, timing and presentation of revenues from multi-element contracts found in the software industry. • Inspected the existence of a signed version of the customer contract together with evidence of software delivery. Transactions with customers often are multiple element arrangements that typically • Reviewed the contracts and assessed potential impact of any unusual clause include license, implementation and/or development services and maintenance on revenue recognition. When necessary we also discussed with internal legal elements. The identification and the allocation of the transaction price to the different counsel their interpretation of certain contractual terms to assess their impact on performance obligations require management to use significant estimates in relation revenue recognition. to the determination of the fair value of each component. In addition, there are critical • Reviewed and evaluated the fair value allocations between the various judgments in determining whether existing uncertainties and contingencies preclude performance obligations identified in accordance with Temenos’s revenue license revenue from being recognized. recognition policy and IFRS 15. • We performed cut-off testing procedures to ensure that revenue is recognised in There is a risk that license revenue is overstated or recognised prematurely due to the correct reporting period by reference to the contract and evidence of delivery. either the inappropriate assessment of the risks and uncertainties involved and/or • We also looked for evidence to validate the authenticity of customer contracts. inappropriate allocation between the various components. We presented the results of our testing to the Audit Committee and highlighted deals involving significant judgments and estimates together with our view on those There is also a risk that judgments or estimates in relation to license revenue are judgments and estimates made. not free from bias or that license revenue booked is manipulated to achieve financial targets. Based on the work performed, we concluded that the critical judgments and estimates made by management were reasonable and the accounting for license revenue Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting estimates and appropriate. judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. Services revenue recognition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter For the year ended 31 December 2019, services revenue We analysed the evolution of the percentage of completion for a random selection was USD 178 million. of fixed price projects. For those projects where we identified a significant variance in the percentage of completion or the total man-days estimated, we investigated further We focused on this area because this is a material amount and because of the to obtain evidence of the status of the project and the reasonableness of the man-day significant estimates involved in determining the percentage of completion for fixed estimates. In certain cases, we also discussed with the service project managers to price service implementation projects combined with the enhanced risk involved in understand the progress, difficulties associated with the implementation, if any, and medium to long-term projects. likely future scenarios. Recognizing service revenue over time using the percentage of completion method In addition, we obtained and reviewed a look-back analysis prepared by requires management to estimate the total man-days of effort required at the start of management for a sample of projects that compared actual total man-days to the the implementation period and the estimates to complete at every reporting period. estimates made in prior periods. There is a risk that total man-days for a given fixed price project are underestimated We selected a sample of fixed priced projects and tested the accuracy of the which leads to recognizing service revenue prematurely or the risk that reductions in percentage of completion calculation and the resulting service revenue recognized. revenue for the period are unrecognized. The outcome of our procedures was presented to, and discussed with, the Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting estimates and Audit Committee. judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. Based on the work performed, we concluded that the manday estimates made by management were reasonable and the accounting for service revenue appropriate. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 129 Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements continued Recoverability of accounts receivables and contract assets Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As at 31 December 2019, accounts receivables and contract assets amounted to We reviewed management’s analysis for all projects with potential exposure at risk. USD 275 million and USD 51 million, respectively. This analysis includes background information of the customer, existing contractual relationships, balance outstanding, delays in collection, and operational issues We focused on this risk as the balances are material and there are many significant together with a detailed legal analysis, where required. judgments involved in assessing recoverability of accounts receivables and contract assets in the software industry. This is especially the case as some of these balances In addition, we challenged management’s assessment of the recoverability of selected could be significant or overdue. accounts receivable and contract assets balances (significant and randomly selected) with project managers and senior management, as appropriate. When deemed There are many factors that need to be considered when concluding that a balance necessary, we also discussed certain potential exposures with the internal legal needs to be impaired including default or delinquency in payments, length of counsel and agreed it to available confirmations from external lawyers. the outstanding balances and implementation difficulties that could result in future concessions. In addition, some of the customers might also be undergoing restructuring, We evaluated management’s assessment of whether the resulting impact of the a change in strategy or management, or facing liquidity issues that undermine their recoverability of the receivable is a result of a credit default and therefore bad debt intent or ability to pay the amounts due. expense or a form of variable consideration that reduces revenue under IFRS 15. Given the complexity, the size and the length of certain implementation projects, there We confirmed selected material customer balances to verify their intention to settle is risk that an impairment charge or a revenue reversal is not recognised timely and/ the outstanding balance in the future. We also reviewed the aging of accounts or accurately. receivables and obtained external market evidence confirming the lack of significant doubt about the financial stability for selected customers. Refer to note 2.5 (accounting policies) and note 14 (trade and other receivables) of the consolidated financial statements. We presented the results of our procedures to the Audit Committee. The level of the provision made against accounts receivables and contract assets was deemed appropriate and corresponds to the risks identified. Purchase price allocation for the Kony acquisition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter On 20 September 2019, Temenos acquired control over 100% of the shares of With the support of our internal valuation experts, we performed the following detailed Kony, a digital banking provider in the US. procedures over the acquisition accounting for Kony: The total consideration amounted to USD 533 million (including a contingent • reviewed the adequacy of the methodologies used by management’s expert for consideration of USD 20 million). the fair value estimations and the key assumptions used by for the valuation of the intangible assets acquired. The Group, supported by its external valuation expert, has performed the purchase • evaluated competence, capabilities and objectivity of management’s experts. price allocation and identified acquired intangibles of USD 241 million. Goodwill • assessed the appropriateness of the purchase price allocation and related resulting from the acquisition amounted to USD 433 million. accounting treatment. • audited the adequacy of the disclosures and the presentation of the transaction in The determination of the purchase price allocation required some significant judgments the consolidated financial statements. and estimates relating to the identification of the separately identifiable assets and their fair values. We presented the results of our procedures to the Audit Committee. Refer to note 6 (Business combinations) and note 17 (Intangible assets). We determined that the conclusions reached by management with regards to the acquisition accounting and the related disclosures were reasonable and supported. Other information in the annual report The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information in the annual report. The other information comprises all information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the stand-alone financial statements and the remuneration report of Temenos AG and our auditor’s reports thereon. The other information in the annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information in the annual report and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information in the annual report when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 130 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Yazen Jamjum Pierrick Misse Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 20 February 2020 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 131 Consolidated statement of profit or loss For the year ended 31 December 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Revenues Software licensing 378,408 341,555 SaaS & subscription 57,933 31,265 Total software licensing 436,341 372,820 Maintenance 357,679 314,353 Services 177,950 153,688 Total revenues (note 7) 971,970 840,861 Operating expenses Cost of sales (264,480) (229,191) Sales and marketing (177,449) (144,528) General and administrative (99,752) (87,730) Other operating expenses (194,869) (160,642) Total operating expenses (note 9) (736,550) (622,091) Operating profit 235,420 218,770 Finance income 11,143 3,117 Finance costs (34,010) (26,486) Finance costs – net (note 11) (22,867) (23,369) Profit before taxation 212,553 195,401 Taxation (note 21) (31,432) (27,173) Profit for the year 181,121 168,228 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 181,121 168,228 Non-controlling interest – – 181,121 168,228 Earnings per share (in USD) (note 12): basic 2.57 2.43 diluted 2.46 2.31 Notes on pages 137 to 186 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 132 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Profit for the year 181,121 168,228 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Changes in the fair value of equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income (note 3.4) 1,079 – Remeasurements of post employment defined benefit obligations (note 23) 1,195 (2,290) 2,274 (2,290) Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedge reserve (note 26) 3,994 6,782 Cost of hedging reserve (note 26) 9 – Currency translation differences (note 26) (24,104) (32,883) (20,101) (26,101) Other comprehensive income for the year (17,827) (28,391) Total comprehensive income for the year 163,294 139,837 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 163,294 139,837 Non-controlling interest – – 163,294 139,837 Notes on pages 137 to 186 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 133 Consolidated statement of financial position As at 31 December re-presented 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents (note 13) 152,785 287,439 Trade and other receivables (note 14) 384,226 283,195 Other financial assets (note 15) 4,431 6,579 Total current assets 541,442 577,213 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 67,283 18,021 Intangible assets (note 17) 1,659,822 1,009,945 Trade and other receivables (note 14) 12,338 10,987 Other financial assets (note 15) 22,361 15,423 Deferred tax assets (note 21) 19,155 17,663 Total non-current assets 1,780,959 1,072,039 Total assets 2,322,401 1,649,252 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities Trade and other payables (note 18) 219,947 164,924 Other financial liabilities (note 15) 2,518 2,234 Deferred revenue (note 8) 287,325 262,461 Income tax liabilities 62,925 38,568 Borrowings (note 19) 100,595 107,797 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 22) 891 1,259 Total current liabilities 674,201 577,243 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables (note 18) 2,272 – Other financial liabilities (note 15) 11,976 19,385 Borrowings (note 19) 1,073,972 706,278 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 22) 699 261 Deferred tax liabilities (note 21) 103,665 36,994 Retirement benefit obligations (note 23) 10,536 10,320 Total non-current liabilities 1,203,120 773,238 Total liabilities 1,877,321 1,350,481 Share capital 241,858 233,217 Treasury shares (264,608) (264,608) Share premium and other reserves (note 25) (258,384) (289,095) Other equity (note 26) (143,742) (121,491) Retained earnings 869,956 740,748 445,080 298,771 Non-controlling interest – – Total equity 445,080 298,771 Total liabilities and equity 2,322,401 1,649,252 Notes on pages 137 to 186 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 134 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 212,553 195,401 Adjustments: Property Plant and Equipment depreciation, intangible asset amortization and impairment of financial assets 131,850 95,726 Loss on retirement /disposal of property, plant and equipment (notes 16) 279 14 Cost of share options (note 27) 39,463 38,018 Foreign exchange loss on non-operating activities (10,179) (5,495) Interest expenses, net (note 11) 20,341 11,847 Net loss from financial instruments (note 11) 6,700 2,064 Other finance costs (note 11) 4,872 10,605 Other non-cash items 866 336 Changes in: Trade and other receivables (57,479) (35,294) Trade and other payables, provisions and retirement benefit obligations 9,269 27,194 Deferred revenues 5,716 24,638 Cash generated from operations 364,251 365,054 Income taxes paid (17,197) (20,880) Net cash generated from operating activities 347,054 344,174 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9,989) (8,305) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 358 – Purchase of intangible assets (3,992) (3,692) Capitalized development costs (note 17) (64,649) (52,625) Acquisitions of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (note 6) (573,089) (242,462) Escrow deposit for contingent consideration on acquisition (note 6) (21,000) – Investment in equity securities – (15,000) Acquisition of long term loan instruments (note 15) (6,000) – Settlement of financial instruments (4,173) (3,885) Interest received 1,234 1,760 Net cash used in investing activities (681,300) (324,209) Cash flows from financing activities Dividend paid (note 28) (52,361) (46,134) Acquisition of treasury shares – (205,578) Proceeds from borrowings 607,641 200,000 Repayments of borrowings (431,030) (92) Proceeds from issuance of bond 219,043 174,418 Repayment of bond (100,652) – Payment of lease liabilities (16,289) – Interest payments (21,714) (12,663) Payment of other financing costs (5,835) (8,953) Net cash generated from financing activities 198,803 100,998 Effect of exchange rate changes 789 (1,379) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (134,654) 119,584 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 287,439 167,855 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 152,785 287,439 Notes on pages 137 to 186 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 135 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December Share premium and Share Treasury other reserves Other equity Retained capital shares (note 25) (note 26) earnings Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2018 232,192 (197,750) (186,287) (93,341) 620,944 375,758 Profit for the year – – – – 168,228 168,228 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – (26,101) (2,290) (28,391) Total comprehensive income – – – (26,101) 165,938 139,837 Dividend paid (note 28) – – – – (46,134) (46,134) Hedging gain transferred to deferred revenues – – – (2,049) – (2,049) Cost of share options (note 27) – – 38,018 – – 38,018 Exercise of share-based payment transactions (note 25) 1,025 138,720 (139,745) – – – Acquisition of treasury shares – (205,578) – – – (205,578) Costs associated with equity transactions – – (1,081) – – (1,081) 1,025 (66,858) (102,808) (28,150) 119,804 (76,987) Balance at 31 December 2018 233,217 (264,608) (289,095) (121,491) 740,748 298,771 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (net of tax) – – – – (1,826) (1,826) Adjusted balance at 1 January 2019 233,217 (264,608) (289,095) (121,491) 738,922 296,945 Profit for the year – – – – 181,121 181,121 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – (20,101) 2,274 (17,827) Total comprehensive income – – – (20,101) 183,395 163,294 Dividend paid (note 28) – – – – (52,361) (52,361) Hedging gain transferred to deferred revenues – – – (2,150) – (2,150) Cost of share options (note 27) – – 39,463 – – 39,463 Exercise of share-based payment transactions (note 25) 8,641 – (8,641) – – – Costs associated with equity transactions – – (111) – – (111) 8,641 – 30,711 (22,251) 131,034 148,135 Balance at 31 December 2019 241,858 (264,608) (258,384) (143,742) 869,956 445,080 Notes on pages 137 to 186 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 136 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 1. General information Temenos AG formerly named as ‘Temenos Group AG’ (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. The registered office is located at 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland. The Company and its subsidiaries (the ‘Temenos Group’ or the ‘Group’) are engaged in the development, marketing and sale of integrated banking software systems. The Group is also involved in supporting the implementation of the systems at various client locations around the world as well as in offering help desk support services to existing users of Temenos software systems. The client base consists of mostly banking and other financial services institutions. These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2020. 2. Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where IFRS explicitly requires use of other measurement principles. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation and adopted by the Group as at 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 ‘Leases‘ IFRS 16 primarily changes lease accounting for lessees. Lease agreements will give rise to recognition of an asset representing the right to use the leased asset and lease liability representing its obligation for future lease payments. The nature of expense related to the lease has now changed as straight-line operating lease expense is replaced by depreciation expense associated with right-of-use asset and interest expense on lease liabilities. The Group has identified all the leases that are currently in use and majority of these leases are for office-related rentals. As of 1 January 2019, the Group adopted IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, using modified retrospective approach. This new standard replaces the IAS 17 ‘Leases’. The transition effect into the new lease standard is accounted by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard as an opening balance sheet adjustment to retained earnings at 1 January 2019 without any adjustment to prior year comparative information and it’s continued to be reported under IAS 17 and related interpretations. In applying IFRS 16 for the first time, the Group has used the following practical expedients permitted by the standard: ● accounting for operating leases with remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 January 2019 as short term leases ● the exclusion of initial direct cost for the measurement of the right-of-use-asset at the date of initial application ● relying on previous assessments on whether leases are onerous as an alternative to performing an impairment review – there was no onerous contract as at 1 January 2019 The only exceptions are short term and low-value lease (accounting policy choices elected by the Group as permitted by IFRS 16) which are recorded as part of operating expenses over the term of the lease. Initial application of IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019 has resulted in the following opening balance adjustments on the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position. The net impact was a reduction in retained earnings of USD 1.8 million. IFRS 16 adoption USD 000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 45,085 Other assets (current/non-current) 3,327 Total assets 48,412 Liabilities Borrowings (current/non-current) 53,175 Other liabilities (current/non-current) (2,937) Total liabilities 50,238 Equity Retained earnings (1,826) Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.1 Basis of preparation continued The following is a reconciliation of total operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 (as disclosed in the financial statements to 31 December 2018) to the lease liabilities recognized at 1 January 2019: USD 000 Total operating lease commitments net of sub-lease at 31 December 2018 as disclosed under IAS 17 (note 29) 56,953 Sub-lease add back 2,878 Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 59,831 Impact of discounting* (4,432) Recognition exemptions: Leases of low value assets (1,029) Leases with remaining lease term of less than 12 months (917) Other reconciling items (278) Total lease liabilities recognized under IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019 53,175 * On initial application of IFRS 16, the lease liabilities on pre-existing leases classified as operating leases under IAS17 were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and were discounted at the incremental borrowing rates as at 1 January 2019. The weighted average discount rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 January 2019 was 2.7%. There is no significant impact on net profit in 2019, and on the cash flow statement, cash flow from operating activities is offset by a corresponding decline in cash flow from financing activities. Following the adoption of the new standard, the Group has updated its accounting policies for leases (refer 2.12). IFRIC 23 (interpretation) ‘Uncertainty over Income tax Treatments’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12. The interpretation does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of IAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. This interpretation did not have a significant impact on the Group financial statements. The Group has applied this interpretation for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee benefit‘ effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The amendment provides guidance in connection with accounting for plan amendment, curtailments and settlements. The amendment requires use of current assumptions to determine service cost and to remeasure its net defined benefit liability or asset when a plan event such as amendment, curtailments or settlement occurs. The Group has applied the amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. IFRS 9 (amendment) ‘Financial instruments‘, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted. This amendment enables entities to measure at amortized cost some prepayable financial assets with negative compensation. The Group has applied the amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. 2015-2017 cycle annual improvements (amendments), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The Group has applied these amendments for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation that are not yet effective The following amendments have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. Unless otherwise indicated, these publications are not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements: IFRS 3 (amendment) ‘Business combination’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. The amendment clarifies the definition of a business and also permit a simplified assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and assets is merely a group of assets rather than a business. The Group will apply the new definition of business to assess any future acquisitions by the Group. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2020. IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements‘ and IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’ (amendment), effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2020. This amendment clarifies the definition of material and its application by aligning the wording of definition of material across all IFRS standards. This amendment would assist the Group to make materiality judgments going forward. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2020. IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’, IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments Recognition and measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ (amendment), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020. The amendment provides guidance to assist in a smoother transition away from Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR). The amendment is split into a two-phase process, and phase one has been issued which is effective 1 January 2020. Phase one focuses on hedge accounting issues related to uncertainties arising in the period leading up to the replacement of IBOR. The amendment apply to all hedge relationship that are directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform. Since the Group does not currently hold any hedge relationship that refers to IBOR, this amendment is not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s financial statements. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2020. 138 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Temenos AG (‘the Company’) as well as its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date when control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration is recognized in profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 2.3 Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Group’s presentation currency and the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated. The Company’s functional currency is Swiss francs. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. When the Group pays or receives consideration in advance, the date of transaction is the date when the consideration is realized. Foreign exchange differences arising from the settlement or from the translation at the reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges. The financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) with a different functional currency than the presentation currency are translated as follows: ● Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate of the reporting period; ● Income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income are translated on a monthly basis at the average exchange rates of the month (unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); ● Equity items are translated at the historical rates; and ● All resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on sale. Gains or losses resulting from long term intragroup balances for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are treated as a net investment in foreign operations (i.e. quasi-equity loans). The gains or losses recognized in the separate financial statements of the subsidiary are reclassified as cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. They are recognized in the functional currency of the acquired entity and translated to the presentation currency using the closing rate. 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, bank current accounts, time deposits and short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to negligible risks of change in value. As the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this asset to collect the contractual cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs. Cash and cash equivalents are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. Since this asset is substantially held with reputable major institutions with an ‘investment grade’ or similar rating and the period over which the Group is exposed is very short, any impairment loss would be immaterial. The Group applies the low credit risk option and allocates this asset to the stage 1 of the credit loss model. Loss allowance is then measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.5 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and contract assets Trade receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price or at fair value if they contain a significant financing components. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method as the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this asset to collect the contractual cash flows. Contract assets represents consideration which is conditional upon factors other then passage of time. The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measure expected credit losses which uses lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivable including trade receivable with significant financing components, and contract assets. The Group exercises judgment in determining expected credit loss allowance. In this judgment, the Group identifies default rate by analyzing the historical experience with credit losses, considering it to represent a reasonable approximation for future expected defaults and apply to the current receivables. The Group also takes into consideration forward looking factors, including changes in the overall economic environment or changes in regulation and if material reflects these in the expected credit loss allowance. A credit impairment is recognized when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Evidence of impairment includes significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization. The carrying amount of the asset is either reduced through the use of an allowance account or directly written off when there is no expectation of future recovery. The expense from expected credit loss allowance as well as from credit impaired debtors is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Sales and marketing’. Subsequent recoveries are credited in the same account previously used to recognize the impairment charge. Non-current trade receivables represent balances expected to be recovered after 12 months. Other receivables Other receivables include other receivables (financial assets) and other assets (non-financial assets). Other receivables (financial assets) represent receivables raised from transactions outside the ordinary activities of the Group. As the Group’s objective and business model are to hold this type of asset to collect the contractual cash flows, they are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs. Interest income, foreign exchange gain or loss and impairment are recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs-net’. When the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant, the gross carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value at initial recognition. Balances to be collected after 12 months from the reporting period are presented as non-current. The Group applies the same impairment policy that are used to measure the expected credit loss for its Trade receivables. Other assets (non-financial assets) primarily represent prepayments, contract costs according to IFRS 15 and statutory accruals. They are reported as current assets. 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item. Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost over their estimated useful lives, as follows (in years): Buildings 50 Furniture and fixtures 10 Office equipment 5 IT equipment* 4 Vehicles 4 * Computer software separately acquired (excludes software technologies acquired through business combination) is depreciated over the shorter of the license term and four years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term and useful life (ten years). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if necessary at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Gains or losses on disposals are determined by comparing the consideration received or receivable with the carrying amount and are recognized within ‘General and administrative’ in profit or loss unless otherwise specified. 140 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.7 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The carrying amount is allocated to the cash-generating unit (CGU) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. CGU to which the Goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The carrying value of the CGU is then compared to the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Any impairment attributed to the goodwill is recognized immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Computer software Software licenses separately acquired are capitalized when the Group can demonstrate that: ● It controls the asset; ● It is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group; and ● The cost of the asset can be reliably measured. The cost of the asset comprises its purchase price (including non-refundable purchase taxes) and any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. The cost of the asset is amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Software technologies acquired through business combinations are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives. Currently reported technologies acquired through business combination have useful life between five and eight years. Customer related intangible asset Customer-related intangible assets are assets acquired through business combinations. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives. The assessment of useful life is set out at the time of acquisition, specific for each acquisition. Currently reported customer related intangible asset have useful life between five and 16 years. Internally generated software development The Group follows a strategy of investing a substantial part of its revenues in research and development work which is directed towards the enhancement of its product platforms. The costs associated with the development of new or substantially improved products or modules are capitalized when the following criteria are met: ● Technical feasibility to complete the development; ● Management intent and ability to complete the product and use or sell it; ● The likelihood of success is probable; ● Availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase; ● Costs can be reliably measured; and ● Probable future economic benefits can be demonstrated. Directly attributable development costs that are capitalized include the employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Directly attributable development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditures that are not directly attributable are recognized as an expense when incurred. Internally generated software development costs are amortized using the straight-line method after the product is available for distribution. Development costs related to architecture developments are amortized over a five-year period and development costs related to functional developments are amortized over a three-year period. 2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.9 Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Current income tax and deferred income tax is recognized under IAS 12 ‘Income Tax‘ and IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over income tax treatments’. Tax is recognized in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries and associates operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group’s financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. The Group incurs withholding tax in various jurisdictions. An assessment is made to assess the ability to recover these withholding taxes against the normal tax liabilities occurring within the Group, and a provision is made to the extent that withholding tax is not recoverable. 2.10 Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. When the effect of the time value is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as an interest expense within ‘Finance costs’. A provision for restructuring is recognized when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. A provision for onerous lease is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived from a lease are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract. 2.11 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost. Effective interest costs are recognized within ‘Finance costs’ in profit or loss over the period of the relevant instrument. Fees directly attributable to the establishment of a financing facility are recognized as a prepayment for liquidity services and they are subsequently amortized within ‘Finance costs’ over the life of the instrument. Interests accrued on drawn portion of the banking facilities are reported as other payable within trade and other payables. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. Roll-over of loans drawn under a facility agreement is reported net in the statement of cash flows. 142 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.12 Leases Identification of a lease The Group now assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease based on the new definition of a lease under IFRS 16. Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To apply this definition the Group assesses whether the contract meets these evaluations: ● the contract contains an identified asset that is either explicitly specified or implicitly specified at the time that the asset is made available for use by the Group; ● the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified asset throughout the period of use; ● the Group has the right to direct the use of the identified asset throughout the period of use or the Group has the right to operate the asset throughout the period of use, without the supplier having the right to change those operating instructions. The policy is applied only to contracts entered into or changed on or after 1 January 2019. Contracts that were not identified as leases under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 were not reassessed. The Group has elected to separate non-lease component and they are accounted as an expense in profit or loss. In few cases, where the Group acts as an intermediate lessor, it classifies the sub-lease either as operating or a finance lease based on the lease term and the right-of-use-asset being sub-leased. If sub-lease is classified as a finance lease the future discounted cash flow is recognized as a receivable with a corresponding decrease of the right-to-use asset. Recognition and measurement of a lease At lease commencement date, the Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the contractual payments due to the lessor over the lease term, with the discount rate determined by reference to the rate inherent in the lease unless (as is typically the case) this is not readily determinable, in which case the Group use the incremental borrowing rate which consist of risk free rate of currency of the lease plus the premium arising from the Group’s credit risk. Lease payments included in the measurement comprise of fixed payments, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, amounts to be paid under a residual value guarantee (if any). The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which is made up of the initial measurement of the lease liability, any initial direct costs incurred by the Group, an estimate of any costs to dismantle and remove the asset at the end of the lease, and any lease payments made in advance of the lease commencement date (net of any incentives received). The Group depreciates the right-of-use assets on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The lease term determined at the commencement of lease represents the non-cancelable period of a lease and includes period covered by an option to extend or option to terminate. An option to extend or terminate the lease is included to the lease period either at the commencement of lease or during the lease period when exercising such option is reasonably certain. Leases of low-value and short term Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. The Group defines assets with estimated market value of USD 5 thousand when new as low value assets. The payments in relation to these leases are recognized as an expense in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and treated as an outflow from operating activities on the statement of cash flows. Re-measurement of a lease The lease liability and right of use assets initially recognized are re-measured on occurrence of below events: ● Change in lease term (renewal or termination options taken into consideration) – Re-measured using discount rate at the time of re-measurement; ● Change in index rate affecting future lease payments – Discount rate is unchanged (initial recognition) 2.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or other instruments are reported within share premium (note 25), net of tax, from the proceeds. Where any subsidiary of the Group purchases the Company’s shares (treasury shares), the consideration paid (including any directly attributable incremental costs) is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received (net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects) is recognized as an increase in equity and the resulting gains or losses are presented within share premium (note 25). 2.14 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs using the effective interest method. The related interest expense is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs’. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.15 Employee share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the instruments is recognized as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the instrument granted: ● Including any market performance conditions; ● Excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to vest. The total expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the instruments are exercised, the Group issues new shares or re-issues treasury shares. The consideration received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium and capital reserves. 2.16 Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group operates various pension schemes including both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the employee’s service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. For currencies where there is no deep market in such high quality corporate bonds, the market yields on government bonds that are consistent with the currency and the estimated terms of the post-employment benefit obligations shall be used. When a surplus in a plan exists, the Group measures the net benefit asset at the lower of the surplus and the present value of the future economic benefits available to the Group in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in profit or loss. For defined contribution plans, the relevant contributions are recognized as personnel costs when they are due. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. Other post-employment obligations Some subsidiaries provide other post-retirement benefits to their retirees (e.g. gratuities). The entitlement of those benefits is usually conditional on the employee completing a specific length of service. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains or losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is within IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value. 2.17 Revenue recognition The Group derives revenue from following four main sources: Software License Software license revenues represent all fees earned from granting customers licenses to use the Group’s software, either through an initial license or through the purchase of additional modules or user rights, but excludes any amounts that are related to maintenance. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, revenue is recognized at the point the software is delivered, functional and control has been passed to the customer. Temenos includes software that is either sold on a term basis or perpetual basis and includes software licenses that are sold on a subscription payment basis. Software developments and customizations, either licensed or owned by the customer once complete, are included within this revenue line and are recognized when they meet the same criteria as the licensed software. SAAS Software as a Service (SaaS) revenue is earned through the use of Temenos software to provide a service to the customer, whereby the customer does not have the ability to take infrastructure of the software under a licensed arrangement. This includes the support and development of the software as well as the hosting infrastructure. The hosting infrastructure in the arrangement may be Temenos own infrastructure or that of a third party hosting infrastructure that Temenos has engaged with. 144 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Maintenance Software maintenance is included in most software license arrangements and is generally priced as a percentage of the initial software license fees. Maintenance provides customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance enhancements and access to the help desk during the term of the support period and is recognized rateably on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement. Services Software implementation and support services represents income from consulting, training and implementation services sold separately under services contracts. Fixed-price arrangements are accounted for over time on a percentage-of-completion basis using the inputs method. Time and Material contracts are recognized as utilized by the client. IFRS 15 requires estimates and judgments to be made and consistently applied by the Group in accounting for the revenue from contracts with customers. The areas that require estimates and judgments by the Group are detailed below: Identification of Contract Temenos often enters in to multiple contracts with a customer and will assess these for the need to combine if the contracts are negotiated in and around the same time, are for the same economic purpose or are dependent upon one another. Initial/master agreements often have additional purchases, addendum or terms modified through out their term. At each point a contract is modified, Temenos asses the contract under the standard to determine if modifications are treated as a modification or a separate contract. Temenos makes an assessment initially to determine if the customer has the ability and intent to pay the consideration in the contract. Should Temenos determine the customer doesn’t meet either of these criteria then Temenos does not believe it is in a position to recognize revenue from this contract until such a time as the customer has both the ability and intent or Temenos has been paid in full and has meet all of the performance obligations. Identifying Performance Obligations Temenos commonly sells clearly defined separate performance obligations as identified by the disclosed revenue streams. The significant judgment arises when developments and customizations are included and Temenos must determine if these significantly alter the functionality of the software licensed initially. If Temenos concludes the developments or customizations significantly modify the software licensed the performance obligations will be bundled as one performance obligation and recognized when the combined performance obligation is functional and complete. Temenos often grants options to purchase additional products or services in its contracts with customers. These can be additional usage rights, renewals, products, modules or premium maintenance. Temenos assess each option to see if it provides that customer a material right. If a material right has been granted Temenos will identify this as a separate performance obligation and later in the revenue accounting process, allocate the appropriate consideration to the performance obligation. Determining the Transaction Price Judgment is required in assessing the total consideration that will be paid in exchange for the satisfied performance obligations. This includes not only assessing the variable amounts which may be included in the consideration but also assessing if any concessions, discounts or other variable factors may reduce the fixed fees in the contract. Temenos uses internal historical experiences as well as external factors in making the necessary estimates. Allocating the Consideration to the Performance Obligation Temenos applies the consideration based on a standalone alone selling price hierarchy. This hierarchy is based on priority being given to performance obligations that have a high level of externally observable inputs and not highly variable in price, such as implementation services. Low priority in the hierarchy is given to items that have little to no external comparability and have a highly variable selling price. Finally once all other performance obligations have been valued the residual is allocated to the licenses. In addition, management exercises judgments with respect to the determination of the appropriate method to estimate the standalone selling price for the various performance obligations in a contract which eventually impacts the amount of revenue recognized in the consolidated financial statements for each performance obligation. Temenos also use renewal rates, historical data and cost inputs to determine the standalone selling price and its position in the allocation hierarchy. Standalone selling price of a material rights factor in the judgments about the likelihood of the customer taking up the option using historical data and the nature of the material right. Timing of revenue recognition Temenos recognizes all licensed software (available products, development or customizations) at a point in time when the software is delivered, functional and the customer has control. Control is primarily seen as the customer can take possession of the functional software and use it within the licensed usage rights. SaaS is recognized over time starting from the point the service is made available to the customer to access the service. Maintenance services are recognized over the period the service is provided on a straight line basis. The standard maintenance offering is a stand ready obligation to provide technical support and unspecified updates, upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis. Customer simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of these support services as performed. Professional services are recognized over time using a percentage of completion based on mandays input method for the fixed price service offering. The input method assures we are aligned to milestone and the consideration recoverable. Payment terms In the majority of contracts with customers Temenos will look for payment upfront for the licensed software, payment annually in advance for the maintenance and SaaS contracts and Professional Services paid on set project milestones with a portion paid on contract signature. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.17 Revenue recognition continued Incremental Costs of Obtaining Customer Contracts The assets recognized for the incremental costs to obtain a contract are predominantly made up of sales commissions earned by Temenos sales force in obtaining SaaS contracts. The asset is amortized over the life of the contract committed for by the customer as the commissions are driven by the commitment period. Cost to fulfill a contract The cost to fulfill a contract with a customer that are associated with customization developments are deferred on the balance sheet as work in progress until the development performance obligation is met, at which point the cost will recognized in line with the revenue. Contract balances – Assets and Receivable The Group classified the right to consideration in exchange for products or services transferred to a client as either a receivable or a contract asset. A receivable is a right to consideration that is unconditional on factors other than passage of time whereas a contract asset is a right to consideration that is conditional upon other factors. Contract assets represents revenue where the right to consideration is subject to future performance being satisfied such as the completion of milestones on service fixed price contracts or satisfaction of maintenance for future periods. Deferred revenues Deferred revenues (referred as ‘Contract liabilities’ as per IFRS15 terminology) represents prepayment from clients for wholly unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations mainly in relation to maintenance and SaaS contracts. 2.18 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company, adjusted for the effect that would result from the conversion of dilutive ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares plus the weighted average of number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares. 2.19 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). 2.20 Other financial assets Other financial assets include derivatives held with positive value, convertible notes and equity investments. Other financial assets are initially recorded at fair value. Any transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial instruments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Derivative assets held for trading A derivative is held for trading if it is: ● Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term; ● Not designated and effective hedging instrument. While the objective of holding these assets was to provide effective economic hedges under the Group’s risk management strategy, these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments according to IFRS 9 since all relevant conditions are not met. Therefore, subsequent changes in the fair value are immediately recognized within ‘Finance costs – net’. Related cash flows are reported as cash flows from investing activities. Derivatives held for trading are reported as a current assets. Derivative assets used for hedging Derivatives used for hedging are subsequently measured at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are accounted according to the provisions for hedge accounting in IFRS 9. They are reported as non-current assets when they are expected to be settled more than 12 months after the reporting period. Equity investments Equity instruments are subsequently measured at fair value with movements recorded either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income for securities held as strategic investment that the Group irrevocably elects to classify as fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) on the acquisition date. For securities measured at FVOCI, there is no reclassification of the accumulated changes in fair value to profit or loss when the instrument is sold. Any distribution of dividend is recognized in profit or loss. Convertible notes Convertible notes are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss. They are reported as non-current asset when the final redemption date is more than 12 month after the reporting period and the Group intends to hold the asset until maturity. 146 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.21 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include derivatives held with negative value. At initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value. Any transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Derivative liabilities held for trading A derivative is held for trading if it is: ● Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term; ● Not designated and effective hedging instrument. While the objective of holding these liabilities was to provide effective economic hedges under the Group’s risk management strategy, these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments according to IFRS 9 since all relevant conditions are not met. Therefore, subsequent changes in the fair value are immediately recognised within ‘Finance costs – net’. Related cash flows are reported as cash flows from investing activities. Derivatives held for trading are reported as a current liabilities. Derivative liabilities used for hedging Derivatives used for hedging are subsequently measured at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are accounted according to the provisions for hedge accounting in IFRS 9. They are reported as non-current liabilities when they are expected to be settled more than 12 months after the reporting period. 2.22 Hedging activities At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the economic relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective and strategy as well as the methodology to assess the hedge effectiveness requirements. The Group does not currently apply fair value hedge or hedge of a net investment. Cash flow hedge In a cash flow hedge designation, the effective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognized in other comprehensive income. The ineffective portion is immediately recognized in profit or loss. Accumulated amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss to the extent that the forecast transaction do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability (e.g. fixed assets, deferred revenue) in which case the gains and losses are removed to the initial cost of the asset or the carry amount of the liability. When the Group separates the time value of an option, the forward element of a forward contract or the currency basis spread of a swap instrument from the designation of the hedging instrument, the movement in fair value of these elements are recognized in other comprehensive income as ‘cost of hedging’ to the extent they relate to the hedge item. They are subsequently recognized in profit or loss or included in the initial the cost or carry amount of a non-financial asset or liability either over the period of the hedging relationship for a ‘time-period related’ hedge or when the hedge item occurs for a ‘transaction related’ hedge. The fair value change of any unaligned portion of the time value of an option is recognized in profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold or terminated, or when the risk management objective is no longer met. The amount accumulated in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the hedge item occurs. If there is no longer expectation that the forecast transaction will realize, the amount is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. 2.23 Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: ● In the principal market for the asset or liability; or ● In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal market or the most advantageous market must be accessible to or by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using similar inputs that the market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability and assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 2. Accounting policies continued 2.23 Fair value measurement continued All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, as follows: ● Level 1 inputs: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; ● Level 2 inputs: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; ● Level 3 inputs: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s policy is to recognize transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting period when the event or change in circumstances occurred. For items categorized within level 3, the Group’s finance team reviews the estimates and assumptions on a regular basis but, in all cases, at each interim period. Any changes that may have a significant effect on the reported fair value are reported to the management. The Group has elected to use the exception provided by paragraph 48 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ to measure the credit risk element attributable to the Group’s own credit risk (net short position) or the counterparty’s credit risk (net long position) on a net basis for the financial assets and financial liabilities governed by a master netting agreement. 2.24 Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group: ● Currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the financial assets and financial liabilities; and ● Intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the financial assets and settle the financial liabilities simultaneously. A enforceable right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities must not be contingent on future event and must be currently legally enforceable in the normal course of business, in the event of default and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. 2.25 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Group’s shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 2.26 Comparative information The Group has re-presented comparative information to reflect the finalization of the initial accounting of Avoka Technologies Pty Limited (note 6). Given the effect of the re-presentation is not material, the Group has decided not to present a third statement of financial position as at 1 January 2018. 3. Financial instruments 3.1 Accounting classifications The Group holds the following financial instruments to which the accounting policies according to IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ applies: 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 8,331 4,215 Financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 16,079 15,000 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 2,382 2,787 Financial asset measured at amortized cost 511,746 562,339 Total 538,538 584,341 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 1,868 1,087 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 12,627 20,532 Contingent consideration 20,930 – Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 1,385,402 974,597 Total 1,420,827 996,216 148 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.2 Financial risk factors The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial statements. The Group uses derivatives to hedge certain risk exposures. Market risk Market risk management is carried out by a central treasury team under policies and procedures approved by the management. The Group’s risk policies are primarily set out to identify the source of the risks, to monitor them with clear sets of rules and controls and to establish strategies in order to protect the Group’s financial statements against any adverse financial effect arising from these risks. The Group’s policies and the related procedures are regularly updated to reflect changes in market conditions, Group activities and emergence of new risks. They are also regularly overseen by the Group’s internal audit team for compliance as well as detection of control deficiency. (i) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and, therefore, is exposed to transactional foreign exchange risk in various currencies, primarily with respect to those described hereunder. Foreign exchange risk arises from: ● Forecast transactions denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency; ● Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency. The Group’s policy is to protect its profit or loss from the variability in cash flows that is attributable to the movement in currencies associated with its forecast transactions and monetary assets and liabilities. This is implemented by 1) aligning the revenue streams to currencies that match the cost base and 2) using derivatives to offset the change in value of the exposure. The Group risk strategy is to continuously maintained its 12-18 month projection of future transactions within predetermined coverage parameters with a higher hedging ratio for front-loaded quarters. The hedging strategy is executed in layers and only for currencies for which the combination of exposure and volatility could have a significant adverse effect in the financial statements. The Group uses forward exchange contracts and options as heading derivatives. Except for maintenance revenue for which the effective portion of the hedge become part of the carrying amount reported in ‘Deferred revenues’ line, forecast transactions are expected to be recognized in profit or loss during the same period as the hedging instrument. The Group hedges the EUR/CHF currency risk arising from a bond issued in 2015 with a cross currency swap and applies cash flow hedge accounting. Unless already designated in a hedging relationship, the Group risk strategy is to hedge material currency exposure arising from monetary assets and liabilities using forward exchange contracts with maturities not exceeding three months. The Group does not apply hedge accounting for this economic hedging relationship. For all the hedging relationships where hedge accounting is applied, the hedge effectiveness is tested every quarter or upon a significant change in the assumptions. The existence of an economic relationship between the hedge item and the hedging instrument is assessed using either the ‘critical term match’ method or the ‘dollar offset’ method when the terms of the hedging instrument does not perfectly match the terms of the hedged item. Possible source of ineffectiveness may arise from 1) increase in credit risk for the derivative counterparty or 2) change in the timing of the cash flow realization of the forecast transaction. Since the critical terms of the hedging instruments closely match those of the hedge items, the Group applies a hedge ratio of 1:1. The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk arising from the translation of its foreign operations in USD dollars, but it does not hold any derivatives to manage the exposure as there is no intention to divest any of its subsidiaries. The table below illustrates the Group’s most sensitive currency exposures: Net exposure 2019 2018 FCY* 000 FCY* 000 Euro (9,161) 3,891 UK pounds (5,892) (6,606) Swiss francs 9,381 (8,788) India rupee (119,925) (187,215) * Foreign currency. A negative value represents a liability exposure. These exposures represent monetary assets and liabilities, including derivatives held for trading, that are either: ● Denominated in one of the currencies above and measured in an entity with a different functional currency; or ● Denominated in another currency but measured in an entity whose functional currency is one of the above. and that are not part of an existing cash flow hedge relationship. However these do not include derivatives and recognized assets and liabilities that are part of an existing cash flow hedge relationship. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 3. Financial instruments continued 3.2 Financial risk factors continued Sensitivity analysis The following table represents the effect of a reasonable shift in the currencies above against the US dollars. 2019 Euro UK pounds Swiss francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) (1,027) (777) 969 (168) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction (4,387) 1,078 2,202 3,926 Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability (1,747) – 1,223 – (6,134) 1,078 3,425 3,926 Equity (7,161) 301 4,394 3,758 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss) 1,027 777 (969) 168 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction 4,387 (1,078) (2,202) (3,926) Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability 1,747 – (1,223) – 6,134 (1,078) (3,425) (3,926) Equity 7,161 (301) (4,394) (3,758) 2018 Euro UK pounds Swiss francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) 455 (827) (884) (268) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction (4,574) 867 1,492 2,748 Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability (2,228) – 1,568 – (6,802) 867 3,060 2,748 Equity (6,347) 40 2,176 2,480 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss) (455) 827 884 268 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to forecast transaction 4,574 (867) (1,492) (2,748) Cash flow hedging related to long-dated liability 2,228 – (1,568) – 6,802 (867) (3,060) (2,748) Equity 6,347 (40) (2,176) (2,480) Given the volatility of these currencies, current economic environment and the foreign exchange market conditions, the sensitivity assumption represents management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes in spot rates. (ii) Cash flow and fair value interest risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risks arising from cash and cash equivalents and borrowings at variable rates. The Group is not exposed to fair value risk arising from its fixed rate borrowings since they are measured at amortized cost. The Group’s policy is to protect its profit or loss from the variability in cash flows that is attributable to the movement in interest rates from its financial instrument at floating rates. When the risk is deemed to be substantial, the Group enters into derivatives to hedge the exposure and hedge accounting is applied when all relevant conditions are met. At the reporting periods, no hedges were in place as the Group’s exposure was not material. 150 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s trade receivables. The carrying amount of the financial assets, as reported in section 3.1 above, represents the maximum credit exposure. Trade receivables and contract assets The Group determines the creditworthiness of any prospective or existing customer at the initial phase of each bid process. Assessment of credit risk is mainly based on assessing the creditworthiness of customers through external ratings, and in the case of existing customers, Group’s past experience. If a company is unrated, then historical payment experience, if available, together with country stability is taken into consideration to assess the credit risk.’ Every credit check performed on prospective or existing customers at the initial phase of the negotiation goes through an approval process. The credit rating is taken into account during the revenue recognition process once contracts are signed. Payment terms and requirement of financial security are adapted according to the degree of the credit quality and the past experience. At present, the Group does not hold any collateral security. The Group assess the credit risk for customers with significant balances on a regular basis. In cases when delinquency in payments occurs, the Group may withhold services delivery under current implementation or limit the right to use its software. As at 31 December 2019 and 2018, there is no geographical concentration of credit risk as the Group’s customer base is internationally dispersed and no individual customer represents more than 10% of the Group’s outstanding ‘Trade receivables and contract assets’ balances. The Group performs impairment analysis using default rate to measure expected credit loss for all trade receivable including with significant financing components, and contract assets. The Group identifies the default rate by analyzing the historical and current experience with credit losses, considering it to represent a reasonable approximation for future expected defaults and apply to the current receivables. The Group also takes into consideration forward looking factors, including changes in the economic environment or changes in regulation and if material reflects these in the expected credit loss allowance. A credit impairment is recognized when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Evidence of impairment includes severe financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization. At 31 December 2019, the credit risk exposure on the Group’s trade receivables and contract assets is as follows: 2019 USD 000 Expected credit loss rate 0.75% Gross carrying amount for trade receivables and contract assets 325,761 Provision for credit losses 2,439 The Group’s exposure to credit risk from balances due from its customer is limited. Therefore, the Group has applied the expected credit loss rate calculated above to the overall receivable and contract asset balances without using a grouping criteria and hence a provision matrix is not presented for disclosure purposes. Refer to note 14 for the movement in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivable and contract assets. Financial instruments and cash deposits The Group mitigates the counterparty risk related to cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments by holding balances with major reputable financial institutions. Credit risk related to derivative financial instruments is also mitigated by legally enforceable master netting agreements such as ISDAs or equivalent. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s policy is to maintain a level of liquidity that meets its present and future financial outcome expected to be settled in the short or near term, under both normal and stressed conditions. The net debt and liquidity position are monitored on the basis of actual liabilities to be settled as well as rolling forecasts for future transactions. Excess of cash is primarily used to repay any drawn borrowing facilities (note 18) and then invested in highly liquid instruments with maturities of three months or less. Investment rules, cash concentration exposure and liquidity risk monitoring are managed by the Group’s treasury department. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 3. Financial instruments continued 3.2 Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk continued The following table details the remaining contractual maturity of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2019 Trade and other payables 172,438 15,712 1,540 – – Property provision 163 – 699 – – Borrowings Lease liabilities 10,075 9,939 29,670 11,166 8,563 Other borrowings 6,395 86,869 310,342 545,793 230,811 Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 189,071 112,520 342,251 556,959 239,374 Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2018 Trade and other payables (re-presented) 148,022 13,042 – – – Property provision 58 323 261 – – Borrowings 310,648 3,380 9,655 380,953 155,104 Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 458,728 16,745 9,916 380,953 155,104 The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities. These amounts represent the contractual undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Between Between Between Less than Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2019 Cross currency swaps – 2,057 – 2,057 9,970 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 105,112 8,963 22,810 2,307 – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (103,282) (8,894) (22,612) (2,287) – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 120 320 – – – – Total derivatives 1,950 2,446 198 2,077 9,970 – Between Between Between Less than Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2018 Cross currency swaps – 2,215 – 2,215 18,278 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 80,584 4,686 5,708 – – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (79,566) (4,524) (5,292) – – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 493 62 115 221 – – Total derivatives 1,511 2,439 531 2,436 18,278 – 152 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.3 Capital risk management The Group’s principal objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group is also subject to financial covenants under its facility agreement. These covenants require the Group to remain within certain thresholds used for calculating financial ratios that are primarily based on financial indebtedness, EBITDA and interest expenses. The capital structure of the Group consists of the net debt (note 13) and the capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent. The capital risk management policy remains unchanged from the previous period. 3.4 Fair value measurement The following table provides the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Year ended 31 December 2019 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 2,184 – 2,184 Foreign currency options (note 15) – 147 – 147 Convertible notes (note 15) – – 6,000 6,000 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 2,314 – 2,314 Foreign currency options (note 15) – 68 – 68 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity securities (note 15) – – 16,079 16,079 Total – 4,713 22,079 26,792 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 1,868 – 1,868 Contingent consideration (note 6) – – 20,930 20,930 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 670 – 670 Cross currency swaps (note 15) – 11,957 – 11,957 Total – 14,495 20,930 35,425 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 4,215 – 4,215 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 2,787 – 2,787 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity securities (note 15) – – 15,000 15,000 Total – 7,002 15,000 22,002 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 1,087 – 1,087 Derivatives used for hedging Foreign currency forwards (note 15) – 1,360 – 1,360 Cross currency swaps (note 15) – 19,172 – 19,172 Total – 21,619 – 21,619 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 3. Financial instruments continued 3.4 Fair value measurement continued Valuation techniques and key inputs Foreign currency forwards Discounted cash flow method: The fair value represents the future cash flows that are discounted using a risk-free yield curve adjusted for credit risk. The future cash flows is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Foreign currency option: Black-Scholdes model Cross currency swaps: Discounted cash flow method: The future cash flows are discounted using the interest zero yield-curve attributable to each currency (including the currency basis spreads). The fair value of the leg measured in foreign currency is translated using the spot exchange rate. There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period. Assets and liabilities in level 3 Equity investments Discounted cash flow model: The fair value represents the financial projection provided by the company discounted at a risk adjusted rate which represents an estimated weighted average cost of capital of the underlying company. Reasonable change in the parameters and assumptions used in the financial projection would not significantly change the fair value of the investment. Convertible notes The fair value represents the lesser of the conversion value and the future cash flows (principal + interests) which is discounted at the incremental rate of the notes. At the reporting date both values were equal. Reasonable change in the discounted rate or the price of the underlined equity securities would not materially affect the fair value at the reporting date. Contingent consideration The fair value represents the present value of the expected payments discounted at a risk-adjusted rate. The earn out consideration is determined by the expected future cash flow arisen from the targeted revenue and annual contract value based on most recent financial budget of the acquiree. The probability risk attributable to the financial budget is embedded into the discount rate (note 6). Reasonable change in the forecasted revenue and annual contract value, as well as the discount rate will not materially affect the fair value at the reporting date. Reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances: Equity Convertible Contingent Securities note Consideration USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2018 – – – Purchases (note 15) 15,000 – – Earn out true-up to ‘Cost of Sales’ – – – Unwinding of discount to ‘Finance costs’ – – – At 31 December 2018 15,000 – – Purchases (note 15) – 6,000 – Fair value change through OCI 1,079 – – Acquisition of business (note 6) – – 20,930 Unwinding of discount to ‘Finance costs’ – – – At 31 December 2019 16,079 6,000 20,930 154 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.5 Hedging At the reporting dates, the Group did not apply any fair value hedge or hedge of a net investment. At 31 December, the Group held the following derivatives as hedging instruments. Year ended 31 December 2019 Time band More than 1-6 months 6-12 months one year Foreign currency risk Purchase of foreign currency forwards: Nominal amount expressed in USD equivalent (in thousands) 36,585 25,191 13,037 USD/CHF VWAP 0.972 0.960 0.955 GBP/USD VWAP 1.327 1.307 1.277 USD/INR VWAP 74.085 75.641 76.126 USD/RON VWAP 4.254 4.294 4.382 Sale of foreign currency forwards: Nominal amount in USD equivalent (in thousands) 18,409 23,402 2,287 EUR/USD VWAP 1.151 1.142 1.143 Foreign currency options: Nominal amount expressed in USD equivalent (in thousands) 1,920 – – GBP/USD strike 1.28-1.209 – – Cross currency swaps Nominal amount in CHF – – 150,000 EUR/CHF VWAP – – 1.033 Since the critical terms of the hedging instrument closely match those of the hedge items, the Group applies a hedge ratio of 1:1. Year ended 31 December 2018 Time band More than 1-6 months 6-12 months one year Foreign currency risk Purchase of foreign currency forwards: Nominal amount expressed in USD equivalent (in thousands) 28,474 19,881 6,055 USD/CHF VWAP 0.97 0.93 0.96 GBP/USD VWAP 1.35 1.41 – USD/INR VWAP 70.23 72.45 77.06 USD/RON VWAP 3.99 3.98 4.17 Sale of foreign currency forwards: Nominal amount in USD equivalent (in thousands) 24,279 19,899 3,604 EUR/USD VWAP 1.23 1.22 1.20 Cross currency swaps Nominal amount in CHF – – 150,000 EUR/CHF VWAP – – 1.03 Since the critical terms of the hedging instrument closely match those of the hedge items, the Group applies a hedge ratio of 1:1. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 3. Financial instruments continued 3.5 Hedging continued The effect of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance The table below shows the effect on the financial statements from the items designated as hedged items and hedging instruments. Items designated as hedging instrument Carrying amount Period change in value used to determine Assets Liabilities Line item in the statement hedge ineffectiveness Year ended 31 December 2019 USD 000 USD 000 of financial position USD 000 Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedges Foreign currency forwards 2,314 670 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 1,447 Foreign currency options 68 – Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 58 Cross currency swaps – 11,957 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 7,215 Items designated as hedge item Period change in value used to determine Cash flow Costs of hedge ineffectiveness hedge reserve hedging reserve Year ended 31 December 2019 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange risk Forecast transactions 1,505 1,721 9 Borrowings 7,215 (3,878) – Carrying amount Period change in value used to determine Assets Liabilities Line item in the statement hedge ineffectiveness Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 of financial position USD 000 Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedges Foreign currency forwards 2,787 1,360 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 4,740 Cross currency swaps – 19,172 Other financial assets and liabilities (note 15) 8,449 Period change in value used to determine Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness hedge reserve Year ended 31 December 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange risk Forecast transactions 4,740 1,427 Borrowings 8,449 (5,428) Note 26 provides details on change in fair value and amount reclassified to profit or loss by risk category. There was no ineffectiveness recognized during the period (2018: USD nil). The Group does not have any forecast transaction for which cash flow hedge accounting had been used in previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur. 156 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.6 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Derivatives transactions entered into by the Group are governed by ISDAs or equivalent. Such agreements permit the Group for net settlement with the same counterparty in the normal course of business and, also, give the right to set-off exposure with the same counterparty in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of either the entity or the counterparty. The Group has a set-off agreement with one of its Partners. Under the terms of this agreement, all amounts payable are offset against receivables and the net amount are settled between the parties. Year ended 31 December 2019 Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables (note 14) 327,794 (4,472) 323,322 – 323,322 Derivatives financial assets (note 15) 4,713 – 4,713 (1,085) 3,628 Total 332,507 (4,472) 328,035 (1,085) 326,950 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 18) 47,015 (4,472) 42,543 – 42,543 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 15) 14,495 – 14,495 1,085 13,410 Total 61,510 (4,472) 57,038 1,085 55,953 Year ended 31 December 2018 Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables (note 14) 265,627 (3,158) 262,469 – 262,469 Derivatives financial assets (note 15) 7,002 – 7,002 (2,342) 4,660 Total 272,629 (3,158) 269,471 (2,342) 267,129 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 18) 34,041 (3,158) 30,883 – 30,883 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 15) 21,619 – 21,619 2,342 19,277 Total 55,660 (3,158) 52,502 2,342 50,160 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 4. Critical accounting estimates and judgments Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates may differ from the actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.8. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates (note 17). If the future sales and the size of the market opportunities are significantly lower than management’s estimates the carrying value of goodwill may need to be reduced accordingly. However, unless any downturn is particularly severe and pervasive, it is unlikely to have a material impact on the carrying value of goodwill. At 31 December 2019 the carrying amount of the goodwill amounts to USD 1,079.4 million (2018: USD 635 million (re-presented)). Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) The Group recognized acquired intangible assets applying acquisition method of accounting, of USD 247 million (excluding goodwill) resulting from acquisitions, principally Kony Inc. Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) was performed by independent valuers in order to determine the fair value of the intangible assets such as intellectual property (IP) and customer relationship where certain assumptions and estimates were taken into consideration based on information available. The PPA further determined the useful lives of the intangible assets acquired. These acquisitions and the fair values recognized for the acquired intangible assets are set out in note 6. Revenue recognition As detailed in note 2.17, the Group is required to make an assessment for each new software licence contract as to whether the underlying software requires significant modification or customization by the Group in order to meet the customer’s requirements. If significant modification or customization is required, then the licence fee is recognized at the point in time when all developments and customizations are complete, functional and delivered to the customer. However, the majority of such modifications or customizations have not been deemed significant in current or prior periods. Under IFRS 15, the collection of cash is addressed from the outset, if Temenos doesn’t believe the customer has the ability or intent to pay the consideration promised for the performance obligations then Temenos is not in possession of a contract and revenue recognition can not commence. If there is doubt about the sum of consideration to be paid then this is assessed under variable consideration guidance. Both of these require judgment to be applied by Temenos. In addition, management exercises judgments with respect to the determination of the appropriate method to estimate the standalone selling price for the various performance obligations in a contract which eventually impacts the amount of revenue recognized in the consolidated financial statements for each performance obligation. In respect of service revenue, the management exercises judgment in determining the percentage of completion, specifically with regards to the total man-days remaining to complete the implementation. Internally generated software development As detailed in note 2.7, the Group is required to make an assessment for each ongoing project in order to determine at what stage a project meets the criteria outlined in the Group’s accounting policies. Such assessment may, in certain circumstances, require significant judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, the stage at which technical feasibility has been achieved, management’s intention to complete and use or sell the product, likelihood of success, availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase and management’s ability to reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the project. The total development expenses for the period was USD 269.7 million (2018: USD 229.5 million) and the total capitalized development costs was USD 64.6 million (2018: USD 52.6 million). 158 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 5. Group companies The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Temenos AG and the following entities as of 31 December 2019: 2019 2018 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest Avoka Technologies Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Infinitive Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Rubik Esop Trusco Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Rubik Ip Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Rubik Mortgages Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Stargate Information Systems Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Financial Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Messaging Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Operations Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Services Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Australia Technology Solutions Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Temenos Solutions Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% 100% Sky Technologies Pty Limited* Australia 100% 0% Sky Technologies Consulting Pty Limited* Australia 100% 0% Sky Technologies Holdings Pty Limited* Australia 100% 0% Temenos Belgium SA Belgium 100% 100% Odyssey Financial Technologies SA Belgium 100% 100% Temenos Software Brasil Limitada Brazil 100% 100% Temenos Holdings Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Temenos Bulgaria Eood Bulgaria 100% 100% Avoka Technologies Canada Inc. Canada 100% 100% Temenos Canada Inc. Canada 100% 100% Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Limited China 100% 100% Temenos Colombia SAS Colombia 100% 100% Temenos Costa Rica SA Costa Rica 100% 100% Temenos (Russia) Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Temenos Middle East Limited Cyprus 100% 100% Temenos Denmark ApS Denmark 100% 100% Temenos Ecuador SA Ecuador 100% 100% Temenos Egypt LLC Egypt 100% 100% Temenos France SAS France 100% 100% Temenos Holdings France SAS France 100% 100% Viveo Group SAS France 100% 100% Viveo France SAS France 100% 100% Igefi France SARL France 100% 100% Avoka (Germany) GmbH Germany 100% 100% Odyssey Financial Technologies GmbH** Germany 0% 100% Temenos Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% 100% Igefi Deutschland GmbH** Germany 0% 100% Temenos Hellas SA Greece 100% 100% Avoka Hong Kong Limited*** Hong Kong 0% 100% Temenos Finance Hong Kong Limited**** Hong Kong 100% 0% Temenos Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Igefi Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Temenos India Private Limited India 100% 100% hTrunk Software Solutions Private Limited* India 100% 0% Kony India Private Limited* India 100% 0% Kony IT Services Private Limited* India 100% 0% Kony Marketing Services Private Limited* India 100% 0% Kony Services India LLP* India 100% 0% Temenos Systems Ireland Limited Ireland 100% 100% Igefi Ireland Limited Ireland 100% 100% Temenos Israel Limited Israel 100% 100% Temenos Japan KK Japan 100% 100% Temenos Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan 100% 100% Temenos East Africa Limited Kenya 100% 100% Temenos Korea Limited Korea 100% 100% Temenos Finance Luxembourg SARL Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos Luxembourg SA Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos Software Luxembourg SA Luxembourg 100% 100% Odyssey Group SA Luxembourg 100% 100% Igefi Group SARL Luxembourg 100% 100% Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100% 100% Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 5. Group companies continued 2019 2018 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest Temenos Mexico SA de CV Mexico 100% 100% Temenos North Africa LLC Morocco 100% 100% Temenos (Nl) BV Netherlands 100% 100% Temenos Holland BV Netherlands 100% 100% Temenos Investments BV Netherlands 100% 100% Kony Solutions BV* Netherlands 100% 0% Temenos Panama SA Panama 100% 100% Temenos Philippines Inc. Philippines 100% 100% Temenos Polska Sp.z.o.o Poland 100% 100% Finch Software Limited*** Republic Of Mauritius 0% 100% Kony Solutions Limited* Republic Of Mauritius 100% 0% Temenos Romania SRL Romania 100% 100% Temenos Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Igefi Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Temenos Singapore Ft Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Kony Singapore Pte Limited* Singapore 100% 0% Temenos Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100% Dbs Global Solutions (Pty) Limited South Africa 100% 100% Temenos Hispania Sl Spain 100% 100% Temenos Headquarters SA Switzerland 100% 100% Temenos Cloud Switzerland SA Switzerland 100% 100% Temenos (Thailand) Co. Limited Thailand 100% 100% Temenos Eurasia Banka Yazilimlari Ltd Sirketi Turkey 100% 100% Temenos USA, Inc. USA 100% 100% Trinovus Systems LLC USA 100% 100% Igefi US LLC** USA 0% 100% Temenos Cloud Americas LLC USA 100% 100% Avoka (USA), Inc. USA 100% 100% Temenos Holdings USA, Inc.**** USA 100% 0% Kony, Inc.* USA 100% 0% Kony Services, Inc.* USA 100% 0% Temenos Ukraine LLC Ukraine 100% 100% Temenos UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Avoka Europe Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Fe Mobile Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Financial Objects International Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Wealth Management Systems Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Temenos FOFL Limited***** United Kingdom 100% 100% Temenos FOGT Limited***** United Kingdom 100% 100% Igefi UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Lydian Associates Limited*** United Kingdom 0% 100% Fino Software Services Limited*** United Kingdom 0% 100% Wealth Management Software Limited*** United Kingdom 0% 100% Odyssey Financial Technologies Plc United Kingdom 100% 100% Edge Ipk Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Temenos Holdings UK Limited*** United Kingdom 0% 100% Logical Glue Limited* United Kingdom 100% 0% Temenos Vietnam Company Limited Vietnam 100% 100% In addition to the Group companies listed above, some Group subsidiaries maintain branches or representative offices at the following locations: Beirut (Lebanon); Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Riyadh (Saudi Arabia); Moscow (Russia); Taipei (Taiwan); Islamabad (Pakistan); Jakarta (Indonesia); New York (U.S.A); Tunis (Tunisia); Nantes (France); Helsinki (Finland); Colombo (Sri Lanka); Malmo (Sweden); London (UK) and Renens (Switzerland). * Companies acquired as part of acquisition of business in 2019. ** Merger of companies: Merger of ODYSSEY FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGIES GMBH and IGEFI DEUTSCHLAND GMBH with TEMENOS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH/Merger of IGEFI US LLC with TEMENOS (USA), INC. in 2019. *** Companies struck-off in 2019. **** Companies set up in 2019. ***** Change of company name – FAIRS LIMITED changed to TEMENOS FOFL LIMITED/GENISYS TECHNOLOGY LIMITED change to TEMENOS FOGT LIMITED. Significant restrictions Other than those described in note 13, there is no significant restriction on the Group’s ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities, of the above entities. 160 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 6. Business combinations Prior year acquisition Avoka Technologies Pty Limited The following tables summarize the financial effect of the finalization of the initial accounting as at 31 December 2019. 2018 Initial Accounting Accounting adjustment Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Purchase consideration – Cash consideration 253,997 688 254,685 Fair value of net asset acquired 119,932 (5,731) 114,201 Goodwill 134,066 6,419 140,485 As required by IFRS 3 : ‘Business combinations’, comparative information has been re-presented to reflect the finalization of initial accounting. Subsequent adjustment by category 2018 Initial Accounting Accounting adjustment Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Cash & cash equivalents 11,535 – 11,535 Trade and other receivables 9,271 (200) 9,071 Property, plant and equipment 825 – 825 Intangible assets (note 17) 141,548 (5,347) 136,201 Trade and other payables (5,919) (1,184) (7,103) Provision for other liabilities (430) – (430) Deferred tax liabilities (27,550) 600 (26,950) Deferred revenues (9,349) 400 (8,949) Total 119,932 (5,731) 114,201 Current year acquisitions hTrunk Software Solutions Private Limited On 5 March 2019, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of hTrunk Software Solutions Private Ltd a fast growing company providing big data and analytics solutions to the banking industry. The fair value of purchase consideration transferred at acquisition date comprises of: USD 000 Cash consideration 1,384 Deferred consideration 1,064 Contingent consideration 689 Total 3,137 Consideration paid in cash 1,384 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (12) Cash outflow on acquisition 1,372 The fair value of identifiable net asset which includes software technology is USD 0.8 million, resulting in goodwill of USD 2.3 million. The goodwill arising from the acquisition is mainly attributed to cross selling opportunities and strengthening the Group’s big data expertise and presence. The goodwill recognized is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. The initial accounting has been provisionally completed at 31 December 2019. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 6. Business combinations continued Current year acquisitions continued Logical Glue Limited On 17 July 2019, the Group acquired 100% share capital of Logical Glue Limited (‘Logical Glue’), a London based provider of a patented, award winning Explainable AI (XAI) platform with financial clients in the UK and Europe. Logical Glue was co-founded in 2012 by Professor Hani Hagras, who is an award-winning, global expert in Fuzzy Logic and XAI systems and the most highly cited researcher in the area of XAI. Logical Glue’s patented XAI platform, which is based on Fuzzy Logic, has won numerous awards, including the Lord Stafford Achievement in Innovation Award and the Most Innovative Cloud Product by the Computing Excellence Awards. It has built a team of highly skilled individuals with deep expertise in AI and Machine Learning. The acquisition accelerates Temenos’ AI roadmap by bringing together a patented, proven, industry-first XAI platform, AI credit scoring models as well as deep AI and Machine Learning expertise. The goodwill arising from the acquisition is mainly attributed to opportunities to cross-sell the Logical Glue platform and strengthening the Group’s AI capabilities. The goodwill recognized is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. Fair value of the consideration transferred at acquisition date USD 000 Cash consideration 13,142 Deferred consideration 1,583 Total 14,725 Total Fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed USD 000 Cash & cash equivalents 432 Trade and other receivables 314 Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 18 Intangible assets (note 17) 5,090 Trade and other payables (822) Deferred revenues (278) Deferred tax liabilities (note 21) (869) Total 3,884 Goodwill 10,841 Acquisition-related costs included in ‘General and administrative’ line in the statement of profit or loss 365 Net consideration paid in cash 13,142 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (432) Cash outflow on acquisition 12,710 The fair value of the trade and other receivables approximates its carrying value and it is expected to be fully recoverable. The revenue and profit or loss contributed by the acquiree in the period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date is not significant. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2019, the contribution by the acquiree to the Group’s consolidated revenue and profit or loss would not have been significant. The initial accounting has been provisionally completed at 31 December 2019. The Group is still evaluating the fair value of the net assets acquired. Kony Inc On 20 September 2019, the Group acquired 100% share capital of Kony Inc, the fastest growing digital banking SaaS company headquartered in Austin, US. Kony has achieved rapid growth with both top tier and mid-market banks in the US and internationally with its Kony Digital Banking Experience product (Kony DBX) which is recognized as a leader by top analyst firms such as Gartner, Forrester and IDC. With 1,500 employees and deep expertise in digital and cloud technologies, Kony has been helping banks transform the experience for their clients with digital banking applications and its market leading development platform, all of which are served through a cloud hosted SaaS model. The acquisition significantly enhances Temenos’ scale and capabilities in the US, adds significant digital expertise and accelerates Temenos Infinity, the breakthrough digital front office product, which has over 500 banking clients. 162 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The combined strength of Temenos, Kony and the recently acquired Avoka, will further strengthen the Temenos Infinity product, covering all banking verticals offering customer acquisition and onboarding, omni-channel banking, customer retention and marketing, and modules supporting payments, wealth advisor, financial crime, risk and compliance and analytics. The goodwill arising from the acquisition is mainly attributed to cross-selling opportunities and strengthening the Group’s presence in digital front office. The goodwill recognized is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. Fair value of the consideration transferred at acquisition date USD 000 Cash consideration 512,491 Contingent consideration 20,241 Total 532,732 Total Fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed USD 000 Cash & cash equivalents 5,774 Trade and other receivables 24,639 Property, plant and equipment (note 16) 4,841 Intangible assets (note 17) 241,125 Deferred tax assets (note 21) 40 Trade and other payables (20,854) Borrowings (including lease liabilities) (55,413) Income tax liabilities (15,743) Deferred revenues (18,003) Deferred tax liabilities (note 21) (64,500) Retirement benefit obligations (2,504) Total 99,401 Goodwill 433,331 Acquisition-related costs included in ‘General and administrative’ line in the statement of profit or loss 3,733 Consideration paid in cash 512,491 Debt repayment on acquisition date* 51,602 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (5,774) Cash outflow on acquisition 558,319 * Kony Inc outstanding term loan repaid on acquisition was triggered by a change of control. The fair value of the trade and other receivables approximates its carrying value and it is expected to be fully recoverable. The revenue and profit or loss contributed by the acquire in the period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date are USD 24.2 million and USD 14.6 million loss, respectively. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2019, the Group’s consolidated statement of profit or loss would have reported a pro-forma revenue of USD 1,042.5 million and a pro-forma profit of USD 160.2 million. The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay in cash an earn-out contribution based on the achievement of annual contract value targets over the fiscal year 2020 (‘FY 2020’) of the acquiree. The maximum undiscounted consideration value is USD 21 million and was deposited into an escrow account at the acquisition date and reported under other receivables (note 14). The fair value of contingent consideration was estimated the present value of future expected cash flows. The initial accounting has been provisionally completed at 31 December 2019. The Group is still evaluating the fair value of the net assets which includes acquired intangible assets. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 7. Segment information The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He regularly reviews the Group’s operating segments in order to assess performance and to allocate resources. The CODM considers the business from a product perspective and, therefore, recognizes the reporting segments as: ‘Product’ and ‘Services’. Other representation of the Group’s activity such as regional information is also presented to the CODM but it is not primarily used to review the Group’s performance and to make decisions as to how to allocate resources. These two reporting segments are the Group’s only operating segments, hence there is no segmental aggregation. The ‘Product’ segment is primarily engaged in marketing, licensing and maintaining the Group’s software solutions, including software development fees for requested functionality, as well as providing hosting and subscription arrangements. The ‘Services’ segment represents various implementation tasks such as consulting and training. The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the operating contribution. This measure includes the operating expenses that are directly or reasonably attributable to the reporting segments. Unallocated expenses mainly comprise of restructuring costs, termination benefits, acquisition-related costs, share-based payment expenses, offices-related expenses and any other administrative or corporate overheads that cannot be directly attributable to the operating segments. Segment revenues provided to the CODM exclude the fair value adjustment recognized on deferred income liability acquired in business combination and hence total revenues allocated to the two segments exceed the IFRS reported figures. Assets attributed to the reporting segments represent the net trade receivables and the contract assets (note 14). The table below summarizes the primary information provided to the CODM: Product Services Total re-presented 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Revenues 802,644 687,279 177,950 153,688 980,594 840,967 Operating contribution 407,553 352,941 33,090 30,571 440,643 383,512 Total assets 224,934 197,970 98,388 64,299 323,322 262,269 All revenues are derived from external customers. The Group has a large number of customers and no individual customer contributed more than 10% of the total Group’s revenue in the current and prior year. The accounting policies applied to the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 with the exception of the fair value adjustment on deferred income liability acquired in business combination. Intersegment transactions are recognized as part of the allocated expenses. They are based on internal cost rates that excludes any profit margin. For goodwill impairment testing purposes, goodwill of USD 1,079.4 million (2018: 635 million (re-presented)) was allocated to the product segment. 2019 2018 Reconciliation to Group’s consolidated financial statements USD 000 USD 000 Total operating contribution from the reportable segments 440,643 383,512 Fair value adjustment on acquired deferred income liability (8,625) (106) Depreciation and amortization (note 9) (130,608) (92,746) Unallocated expenses (65,990) (71,890) Finance costs – net (note 11) (22,867) (23,369) Profit before taxation 212,553 195,401 re-presented 2019 2018 Total assets USD 000 USD 000 Total assets allocated to the reportable segments 323,322 262,269 Unallocated items: Other receivables 73,242 31,913 Cash and cash equivalents 152,785 287,439 Other financial assets 26,792 22,002 Property, plant and equipment 67,283 18,021 Intangible assets 1,659,822 1,009,945 Deferred tax assets 19,155 17,663 Total assets per the statement of financial position 2,322,401 1,649,252 164 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Geographical information 2019 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 34,893 United States of America 129,420 Luxembourg 61,735 United Kingdom 58,501 Australia 54,272 Ireland 44,756 Total – material countries 383,577 Rest of Europe 210,499 Middle-East & Africa 150,593 Rest of Asia 135,420 Rest of America 91,881 Total revenues 971,970 2018 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 29,859 United States of America 94,115 Luxembourg 61,711 United Kingdom 52,840 Australia 51,814 Ireland 43,722 Total – material countries 334,061 Rest of Europe 184,096 Middle-East & Africa 148,350 Rest of Asia 108,774 Rest of America 65,580 Total revenues 840,861 Revenues are based on the location where the license and maintenance is sold or the service is provided. 2019 Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 148,372 United States of America 732,077 Australia 322,867 Luxembourg 286,960 United Kingdom 73,856 France 61,417 Other countries 101,556 Total 1,727,105 re-presented 2018 USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 133,236 Australia 327,726 Luxembourg 315,907 United States of America 62,563 France 61,365 United Kingdom 53,165 Other countries 74,004 Total 1,027,966 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 8. Revenue from contracts with customers Future performance obligation The following amounts of transaction prices allocated to the performance obligations that are partially unsatisfied or wholly unsatisfied as at reporting period: 2019 2018 Within More than Within More than one year one year Total one year one year Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Revenue expected to be recognized 499,218 1,182,396 1,681,614 432,450 996,840 1,429,290 The remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized within one year and more than one year mainly relates ongoing maintenance support contracts. Contract balances 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Contract assets 51,211 37,488 Deferred revenues 287,325 262,861 The amount of revenue recognized for the period ended 31 December 2019 from the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period is USD 191.4 million (2018: USD 180.2 million). The amount of revenue recognized for the period ended 31 December 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods is USD 6.7 million (2018: USD 6.5 million) . This is mainly due to movement in variable consideration where any variability related to transaction pricing and allocation of consideration has been removed. Contract Costs The group has recognized an asset in relation to cost to obtain and fulfill the contract. This is presented within other receivables in the balance sheet. 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Asset recognized from cost incurred to fulfill a contract: – Customization developments capitalized as work in progress 641 2,319 Cost associated with customization developments is recognized to statement of profit or loss when delivery is performed. In 2019, the amount recognized to profit or loss was USD 2.1 million (2018: USD 3.8 million). 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Asset recognized from cost to obtain the contract: – Sales Commission on SaaS contracts 4,352 988 Capitalized commission is amortized over the life of contract committed for by the customer as commission are driven by commitment period. In 2019, the amount amortized to profit or loss during the reporting period was USD 0.4 million (2018: USD 0.1 million). The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, which allows to expense the cost to obtain the contract if the amortization period of the assets that the Group would have recognized is one year or less. 9. Expenses by nature 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Third party licences and commissions 30,685 23,257 Personnel costs and external consultants 530,301 450,845 Depreciation and amortization (notes 16 and 17) 130,608 92,746 Travel expenses 37,622 31,940 Rent and other occupancy costs 8,971 21,877 Marketing and other professional costs 26,370 24,150 Other costs 36,642 29,901 Capitalized development costs (note 17) (64,649) (52,625) 736,550 622,091 166 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 10. Employee benefit expenses 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Wages and salaries 331,948 278,028 Termination benefits 5,157 2,283 Social charges 64,606 56,200 Defined contribution pension costs 10,676 8,672 Defined benefit pension costs (note 23) 2,704 3,014 Cost of employee share option scheme (note 27) 39,463 38,018 454,554 386,215 Included in the employee benefit expenses, is the remuneration of the key management personnel as illustrated below: 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Key management personnel of Temenos AG – Short term cash compensation and benefits 6,617 6,897 – Post-employment benefits 303 236 – Share-based payment 21,437 19,126 28,357 26,259 Non-executive directors – Short term benefits 824 824 Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee in accordance with the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Swiss Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies can be found in the Compensation report of the Annual Report. 11. Finance costs – net 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Finance income: – Interest income on short term bank deposits and investments 1,506 1,766 – Interest income on non-current trade and other receivables measured at amortized costs 591 204 – Foreign exchange gain, net 9,046 1,147 Total finance income 11,143 3,117 Finance costs: – Interest expense on financial instruments measured at amortized costs (22,438) (13,817) – Other financing costs* (4,872) (10,605) – Net loss on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments (6,700) (2,064) Total finance costs (34,010) (26,486) Finance costs – net (22,867) (23,369) * Other financing costs include commitment fees attributable to the undrawn portion of the banking facilities, fees related to guarantees issued (performance/bid bonds and equivalents) and issuance fees related to the financing facilities that is not recorded as an interest expense (note 2.11). Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 12. Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 2019 2018 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (USD 000) 181,121 168,228 Weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 70,392 69,361 Basic earnings per share (USD per share) 2.57 2.43 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements, the Group has only one category with a potential dilutive effect: ‘Instrument granted to employee under share based payment’. For the period ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2019, this category was fully dilutive. 2019 2018 Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share (USD 000) 181,121 168,228 Weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 70,392 69,361 Adjustments for: – Share options and restricted shares (in thousands) 3,097 3,596 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share (in thousands) 73,489 72,957 Diluted earnings per share (USD per share) 2.46 2.31 13. Net debt analysis 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Cash at bank and in hand 102,070 189,915 Short term deposits 21,279 89,896 Other short term liquid investments 29,436 7,628 Cash and cash equivalents* 152,785 287,439 Borrowings – repayable within one year (note 19) (100,595) (107,797) Borrowings – repayable after one year (note 19) (1,073,972) (706,278) Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges (note 15) (11,957) (19,172) Net Debt (1,033,739) (545,808) * Included in the cash and cash equivalents, is USD 5.2 million (2018: USD 6.8 million) that are held in jurisdiction where regulatory exchange controls exist and, therefore, are not available for general use by the Group outside of such jurisdiction at the reporting date. 168 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Changes in liabilities from financing activities Cross currency swaps – Other Lease Other Principal liabilities* liabilities borrowings Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2017 (27,621) (1,234) – (440,184) (469,039) Cash flows from financing activities – – – – – – Net proceeds – – – (374,326) (374,326) – Interest payments – 4,233 – 8,430 12,663 – Other financing costs – 8,953 – – 8,953 Fair value and foreign exchange movement 8,449 – – 1,026 9,475 Other movements – (13,767) – (9,021) (22,788) At 31 December 2018** (19,172) (1,815) – (814,075) (835,062) Cash flows from financing activities – Net proceeds – – – (295,002) (295,002) – Interest payments – 10,211 – 11,503 21,714 – Other financing costs – 5,835 – – 5,835 – Payments of lease liabilities – – 16,289 – 16,289 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (note 2.1) – – (53,175) – (53,175) Acquisition of business (note 6) – – (3,811) (51,602) (55,413) Repayment of acquiree’s debt at acquisition date (note 6)*** – – – 51,602 51,602 Fair value and foreign exchange movement 7,215 – 290 (15,356) (7,851) Interest on lease liabilities (note 20) – – (1,490) – (1,490) Other movements – (16,419) (9,421) (10,319) (36,159) At 31 December 2019 (11,957) (2,188) (51,318) (1,123,249) (1,188,712) * Included in ‘Other payables’. ** Comparative table is represented to reflect change in format. *** Classified as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. 14. Trade and other receivables re-presented 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Trade receivables 274,550 230,491 Contract asset (note 8) 51,211 37,488 Loss allowance (2,439) (5,710) Trade receivables and contract asset – net 323,322 262,269 VAT and other taxation recoverable 9,348 9,296 Other receivables 9,588 6,961 Escrow deposit for contingent consideration (note 6) 21,000 – Prepayments 33,306 15,656 Total trade and other receivables 396,564 294,182 Less non-current portion (12,338) (10,987) Total current trade and other receivables 384,226 283,195 Trade and other receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price or at fair value if they contain a significant financing component. The Group holds the trade receivable with the objective to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned above. The Group’s exposure to credit and market risk is disclosed in note 3.2. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 14. Trade and other receivables continued Fair values of the trade and other receivables qualified as financial assets and measured at amortized cost. Carrying amount Fair value re-presented re-presented 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other receivables 346,623 263,713 346,623 263,713 Non-current trade and other receivables. 12,338 10,987 12,206 10,692 358,961 274,700 358,829 274,405 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. The fair value measurement of the non-current trade and other receivables is based on a discounted cash flow approach using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Movements in the provision for impairment The allowance account is used for impairment of trade receivables and contract assets. The Group has not recognized any impairment on any other classes of assets. Trade receivables and Contract assets 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 5,710 3,210 Increase in loss allowance 1,205 2,926 Used amounts (4,564) (356) Recoveries – – Unused amounts (2) (52) Acquisition of business (note 6) 92 – Exchange (loss) or gain (2) (18) Balance at 31 December 2,439 5,710 Included in ‘Sales and marketing’, is USD 1.2 million (2018: USD 2.9 million) of impairment loss related to trade receivables and contract assets. 15. Other financial assets and liabilities 2019 2018 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Foreign currency forwards – cash flow hedges 2,314 670 2,787 1,360 Foreign currency options – cash flow hedges 68 – – – Foreign currency forwards – held for trading 2,184 1,867 4,215 1,087 Foreign currency options – held for trading 147 – – – Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges – 11,957 – 19,172 Convertible notes 6,000 – – – Equity securities 16,079 – 15,000 – At 31 December 26,792 14,494 22,002 21,619 Reported as follows: Current 4,431 2,518 6,579 2,234 Non-current 22,361 11,976 15,423 19,385 At 31 December 26,792 14,494 22,002 21,619 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets and convertible notes as reported in the statement of financial position. Equity securities and convertible notes represent investment in NuoDB, a distributed SQL database provider headquartered in the US, which were acquired in December 2018 and December 2019, respectively. Equity securities are designated and measured at FVOCI as the Group intends to hold them for strategic purposes. Convertible notes are measured at FVTPL and intended to be held to maturity. 170 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 16. Property, plant and equipment Fixtures Leasehold fittings & Land and Right-of-use improvements Vehicles equipment buildings assets Total Year ended 31 December 2019 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Cost At 1 January 2019 15,350 609 52,804 2,480 – 71,243 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 – – – – 45,085 45,085 Foreign currency exchange differences 22 (11) (171) (49) (90) (299) Additions 3,340 126 6,759 – 11,718 21,943 Acquisition of businesses (note 6) 307 – 741 – 3,811 4,859 Retirements/Disposals (371) (67) (1,553) (506) – (2,497) 31 December 2019 18,648 657 58,580 1,925 60,524 140,334 Depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2019 12,851 400 39,516 455 – 53,222 Foreign currency exchange differences 30 (6) (65) (10) 89 38 Charge for the year 1,229 82 5,763 34 14,543 21,651 Retirements/Disposals (261) (55) (1,480) (64) – (1,860) 31 December 2019 13,849 421 43,734 415 14,632 73,051 Net book value 31 December 2019 4,799 236 14,846 1,510 45,892 67,283 Year ended 31 December 2018 Cost At 1 January 2018 15,085 515 48,039 2,657 – 66,296 Foreign currency exchange differences (515) (24) (2,361) (177) – (3,077) Additions 984 137 7,111 – – 8,232 Acquisition of business – – 825 – – 825 Retirements/Disposals (204) (19) (810) – – (1,033) 31 December 2018 15,350 609 52,804 2,480 – 71,243 Depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 12,493 374 36,602 442 – 49,911 Foreign currency exchange differences (451) (15) (1,795) (33) – (2,294) Charge for the year 1,013 60 5,505 46 – 6,624 Retirements/Disposals (204) (19) (796) – – (1,019) 31 December 2018 12,851 400 39,516 455 – 53,223 Net book value 31 December 2018 2,499 209 13,288 2,025 – 18,021 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 17. Intangible assets Internally generated software development Computer Customer costs Goodwill software related Total Year ended 31 December 2019 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Cost At 1 January 2019 483,743 635,000 229,799 234,936 1,583,478 Foreign currency exchange differences (1,610) (2,098) (1,825) (2,627) (8,160) Additions 64,649 – 5,335 – 69,984 Acquisition of businesses (note 6) – 446,507 159,327 87,700 693,534 Retirements/Disposals – – – – – 31 December 2019 546,782 1,079,409 392,636 320,009 2,338,836 Amortization At 1 January 2019 333,283 – 140,475 99,775 573,533 Foreign currency exchange differences (1,393) – (1,056) (1,027) (3,476) Charge for the year 49,578 – 36,312 23,067 108,957 Retirements/Disposals – – – – – 31 December 2019 381,468 – 175,731 121,815 679,014 Net book value 31 December 2019 165,314 1,079,409 216,905 198,194 1,659,822 Year ended 31 December 2018 Cost At 1 January 2018 435,373 521,671 185,555 157,899 1,300,498 Foreign currency exchange differences (4,255) (27,156) (7,176) (6,863) (45,450) Additions 52,625 – 4,115 – 56,740 Acquisition of business – 140,485 52,301 83,900 276,686 Retirements/Disposals – – (4,996) – (4,996) 31 December 2018 (re-presented) 483,743 635,000 229,799 234,936 1,583,478 Amortization At 1 January 2018 291,605 – 124,899 88,033 504,537 Foreign currency exchange differences (3,197) – (4,871) (4,062) (12,130) Charge for the year 44,875 – 25,443 15,804 86,122 Retirements/Disposals – – (4,996) – (4,996) 31 December 2018 333,283 – 140,475 99,775 573,533 Net book value 31 December 2018 (re-presented) 150,460 635,000 89,324 135,161 1,009,945 Amortization charge of USD 104.7 million (2018: USD 82.1 million) is included in the ‘Cost of sales’ line; USD 0.4 million (2018: USD 0.3 million) in ‘Sales and marketing’ line; USD 1 million (2018: USD 1 million) in ‘Other operating expenses’ line and USD 2.9 million (2018: USD 2.7 million) in ‘General and administrative’ line. 172 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the ‘Product’ reportable segment. 2019 2018 Carrying Carrying amount amount Growth rate Discount rate USD 000 Growth rate Discount rate USD 000 % % re-presented % % ‘Product’ segment 1,079,409 1% 9.89% 635,000 1% 10.75% 1,079,409 635,000 The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the most recent financial budget approved by the management covering a four-year period (2018: a four-year period) and then inflated over a perpetual period using the estimated growth rate assigned to the countries where the cash-generating unit operates. The growth rate does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the software industry in which the CGU performs its operations. The growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation are presented above. Budgeted cash flow projections are determined based on the expectation of the future client signings of the Group’s current pipeline. Budgeted gross margin is based on expectations of market development and efficiency leverage. Management believes that any reasonable change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not cause the reported carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit. The discount rate represents the Group’s Weighted Average Cost of Capital adjusted for tax effect to determinate the pre-tax rate as required by IFRS. 18. Trade and other payables re-presented 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Trade payables 42,543 30,883 Accrued expenses 127,678 117,360 Contingent consideration (note 6) 20,930 – Other payables 31,068 15,993 Total trade and other payables 222,219 164,236 Less non-current portion (2,272) – Total current trade and other payables 219,947 164,236 Except for contingent consideration, trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost. As the total carrying amount is due within the next 12 months from the balance sheet date, the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant and, therefore, the carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value initially recognized. Contingent consideration is initially and subsequently measured at fair value. Fair values of the trade and other payables qualified as financial liabilities and measured at amortized cost. Carrying amount Fair value re-presented re-presented 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other payables 188,150 161,064 188,150 161,064 Non-current trade and other payables 1,583 – 1,540 – 189,733 161,064 189,690 161,064 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other payables is considered to be at their fair value, due to their short term nature. The fair value measurement of the non-current trade and other payables is based on a discounted cash flow model using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of the items measured at fair value as well as their level in the fair value hierarchy are disclosed in note 3.4. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 19. Borrowings 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Current Other loans 59 75 Bank borrowings 80,000 – Unsecured bonds 4,574 107,722 Lease liabilities 15,962 – 100,595 107,797 Non-current Other loans 130 86 Bank borrowings 297,094 200,000 Unsecured bonds 741,392 506,192 Lease liabilities 35,356 – 1,073,972 706,278 Total borrowings 1,174,567 814,075 Fair values of the borrowings Carrying amount Fair value 2019 2018 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Other loans 189 161 164 172 Bank Borrowings 377,094 200,000 376,832 200,014 Unsecured bonds 745,966 613,914 764,029 608,435 1,123,249 814,075 1,141,025 808,621 The fair value measurement of other loans and bank borrowing is based on a discounted cash flow method using the LIBOR interest curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair value measurement of the bonds is derived from their quotation on the SIX Swiss Exchange and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of the borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Swiss Francs 764,259 613,914 US dollars 368,245 200,000 Other currencies 42,063 161 1,174,567 814,075 Unsecured bonds The Group holds the following unsecured bonds: ● CHF 175 million with a coupon of 2% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at par and was issued in 2015. ● CHF 175 million with a coupon of 1.875% paid annually on 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at par and was issued in 2018. ● CHF 150 million with a coupon of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at par and was issued in 2017. ● CHF 220 million with a coupon of 1.50% paid annually on 28 November. The bond will mature on 28 November 2025 at par and was issued in 2019. Bank facilities The Group holds a multicurrency revolving facility of USD 500 million. The pertinent details are as follows: ● Interest at LIBOR plus variable margin, which is calculated by reference to financial covenants; ● The facility terminates on 5 July 2024 with an option to extend by two additional years; and ● Commitment fees are due on the undrawn portion. As at 31 December 2019, a total of USD 297.1 million (2018: USD 200 million) was drawn under this new agreement. The facility is subject to financial covenants which have been adhered to during the reported periods. As part of its acquisition of Kony Inc, the Group holds a bridge facility agreement for an outstanding amount of USD 80 million. The facility will terminate on 28 August 2020. 174 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 20. Leases The Group primarily leased properties (office space) in jurisdiction from which it operates. The Group also have few leases for equipment and vehicles. Information about leases for which the Group is a lessee is presented below. Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position 1 January 2019 2019* USD 000 USD 000 Right-of-use asset Property 45,818 45,085 Equipment 47 – Vehicles 27 – Total 45,892 45,085 Lease liabilities Current 15,962 14,918 Non-current 35,356 38,257 Total 51,318 53,175 * Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019. The right-of-use assets are included in property, plant and equipment and the lease liabilities in borrowings in the statement of financial position. Amounts recognized in profit or loss 2019 Leases under IFRS16 USD 000 Depreciation charge of right-of-use-assets Property 14,503 Equipment 37 Vehicles 3 Total depreciation 14,543 Interest on lease liabilities 1,490 Expenses relating to short term leases 1,497 Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets, excluding short term leases of low-value assets 145 Income from subleasing right-of-use asset 22 2018 Leases under IAS 17 USD 000 Lease expense 17,713 Sub-lease income (1,618) 16,095 Amount recognized in statement of cash flows The total cash outflow for leases in 2019 was USD 17.9 million. At 31 December 2019, the commitment on short term leases is USD 0.9 million which has not been included in measurement of lease liabilities. At 31 December 2019 the Group had committed to a lease which had not commenced and the total future cash outflows for leases not reflected in lease liabilities is USD 13.6 million. Extension and termination options Some leases of office property contain extension and termination options exercisable at a certain point in time of the contract period. Where practicable, the Group seeks to include extension and termination options in new leases to provide operational flexibility. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension or termination options. The Group would reassess the reasonability of the option to extend or terminate if a significant event or significant change in circumstances occurs which is within its control. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 21. Taxation Tax expense 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Current tax on profits for the year 32,580 29,591 Adjustments in respect of prior years (1,530) (1,150) Total current tax 31,050 28,441 Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences 382 (1,268) Total tax expense 31,432 27,173 Temenos AG is incorporated in Switzerland but the Group operates in various countries with various tax laws and rates. Consequently, the effective tax rate may vary from period to period to reflect the generation of taxable income in tax jurisdictions. A reconciliation between the reported income tax expense and the amount computed using the Swiss statutory corporate tax rate for the Group of 24.1% (2018: 24.1%), is as follows: 2019 2018* USD 000 USD 000 Profit before tax 212,553 195,401 Tax at the domestic rate of 24.1% 51,225 47,092 Non-taxable income and expenses (540) 9,691 Recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax – 8,883 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5,180 (9,476) Prior period adjustments (1,530) (1,150) Movement in other unprovided deferred tax 2,099 944 Losses not recognized in period 18,537 11,587 Unprovided losses utilized (1,663) (6,531) Effects of different tax rates (53,384) (37,229) Overseas withholding tax 7,173 4,454 Other tax and credits 4,334 (1,093) Total tax expense 31,432 27,173 * The 2018 comparatives have been restated to aid ongoing comparability and consistency under IAS12 ‘Income Taxes’ for users of the financial statements. There is no income tax expense or tax credit arising relating to components of other comprehensive income (2018: USD nil). Due to the adoption of the IFRS 16 standard, a net tax charge of USD 0.5 million is directly posted to equity. During the period Switzerland enacted tax reform (TRAF) to simplify their tax regime which should apply from 2020. Whilst TRAF reduced the high level corporate income tax rate for companies, it also removed a number of regimes, such that TRAF will not significantly alter the effective tax rate for the business in Switzerland and is not anticipated to have a material impact on the Group tax rate. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred tax assets and liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows: re-presented 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered after more than 12 months 14,686 17,562 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered within 12 months 4,469 101 Deferred tax assets 19,155 17,663 Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered after more than 12 months (101,238) (35,033) Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered within 12 months (2,427) (1,961) Deferred tax liabilities (103,665) (36,994) Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets (84,510) (19,331) An assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets is made on a country by country basis, based on the weight of available evidence including factors such as recent earnings history and expected future taxable income. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that realization of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. 176 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The Group has not recognized deferred tax assets of USD 95.8 million (2018: USD 34.4 million) in respect of losses amounting to USD 477.4 million (2018: USD 189.8 million) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. Losses amounting to USD 114.4 million (2018: USD 90.9 million) will expire within the next 5 years, USD 5.7 million (2018: USD 22.8 million) will expire within 5 to 10 years and USD 15 million (2018: USD 9.9 million) will expire within 10 to 20 years. The Group has recognized deferred tax assets of USD 0.1 million (2018: USD 0.2 million) in respect of temporary differences arising on an intra-Group transfer of intellectual property. At the balance sheet date the aggregate amount of the temporary differences in relation to the investment in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognized was USD 1,081 million. No liability has been recognized in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and the Group considers that it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: re-presented 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January (19,331) 6,535 Income statement credit (381) 1,267 Foreign currency exchange differences 531 (183) Acquisition of business (65,329) (26,950) At 31 December (84,510) (19,331) The movement in deferred tax assets is as follows: Taxable Tax intellectual Taxable losses property goodwill Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2018 17,080 204 288 4,371 21,943 Credited (charged) to the income statement (2,237) (42) (475) 356 (2,397) Acquisition of business – – – – – Transfer to deferred tax liability – – 187 (1,343) (1,156) Foreign currency exchange differences (332) – – (394) (726) At 31 December 2018 14,511 162 – 2,990 17,663 Credited (charged) to the income statement (6,866) (31) 1,889 4,600 (409) Acquisition of business (note 6) – – – 40 40 Transfer from deferred tax liability – – – 953 953 Foreign currency exchange differences – – – 908 908 At 31 December 2019 7,645 131 1,889 9,490 19,155 The movement in deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Intangible fair value adjustment Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2018 (13,967) (1,441) (15,408) Credited to the income statement 4,249 (584) 3,665 Acquisition of business (25,200) (1,750) (26,950) Transfer from Deferred tax asset – 1,156 1,156 Foreign currency exchange differences 512 31 543 At 31 December 2018 (re-presented) (34,406) (2,588) (36,994) Credited to the income statement 8,226 (8,198) 28 Acquisition of business (note 6) (65,369) – (65,369) Transfer from Deferred tax asset – (953) (953) Foreign currency exchange differences (377) – (377) At 31 December 2019 (91,926) (11,739) (103,665) Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 22. Provisions for other liabilities and charges Legal Property Termination provision provision benefits Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 1 January 2019 242 642 636 1,520 Foreign currency exchange differences (4) 11 – 7 Increase in provisions recognized in profit or loss 28 245 700 973 Used during the year (168) (36) (604) (808) Unused amounts reversed during the year (70) – (32) (102) 31 December 2019 28 862 700 1,590 Reported as follows: 2019 Current 28 163 700 891 Non-current – 699 – 699 31 December 2019 28 862 700 1,590 2018 Current 242 381 636 1,259 Non-current – 261 – 261 31 December 2018 242 642 636 1,520 Legal provision The amounts represent provisions for certain legal claims brought against the Group. The balance at 31 December 2019 is expected to be utilized in 2020. Management believes that the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided at 31 December 2019. Property provision The amounts represent the net present value of the estimated future costs associated with onerous leases and dilapidations. Provision for onerous lease represents the lowest cost to exit the lease contract. Provision for dilapidations represents the estimated costs to be incurred at the date of exit. The non-current portion has not been discounted as the effect of the time value was not material. The non-current portion of USD 0.699 million relates to dilapidation costs that will be settled when the related leases are terminated which is not expected to occur within the next 12 months. Termination benefits The amounts represent the benefits payable for the period with no future economic benefits to the Group. The carrying amount is expected to be fully utilized in 2020. 178 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 23. Retirement benefit obligations The Group maintains defined contribution plans for its employees of which many are state-sponsored. The relevant contributions are charged to the statement of profit or loss when incurred. No assets or liabilities are recognized in the Group’s statement of financial position in respect of such plans, apart from prepayments and accruals not settled at the reporting date. In certain countries, the Group has a legal obligation to make one-time payments to employees reaching retirement age or departing. Such gratuities are based on the amount of the employees’ final salary and their length of service. With the exception of India, these plans are unfunded. These plans are categorized as defined benefit plans. Pension plans in Switzerland The Group currently holds two plans in Switzerland. Swiss pension plans entitle retired employees to receive either a capital or an annual pension payment. Final benefit is based on retirement savings accumulated over the working life period of the employees. The plans are administrated by separate funds that are legally separated from the entity. Plans are funded through institutional investments and contributes the most in the Group’s reported balance. Swiss pension plans are governed by the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans (LPP), which stipulates that pension plans are to be managed by independent and legally autonomous units. Plan participants are insured against the financial consequences of old age, disability and death. The various insurance benefits are governed in regulations, with the LPP specifying the minimum benefits that are to be provided. The employer and employees pay contributions to the pension funds. In case the plan’s statutory funding falls below a certain level, various measures can be taken such as the increase of the current contribution, lowering the interest rate on the retirement account balances or a reduction of the additional prospective benefits. The Group can also make additional restructuring contributions. The Swiss pension plans are managed and administrated by collective semi-autonomous foundations established by one of the leading insurance company for pension plans based in Switzerland. The Board of Trustee of each foundation is composed of equal numbers of employee and employer representatives. One plan selected a foundation whereby the investment strategy and the appropriation of the return are delegated to the fund commission, which is composed of Temenos’ representatives, and all within the framework set out by the LPP and the Board of Trustee. In this model, the plan directly bears the investment risk. The other plan follows a solution where the investment strategy and the allocation of return are established by the Trustees of the foundation. In this scheme, the investment risk, as well as the return fall within all the affiliated participants of the foundation. In both plans the risk benefits of disability and death are fully insured by an insurance company. As all the plans within the Group are not exposed to materially different risks and as a significant portion of the Group’s obligation is contributed by the Swiss plans, the management has decided not to present additional disaggregation of the disclosures presented below unless explicitly required by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position at 31 December are as follows: 2019 2018 USD 000 USD 000 Present value of funded obligations 50,030 47,864 Fair value of plan assets (46,904) (41,612) Deficit of funded plans 3,126 6,252 Present value of unfunded obligations 7,410 4,068 Net liability in the statement of financial position 10,536 10,320 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 23. Retirement benefit obligations continued The movement in the net defined benefit liability (asset) over the year is as follows: Present value Fair value of Effect of of obligation plan assets Total asset ceiling Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2019 51,932 (41,612) 10,320 – 10,320 Current service costs 3,014 – 3,014 – 3,014 Past service costs (609) – (609) – (609) Other cost – 64 64 – 64 Interest expense/(income) 914 (679) 235 – 235 3,319 (615) 2,704 – 2,704 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – (4,658) (4,658) – (4,658) – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions (1) – (1) – (1) – financial assumptions 3,829 – 3,829 – 3,829 – experience adjustment (365) – (365) – (365) 3,463 (4,658) (1,195) – (1,195) – Exchange differences 563 (576) (13) – (13) – Acquisition of business 2,504 – 2,504 – 2,504 Contributions: – Employers – (3,784) (3,784) – (3,784) – Plan participants 854 (854) – – – Payment from/to plans: – Benefit paid (5,195) 5,195 – – – (1,274) (19) (1,293) – (1,293) Balance at 31 December 2019 57,440 (46,904) 10,536 – 10,536 Balance at 1 January 2018 44,678 (36,942) 7,736 – 7,736 Current service costs 2,606 – 2,606 – 2,606 Past service costs 214 – 214 – 214 Other cost – 38 38 – 38 Interest expense/(income) 608 (452) 156 – 156 3,428 (414) 3,014 – 3,014 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – 1,126 1,126 – 1,126 – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions 859 – 859 – 859 – financial assumptions (863) – (863) – (863) – experience adjustment 1,168 – 1,168 – 1,168 1,164 1,126 2,290 – 2,290 – Exchange differences (810) 672 (138) – (138) Contributions: – Employers – (2,582) (2,582) – (2,582) – Plan participants 1,104 (1,104) – – – Payment from/to plans: – Benefit paid 2,368 (2,368) – – – 2,662 (5,382) (2,720) – (2,720) Balance at 31 December 2018 51,932 (41,612) 10,320 – 10,320 At 31 December 2019 (2018: nil), one Swiss plan reported a surplus with no asset ceiling. The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. This reflects service rendered by employees to the date of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used and projected rates of remuneration growth. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds in countries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds. 180 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Plan assets comprise: 2019 2018 Equity securities: – Quoted 25% 19% – Unquoted 0% 0% Fixed income securities: – Quoted 29% 15% – Unquoted 0% 0% Real estate 24% 12% Insurance contracts 14% 48% Other 8% 6% 100% 100% The governance of the plan schemes and the foundations annually performs an asset-liability assessment. The objective of such assessment is to select an appropriate asset allocation to match future cash outflows of the plan while maximizing the return and minimizing the risk. Actuarial assumptions: The defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as currency risk, interest rate risk and market risk (investment risk). Actuarial assumptions are based on the requirement set out by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. They are unbiased and mutually compatible estimates of variables that determine the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits. They are based on market expectations at the reporting date for the period over which the obligations are to be settled. They are set on an annual basis by independent actuaries. Actuarial assumptions consist of demographic assumptions such as employee turnover, disability, mortality and financial assumptions such as interest rates, salary growth and consumer price inflation. The actuarial assumptions vary based upon local economic and social conditions. The following are the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages): 2019 2018 Discount rate 1.50% 1.82% Inflation 0.79% 0.78% Future salary growth 2.59% 2.37% Sensitivity analysis: The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumption is: 2019 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (2,931) 3,265 Future salary growth 0.50% 731 (704) 2018 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (2,514) 2,794 Future salary growth 0.50% 588 (562) The sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur since some of the assumptions are correlated. The sensitivity analysis have been calculated using the same methodology as applied when determining the pension liability in the statement of financial position. Expected contributions to post-employment defined benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2020 are USD 3.3 million. At 31 December 2019, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 11 years (2018: 10 years). Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 24. Share capital As at 31 December 2019, the issued shares of Temenos AG comprised 72,757,466 ordinary shares of a nominal value of CHF 5 each. All issued shares are fully paid. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in the year ended 31 December 2019 are summarized below: Number Total number of shares issued, as at 31 December 2018 71,044,267 Treasury shares (1,804,267) Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2018 69,240,000 Creation of new ordinary shares out of conditional capital for share-based payment transactions 1,713,199 Disposal of treasury shares for share-based payment transactions – Acquisition of treasury shares (share buy-back) – Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2019 70,953,199 As at 31 December 2019, the number of treasury shares held by the Group amounted to 1,804,267 (2018: 1,804,267). Temenos AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: Authorized shares available until 15 May 2021 7,100,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of share-based payment transactions 5,092,458 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 25. Share premium and other reserves Negative premium Employee Discount arising on share on shares creation of Share options issued to Temenos premium reserve employees Group AG Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2018 221,818 206,756 (546,405) (68,456) (186,287) Cost of share options (note 27) – 38,018 – – 38,018 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 22,753 – (162,498) – (139,745) Costs associated with equity transactions (1,081) – – – (1,081) Balance at 31 December 2018 243,490 244,774 (708,903) (68,456) (289,095) Cost of share options (note 27) – 39,463 – – 39,463 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 270,145 – (278,786) – (8,641) Costs associated with equity transactions (111) – – – (111) Balance at 31 December 2019 513,524 284,237 (987,689) (68,456) (258,384) Share premium The share premium primarily includes the following transactions: ● Premium on issuance of new shares at a price above the par value; ● The equity component determined at the issuance of the convertible bond in 2006 and the premium resulting from the early redemption occurred in 2010; ● Expenses associated with equity transactions; and ● Gains or losses on the sale, issuance or cancellation of treasury shares. Share options reserve As detailed in note 27, the Group has issued instruments to employees. The fair value of these instruments is charged to the statement of profit or loss over the period that the related service is received, with a corresponding credit made to the share options reserve. 182 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Discount on shares issued to employees As detailed in note 27, the Group has issued instruments to employees. When the instruments are exercised, the Group fulfills its obligations by issuing newly created shares out of conditional capital or by reissuing treasury shares purchased by the Group. To the extent that the consideration received by the Group in respect of these shares issued or reissued are less than their fair value at the time of exercise, this amount is allocated to discount on shares issued to employees. Negative premium arising on creation of Temenos AG Temenos AG was incorporated on 7 June 2001. The issued and outstanding shares of Temenos Holdings Limited (previously known as Temenos Holdings NV) were exchanged shortly before the initial public offering for Temenos AG shares, thus rendering Temenos Holdings Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Temenos AG. The number of shares acquired was 40,104,336 which prior to the exchange had a nominal value of USD 0.001 per share, totaling USD 39 thousand. The new shares in Temenos AG were issued at nominal value of CHF 5 which resulted in a negative premium of USD 113,538 thousand. Expenses related to the initial public offering of Temenos AG, and share premium items arising prior to the creation of Temenos AG, were recorded against this account. A deficit of USD 62,277 thousand was recorded to share premium on the cancellation of shares repurchased in 2000. This was transferred into ‘negative premium arising on creation of Temenos AG’ during the period ended 31 December 2001. 26. Other equity Cumulative Costs of Cash flow translation hedging hedge adjustment reserve reserve Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2018 (84,607) – (8,734) (93,341) Currency translation differences (32,883) – – (32,883) Foreign currency risk Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – 429 429 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – (1,309) (1,309) Transfer to ‘Deferred revenues’ – – (2,049) (2,049) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘finance costs’ – – (5,527) (5,527) Changes in fair value of hedging instruments – – 13,189 13,189 Balance at 31 December 2018 (117,490) – (4,001) (121,491) Currency translation differences (24,104) – – (24,104) Foreign currency risk Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – 746 746 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – (2,942) (2,942) Transfer to ‘Deferred revenues’ – – (2,150) (2,150) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘finance costs’ – – (5,635) (5,635) Changes in fair value of hedging instruments – 9 11,825 11,834 Balance at 31 December 2019 (141,594) 9 (2,157) (143,742) Cumulative translation reserve It comprises all the foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the foreign operations in US dollars. Costs of hedging reserve It represents fair value changes of the time value of options when designating the intrinsic value of the options as the hedging instrument in cash flow hedge relationship. Cash flow hedge reserve It comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges that are not yet recognized in profit or loss or as part of the carry amount of a non-financial assets or a non-financial liabilities. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 27. Share based payments Share options Share options are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share options are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The vesting period for the unvested options is a minimum of three years and the options have a contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,000 $30.74 3,000 $31.94 Exercised during the year (3,000) $30.00 – $0.00 Outstanding at the end of the year – – 3,000 $30.74 All of the outstanding options (2018: 3,000) were exercised in 2019. No options were exercised in 2018. Share appreciation rights Share appreciation rights are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share appreciation rights are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service and are only exercisable if the Group achieves specified cumulative non-IFRS earnings per share and non-IFRS product revenue targets. In case of over achievement of targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. The vesting period for the unvested share appreciation rights is a minimum of three years and the share appreciation rights have a maximum contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the share appreciation rights in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share appreciation rights outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise rights price rights price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,563,326 $63.82 7,006,275 $46.89 Granted during the year* 1,699,297 $127.00 1,644,992 $99.67 Forfeited during the year (251,405) $109.32 (35,868) $56.08 Exercised during the year (2,433,503) $50.34 (2,052,073) $34.78 Outstanding at the end of the year 5,577,715 $86.86 6,563,326 $63.82 * Including overachievement for share appreciation rights Plan 2017-2019 with the same conditions as the original share appreciation rights Plan grant. 1,748,117 of the outstanding share appreciation rights (2018: 621,893) were exercisable at the balance sheet date with a weighted average exercise price of USD 39.98 (2018: USD 25.68). The share appreciation rights exercised during the year had a weighted average share price at the time of exercise of USD 160.83 (2018: USD 131.96). As described above, in case of overachievement of earnings per share targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. As at 31 December 2019, 318,628 SARs (2018: 531,592 SARs ) have been added to the 2017-2019 plan as a result of overachievement. There are 2,231,315 remaining share appreciation rights (2018: 5,409,841) that may be subject to the over achievement provisions in the future with a weighted average exercise price of USD 134.57 (2018: USD 70.15). 184 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Share options and share appreciation rights outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Remaining 2019 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 0-9.99 215,466 2.82 10-19.99 14,494 0.01 20-29.99 357,260 5.08 30-39.99 991,684 6.14 40-49.99 158,388 6.56 50-59.99 10,825 6.93 60-69.99 1,557,577 6.76 70-79.99 3,591 7.31 80-89.99 17,959 7.46 90-99.99 19,156 7.70 100-109.99 53,500 8.98 110-119.99 814,380 8.13 120-129.99 938,285 9.13 130-164.00 396,150 9.67 29,000 9.37 5,577,715 7.21 Remaining 2018 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 0-9.99 15,529 0.17 10-19.99 274,165 3.87 20-29.99 38,501 1.19 30-39.99 770,718 5.96 40-49.99 2,341,019 7.12 50-59.99 240,457 7.47 60-69.99 19,382 7.88 70-79.99 1,628,155 8.12 80-89.99 3,000 8.31 90-99.99 109,000 8.55 100-109.99 16,000 8.70 110-119.99 81,500 9.98 120-129.99 1,019,900 9.13 130-164.00 9,000 9.69 6,566,326 7.44 Fair value of stock options and share appreciation rights The fair value of options and share appreciation rights granted during the period is determined using an ‘Enhanced American Pricing Model’. The weighted average fair value of share appreciation rights granted during the period was USD 30.19 (2018: USD 23.53). The significant inputs into the model were: weighted average share price at grant date of USD 127.06 (2018: USD 99.96), weighted average exercise price of USD 127 (2018: USD 99.67), standard deviation of expected share price returns of 30% (2018: 30%), weighted average option lives of 3.53 years (2018: 3.57 years), weighted average annual risk-free interest rate of 2.19% (2018: 2.15%) and weighted average expected dividend yield of 0.66% (2018: 0.77%). The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the relevant historical period. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 27. Share based payments continued Short term incentive (STI) share plan 2019 2018 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at the beginning of the year 47,710 14,521 Granted during the year 29,653 39,163 Forfeited during the year (1,425) (5,974) Transferred during the year (40,412) – Outstanding at the end of the year 35,526 47,710 STI share plan For the year ended 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 the short term incentive plan in place for the senior management with specific bonus targets were offered a choice of receiving the final bonus in cash or 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares with 20% uplift. In 2019, 3,311 (2018: 7,081) deferred shares were committed under this scheme. The shares committed in 2018 vest on 1 March 2020 and the shares committed in 2019 vest on 1 March 2021. In case of over achievement of earnings per share targets, certain short term incentive plan grants may be increased or decreased from the original grant. As at 31 December 2019, 1,296 short term incentive shares have been added to the STI 2017 plan as a result of overachievement for some senior management. Other Senior staff who fall under the Employee Short term variable plan are paid 50% of their bonus in cash and 50% in shares with 20% uplift. In 2019 25,032 deferred shares were committed under this scheme for the bonus relating to the financial year 2018. These shares will vest on 1 March 2020. Expense The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of employee share options, share appreciation rights, performance and loyalty shares and the profit share plan is USD 39.5 million (2018: USD 38 million). 28. Dividend per share Dividend is proposed by the Board of Directors and must be approved by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders. The dividend proposed for the 2019 financial year is amounting to CHF 60 million (CHF 0.85 per share) and it is not yet recorded as a liability. This amount may vary depending on the number of shares outstanding as of the ex-dividend date. The dividend paid in 2019 related to 2018 financial year amounted to CHF 52.9 million (CHF 0.75 per share). 29. Commitments and contingencies The future aggregate undiscounted minimum lease and sub-lease payments under non-cancelable lease agreement are as follows: 2019* 2018 USD 000 USD 000 No later than 1 year – 15,695 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years – 37,299 Later than 5 years – 3,960 Total – 56,953 * With the adoption of IFRS 16, the Group is required to disclose a maturity analysis of its lease liabilities (refer note 3.2 Financial risk factors). The Group’s principal contingent liabilities arise from property rental guarantees, performance guarantees and bid bonds issued in the normal course of business. The Group is also involved in various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings incidental to the normal conduct of its operations. These matters mainly include the risks associated with personnel litigation, tax claims and contractual disputes. As at 31 December 2019, the guarantees in issue were USD 12.6 million (2018: USD 10.8 million). Although an estimate of the future financial effects cannot be reliably and precisely estimated at the reporting date, it is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from these contingent liabilities other than those provided for in note 22. 30. Related party transactions and balances Remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors is described in note 10. Equity compensation for executive and non-executive directors granted in the form of options, SARSs and shares is described in note 27. There were no other significant transactions with related parties during the year ended 31 December 2019. 31. Events after the reporting period On January 28 2020, the Group entered into an agreement to increase its current financing facility by USD 160 million. The total commitment is now USD 660 million. 186 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Report of the statutory auditors on the unconsolidated financial statements Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos AG, Geneva Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Temenos AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2019, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements as at 31 December 2019 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality CHF 13,700,000 How we determined it 0.5% of total assets, rounded Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose total assets as a benchmark to determine the overall materiality as we consider total assets to be the most appropriate measure for a holding company and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 450,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgments were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the entity, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the entity operates. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 187 Report of the statutory auditors on the unconsolidated financial statements continued Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the entity to cease to continue as a going concern. We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Yazen Jamjum Pierrick Misse Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 20 February 2020 188 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Unconsolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 2018 CHF 000 CHF 000 Assets Current assets Liquid funds 6,635 8,446 Receivables from other group entities 18,580 141,260 Prepayments 392 355 Total current assets 25,607 150,062 Non-current assets Long term receivables from other group entities 1,305,099 202,610 Investments in subsidiaries (note 2) 1,415,522 1,415,522 Total non-current assets 2,720,620 1,618,132 Total assets 2,746,228 1,768,194 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Current liabilities Trade payables 966 74 Payables to other group entities 63,165 388 Short term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 4,426 106,021 Other liabilities 6,751 1,046 Tax payable 1,207 1,366 Deferred unrealized exchange gain – 1,816 Total current liabilities 76,515 110,710 Non-current liabilities Long term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 717,408 498,197 Long term interest-bearing payables to other group entities 154,195 154,100 Total non-current liabilities 871,602 652,297 Shareholders’ equity Share capital (note 3) 363,787 355,221 Ordinary legal reserve (note 4) 22,118 11,913 Share premium (note 4) 509,443 71,044 General reserve from capital contributions (note 4) 52,139 105,051 Reserve for treasury shares from share premium (note 4) – 170,817 Reserve for treasury shares (note 4) 260,536 90,510 Retained earnings (note 4) 590,087 200,629 Treasury shares (note 5) – – Total shareholders’ equity 1,798,111 1,005,187 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 2,746,228 1,768,194 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 189 Unconsolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2019 2018 CHF 000 CHF 000 Income from investments in subsidiaries (note 8) 583,787 215,000 Financial (expense)/income (8,501) (6,407) Expenses associated with the maintenance of the Register of Shareholders and other expenses (4,395) (3,832) Profit before taxation 570,890 204,761 Taxation (1,201) (660) Profit of the year 569,689 204,101 190 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 1. Legal status and principal activities Temenos AG (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. Temenos AG is the ultimate holding company of the Group and is not otherwise engaged in trading, financing or investing activities, except as the holder of all the issued and outstanding shares of the subsidiaries described in note 2. The financial statements of Temenos AG comply with the requirements of the Swiss Accounting Legislation (Title 32 of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO)). For comparability reasons, certain amounts relating to the previous financial year have been reclassified in order to correspond to the presentation for the current year. Valuation principles Assets are valued at no more than their acquisition cost. Investments in subsidiaries are valued individually except when they are combined due to their similarity in terms of activities and geographical location. Treasury shares are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains and losses from disposals of treasury shares are recorded directly in capital reserves. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. All assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated according to the exchange rates applicable on the balance sheet date. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and all foreign exchange transactions are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on their respective transaction dates. Resulting foreign exchange differences are recognized in the income statement, except unrealized gains that are deferred on balance sheet as per the Swiss Code of Obligations. 2. List of direct subsidiaries The following are the direct subsidiaries of the Company, which are wholly owned unless otherwise indicated (percentage of voting rights). Voting rights Temenos Holdings Limited, British Virgin Islands (holding company) 40,105 shares of a nominal value of USD 1 each. 100% Temenos Headquarters SA, Switzerland (holding and licensing company) 1,000 shares of a nominal value of CHF 100 each. 100% Temenos Investments BV, Netherlands (holding company) 180 shares of a nominal value of EUR 100 each. 100% Temenos Egypt LLC, Egypt (operating company) 2 shares of a nominal value of EGP 100 each. 50% Temenos Luxembourg SA, Luxembourg (operating company) 47,250 shares of a nominal value of EUR 25 each. 100% Temenos Finance Luxembourg SARL, Luxembourg (financing company) 37,500 shares of a nominal value of EUR 1 each. 100% Temenos UK Limited, United Kingdom (holding and operating company) 10,994,218 shares of a nominal value of GBP 0.20 each. 100% Temenos USA Inc., USA (operating company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 0.01 each. 100% Temenos Panama SA, Panama (dormant company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 100 each. 100% Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 191 Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 3. Share capital As at 31 December 2019, the issued share capital amounts to CHF 363,787,330 and is composed of 72,757,466 shares with a nominal value of CHF 5. The shares issued by the Company during the year are set out below: 2019 2018 Value Value Quantity in CHF Quantity in CHF Total number of Temenos AG shares issued, as at 1 January 71,044,267 355,221,335 70,849,924 354,249,620 Shares issued and allotted under Employee Share Option Schemes 1,713,199 8,565,995 194,343 971,715 Total number of Temenos AG shares issued, as at 31 December 72,757,466 363,787,330 71,044,267 355,221,335 Temenos AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: 2019 Authorized shares that may be issued in the context of acquisition or for the purpose of expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and foreign stock exchange (available to the Board until 15 May 2021) 7,100,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of employee share options 5,092,458 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 The holdings of more than 3% of the voting rights of all registered shares, as at December 31, 2019 are as follows: Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 10.83% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 10.00% BlackRock, Inc. 4.94% T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 4.91% Baillie Gifford & Co 4.14% Amundi Asset Management 3.97% 192 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 4. Share premium and capital reserves Reserve for General treasury Ordinary reserve shares Reserve for Share legal Share from capital from share treasury Retained Treasury capital reserve premium contributions premium shares earnings shares Total CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 Balance at 1 January 2018 354,250 11,749 70,850 150,842 149,449 46,275 40,927 – 824,343 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 164 – – – – (164) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolution – – – (45,791) – – – – (45,791) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 972 – 21,562 – – – – – 22,534 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – (21,368) – 21,368 44,235 (44,235) – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 204,101 – 204,101 Balance at 31 December 2018 355,221 11,913 71,044 105,051 170,817 90,510 200,630 – 1,005,187 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 10,205 – – – – (10,205) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) resolution – – – (52,913) – – – – (52,913) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 8,566 – 267,582 – – – – – 276,148 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – 170,817 – (170,817) 170,026 (170,026) – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 569,689 – 569,689 Balance at 31 December 2019 363,787 22,118 509,443 52,139 – 260,536 590,087 – 1,798,111 The reserve for treasury shares decreased to CHF 260,536,155 in line with the value of treasury shares held by Temenos AG through a subsidiary as at 31 December 2019 (2018: CHF 261,327,209). Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 193 Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 5. Treasury Shares, including shares held by subsidiaries (carrying value) Temenos AG holds directly or through a subsidiary a total of 1,804,267 shares at 31 December 2019 (2018: 1,804,267) that entirely may be used in conjunction with M&A, for resale or for allotting to members of the Temenos Employee Share Option Schemes. 2019 2018 Value Value Quantity in CHF 000 Quantity in CHF 000 Temenos AG 1 January – – – – Acquisitions – – – – Disposals – – – – 31 December – – – – Other consolidated companies 1 January 1,804,267 261,327 1,775,516 195,725 Acquisitions 1,804,267 260,536 1,342,653 203,254 Disposals (1,804,267) (261,327) (1,313,902) (137,651) 31 December 1,804,267 260,536 1,804,267 261,327 Total balance as of 31 December 1,804,267 260,536 1,804,267 261,327 Following the restructuring of some Group entities, the totality of the treasury shares were transferred between two entities within the Group at the closing price of 11 December 2019 of CHF 144.40 for a total amount of CHF 260,536,155. 6. Contingent liabilities Together with several of its subsidiaries, Temenos AG is a guarantor under the Group facility agreement concluded by Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sarl as borrower, for a maximum total amount up to USD 500 million. 7. Bonds issued by Temenos AG In June 2015, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In April 2017, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In November 2018, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 1.875% paid annually on 30 November. The bond will mature on 30 November 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In November 2019, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 220 million and a coupon rate of 1.50% paid annually on 28 November. The bond will mature on 28 November 2025 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. 2019 2018 CHF 000 CHF 000 Bond CHF 175,000,000 – 2.000% – 17 June 2015 – 17 June 2022 174,798 174,715 Bond CHF 150,000,000 – 1.750% – 5 April 2017 – 5 April 2024 149,532 149,424 Bond CHF 175,000,000 – 1.875% – 30 November 2018 – 30 November 2023 174,246 174,058 Bond CHF 220,000,000 – 1.500% – 28 November 2019 – 28 November 2025 218,832 – Long term interest-bearing liabilities 717,408 498,197 Bond CHF 100,000,000 – 2.000% – 31 March 2014 – 31 January 2019 – 101,900 Accrued bond interests at year end 4,426 4,121 Short term interest-bearing liabilities 4,426 106,021 Total bonds issued by Temenos AG 721,833 604,218 194 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 8. Income from investments in subsidiaries Temenos AG recognized an income from investments in subsidiaries of CHF 583.8 million following the decision of two of its direct subsidiaries to distribute a dividend in relation to the 2019 fiscal year. In June 2019: CHF 100 million and in December 2019: CHF 483.8 million. 9. Proposal for the appropriation of available earnings Based on the approved and audited financial statements for the financial year 2019, the Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting to distribute an ordinary dividend in cash amounting to CHF 0.85 per share, for a total amount of CHF 60,000,000 (this amount may vary depending on the number of treasury shares and of shares created out of the conditional capital as of the ex-dividend date). This distribution shall be declared 50% out of the retained earnings and 50% out of the disposable amount of the General reserve from capital contributions as at 31 December 2019, taking the legal form of an ordinary dividend in cash. From a tax standpoint, this ordinary dividend distributed out of the General reserve from capital contributions constitutes a repayment of part of the General reserve from capital contributions. As a result, the General reserve from capital contributions at 31 December 2019, amounting to CHF 52,138,779 will be reduced as follows: 2019 2018 CHF 000 CHF 000 General reserve from capital contributions Balance before distribution 52,139 105,051 Repayment of General reserve from capital contributions* (30,000) (52,913) Balance after distribution 22,139 52,139 Retained earnings Retained earnings brought forward 190,425 40,763 Transfer to Reserve for Treasury shares (170,026) (44,235) Dividend distributed to shareholders (30,000) – Net income 569,689 204,101 Retained earnings available for appropriation 560,087 200,630 Appropriation to legal reserves (28,484) (10,205) Retained earnings to be carried forward 531,603 190,425 * 2018 comparative has been corrected from CHF 52,000,000 to CHF 52,912,637 to reflect the actual payment made in 2019. The dividend paid was CHF 0.75 per share as approved by the General Meeting. The difference is explained by the amount of treasury shares as of the ex-dividend date. Provided that the proposal of the Board of Directors is approved, the shares will be traded ex-dividend as of 22 May 2020 (Ex date). The dividend record date will be set on 25 May 2020 (Record date). The dividend will be payable as of 26 May 2020 (Payment date). Temenos treasury shares are not entitled to dividends. 10. Number of full-time equivalent Temenos AG does not have any employee as of 31 December 2019 and 2018 and consequently no pension liabilities. 11. Additional information, cash-flow statement and management report According to article 961d paragraph 1 of the Swiss Code of Obligations, additional information, the cash-flow statement and the management report are not presented, as Temenos AG prepares the consolidated financial statements in accordance with a recognized financial reporting standard. 12. Significant events after the balance sheet date These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2020 and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders for approval on 20 May 2020. On 28 January 2020, the Group entered into an agreement to increase its current financing facility by USD 160 million. The total commitment is now USD 660 million. There were no other significant events after the balance sheet date. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 195 Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 31 December 2019 continued 13. Disclosure of compensation and participations as per article 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO) Shareholdings and equity incentives Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 9,000 9,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 15,500 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member 15,000 15,000 A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – – Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members Shares SARS Number of Number of Number of vested unvested unvested Grant Exercise SARs SARs SARs Name Position 2019 2018 Year Plan price USD 2019 2019 20181 A. Andreades Executive Chairman 607,369 582,369 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 393,707 – 393,707 2016 scheme1 49.12 55,725 – 55,725 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 349,469 291,900 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 155,450 155,450 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 138,600 – D. Arnott3 CEO until 28 February 2019 na 35,000 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 na na 523,328 2016 scheme1 49.12 na na 79,953 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 na na 354,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 na na 188,520 M. Chuard CEO 75,000 65,000 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 312,543 – 312,543 2016 scheme1 49.12 42,399 – 42,399 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 304,454 254,300 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 135,430 135,430 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 168,085 – P. Spiliopoulos CFO – na 2019 2019 scheme 147.43 – 70,000 na J. Hilsenkopf4 COO 13,766 – 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 92,000 92,000 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 98,400 – A. Loustau CTO 8,298 3,673 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 54,513 – 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 35,198 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 27,000 29,400 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 37,000 27,000 M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 3,975 2016 2016 scheme1 43.69 23,741 – 78,741 2017 2017 scheme2 70.87 – 53,875 45,000 2018 2018 scheme 127.00 – 37,000 37,000 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 41,000 – A. Guenoun4 CCO – na 2019 2019 scheme 136.94 – 37,000 na T. Hogan President North America – na 2019 2019 scheme 144.77 – 50,000 na (1) The SARs granted under the 2016 scheme vested on 13 February 2019. The numbers above include the overachievement of 121%. 2018 has been restated to include the overachievement. (2) The SARs granted under the 2017 scheme vested on 13 February 2020. The numbers above include the overachievement of 120%. (3) Mr. Arnott stepped down from the Executive Committee on 28 February 2019. He did not receive any SARs in 2019 other than overachievement SARs for 2017-19 scheme since these vested during his notice period. (4) The SARs shown above for Mr. Hilsenkopf and Mrs. Guenoun only include outstanding SARs granted since appointment to the Executive Committee. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2019 and 2018 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee. 196 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Financial highlights (in millions of US dollars except earnings per share) 2019 2018* 2017 2016 2015 Revenues 972.0 840.9 735.4 634.0 542.5 Operating expenses (736.6) (622.1) (557.1) (484.8) (445.7) Operating profit 235.4 218.8 178.3 149.2 96.8 Profit before taxation 212.6 195.4 160.9 132.1 78.1 Net profit after tax 181.1 168.2 138.4 115.8 66.3 EBITDA 366.0 311.5 263.3 225.3 171.2 Diluted earnings per share (in US$) 2.46 2.31 1.90 1.61 0.95 Cash generated from operations 364.3 365.1 299.7 257.6 227.2 Current assets 541.4 577.2 430.5 430.2 440.8 Non-current assets 1,781.0 1,072.0 844.8 741.3 788.2 Total assets 2,322.4 1,649.2 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 Current liabilities (excluding deferred revenues) 386.9 314.7 177.8 246.0 143.7 Deferred revenues (Contract liabilities) 287.3 262.5 232.5 216.3 213.2 Total current liabilities 674.2 577.2 410.3 462.4 356.9 Non-current liabilities 1,203.1 773.2 485.4 310.0 496.8 Total liabilities 1,877.3 1,350.4 895.8 772.4 853.7 Total equity 445.1 298.8 379.5 399.1 375.3 Total equity and liabilities 2,322.4 1,649.2 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 * Comparative information on the statement of financial position has been re-presented to reflect the finalization of the initial accounting of Avoka Technologies Pty Limited but there has not been any restatement of comparatives on adoption of IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019 based on transition method chosen by the Group. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 197 Information for investors Capital structure Statistics on Temenos shares The registered share capital is divided into 72,757,466 shares with Registered shares of CHF 5 nominal 2019 a par value of CHF 5. Sector Technology/Software Appropriation of profits Market Segment SIX Main Market Temenos expects to pay a dividend of CHF 0.85 in 2020. Index Member SMIM/SPI/SLI Swiss Security No 124 5391 Register of shareholders ISIN No CH0012453913 areg.ch ag Symbol TEMN Fabrikstrasse 10 Number of issued shares at 31.12.2019 72,757,466 4614 Hägendorf Number of registered shares at 31.12.2019 71,044,267 Switzerland Market price high/low (CHF) 183.35/108.80 www.areg.ch Market Price 31.12.2018 (CHF) 117.90 Investor relations Market Price 31.12.2019 (CHF) 153.20 Adam Snyder Market Capitalization high/low (CHFbn)* 13.026/7.730 Head of Investor Relations Share capital nominal value at 31.12.2019 (CHFm)* 355 * Based on the number of registered shares at the time. Panagiotis “Takis” Spiliopoulos Chief Financial Officer Key figures per share 2019 2, Rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Basic earnings per share (USD) 2.57 1205 Geneva Diluted earnings per share (USD) 2.46 Switzerland Non-IFRS earnings per share (USD) 3.47 Consolidated shareholders’ equity (USDm) 445.1 Phone: +41 (0) 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 (0) 22 708 1160 Consolidated shareholders’ equity per share (USD) 6.12 Email: TemenosIR@temenos.com Annual general meeting Major shareholders of Temenos AG* (as of 10.03.2020) 20 May 2020 Number Percentage of voting of the share Name rights capital Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 7,695,000 10.58% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7,105,217 9.77% BNP Paribas SA 4,517,567 6.21% BlackRock Inc. 3,753,609 5.16% T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 3,633,949 4.99% Baillie Gifford & Co 2,943,011 4.04% * On the basis of Temenos AG registered capital of 72,757,466 shares and based on the disclosure notifications received. Please refer to page 103 for the status as of 31.12.2019 Development of Temenos share price Temenos Share Price and Volume Data 200 5000000.00 180 4500000.00 160 4000000.00 140 3500000.00 120 3000000.00 Pr ic e Volume 100 2500000.00 80 2000000.00 60 1500000.00 40 1000000.00 20 500000.00 0 0.00 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 Apr-19 May-19 Jun-19 Jul-19 Aug-19 Sep-19 Oct-19 Nov-19 Dec-19 Price Volume 198 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos world offices The following list is as of March 2020. Americas USA For any updated information please visit our website: Austin www.temenos.com/contact-us Brazil Kony, Inc. Sao Paulo 9225 Bee Cave Road Temenos Software Brasil Ltda Building A, Suite 300 Av. Brig Faria Lima, 3144 – 3ro Andar Austin, Texas 78733 São Paulo, SP 01451-001 USA Brazil Tel: +1 512 792 2900 Tel: +55 11 3568 2549 Boston Canada Temenos USA, Inc. Toronto 100 High Street, Suite 1504 Temenos Canada Inc. Boston, MA 02110 2425 Matheson Boulevard East, Suite 400 USA Mississauga, ON L4W 5K4 Tel: +1 610 232 2800 Canada Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Tel: +1 905 214 7600 Fax: +1 905 214 7699 Denver Avoka (USA), Inc. Vancouver 385 Interlocken Crescent, Suite 1050 Temenos Canada Inc. Broomfield, CO 80021 13450 102nd Avenue USA Suite 1170 Tel: +1 303 847 0900 Surrey, BC V3T5X3 Canada Miami Tel: +1 604 501 0331 Temenos USA, Inc. 200 South Biscayne Boulevard Winnipeg Suite 2820 Temenos Canada Inc. Miami, FL 33131 201 Portage Avenue, 18th floor USA Winnipeg, MB R3B 3K6 Tel: +1 305 704 5100 Canada Fax: +1 305 704 5101 Tel: +1 204 926 8590 New York Colombia Temenos USA, Inc. Bogota 65 Madison Avenue, Suite 270 Temenos Colombia S.A.S. Morristown, NJ 07960 Calle 93 A #13-24, 5º Piso USA Bogota, D.C. CP: 110221 Tel: + 1 610 232 2800 Colombia Fax: + 1 610 232 2801 Tel: +57 1 667 2640 New York Costa Rica Temenos USA, Inc. San Jose 101 Crawfords Corner Road Temenos Costa Rica S.A. Suite 3131 Sabana Norte Holmdel, NJ 07733 Avenida 5, calle 42 y 44 USA Edificio Grupo Nueva, Segundo Piso Tel: +1 610 232 2800 San Jose Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Costa Rica Tel: +506 2543 1200 Orlando Fax: +506 2543 1297 Temenos USA, Inc. 300 Primera Boulevard Ecuador Suite 444 Quito Lake Mary, FL 32746 Temenos Ecuador S.A. USA Edificio Orellana 500 Pisos 6 y 7 Tel: +1 407 732 5200 Avenida Amazonas 1349 Fax: +1 407 732 5201 y Orellana, Quito Ecuador Philadelphia Tel: +593 2 400 8400 Temenos USA, Inc. Fax: +593 2 400 8420 40 General Warren Boulevard, Suite 200 Malvern, PA 19355 Mexico USA Mexico City Tel: +1 610 232 2800 Temenos Mexico S.A. de C.V. Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Paseo de la Reforma No.505 Piso 15 Suite 15D San Francisco Colonia Cuauhtemoc Kony, Inc. Ciudad de Mexico, 06500 3 East Third Avenue, Suite 200 Mexico San Mateo, CA 94401 Tel: +52 55 3601 4400 USA Fax: +52 55 3601 4401 Tel: +1 512 792 2900 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 199 Temenos world offices continued Middle East/Africa United Arab Emirates Germany Dubai Frankfurt am Main Egypt Temenos Middle East Ltd Temenos Deutschland GmbH Cairo (UAE Branch) Walther-von-Cronberg-Platz 2, Colosseo Temenos Egypt LLC Dubai Internet City 60594 Frankfurt am Main 16, El Khartoum Street Dubai Islamic Bank Building Germany Heliopolis Office 201, 202 Tel: +49 696 65 37 0 Cairo P.O. Box 500060 Fax: +49 696 65 37 3100 Egypt Dubai Tel: +2 02 2414 3886 United Arab Emirates Grosswallstadt Tel: +971 4 391 3100 Temenos Deutschland GmbH Israel Fax: +971 4 391 3117 Einsteinstraße 2a Tel Aviv 63868 Großwallstadt Temenos Israel Ltd Dubai Germany Rothschild Boulevard 22 Temenos Middle East Ltd Tel: +49 696 65 37 0 11th Floor (UAE Branch) Fax: +49 696 65 37 4200 Tel Aviv 6688218 Dubai Internet City Israel Aptec Building, EIB-03 Greece T: +972 732 844 513 or 566 Office # G-01, P.O. Box 500060 Athens Dubai Temenos Hellas S.A. Kenya United Arab Emirates 24B, Kifissias Avenue Nairobi Tel: +971 4 391 3100 Maroussi 151 25 Temenos East Africa Ltd Fax: +971 4 391 3117 Athens Nairobi Delta Corner Greece Delta Corner Tower Tel: +30 211 1094 600/+30 211 1094 601 Chiromo Road Europe 7th floor, Rooms: 702,703,704 Ireland Westlands, 00800 Belgium Dublin Nairobi La Hulpe Igefi Ireland Ltd Kenya Temenos Belgium S.A. No. 2 Custom House Plaza, Level 1 T: +254 730 11 2176 Odyssey Financial Technologies S.A. Harbourmaster Place Parc du Nysdam Dublin 1 Lebanon Avenue Reine Astrid 92 Ireland Beirut 1310 La Hulpe Tel: +353 1 5187400 Temenos Middle East Ltd Belgium (Lebanon Branch) Tel: +32 2 725 25 99 Luxembourg Monte Libano Center, 11th Floor Luxembourg Jdeidet El Metn Denmark Temenos Luxembourg S.A. Beirut Copenhagen Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Lebanon Temenos Denmark ApS 21 rue du Puits Romain Tel: +961 3 876 287 Vibenshus Lyngbyvej 2 L-8070 Bertrange Fax: +961 1 878 653 Bygning 5, 2.sal Luxembourg 2100 København Ø Tel: +352 42 60 801 Saudi Arabia Denmark Fax: +352 42 91 92 Riyadh Tel: +45 89 88 13 21 Temenos Middle East Ltd Luxembourg (Saudi Arabia Branch) France Igefi Group S.à r.l. Office No. 203 Nantes 7, Rue des Primeurs Cerecon Building no. 12 Viveo France S.A.S. L-2361 Strassen Olaya Street, P.O. Box 250821 CA Euronantes Gare Luxembourg Riyadh 11391 Immeuble Skyline Tel: +352 26 44 211 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 22, Mail Pablo Picasso Fax: +352 26 44 21 44 Tel: +966 11 215 0511 or +966 566 49 7339 44000 Nantes Fax: +966 11 416 2898 France Tel: +33 2 40 95 36 74 South Africa Johannesburg Paris Temenos Africa (Pty) Ltd Temenos France S.A.S. 1st Floor, Building A, Suite 3 Viveo France S.A.S. Monte Circle Office Park 112 Avenue Kléber 64 Montecasino Boulevard 75116 Paris Fourways, Gauteng 2191 France Johannesburg Tel: +33 1 44 09 55 00 Republic of South Africa Fax: +33 1 44 09 55 99 Tel: +27 11 513 3141 Fax: +27 11 510 0001 200 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Netherlands Switzerland Asia Pacific Amsterdam Geneva Temenos Holland B.V. Temenos Headquarters S.A. Australia ‘World Trade Center’, Tower B, Level 10 2 rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Canberra Strawinskylaan 1035 1205 Geneva Avoka Technologies Pty Ltd 1077 XX Amsterdam Switzerland Suite 3.01, Level 3, 64 Northbourne Avenue The Netherlands Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 Canberra ACT 2600 Tel: +31 20 890 8757 Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Australia Fax: +31 20 344 5029 Tel: +61 2 9976 4500 Lausanne Amsterdam Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Melbourne Kony Solutions B.V. (Renens Branch) Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd Weesperstraat 61 Avenue des Baumettes 23 Suite 1.01, Level 1, 850 Collins Street 1018 VN Amsterdam 1020 Renens Docklands, Victoria 3008 The Netherlands Switzerland Australia Tel: +41 21 310 00 00 Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 Poland Fax: +41 21 310 00 99 Krakow Sydney Temenos Polska sp.z.o.o. Zürich Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd Al. Bora-Komorowskiego 25C Temenos Headquarters S.A. Level 10, 85 Castlereagh Street 31-476 Krakow Tödistrasse 36 Sydney, NSW 2000 Poland 8002 Zürich Australia Tel: +48 12 3966 223 Switzerland Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 Romania Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Sydney Bucharest Avoka Technologies Pty Ltd Temenos Romania S.R.L. United Kingdom Level 2, 1a Rialto Lane 319 Splaiul Independentei, Atrium House Berkshire Manly, NSW 2095 Ground Floor, 2nd Floor and 3rd Floor Temenos UK Ltd Australia 6th District, Bucharest, 060044 3 Waterside Drive Tel: +61 2 9976 4500 Romania Arlington Business Park Tel: +40 31 710 22 64 Theale Reading, RG7 4SW Bangladesh Fax: +40 31 710 88 82 United Kingdom Dhaka Tel: +44 1184 021 336 Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Russia Tel: +44 2074 233 700 Suite # 7D, 7th floor Moscow Saiham Sky View Tower Temenos Middle East Ltd Hemel Hempstead 45, Bijoynagar, Dhaka 1000 (Russia Branch) Temenos UK Ltd Bangladesh 9 Zemlyanoy Val Street, 4th floor 2 Peoplebuilding Tel: +880 283 914 86 Office 4010 Maylands Avenue Moscow 105064 Hemel Hempstead China Russian Federation Herts, HP2 4NW Shanghai Tel: +7 495 411 50 50 United Kingdom Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Ltd Fax: +7 495 411 50 51 Tel: +44 2074 233 700 Yue Xiu Tower, 10th floor, Room 1008 No. 388, Fushan Road Spain London Pudong New District Madrid Temenos UK Ltd Shanghai, 200122 Temenos Hispania S.L. 71 Fenchurch Street, 5th floor China Paseo de la Castellana 79 London, EC3M 4TD Tel: +86 21 6087 1380 28046 Madrid United Kingdom Fax: +86 21 6087 1378 Spain Tel: +44 2074 233 700 Tel: +34 91 343 20 99 Fax: +44 2074 233 800 Hong Kong Fax: +34 91 344 70 51 Temenos Hong Kong Ltd Unit No. 5504, 55th Floor, Central Plaza 18 Harbour Road Wanchai, Hong Kong China Tel: +852 2866 2562 Fax: +852 2528 0345 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 201 Temenos world offices continued India Indonesia Taiwan Bangalore Jakarta Taipei Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd (Bangalore Branch) (Indonesia Representative Office) (Taiwan Branch) IBC Knowledge Park Indonesia Stock Exchange Tower 1 Shin Kong Manhattan Building Block C & D, 3rd & 11th Floor 15th Floor, Suite 1507 Suite 1413, 14F, No.8 Xinyi Rd. Sec. 5 4/1, Bannergatta Road Jl.Jend Sudirman kav 52-53 Xinyi District 11049 Near Dairy circle Jakarta 12190 Taipei Bangalore – 560 029 Indonesia Taiwan India Tel: +62 21 5140 0382 Tel: +886 2 8758 2338 Tel: +91 80 4137 6000 Fax: +62 21 5140 0383 Fax: +886 2 8758 2333 Fax: +91 80 4112 1221 Japan Thailand Chennai Tokyo Bangkok Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos Japan K.K. Temenos (Thailand) Co. Ltd 146, Sterling Road 21F Marunouchi Nijyubashi Building Bubhajit Building, 11th Floor Nungambakkam 3-2-3 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku 20 North Sathorn Road, Silom Chennai – 600 034 Tokyo 100-0005 Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 India Japan Thailand Tel: + 91 44 7133 1000 Tel: +81 3 5219 0655 Tel: +662 236 9391 Fax: +81 3 5219 0659 Fax: +662 236 9394 Chennai Temenos India Private Ltd Malaysia Vietnam (Perungudi Branch) Kuala Lumpur Hanoi KG 360° – IT Business Park; 2nd Floor Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Temenos Vietnam Co. Ltd N° 232/1 Level 33, ILHAM Tower 11th Floor, 14 Lang Ha Street Dr. MGR Salai 8 Jalan Binjai Ba Dinh Dist., Hanoi Perungudi 50450 Kuala Lumpur Vietnam Chennai – 600 096 Malaysia Tel: +844 3772 4328/4327/4326 India Tel: +603 2117 5335 Fax: +844 3772 4329 Tel: +91 44 7133 3000 Fax: +603 2117 5334 Fax: +91 44 7133 3001 Philippines Hyderabad Manila Kony India Private Ltd Temenos Philippines Inc. SEZ Unit 2, Office Level 7, 9th Floor Tower 2, Room 2715, The Enterprise Centre Building No. H06, Phoenix Infocity Pvt Ltd (SEZ) 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo de Roxas Madhapur Makati City 1226 Hyderabad – 500 081 Philippines India Tel: +63 2 885 8441 Tel: + 91 40 4499 1000 Singapore Hyderabad Singapore Kony IT Services Private Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd 9th Floor B 6-South Tower, Divyasree Orion 5 Shenton Way Sy No 66/1, Raidurgam, Serilingampally Mandal #18-01 UIC Building Rangareddy District Singapore 068808 Hyderabad – 500032 Singapore India Tel: +65 6511 6388 Tel: +91 40 4499 8100 Fax: +65 6538 0818 Mumbai Temenos India Private Ltd (Mumbai Branch) 123, Hubtown Solaris, N S Phadke Marg, Andheri East Mumbai 400069 India Tel: +91 22 2682 0542 202 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Sources 1 Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking’, Vittorio D’Orazio, Don Free, July 2019. (This report was previously titled “Magic Quadrant for International Retail Core Banking” from 2009–2014. Temenos was recognized as Temenos Group from 2010-2013, and Temenos Group (T24) in 2009.) Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Multiexperience Development Platforms,’ Jason Wong, Van Baker, Mark Driver, Adrian Leow, Paul Vincent, 10 July 2019. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 2 Forrester, ‘The Forrester Wave’™: Digital Banking Engagement Platforms, Q3 2019’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, July 2019, and ‘Forrester’s Global Banking Platform Deals Survey 2019’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, March 2019. 3 ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Digital Banking Platform, 2019, Ovum, Matthew Heaslip, January 2019 and ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Core Banking System in the European Market, 2016-17’, Ovum, Noora Haapajärvi, March 2016. ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting an Anti-Financial Crime Solution 2017-18’, Ovum, Matthew Heaslip, December 2017. 4 ‘Annual Sales League Table 2019’. IBS Intelligence, May 2019. 5 Celent Model Bank 2019 Customer Engagement Award: ‘Umpqua Bank: Adding a Human Touch to Digital Banking’, Celent, Bob Meara, April 2019. 6 ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Integrated Payment Systems 2019 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Aaron Press, February 2020. ‘IDC MarketScape: North America Digital Banking Customer Experience Platforms 2019 Vendor Assessment’. ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Know-Your-Customer Solutions in Financial Services 2018 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Stephen D’Alfonso, Karen Massey, September 2018 and ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Anti–Money Laundering Solutions in Financial Services 2018 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Karen Massey, Stephen D’Alfonso, September 2018. ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Core Banking Solutions 2015 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Karen Massey, Andrei Charniauski, Michael Araneta, Jerry Silva, January 2015, ‘Worldwide Wealth Management Front-and Middle-Office Solutions 2014 Vendor Assessment, IDC, Thomas Zink, January 2015 and ‘IDC MarketScape: European Mobile Banking Software Solutions 2017 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Lawrence Freeborn, May 2017. 7 Private Banking & Wealth Management Awards 2019, December 2019. * ACV: Annual value of incremental business taken in-year (Bookings). Includes New Customers, up-sell/cross-sell. Only includes the recurring element of the contract and exclude variable elements. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 203 Notes 204 Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Design and Production Printed on FSC® certified paper. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals www.carrkamasa.co.uk are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Amadeus Primo Silk, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC®certified forests. Temenos AG | Annual Report 2019 205 Temenos Headquarters SA Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie 2 CH-1205 Geneva Switzerland Tel: +41 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 22 708 1160 www.temenos.com TEMENOS HEADQUARTERS SA – all rights reserved. 2020© Warning: This document is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction of this document, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under law. TEMENOS, TEMENOS T24, TEMENOS INFINITY and TEMENOS TRANSACT are registered trademarks and are trademarks of the TEMENOS Group. For further details on the registered TEMENOS Group trademarks – please refer to the website www.temenos.com
