COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TBC 2019 TBC Group Sustainability Report 00 CONTENTS Governance and Sustainability Management Ethics & Integrity Environmental Responsibility Responsible Employer Treating our Customers Responsibly Supporting Communities Treating our Suppliers Responsibly TBC’s response to Covid-19 00 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 00 I am pleased to conﬁrm that TBC Bank reafﬁrms its support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. TBC Bank is dedicated to creating opportunities for people and businesses through innovative banking services and sound business practices. In this communication on progress document, we describe our actions in accordance to those principles within our sphere of inﬂuence. We support public accountability and transparency and declare our readiness to stay committed to UN Global Compact and its principles, making them a part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Sincerely yours, VAKHTANG BUTSKHRIKIDZE CEO 00 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 00 /01 Governance & Sustainability CONTENTS Management Corporate Governance Functions of Corporate Governing Bodies Diversity Policy Chair of the highest governance body Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Senior management remuneration Risk Management Model Governance Managing conflicts of interests Compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Sustainability Governance 00 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 00 /01 Governance & sustainability management input, the board and its audit committee, produce financial statements that fairly Corporate present the company’s financial condition. Governance There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Supervisory Board Chairman GOVERNANCE AND Risk management and the Chief Executive Officer. The latter is model responsible for the Company’s day-to-day Managing conflicts management and has the principal responof Interests sibility of running the Group’s business for SUSTAINABILITY proposing, developing and implementing Compliance with the Group’s strategy and overall commerlaws and regulations cial objectives. In addition, the Superviin the social and sory Board has appointed, in line with the economic area requirements of the Code, senior indepenSustainability governance MANAGEMENT dent non-executive Director, who provides a sounding board for the Chairman. He serves as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary and meets with investors to discuss the Group’s corporate governance matters. The separation of responsibilities between We believe, that the highest standards of TBC Bank’s corporate governing bodies are: Functions of Corporate Governing Bodies the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer governance should be respected while >> The General Meeting of Shareholders and the Senior Independent Non-executive The Supervisory Board is responsible for Director ensures that no one individual has doing business and that a good corporate >> The Supervisory Board promoting the Group’s purpose, culture, unfettered powers of decision-making. governance framework is vital to ensure >> The Management Board values and longterm success strategy and that our business functions effectively, cre>> External Auditor The Management Board is supported by the delivery of sustainable value to stakeates sustainable value and that we protect >> Four Committees: four Committees and delegates a broad holders by establishing and overseeing the our internal and external stakeholders. >> Corporate Governance and range of responsibilities to them. These are strategic direction of the Company and its Through practicing good corporate govNomination Committee (i) the Audit Committee; (ii) the Remunerabusiness. The Board is led by the Chair>> Remuneration Committee tion Committee; (iii) Corporate Governance ernance, we show respect towards our man, who ensures that there is constructive >> Audit Committee and Nomination Committee; and (iv) the corporate values, principles of transparendebate in the boardroom, in order to create >> Risk, Ethics and Compliance Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee. cy, fairness, accountability and corporate and maintain an environment where the Committee Each of the Committees is made up of responsibility. Board remains open to different viewpoints and ideas. independent non-executive Directors, apart from the Corporate Governance and Along with local legislation on corporate The Board is the decision-making body Shareholders Nominations Committee and the Remunergovernance, as a London stock exchange in relation to all matters, that are signifi(Annual General Meeting) ation Committee, where the Chairman, who listed company, we adhere to the UK Corcant to the Group. The matters exclusively was independent on appointment, is also porate Governance Code. External Auditor reserved for the Board’s approval, among a member. The chair of each Committee other include the Group’s strategy, longreports matters of significance to the Board Remuneration Audit Committee term objectives, risk appetite, the annual after each meeting. All Committees underCORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committee Supervisory Board Risks, Ethics and operating and capital expenditure budgets, take an annual review of effectiveness and a Corporate We are committed to the highest standards Governance Compliance changes to the Group’s capital, share buyreview of their terms of reference. and nomination Committee of corporate governance based on internaCommittee backs, major acquisitions and/or mergers, annual reports and accounts. >> The Corporate Governance and Nomitional best practices, Basel requirements nation Committee is responsible for Management and the Bank’s future development plans. Board We review the Board’s composition with developing the corporate governance of The Bank’s governance structure establishregularity and are committed to maintaining the company, building diverse and enes proper incentives for the Supervisory a diverse and wide-ranging set of skills and gaged board, representing company and Management Boards to pursue objecexperience within the Board. values. tives, that are in the interest of the Bank, The General Meeting of Shareholders is the >> The Audit Committee manages relationsupreme governing body of the Bank, with The Management Board is responsible for and to effectively manage the relationship developing and implementing corporate ship with the outside auditor, supervises authority over all key decisions. It elects the internal controls over financial reporting, between the Management Board, the strategy and operating the company’s busiBank’s Supervisory Board, which is responcompany’s risk management and comSupervisory Board, shareholders and other ness with the purpose to build sustainable sible for the supervision and appointment pliance. stakeholders. of members of the Management Board. long-term value. Based on management 00 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 00 /01 Governance & sustainability management >> The Remuneration Committee develops Chair of the highest governance body visory Board met with all the Supervisory and straight-forward. Executive executive compensation policy and Board members individually to consider the directors’ performance against their KPIs The Supervisory Board is led by the ChairCorporate compensation-based performance Chairman’s performance. The comments (both financial and non-financial) and man and provides challenge, oversight and Governance goals to promote sustainable developreceived were fed back to him in a subsethe relative weightings thereof have advice to ensure the Bank’s success. The ment and creation of long-term value. quent meeting. been disclosed for 2019. To increase Risk management Chairman ensures that there is constructive >> The Risks Ethics and Compliance transparency, we have also disclosed the model debate in the boardroom in order to create Supervisory Board performance was Committee strives to implement and KPIs and relative weightings for 2020 and maintain an environment where the Sudeemed to be satisfactory. At its February Managing conflicts protect ethical business conduct and >> Risk the Remuneration Committee has pervisory Board remains open to different 2020 meeting, the Board agreed an action of Interests develop sustainable, effective risk the discretion to reduce an executive viewpoints and ideas. The Chairman is replan for 2020 that would allow the Supermanagement and compliance systems. director’s variable remuneration if Compliance with sponsible for leading the Supervisory Board visory Board to continue developing its specific KPIs have not been met and laws and regulations Diversity Policy to ensure that the Supervisory Board as a involvement in reviewing and considering every element of executive directors’ in the social and whole performs a full and constructive role the management’s strategy proposals and variable compensation is subject to the economic area The Board recognises the importance of in the development and determination of to take into account stakeholder considrelevant malus and claw back provisions. ensuring diversity and sees significant the Bank’s strategy and overall commercial erations; and to ensure that all Supervisory Sustainability Malus and claw back apply for up to 3 benefit to our business in having a Board objectives. He also oversees the SupervisoBoard and Committee meetings remain governance years after the deferral period ends (for and management team that is drawn from ry Board’s decision-making processes. focused and efficient. New initiatives will be deferred awards) or settlement (for a diverse range of backgrounds, since introduced to support director training, and Nominating and selecting the highest conditional shares under the LTIP). this brings the required expertise, cultural the CGN Committee will continue to review governance body Trig gers include, material misstatement, diversity and different perspectives to the senior management succession plans in material downturn in financial perfor Board discussions and helps to improve the All members of the Supervisory Board are great detail. mance and misconduct that causes quality of decision making. subject election by the shareholders in evAs a result of the 2019 action plan, following serious reputational harm. Further, the ery four years at our Annual General MeetThe Corporate Governance and Nominathe external evaluation by IAL, the SuperRemuneration Committee has the ing. The members of the Supervisory Board tion Committee recognises the importance visory Board noted that its members had discretion under the LTIP and deferred are also approved by the Board of Directors of ensuring that there is a broad diversity spent more time considering company’s annual bonus to reduce awards if it of the Bank’s parent company – TBC Bank within the Group inclusive of, but not limstrategy plan and more focus has been considers that either the underlying Group PLC. ited to, gender, ethnicity and business exmade on succession planning for senior financial performance of the Company perience, while continuing to recommend Evaluating the highest governance body’s executives. In addition, information flows to or the performance of the individual is all appointments based on merit against performance both the Supervisory Board and its Comsuch that the level of vesting cannot be objective criteria in the context of the skills mittees had been improved and a restrucjustified In accordance with the requirements of the and experience required. turing of Committee memberships had >> Predictability the maximum possible National Bank of Georgia’s Code on Corassisted in this. value of the executive directors’ We note the recommendations of the porate Governance for Commercial Banks, remuneration has been detailed in the Hampton Alexander review to improve dated 26th of September 2018, effectiveThe Company undertakes regular perforRemuneration Report and in the Remu gender diversity and are pleased to report ness of the Supervisory Board and its Commance evaluations of the Board in line with neration Policy that two female directors serve on the mittees are evaluated annually and in every the requirements of the legislation. An >> Proportionality/Alignment with Culture – Board. In addition, we note that there are a three years by external auditor. externally facilitated review is planned for the Remuneration Committee number of talented women in key positions, 2021. An internally facilitated annual Supervistrives to ensure that performance who report directly to the CEO and other sory Board performance evaluation was Senior management remuneration measures are aligned with the corporate members of the management board within conducted in 2019, following an externally culture of the Group to foster the right the Group. The following principles have been considevaluated review undertaken by Indepenbehavior and deliver remuneration ered when determining executive directors’ End of year 2019, 14% of Group’s top dent Audit Limited in 2018 (IAL). The review packages that are proportionate in the remuneration: management and 35% of Group’s midwas carried out at the initiative and with circumstances, by measuring executive dle management roles were performed the participation of the Bank’s Corporate >> Clarity and Simplicity the Remuerdirectors’ remuneration against a mix of by females. Moreover, 65% of employees Governance and Nomination (“CGN”) Comation Committee strives to ensure financial, non-financial and personal across the Group’s entire workforce were mittee. Questionnaires were distributed to that performance measures are clear KPIs. Further, by deferring a large female. We are committed to strive further all members of the Supervisory Board for improve gender diversity at both the Board their response and comment. The results and management levels. Regarding ethnic were discussed at three levels: (i) among diversity, we have taken account of the the members of the CGN Committee; (ii) recommendations of the “Report into the between Tsira Kemularia (as chairman of Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards”, made by the the CGN Committee) and Nikoloz Enukidze Parker Review Committee and the need chairman of the Supervisory Board); and to build a balanced Board, whilst remain(iii) among the members of the Supervisory ing mindful of the regional nature of the Board as a whole. Following the review the business. Senior Independent Member of the Super11 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 11 /01 Governance & sustainability management proportion of executive directors’ salary provide assurance on the fea sibility into shares, this intrinsically aligns the of achieving objectives through risk RISK COMMITTEE Corporate executive directors’ pay to the long-term identification and management. Governance success of the Group and fosters a RISK COMMITTEE >> Identifying, adequately pricing risks, culture of sustainable long-term growth. Risk management and taking risk mitigation actions, supports model RISK MANAGEMENT MODEL the generation of desired returns and the achievement of planned targets. Managing conflicts We operate a strong and independent, of Interests business-minded risk management sys>> Use risk management to gain a compettem. Its main objective is to contribute to itive advantage. Comprehensive, Compliance with the sustainability of risk-adjusted returns transparent and prudent risk governance laws and regulations through the implementation of an efficient facilitates understanding and trust from in the social and risk management system. In the group, we multiple stakeholders, ensuring the economic area have adopted four primary risk managesustainability and resilience of the Sustainability ment principles: business model and the positioning of governance risk management as the Group’s Governance Committee makes decisions related to op>> Govern risks transparently to obtain competitive advantage. erational risk governance, while the Assets understanding and trust. We believe that The Group conducts its risk management consistency and transparency in riskand Liabilities Management Committee Risk management framework activities within the framework of its unified related processes and policies are (ALCO) is responsible for the implementarisk management system. The involvement preconditions for gaining the trust of The Group’s risk management framework tion of asset-liability management policies. of all governance levels in risk managevarious stakeholders. incorporates all the necessary components ment, the clear segregation of authority The Board, the Supervisory Board and the for comprehensive risk governance and and effective communication between the Bank’s senior management govern risk >> Manage risks prudently to promote is comprised of enterprise risk managedifferent entities facilitate clarity regarding objectives through the Risk Appetite Statesustainable growth and resilience. Risk ment, credit, financial and non-financial risk the Group’s strategic and risk objectives, ment, which establishes the desired risk management acts as a backstop against management, risk reporting and supporting adherence to the established risk appetite profile and risk limits. excessive risk-taking and ensures the IT infrastructure, cross-risk analytical tools and sound risk management. The Group’s Group’s sustainability and resilience. The Board level oversight, coupled with the and techniques such as capital adequacy governance structure ensures adequate >> Ensure that risk management underpins management and stress testing. permanent involvement of senior manageoversight and accountability, as well as a the implementation of strategy. The staff ment in the Group’s risk management and The following diagram depicts the risk clear segregation of duties. responsible for risk management the exercise of top-down risk allocation by management framework: The Board and the Supervisory Board have the enterprise risk management function, joint overall responsibility to set the tone ensures clarity regarding risk objectives, inat the top of the Group and monitor comtense monitoring of the risk profile against pliance with the established objectives, the risk appetite, the prompt escalation of while the Management Board governs and risk-related concerns and the establishment directs the Group’s daily activities. of remediation actions. The risk governance structure consists of The daily management of individual risks is three board levels, including the Board, the based on the three lines of defense prinSupervisory Board and the Management ciple. While business lines are the primary Board. All three boards have dedicated risk owners of risks, risk teams act as the seccommittees. The Board and the Supervisoond line of defense by sanctioning transacry Board each have a Risk Committee that tions, tools and techniques for risk identifisupervises the risk profile and risk govercation, analysis, measurement, monitoring nance practices within the Group, as well and reporting. The committees established as an Audit Committee that is responsible at operational levels are charged with makfor implementing key accounting policies ing transaction-level decisions as part of a and facilitating internal and external auditor framework comprised of clear and sophistiactivities. cated delegations of authority, based on the “four-eyes” principle. All new products and The Management Board’s Risk Committee projects pass through risk teams to ensure was established to guide the Group-wide that the risks are comprehensively analyzed. risk management activities and monitor major risk trends to ensure that the risk profile Credit, liquidity, market, operational and complies with the established risk appetite. other non-financial risks are each managed CAPITAL ADEQUACY MANAGEMENT AND STRESS TESTING The Management Board’s Operational Risk by dedicated teams. In addition to the 11 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 11 /01 Governance & sustainability management risk teams subordinated to the Chief Risk information immediately. transactions with the related parties. The that the aim of doing business responsibly Officer, the compliance department reports 4. Each member of management is reinformation on such transactions has to should underline every decision and action. Corporate directly to the CEO and is specifically in sponsible not to take part in transaction be provided to NBG. We report to NBG on We work to implement responsible and Governance charge of anti-money laundering and comwhere conflict of interests could potentially related party transactions and provide them sustainable development-oriented appliance risk management. exist. with up to date list of related parties on proaches at all levels of our activities. Risk management monthly bases. model As a third line of defense, the internal audit The Company, in accordance with the reCurrently sustainable development policy department is responsible for providing quirements of the Companies Act 2006 and According to UK listing rules, if transaction and management structures are repreManaging conflicts independent and objective assurance and the Company’s articles of association (the with the related party exceeds specific limit, sented in various policy document and of Interests recommendations to the Group to promote “Articles of Association”), requires Directors it has to be open to public, local regulator management domains. TBC has developed Compliance with the further improvement of operations and to declare actual or potential conflicts of inhas to be informed and supervisory board several thematic policies and codes, that laws and regulations risk management. terest that could interfere with the interests as well as sponsor/broker involved. regulate various social and environmental in the social and of the Company. The Directors are required, protection issues of company activity (e.g. The sustainability risks are related to the In 2019 TBC contracted Ernst & Young to economic area prior to the Board meetings, to declare any Code of Ethics, Incident Management PolBank’s different roles as a lender, asset evaluate the implementation of the Related conflict of interest they may have in relation icy, Anti-Corruption Policy, Personal Data Sustainability manager, service provider, purchaser or Party Transaction Policy. to the matters under consideration and if Protection Policy, Conflict of Interests Mangovernance employer. Of particular interest in the area so, abstain from voting and decision-makIn 2019 no cases of conflict of interests reagement Policy, Green Purchase Recomof sustainability are risks related to coming, in relation to the matter in question. lated to top management were confirmed. mendations and etc. These documents are pliance, conduct, digitalization, as well Directors have a continuing duty to notify described in detail in respective chapters). as human rights, working conditions, the the Chairman and Company Secretary as environment, climate, financial crime, and COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGUHowever this year we aim to start systemsoon as they become aware of any poteninformation and IT security. LATIONS IN THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMatizing the existing policies under one tial or actual conflicts. IC AREA umbrella, as well as implementing sustainTBC’s activities for managing sustainability The Related Party Transaction Policy has able development management structures risk are aligned with the Bank’s generally Compliance with law is fundament on been implemented in bank in 2012, renewed and procedures and harmonize them group low tolerance of risk. Sustainability risk which our company activity is based. For in 2015, according to the requirements of wide. management is done within a framework of the compliance with laws and regulations NBG „Conflict of Interests Management established processes for risk management. in the social and economic area is reThe first important achievement in this Provisions” . The last update was applied sponsible Compliance Risk Management, direction was the development and implein September 2019. The revision of policy MANAGING CONFLICT OF INTEREST Human Resources Management and Riks mentation of the Environmental Policy in is done annually and amendments to it are Management Departments. Company has 2019. This policy significantly extends comWe qualify conflict of interest as case, when approved by The Supervisory Board. elaborated sound monitoring mechanisms pany responsibility towards the social and personal (or related) interests of employee Responsible for the adequate functioning to ensure legislative compliance. environmental impact of its business opercan be satisfied at bank or bank client cost, of the conflict of interest management ations. Several departments and company which can harm one or the both parties. In 2019 no fines and non-monetary sancframework is Compliance Risk Managemanagement were involved in the process This definition is based on National Bank tions for non-compliance with laws and/or ment department. We have three level of creating this policy. and IFI/IAS standards. Identification and regulations in the social and economic area protection. First level responsibility lies prevention of the potential conflict of have been identified.. Compliance with the Bank’s Environmenwith any employee. The second level interests, especially at management level, is tal and Social Risk Management Policy is responsibility lies with Compliance Risk one of the basics of practicing out business SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE closely monitored by the Social and EnManagement department, which ensures fairly and one of the priorities of sound corvironmental Risk management unit. The implementation of policies, procedures and Our principles of ethics and principles of porate governance. policy implementation progress is regularly control mechanisms. Also works on increasdoing business define our approach toreported to top management and respecIn order to prevent conflict of interests, ing awareness of the matter in employees. wards sustainable development issues. tive divisions. Implementation of other we have developed and implemented the The third level protection is related to InterAccording to our vision, sustainable bank is related policies are managed by various following policies and practices: nal Audit Department, which periodically a profitable institution, that offers adequate, departments, who are also responsible to 1. Code of Conduct, that includes conflict makes audit of the matter and provides affordable and need based services to its report on the progress to top management. of interests definition and defines standards additional information to the Bank Audit clients, treats its employees, suppliers and of acceptable conduct. The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Committee and Supervisory board on the all other stakeholders with high sense of 2. Related Party Transaction Policy, that Board, within the frame of own functions, efficiently of management systems. Any responsibility, and strongly supports the dedefines conflict of interests management are responsible to approve ESG policies kind of conflict of interests are identified by velopment of society. This is a technologiprocess, according to the National Bank of and decisions and to monitor their impleInternal Audit are disclosed to Audit Comcally advanced and environmentally aware Georgia “Conflict of Interests Management mentation. Also, they are responsible for mittee and Supervisory Board. bank, that is trusted by society. Provisions” document. approving the ESG public disclosures in the 3. Each member of management is reThe National Bank of Georgia regulation In line with the development of the bank annual and corporate responsibility reports. sponsible to quarterly disclose information “Conflict of Interest Management Proviand increased expectations of our shareabout their related parties. In case of nesions” sets limits, above which, bank Superholders, we pay more attention to sustaincessity they may be requested to disclose visory Board is obliged to approve concrete able development issues. We understand 11 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 11 /02 Ethics & Integrity CONTENTS Business Ethics and Ethical Incident Management Policy / Conduct Whistleblowing and non-retaliation policy TBC Code of Ethics Ensuring Policy Implementation Ensuring implementation of the Code of Ethics, monitoring and Complaints and Response response mechanisms Mechanisms Informing Employees on the Public Policy and Government Code of Ethics Relations Informing External Stakeholders on Code of Ethics Code of Conduct Informing Employees on Code of Conduct Anticorruption, countering bribery and money laundering Company anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-Corruption Policy Implementation, monitoring and response Informing Employees about Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures Operations Assessed for Risks Related to Corruption Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Take 11 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 11 /02 Ethics & Integrity inputs such as client complaints, internal control processes, anonymous hotline Business ethics and calls. In certain cases, employees received ethical conduct warning, in other cases were dismissed and employment contract was stopped. Anticorruption, countering Informing Employees on the Code of bribery and money Ethics laundering ETHICS & Incident It is of top importance to ensure that all Management Policy / employees have received comprehensive Whistleblowing information about Code of Ethics and unand non-retaliation derstood it. In order to reach this efficiently, INTEGRITY policy we have implemented various initiatives: >> Video – as a result of Compliance Risk Policy and practices Management and Marketing team coto prevent oration, TBC developed video, where anti-competitive top management presents to core prinbehavior, anti-trust, and anti-monopoly ciples of the Code of Ethics and emphapracticeso sizes the importance of ethical behavior to employees. Public Policy >> Informing bank employeesHR and Government BUSINESS ETHICS AND ETHICAL principles for professional and personal the group level division ensures that all new employees Relations policy CONDUCT conduct that we expect from all employees. >> Sharing information about code of receive Code of Ethics. It is applied to the whole group. The Code ethics updates among all Also, any updates are distributed to all In order to gain customers and partners employees of the Bank. of Ethics considers local regulations, interemployees trust and successfully do our business, we >> Informing group employees Complince national standards and best practices. >> Amending learning materials have to ensure that behavior of our employRisk Management team provided the The initial version of the code was devel>> Implementing process of incident ees and our business decisions are in line information on Code of Ethics to group oped in 2013. It has been regularly updated reporting to National Bank of Georgia with the highest standards of ethics. companies’ employees. based on various legislative changes or >> Updating approach to complaint internal policy amendments. The latest reanalysis >> Compliance Risk Management team As we are a part of community and have developed code of ethics training vision of 2019 reflects the changes deriving diverse stakeholders, every decision we The action plan has been implemented module for trainings and delivered this from National Bank of Georgia regulation make impacts employees, customers, fully. Implementation monitoring is executtraining to all internal trainers. on “Principles of Ethics and Professional business partners, other stakeholders and ed by the Compliance Risk Management >> Code of Ethics topics were included in Code of Conduct for Commercial Banks”. the society as a whole. The Bank’s code of team. Top management is closely steering the following training modules: In the revision process various structures ethics is “moral compass” assisting us with the process through quarterly reports on Training for existing employees and of the bank were involved – Marketing, our decision making framework. It serves as code implementation and breach. Breach internal trainers HR, Environmental Protection and Social a guidance for our team on ethical conduct incidents related to non-ethical behavior, Welcome Trainings and information Risk Management team, Compliance Risk and right decision in particular circumare reported both to the Board of Directors package for new employees, where Management team and members of top stances. and to the Supervisory Board. Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct management. The code of ethics has been approved by TBC Supervisory Board. Code of Ethics breach incidents can be are included For many years, TBC has been promoting TBC academy training programs revealed through various sources, such as ethical conduct in all its activities. We have Various specialized training modules Ensuring implementation of the Code of client complaints, openly or anonymously invested time and energy in identifying such Sales, Customer Service, other. Ethics, monitoring and response mechaprovided information by employees, internon-ethical and dishonest behavior risks Informing External Stakeholders on Code nisms nal audit findings or various exercises of and creating prevention mechanisms. of Ethics internal monitoring and control. We understand the importance of effiThe response procedure includes the TBC Code of ethics is publicly available TBC Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct ciently controlling Code of Ethics implefollowing key phases – Inquiry, Analysis, Reat the following address in English https:// are two core documents that describe our mentation, timely identifying violations and ceiving Employee Explanation, Action Plan www.tbcbankgroup.com/about-us/goverprinciples of ethics and conduct and apply responding to them respectively. Development, Action Plan Fulfillment, and nance/group-policies/ to all employees within the group. In order to efficiently implement the Code Control. Based on the severity of breach, of Ethics and raise awareness on its principrocedure may consider escalation of the We strive to inform society about imporTBC Code of Ethics ples, we annually develop action plan. The case and application of various disciplinary tance of Ethical conduct for our company action plan 2019 included: TBC Code of Ethics document represent measures towards the employee. through various activities and channels. our vision and values, establishes ethical >> Implementation of the code of ethics on In 2019 – 35 incidents of the Code of Ethics The is often a part of our communication breach were identified through various activities. 11 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 11 /02 Ethics & Integrity In 2019, 60 trainings are done annually. All amendments to the Code of Conduct are approved by the corruption, including but not limited to accepting, offering, paying, giving, soliciting or authorizing bribes, by promoting Business ethics and ethical conduct on the topics of Board or Directors. internal integrity and fulfilling the obligation towards the stakeholders of the Bank. Anticorruption, Code of Ethics were The code of conduct available both for internal usage in intranet and for public The Group has implemented internal policountering conducted for new access at the following address: cies, procedures and detailed instructions bribery and money https://www.tbcbankgroup.com/meto prevent itself from being used to facililaundering dia/1950/code-of-conduct_13-august-2019. Incident employees. pdf tate money laundering, financing of terrorism or engage in other unlawful activities Management Policy / Whistleblowing and non-retaliation By the end of the Human Capital Department is responsible such as bribery, corruption or tax evasion. The Bank has zero tolerance for financial for implementing the Code of Conduct crime, regulatory breaches and any attempt policy year, 4,518 employees among employees. Internal audit, security, to circumvent Group’s financial crime Policy and practices operational risk and compliance teams are policies and controls. Combatting financial to prevent were trained and to execute regular monitoring of the code of conduct fulfillment. crime is a common objective throughout anti-competitive the Bank at all levels. behavior, anti-trust, and anti-monopoly tested in Code of Informing Employees on Code of Conduct The Policy defines high risk area and sets practiceso Ethics and Code of Code of conduct is indispensable part of behavioral guidelines for the employees, e.g employees are expected to seek prior Public Policy the labor agreement, in the process of new and Government Relations policy Conduct topics via employee onboarding, every new team written approval from Compliance Department for all gifts received or offered with member gets acquainted with it. a higher value of limit than it is set in the distant learning We distribute Code of Conduct via welBank’s Code of Conduct, employees are come e-mail to new employees, their prohibited from acting personal gain, makplatform. welcome training includes the Code of Conduct issues. At the end of the training ing facilitation payments, receiving cash or cash equivalent gifts, offering or providing they write a test, through which we check any kind of hospitality with intention to how well they understood and remembered influence the recipient to act in an improper the topic. With regular intervals, employway. ees receive push message reminder from intranet portal – with the recommendation Anti-Corruption Policy Implementation, The fulfillment of the Code of Ethics by to review the Code of Conduct document monitoring and response third parties cooperating with us is not and refresh the information. Compliance Risk Management department binding, however our cooperation agreeis responsible for implementing and renewments include clauses that consider ethical ANTICORRUPTION, COUNTERING BRIBing the anti-corruption policy. The policy is conduct requirements such as fight against ERY AND MONEY LAUNDERING approved by the Supervisory Board. corruption, fight against tax avoiding, confidentiality requirements and other. Company anti-corruption policies and The coordination of anticorruption policy procedures implementation is done on group level, it Code of Conduct Any form of corruption is unacceptable for is shared with the respective positions of TBC. We strive to implement all possible each company in the group, who are further One of the instruments for implementing measures in order to implement strict conresponsible to implement the respective Code of Ethics in TBC is Code of Conduct, trols and risk prevention. procedures. which is a mandatory document for every TBC Anti-Corruption Policy is presented employee and breach of which may be folThe monitoring actions for anticorruption in Anti-bribery, anti-corruption and prevenlowed by various disciplinary actions. policy violation are included in various intion of the facilitation of tax evasion policy, ternal control processes, internal audits and Code of Conduct is based on main ethical publicly available at: also client complaints management. values and principles of the company and https://www.tbcbankgroup.com/about-us/ regulates such issues as labor rights , congovernance/group-policies/ Quarterly report to the Supervisory Board flicts of interests, relationships with clients, Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct and Risk Committee covers anti-corruption toppersonal data protection and more. Sponsorship Procedures also include imics if any.The response for anti-corruption portant clauses about anti-corruption. policy violation differs by the severity of the The last update of the Code of Conduct breach. The sanctions are described in the was implemented in 2019, regular revisions The Bank prohibits any form of bribery and internal code of conduct in detail. 22 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 22 /02 Ethics & Integrity Informing Employees about Anti-Corruption Policies and Procedures Challenge: policy is applied to the whole group. The policy is available in intranet to all employthe anonymous complaints are received by only two employees of the compliance ees and publicly available in the following risk management department, (head of the Business ethics and ethical conduct The organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated at this stage bank link: https://www.tbcbankgroup.com/aboutdepartment and risk management officer). us/governance/group-policies/ If the issue concerns fraudulent operation Anticorruption, countering to 100% of employees, including all members of the governance bodies. does not operate Ensuring Policy Implementation by employees, operational risk department is involved in the process of inquiry. If the bribery and money New employees receive Anti-Corruption laundering Policy as a part of welcome package, that entire database of The policy and its amendments are approved by Supervisory Board matter concerns employee oppression, bulling and discrimination, Human Capital Incident includes all policies and procedures; They Management Policy / are trained in anti-corruption matters. The anti-corruption policy is also a part of operations assessed Compliance risk management department is responsible to: department is involved. In the rest of the cases, Compliance risk management diviWhistleblowing sion manages the process. and non-retaliation policy Compliance Risk Management trainings that is delivered to those employees, who for risk related to >> Share the policy in available portals In 2019 number of complaints received from to all employees due to their activity specifics are more exemployees through this mechanisms was Policy and practices to prevent posed to risk. Employees periodically have corruption. Next year >> Conduct trainings on this policy 41 group wide. Out of these 18 were anonyonline trainings and testing on the subject. mous. anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, challenge will be >> Analyze the incidents communicated through anonymous channels and and anti-monopoly Operations Assessed for Risks Related to start the inquiry process PUBLIC POLICY AND GOVERNMENT practiceso Corruption implementation Every quarter the department provides inRELATIONS Public Policy and Government Bank has identified high risk activities, such as a third party relations and has impleof such procedure formation on incidents to risk committee of the supervisory board. Each company in the According to company policy, financing or lobbying political parties, as well as pubRelations policy mented dedicated actions to minimize the group is responsible for implementation of licly expressing political view of company risks such as, receiving gifts and hosting and base. this policy. They reports about incidents to management is prohibited. Company has procedure, agreement with third parties TBC bank. clearly apolitical and neutral position. template, trainings, process escalation Complaints and Response Mechanisms As one of the largest financial institutes rules, etc.) The aim of Incident Response Policy is and employers, company understands the When evaluating third party corruption risks Employees can deliver complaints/inforto ensure ethical and honest behavior of scale of influence on company economic bank takes into account country corruption mation through following open and anonyemployees, timely identification and reand social systems, therefore very strictly index, where the third party operates, counmous communication channels: sponse to violations, that can put under risk restrains from using this power for any kind try regulation in relation to anticorruption employees efficiency as well as company Bank internal phone 27 27 27 (*1998) of political influence. and antibribery, third party field of activity, transaction context and implementation reputation and success. Anonymous communication web-site TBC holds a constructive dialogue with channels, contract value and other aspects. The Policy ensures whistleblower prohttps://www.tbcbank.ge/web/ka/web/ the government of the country where it The agreement with third parties (supplitection from the immediate supervisor or guest/anonymous-hotline operates in relation to various economic ers, partners, etc.) includes clauses about other employees or from the imposition of and social issues, that are directly linked to e-mail: incident_compliance@tbcbank. anti-corruption policy. any other sanctions. The Policy ensures to company activity. com.ge Challenge: at this stage bank does not support its employees in duly reporting any suspected violations and concerns. The anonymity is preserved in the following operate entire database of operations ways: assessed for risk related to corruption. Next Incident response policy is applied to the year challenge will be implementation of whole group and each employee is responBank internal number 27 27 27 (*1998) can such procedure and base. sible to comply with the requirements of be called from internal as well as external this policy. networks. On this number the incoming call and caller telephone number is not recordINCIDENT MANAGEMENT POLICY / According to this policy employee is ed, respectively if the caller does not want WHISTLEBLOWING AND NON-RETALIAobliged to raise alarm (speak up, blow whisto present own identity the call remains TION POLICY tle) in case of employee oppression, bulling, anonymous. One of the instruments for implementing employee entering corrupt/fraudulent scheme, etc. All employees are obliged to When leaving a message in the anonymous ethical principles and anti-corruption policy speak up and affix the problem for its timely website, the IP address is not identified, in our everyday operations is our Inident resolution. Employee can communicate the information received through website is Management Policy/Whistle blowing and problem openly or anonymously. automatically transferred to outsourced non-retaliation policy, that enables us to company and only afterwards becomes efficiently reveal cases of breach of Code Incident Management Policy version 1 – Deavailable to the bank. of Ethics, Code of Conduct or Anti-Corrupcember 2015 Last update September 2019, tion Policy. review and renewal is done once a year. The The response to complaints is the following 22 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 22 /03 Environmental Responsibility CONTENTS Environmental policy and management approach Policy Management Approach Risk Management and Legislative Compliance Employee Involvement in Implementing Environmental Protection Policy How do we manage our direct environmental impacts Material Usage Paper Energy Usage Water GHG Emissions Waste 22 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 22 /03 Environmental Responsibility Challenge: Environmental policy and Specific policies and management approach procedures apply currently to bank ENVIRONMENTAL How we manage our direct environmental activities only. impacts For the future period, RESPONSIBILITY one of our challenges will be to implement them group wide. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND >> Promotes sustainability finance among risks and compliance risk management during the year. MANAGEMENT APPROACH our clients. teams. Top management was also actively involved in the process, has reviewed and Our top management is actively involved Policy TBC Bank has a dedicated Environmental approved it. in implementation of Environmental Poliand Social Risk Management (ESRM) team, cy. Environmental Protection Committee In 2019 TBC adopted Environmental policy which is comprised of full-time employees. In addition to this policy, we have elaboratis held minimum three times a year and at which governs our Environmental ManageOur ESRM team is responsible for overed additional policies and procedures that least one representative of the Board of Diment System (EMS) within the group and seeing the implementation and operation regulate environmental impact of specific rectors always participates in it. In 2019 four ensures that we comply with applicable of our EMS and for reporting environmenactivities, such as Waste Management committee meetings were held. environmental, health and safety and labor tal management plans and results to the Manual, Green Procurement RecommendaAt the group level – the environmental regulations and use sound environmental, Environmental Committee on a quarterly tions, TBC Bank’s Procedure for addressing protection topics and policy implementahealth and safety, and labor practices, as basis. Our ESRM team is part of SME and external E&S queries and concerns and tion are coordinated through production well as take reasonable steps to make sure Corporate Business Credit Risk Departother. of annual greenhouse gases emission that our customers also fulfill their enviment, which reports directly to the Chief report. Based on results, the respective ronmental and social responsibilities. Our Risk Officer. Our Environmental Policy is publicly availaction plans regarding resource usage and Environmental Policy is fully compliant with able at: decreasing impact on environment are Georgian environmental legislation and Our EMS is based on four directions/pillars: https://tbcbankgroup.com/responsibility/ elaborated. follows international best practices. >> Internal environmental measures; our-environmental-policy >> Environmental and social risk manageThe Environmental management protection The Environmental Policy: ment in lending; Management Approach system efficiency is assessed by the inter>> Defines the environmental aspects and >> Sustainable finance; nal audit annually. impacts of our business activity; In order to efficiently implement the Envi>> External communication. >> Elaborates and develops measures to ronmental Protection and Social Risk manminimize our negative impact on the agement policy we have developed enviThe policy defines environmental values, environment; ronmental protection management system system, goals and tasks and is developed >> Takes efficiency and responsible rebased on ISO 14001:2015 standards. in accordance with the local legislative source management into account; requirements as well as ISO 14001:2015 Direct responsible for the policy implementation group wide is Environmental ProtecIn 2020 TBC plans >> Ensures our compliance with the applistandards. cable environmental, health, safety and labor regulations; tion and Social Risk Management team, subordinated to the Corporate and SME certification The policy was developed by the EnviBusiness Credit Risk Management domain. >> Raises awareness among our staff; >> Prevents the Bank from financing busironmental and Social Risk Management team, with active participation of corporate according to ISO nesses that have a negative effect on Annually, Environment Protection Action the environment and society; lending, small and medium enterprise credit risk management, logistics, operational Plan is developed, it includes activities and 14001:2015 standards projects to be implemented group wide 22 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 22 /03 Environmental Responsibility Risk Management and Legislative Compliance raise employee awareness our Environmental Protection and Social Risk Management Direct environmental impact of our business activity arises from energy, water, In 2019 printing paper Environmental policy and Based on activity specifics, environmental team regularly holds trainings and discussion meetings. fuel and other resources usage, waste and emissions. annual usage group impact of the company (direct and indirect) management approach is identified and afterwards corrective measures and action plans are developed. TBC Bank’s environmental and Social risk The Bank has established a comprehensive internal environmental system to manage wide made 125 575 management group regularly conducts its GHG emissions and is committed to TBC regularly monitors compliance of it’s trainings about TBC Bank’s E&S risk manreducing its GHG emissions by closely packages (TBC Bank How we manage activities versus legislative requirements. agement system. In 2019, 12 extensive E&S monitoring consumption of fuel, gas and our direct Annually, the compliance is assessed based training sessions were held and SME and Corporate Credit Analysts, Credit Risk Manelectricity. 122 484; Daugther environmental on the mandatory Environmental Legal In order to evaluate the significance of impacts Check document. This document deagers and Business SME Lending/Sales Coordinators were trained. impact for each of the category, we have companies 3 091). scribes all those environmental issues, that elaborated a comprehensive evaluation are specific to company business activity methodology and applied it to the whole and regulated by the legislation. Furthermore, all staff of TBC bank had diggroup. Based on this, evaluation company Material Usage Paper TBC Environmental Protection and Social ital training and testing in E&S risk managedecides the significance of impact, defines Risk Management team is responsible for ment issues. annual goals and elaborates specific initiaBased on company activity specifics, document renewal and process control. Information about environmental activities tives and programs to reach them. O the significant share of materials used is and news is available for each employee via represented by paper usage. TBC strives As per local legislation, TBC group activiinternal network (TBC Intranet) and email. to decrease its impact through various ty is not subject to environmental impact Our Approach (Methodology) initiatives. assessment. However, we do assess our HOW DO WE MANAGE OUR DIRECT In order to decrease the volume of paper direct and indirect impact on environment ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS In order to identify material-related impacts, usage, TBC Bank has been actively digiand strive to manage it responsibly through TBC uses the following approach as described talizing numerous business processes, in applying preventive and softening actions Since banking is not a high-polluting in the policy the combination of a) relevance, front as well as back offices through the and initiatives. activity, the implementation of an internal b) degree of control and c) potential environwhole year. environmental management system to mental damage in case of abnormal operating Test regime for Follow-me printing initiaIn 2019 company had no fines or non-monaddress the Group’s resource consumption conditions gives evidence if the environmentive is in progress. Also, bank collects used etary sanctions for non-compliance with is not expected to have a significant impact tal aspects are considered to be significant, paper, that is further produced into books. the environmental laws and regulations. on the surrounding environment. However, meaning that they have or can have a signifiTBC Bank has reviewed all of the operacant environmental impact. Employee Involvement in Implementing tional activities, procured items, and outThe low/medium/high categorization is transsourced services that it can control (present Environmental Protection Policy and planned), and has identified all of the lated into the numbers 1/2/3 to calculate, if the aspect has to be considered significant. Challenge: TBC employees are the main force who material environmental aspects relevant to Aspects with a sum of scores from 3-5 are incan efficiently implement the policy. It is very important to ensure their motivation, the business. significant whereas with a sum of scores from for the year 2020 6-9 are significant. involvement and participation. In order to group targets to Environmental aspects associated with legal requirement, or another requirement to which decrease paper usage TBC PLC subscribes, are also considered to be significant, regardless of the outcome of the risk analysis. by 3% Consumption data Energy Consumption 2019 Measured in Bank Group Total electricity consumption kW/h 15 434 372 16 781 373 Total heating consumption kW/h 6 529 139 7 142 939 Total energy consumption kW/h 22 324 168 24 292 581 22 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 22 /03 Environmental Responsibility Challenge: and Social Risk Management policy document, that is applied to the whole group. Environmental policy and for the year 2020 Water consumption also is regulated by our Code of Ethics. management approach it is planned to Water consumption in 2019 made 101 016 m3 group wide (TBC Bank -89 889 m3 ; decrease energy Daugthet companies – 11 127 m3). How we manage In order to implement efficient and sustainour direct environmental usage by 4% able consumption of water, various initiatives were launched in cooperation with impacts different departments. Awareness raising activities were held. We plan to to impleIn 2019, along with the implementation of ment pressure reductors, through which Environmental Protection and Social Risk we expect to decrease consumption by Management policy, the control on puradditional 6%. poseful and sustainable consumption of energy was implemented in the bank. Despite the fact that in 2019 six daughter In TBC Bank, we use energy-efficient LED companies joined the group, we still manlighting and operate energy efficient heataged to decrease water consumption per ing and cooling systems in our offices. This employee by 12%. has helped us to reduce the consumption of energy in the previous and current years. TBC Bank fuel operating car park was Challenge: substituted by electro and hybrid vehicles. Car management entire system was implein 2020 bank plans to mented, that enables “car sharing” practice by employees and hence saving on energy install water pressure consumption. Energy consumption was reduced by 1 903 reductors through 392 HW/H for the whole group in 2019 In 2019, 6 new Methodology: including electric energy, heating systems, which water usage fuel for generators and transport. daughter companies While preparing the data on emissions, the Water decrease by 6% is UK Government’s Greenhouse Gas Conjoined TBC group, version Factors for Company Reporting The efficient and sustainable usage of water is described in Environmental Protection expected. 2017 and National IPCC emission factors for however the entire electricity (tCO2*/MWhe) were used. group still managed to Scope 1 (combustion of fuel and operation of facilities) includes emissions from comdecrease paper usage bustion of natural gas, diesel and/or petrol in equipment at owned and controlled by 0.8%. sites. Combustion of petrol, diesel fuel, natural gas and etc. in owned transportation devices; Energy Usage Scope 2 (purchased electricity for own use Energy usage is one of the most significant (lighting, office appliances, cooling & etc.) sources of our environmental impact. It is includes emissions from: Used electricity at represented by electricity consumption for owned and controlled sites; to calculate the premises and equipment, usage of heating emissions, it has been used the conversion and cooling systems, transportation and factor for National IPCC emission factors other. for electricity (tCO2*/MWhe). 33 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 33 /03 Environmental Responsibility GHG Emissions We pay special attention to greenhouse Scope 2 Emissions gas emissions and try to strengthen our Scope 2 (purchased electricity for own use (lighting, office appliances, cooling & etc.) Environmental input in decreasing greenhouse gas emisincludes emissions from: Used electricity at owned and controlled sites; to calculate the policy and sions worldwide. This subject is addressed emissions, it has been used the conversion factor for National IPCC emission factors for management in TBC group Environmental Protection electricity (tCO2*/MWhe). approach Policy document. TBC gross market-based energy indirect GHG emissions made 1260 tons CO2. Emissions in TBC GHG emissions derive mostly from the base year equaled 1391 tons CO2. How we manage the following sources: vehicles, international flights, electricity generators; air Total electricity consumption of TBC group decreased by 9% in 2019 versus planned 5%. our direct conditioners and cooling systems, heating The main driver of positive result was TBC Bank, that generates 86% of total electricity conenvironmental sumption of the group. impacts systems, computer accessories, ATMs, electronic waste, masts and inverter batteries. Energy indirect GHG emissions, metric tons of CO2 equivalen Group As a premium-listed company trading on Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in the LSE, TBC Bank is required to calcumetric tons of CO2 equivalent. gross market-based energy late and report upon the greenhouse gas indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 1,260 (GHG) emissions stemming from its direct operations. For this purpose, TBC Bank has Emissions in the base year 1,391 established a comprehensive internal systems to manage its GHG emissions within the Group and is committed to reducing its Scope 3 Emissions GHG emissions by closely monitoring consumption of fuel, gas and electricity. TBC Scope 3 includes emissions from air business travels (a short haul, a medium haul, a long Bank also commissioned an independent haul and an international haul); it should be noted that information on the travel class was Health, Safety, Environment (HSE) consultconsidered and an “economy class” conversion factor has been used for the emissions ing company, to verify the measurements calculation from the following link: https://www.Atmosfair.De/en/offset/flight of its GHG emissions. Total scope 3 emissions made 697 Tons CO2 (The gases included in the calculation, CO2, Annually Greenhouse Gas Emissions ReCH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3) port is produced group wide and is verified Base year emissions made 644 Tons CO2. by independent auditor. Based on the report goals and annual action plans aimed Total flight emissions in 2019 versus 2018 remained almost the same for TBC Bank (-2%) at decreasing GHG are being developed. while increased by 65 Tons CO2 for the group. Analysis shows, that due to the group development and expansion, staff needed more business travel to participate in the international conferences, workshops and board meetings. Scope 1 Emissions In order to calculate the GHG emissions deriving from business trip flights, the detailed route for each air-travel (including transfers of the international flights), type of flight class scope 1 (combustion of fuel and operation of facilities) includes emissions from com(first, business, and/or economy) and number of persons being on each business trip was bustion of natural gas, diesel and/or petrol in equipment at owned and controlled sites. taken into account. Combustion of petrol, diesel fuel, natural gas and etc in owned transportation devices. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a TBC direct GHG emissions in 2019 made 2584 tons CO2. reference to the GWP source https://www.Atmosfair.De/en/offset/flight CO2 emissions from vehicle fuel consumption tripled in comparison to 2018, 72% of total Other Indirect Scope 3 Emissions: CO2 emissions were generated by daughter companies and 36% by the bank. This increase was attributed to TBC group member company TBC Pay purchasing addiOther indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions metric tons of CO2 equivalent Group tional 100 cash transportation vehicles, making in total four times bigger car park compared to the end of 2018. The need to purchase additional cash transporters came from the Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 697 payment network development. Biogenic CO2 emissions Direct GHG emissions metric tons of CO2 equivalent Group Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions calculation Emissions in the base year 644 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 3,164 Emissions in the base year 2,584 33 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 33 /03 Environmental Responsibility In 2019 6 new daughter companies joined Methodology: the group. GHG emissions increased by 502 Environmental Tons CO2 group wide and decreased by This report describes all emission sources policy and 384 Tons CO2 bank wide. required under the Companies Act 2006 management (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Reduction took place in the following Regulations 2013 (Scope 1 and 2) and addiapproach scopes: tionally the emissions under Scope 3 that Group Wide Scope 2 electricity, water and are applicable to the business. In preparing How we manage printing paper consumption. the emissions data, the emissions factors our direct from the UK Government’s Greenhouse Gas environmental Bank Wide Scope 1 fuel consumption Conversion Factors for Company Reporting impacts (heating, vehicles, and generators), scope 2 2017 and National IPCC emission factors for electricity consumption and Scope 3 interelectricity (tCO2*/MWhe)1 was used. national flights. Reducing Consumption Targets 2020 Group Fuel consumption 7% Electricity consumption 4% Water consumption 6% Paper consumption 3% Total greenhouse gas emissions 5% Per employee greenhouse gas emissions 5% Waste Waste separation is not a mandatory requirement in the country, however as an TBC Bank operates waste management environmentally responsible company, TBC program since 2016. The waste managebank implemented waste separation pracment manual defines key standards and tice in head office. In 2020 bank plans to exrecommendations for managing waste in port this practice from HO to its branches. accordance with legislative requirements. In 2020 TBC Bank also plans to install speIt includes waste separation, e-waste and cial bins, for electronic and hazardous waste hazardous waste management procedures. management. Identification of waste-related impacts is done based on legal requirements and standards. 33 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 33 /04 Responsible Employer CONTENTS Policy and Management approach Management Systems Grievance Procedure Our employees Wages and benefits, employee social protection Salary, bonuses and other benefits Employee Safety and Health, professional and occupational sickness prevention Work climate, employee motivation and engagement Talent Management (trainings, professional development and leadership) Performance Review Employee Trainings, Learning and Development Leadership and Career development Diversity and Equal Opportunities 33 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 33 /04 Responsible Employer HRMS was chosen as a new automated software, modern platform that features Policy and advanced reporting and data analysis capaManagement bilities. It’s an integrated system providing approach information used by Human capital management in decision making. This software allows a company to keep track of all of its Our employees employees and information about them. An Wages and benefits, employee social protection RESPONSIBLE HRMS can manage all employee data as well as information on benefits, such as enrollment and status changes. Because data is stored in one place, this means reporting EMPLOYER can be more efficient. This software is also Employee Safety fully integrated with payroll and compaand Health, ny’s Intranet. HRMS was chosen, in order professional and to optimize HR Business processes, which occupational helps human capital management enhance sickness prevention productivity. Grievance Procedure Work climate, employee motivation We have implemented Grievance Proceand engagement dure and provide grievance mechanism TBC is one of the largest employers in ENPS results for the last three years looks works to ensure that similar policies and to employees to raise workplace related the country, as of the end of 2019 TBC like this: procedures are developed across whole concerns. This procedure is linked to Bank’s Talent Management bank employed 6,301 people. We perfectTBC Group. (trainings, ENPS Year 2017 Year 2018 Year 2019 Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct, as ly understand that our corporate culture, Company 55% 66% 41% well as Incident Management Policy. Acprofessional development and employment policy and how we treat our employees has a direct impact on their well Anything above zero is acceptable, though Challenge for the cording to policy clauses, every employee is obliged to openly or anonymously provide leadership) being, as well their families and society in companies have varying standards. In gentotal. eral, a score of 10-30 is considered good, 2020 is to harmonize information about incidents, including any kind of harassment, be it moral, physical or Diversity and Equal and a score of 50 is excellent. psychological. Opportunities Employess are one of our most valuable assets and one of our most important stakePOLICY AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH all policies and Informing Employees on Grievance holders. Our business success depends on them. It is our responsibility to create Responsible work relationships in TBC are regulated based on our Code of Ethics procedures group Procedure system that is capable of attracting and and various human resource policies and wide. Incident Management Policy and Grievance keeping the best people, developing their procedures. procedures are mandatory documents and talents and professional skills, cultivating every employee has to get acquainted with Policies: Remuneration Policy, Human team spirit and corporate culture that supthem. We ensure this through the following rights Policy, Disciplinary Sanctions Policy, Management Systems ports employee happiness, engagement actions: Employee Confidentiality Policy, Anti-Haand hence, company success. Our management system aims at creating rassment Policy, Complaint Policy, Incident 1. Every new employee welcome package Management Policy. mechanisms to efficiently comply with includes these document, together with We treat our employees with top responsicompany policies as well as legislation. The bility and strive to offer them fair, honorable Procedures and Instructions: New employother important policies and procedures. monitoring of incidents and incompliances and diverse environment, where people feel ee hiring procedure, Vacation procedure, is done through various activities and tools. 2. New employees have classroom trainings valued and are motivated to realise their full Procedure on engaging in other business where one of the topics is Incident Manpotential and deliver high performance. activities, Parental leave procedure, EmDue to the fact that our company is conagement Policy and Grievance Procedure. ployee Learning co-financing procedure stantly evolving, more and more inforWe perform employee satisfaction research and other. mation needs to be processed, so it is 3. Any changes to Incident Management annually, analyze the results and develop important that information is consolidatPolicy or Grievance Procedure are delivered These policies and procedures ensure ed. Therefore from 2018, a new Human to all employees by e-mail. action plans to improve employee loyalty, alignment of employee relationships with Resource Management System (HRMS) create comfortable working conditions and 4. These documents are available in intranet local legislation, as well as international became necessary, through which the bank motivate them through various benefits. We to all employees of the bank. standards and best practices. would be able to collect, store and process adhere to local regulations on employment rights, at the same time aim to implement Most of the policies apply to the bank. TBC larger information. 5. Employees are regularly tested for the international standards and best practices. bank’s Human Capital management team subject of Incident Management Policy. 33 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 33 /04 Responsible Employer Submitting complaints/grievances and there potentially can be a case. If the Number of Employees, contract type and Fund „Tibiselebi” –Employees Supporting complaint is unfounded or unsustainable, gender breakdown Each Other Employees can submit complaints verbally, Policy and complainant will be informed accordingly Employees % Number or in written – through open or anonymous Fund “Tibiselebi” was founded in 2009 and Management and disciplined by HR for unnecessarily letter to HR manager, HR team, or own Short Term contract 1,143 currently TBC bank and six other daughter approach bringing the charge against another emmanagement. They are highly encouraged Female 80% 918 companies are members of the fund. The ployee. to report incidents of harassment, discrimiMale 20% 225 fund aims at supporting TBC employees Our employees nation or other grievances without delay, to If there is a case, HR in liaison with comLong Term Contract 5,158 in case of health problems. It’s source of fiensure their quick processing. plainants’ line manager will decide on Female 68% 3,530 nancing is employee contribution, equaling Wages and benefurther actions on the grievance committee Male 32% 1,628 1% of their monthly salary. The anonymous channels for submission fits, employee social are: together with the worker or his/her repreThe fund is managed by the board and protection sentative. Depending on the severity of the Number of Employees, full time/part time board secretary. Any employee can submit Anonymous Hotline:+995 32 2 27 27 27 *1998 case, matters are brought to management’s employment breakdown application to the fund and request finanEmployee Safety attention, if this is the case management Anonymous website: https://www.tbcbank. Employees % Number cial support for own self or direct family and Health, representative shall participate in the grievge/web/ka/web/guest/anonymous-hotline member. Amount requested in the applicaprofessional and ance committee. In case of anonymous Full time 6,146 Female 70% 4,299 tion shall exceed 15% of employee monthly Anonymous letter: complaints, HR in liaison with HR Business occupational Male 30% 1,847 salary. Incident_Compliance@tbcbank.com.ge Head / Deputy CEO will decide on further sickness prevention actions. Part time 155 TBC Employee Fund GEL Female 96% 149 Work climate, emActions could take the form of verbal Number of Applications Received 300 Incidents related to money laundering, terMale 4% 6 ployee motivation warning, written warning, other disciplinary rorism financing, related party transactions, Share of Applications Supported 100% and engagement actions including dismissal. trader based on insider information, code Number of Employees, Tbilisi/Region Support Amount 989,749 of ethics breach and legislative regulation reakdown Talent Management breach are reviewed by Compliance Risk Number of incidents (trainings, Employees % Number The fund financing is provided when sickManagement Department. Total number of incidents in 2019 was 34, professional Total 100% 6,295 ness represents danger for health or life, If incident relates to employee harassment, out of which 17 were anonymous. They all additionally hearing aid, wheelchair, spedevelopment and physical, moral or psychological pressure, were related to Code of Ethics and Code Tbilisi 77% 4,822 cial nutrition and artificial insemination are leadership) Human Resources team is managing the of Conduct breach and 100% of them was Outside the Capital 23% 1,473 supported. case, in cooperation with Compliance Risk reviewed and taken decision upon. Based Diversity and Equal on incident severity, bank took various meaDecisions are made by the board, through Management Department. Opportunities sures – in certain cases it was discussion WAGES AND BENEFITS, EMPLOYEE majority of votes. Incidents related to fraud, falsification with employee and rotation, in other cases SOCIAL PROTECTION Family Friendly Bank and conflict of interests are transferred to applying strict disciplinary measures. Operational Risk Management and Security We believe that one of the important issues We understand, that work-life balance is team. To support our corporate culture TBC Bank that defines employee wellbeing is fare one of the most important factors for emhas implemented a whistleblowing poliremuneration and ensuring their social ployee satisfaction and well being. One of Investigation in HR cy, which is available to all employees. It protection. Our employees should have the directions of TBC employment policy The investigation process shall evolve identifies the rules and conduct requested enough remuneration to live honorable is to establish a family friendly corporate immediately after case is detected. When of all individuals working for the Group and life and envisage future with the feeling of culture. For this, we operate in several case is anonymous, the sender cannot be defines employee rights and responsibilihope and stability. directions – such as good parental leave contacted, however in non-anonymous casties See Chapter VIII Ethics and Integrity TBC is one of the best employers in the conditions, supporting multi-child families, es employee is contacted in order to specOUR EMPLOYEES country. We offer a competitive remuneramarriage and first child support and other. ify details and in certain cases is informed tion package, which includes a monthly salWe are one of the largest employers in the Parental Leave about the decision. ary, a performance driven bonus. On top of country, at the end of 2019 our bank emit we provide attractive benefits’ package. According to local legislation, company is HR Manager and/or HR Senior Staff togethployed total 6,301 people. not obliged to remunerate parental leave, er with complainant’s Line Manager (unless Salary, bonuses and other benefits however, TBC employees receive paid pacomplain has been made against immediNumber of Employees, gender breakdown rental leave based on their full remuneration ate line manager or complainant objects Market studies conducted by local and rate for 183 or 200 days (standard or compliagainst involvement of the line manager) Employees % Number international companies, rankings given cated delivery). investigate the complaint (be it harassment from at least three different salary survey or other) with utmost confidentiality. Total 100% 6,301 gives us prove that we are one of the best Purpose of the initial assessment is to Female 71% 4,448 employers in the country with competitive establish, that the allegations are founded compensation package. Male 29% 1,853 44 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 44 /04 Responsible Employer Parental Leave Number Number of employees, 2019 Cash Collection healthy lifestyle in our company, in TBC bank we operate football, basketball, rugby, Employees that got child in 2019 457 Married 244 Due to specifics of cash collection activPolicy and hiking clubs. Female 372 Got 1st and 2nd child 244 ities, cash collectors are segment of emManagement Male 85 ployees at highest health and safety risk Our employees annually participate in approach Received support 244 in the bank. Two types of cash collection world run – Wings for Life project. We also Employees that received parental activities are performed in the bank offer our employees special discounts in Our employees leave pay 297 EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH, PROvarious fitness and wellness centers. These 1. ATM cash collection is done by bank cash Female 296 FESSIONAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SICKinitiatives are valid group wide. collector, who is escorted by security police Wages and beneMale 1 NESS PREVENTION fits, employee social 2. Branch network and client cash collection WORK CLIMATE, EMPLOYEE Employees that returned to work from Employees are our most valuable asset, is done by security police, who have trainprotection parental leave 282 MOTIVATION AND ENGAGEMENT therefore, protection of their life, health and ings with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that Female 282 safety is our obligation. Deriving from finanTo improve internal communication, enEmployee Safety includes safety trainings as well. Male 0 cial sector specifics, workplace related life hance healthy lifestyle and team spirit, we and Health, Employees that returned to work after and health risks are not as high as in many All cash collectors of the bank have regular have created several clubs for employees. professional and parental leave ended that were still other industries, however, still exist. safety trainings. occupational employed 12 months after their return TBC group any employee can join clubs sickness prevention to work 426 One of the biggest potential risks in our based on their interests and hobbies and Front Office Staff field of activity is related to customer participate in any of the planned programs. Work climate, emaggression or attach towards frontline As one of the important health and safety Families with Multiple Children In 2019, more than 2,000 employees particiemployees. As well as risks related to cash related risks in financial sector is customployee motivation pated in TBC club activities. We conducted In order to support employees who have collection and auto park management er aggression, attack and robbery, bank and engagement championships in football, basketball, rugmultiple children, bank has introduced activities. conducts special learning activities to front by, table tennis. In the hiking club, several special program, according to which, every office staff in regard to workplace safety. Talent Management From September 2019 according to legislahiking tours were organized. TBC also has employee, who becomes a parent of fourth (trainings, tion of Georgia, every company is obliged Every branch employes several security intellectual club „What, Where, When“. or fifth child receives GEL 10,000. For the six professional to hire HSE specialist that ensures impleadministrators, who ensure timely and Winners of this club participated in various child and above remuneration equals GEL development and mentation of health, safety and environefficient identification of risks and their inter-bank intellectual games organized 50,000. This program applies to full time leadership) mental management system and standards. prevention. As a result of good manageby the national bank of Georgia. TBC team employees with long term contract. Currently we outsource HSE management ment of this system, during the last 17 years won in the inter-bank competition. to an experienced company, that together of operation, only two cases of robbery Diversity and Equal Multi-Child support 2019 We also operate dedicated clubs for emwith bank team is in the process of develattempt took place. Opportunities ployees who work more than 10 years with Number of employees who got 4th oping HSE policy and strategy. We also have contract with security policy, TBC and who also have many children. and 5th child 8 Once these documents are developed, hazthat is obliged to urgently visit the place as We operate informational intranet platform, ard identification, risk assessment and incisoon as incidents are identified. Number of Employees who received where special offers and discounts for embank support 8 dent investigation systems will also follow. In 2019 only one workplace related, low ployees are published. As a result of risk assessment, respective impact risk took place. Support volume GEL (Gross) 102, 040 action and learning plans will be produced TBC brand shop, offers employees clothes and implemented. Risk assessments will be We dedicate resources to promoting and accessories at special prices. Marriage and first child support updated every three months. We operate marriage and first child support program. Bank issues onetime financial Drivers benefit to employees who get married and Bank drivers are one of those employee give birth to first child. This support is valid segments that fall under special health and for all employees with long term contracts. safety risk and respectively. Risks related to car park management and driver activities are mitigated by the instruction for TBC Total value of financial bank drivers, that regulates such details as speed limit, limitation of working hours, support in 2019 control of driver health, driver vigilance. Instruction implementation is monitored with the help of GPS systems. within this program made GEL 248,980 44 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 44 /04 Responsible Employer We annually distribute branded presents to Research results are annually presented is a basis for efficient professional develPerformance Review, school pupil children of our employees. to management of various domains. Work opment. We manage different assessment Promotion 2019 Number Policy and teams are established and research resystems for front and back office staff. In 2019 we implemented Georgian rugby sults are reviewed, problems are analyzed Employees who had regular performance Management Every employee has an individual carrier support campaign, during which, 4000 and action plans developed. HR annual review approach development plan. employees received rugby branded t-shirts action plan includes various activities as Female 3,462 and watched rugby game live in offices. a response to challenges revealed by the Our performance appraisal system is Male 1,504 Our employees research. closely linked with the overall objectives Front Office 3,078 TBC monthly conducts masterclass sesof the Group and is based on three core Back Office 1,888 sions, where speakers of various profesWages and beneTALENT MANAGEMENT (TRAININGS, principles: clarity, fairness and integrity. We Technical Staff 240 sions share their knowledge and experience fits, employee social PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND make sure that our colleagues have a clear Middle Management 231 with group employees. In 2019, up to 3000 protection LEADERSHIP) understanding of their role in the company team members attended the masterclasses. Employees promoted 621 and are actively engaged in setting their We understand, that our success derives Female employees promoted 411 Employee Safety personal goals. Employees are also given Employee Satisfaction Research from our employees how we manage to and Health, appropriate coaching by their supervisors attract and keep the best of them, how professional and We started to monitor staff engagement to help them achieve these goals. Regular Employee Trainings, Learning and we support their professional growth and in 2012. A special survey is conducted employee feedback and a constructive diDevelopment occupational motivation. annually, in partnership with the leading alogue are an important part of our perforsickness prevention We believe our approach has been sucDigital learning international universities and a research mance appraisal system. firms. Survey provides clear picture of our cessful in attracting, retaining and developWe are proud to operate an efficient digital Work climate, eming our employees despite strong comWe use different assessment systems strengths and weaknesses as perceived by learning system, through which employees ployee motivation petition. This process is dynamic and we for front and back office staff and it varour employees. participate in various trainings, such as and engagement have to permanently enhance our human ies depending on the positions held. We operational risks, IT security, compliance In 2019 a bank wide survey was conducted resources management system to attract assess our back office staff with the manrisk management. Through this platform Talent Management by Amsterdam University, 3,429 employees, and maintain top talents. agement-by-objectives (MBO) system, a employees are also tested. In 2019 total (trainings, 54% of total participated. personnel management technique where Talent management is regulated based on 5,100 employees had digital trainings. managers and employees work together to professional The top scoring research findings were various documents in the bank, these are set, record and monitor goals for the finanEmployees Trained in 2019 Number development and that employees have high sense of responCode of Conduct, Learning and Qualifisibility when delivering, management has cial year. Goals are written down annually leadership) cation Development Procedure, Testing Total 520 respective knowledge and is skilled and and are continually monitored by managers Instructions. they think that we have positive co-working to check progress, including semi-annual Among them female 364 Diversity and Equal direct feedback from supervisors. Rewards Opportunities atmosphere. However when lowest findings Performance Review are client protection, offering client-tailored are based on the achievement of goals. Among them male 156 products, reward and work-life balance. Performance review and regular feedback We have a uniform scoring system for all Total new employees 1,680 employees within the MBO, which ensures fairness throughout the organization. Among them female 1,176 For our middle managers, as well as emAmong them male 504 ployees who are part of the agile structure, we also run a 360-degree feedback system Training Hours 2019 Hours that provides each employee with the opportunity to receive performance feedback Existing employees 315 from his/her supervisor, peers and subordiNew employees 255 nates. The 360-degree feedback allows our Front Office 415 employees to understand how their perBack Office 300 formance is viewed by others and it helps them to better identify their strengths and Outsource trainings/learning financed by weaknesses as well as to develop new skills. company for employees For front-office employees we use a Financing outsource trainings to employtarget-based performance assessment ees, that help them develop talents and system, wherein performance is linked to succeed in the career is a common practice specific KPIs, including quantitative and in TBC bank. In 2019 we financed trainings qualitative components. Within the tarin Banking products, Coaching and talent get-based system, employees are assessed development, Agile work system . Also, monthly, quarterly or annually depending on their positions. 44 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 44 /04 Responsible Employer employees received financing to complete students participated in the trainee prointernational certification programs such as gram and were employed as a result. Policy and ACCA, CFA, PMP. Agile transformation Management approach One of the most important steps for leadEmployees who received financing ership and career development that bank Total Number 1600 took in 2019 was agile transformation. TBC Our employees was the first company in Georgia that introFemale % 68% duced agile. Our aim in the process of this Wages and benetransformation was: fits, employee social Male % 32% protection >> Better customer orientation and quicker TBC Academy response to customer needs Employee Safety In 2011 we established TBC academy to >> More flexibility and freedom from buand Health, provide learning programs to any employee reaucracy and hierarchical limitations of the group. The academy unites several professional and schools – business school, agile academy, >> Speeding up product to market time occupational avalanche academy. and creating more innovative products sickness prevention In 2019 total 1,150 employees participated in >> Increasing employee satisfaction and Work climate, emvarious learning activities in TBC academy. supporting their self-realization ployee motivation The most frequently addressed training >> Creating special work environment and and engagement topics were attracting top talents teams. per” services a special package of offers >> Business development Agile is a system that has been implementdeveloped by our bank for startups. Talent Management We believe, that agile will help us in reach(trainings, ed in world leading organizations. It coning our goals in becoming a more flexible, The process >> Banking professional tributes to employee professional growth innovative company; and at the same time >> Project management on one hand and reaching best results on >> In the first round, electronic applications development and increasing employee engagement and the other. In our company, agile working are submitted leadership) >> Change management happiness. principle is creating teams of various com>> Independent jury selects short list >> Leadership petencies around particular projects, focus Career Development Diversity and Equal on tasks and more independency. When >> For the second round, teams have to Opportunities >> Financial analytics TBC, being a group by diverse companies, working with agile approach routine tasks pitch their idea offers wide range of carrier growth oppor>> Risk modelling and bureaucracy is minimized, employees tunities. Employees can have career growth >> Evaluation criteria are predefined in the get more self-realization opportunities and within one organization or be transferred to program charter >> Soft skills, such as time management working process is more engaging and another, to engage in new directions or be and presentation skills diverse. >> Number of potential winners is not promoted to a higher position. Financing studies abroad limited. Instead of standard hierarchy structure of In 2019 621 employees were promoted, In 2012 we established TBC Scholarship directors, departments and divisions, we In 2019, 24 applications were submitted to among which 66%, 411 employees were Fund, which provides co-financing to our created leagues, teams and legions. Startup leave project, and three employees women. top employees for studying at the world’s received Startup leave compensation. Leagues define business directions and Startup-leave leading universities. Financing opporturepresent the largest structures in the agile DIVERSITY AND EQUAL nity is open to any employee who has a organization, represented 50-150 people. Startup leave is an innovative project, that OPPORTUNITIES long-term contract with the bank. We offer aims at promoting entrepreneurship and financing of 100% or co-financing of 70%, Team is an independent, self-organized We believe that diversity and inclusion innovation among employees, as well as 50% and 30%. entity, that is created with the purpose to is key to success of any company. In our supporting startup eco-system developreach a particular goal. It is made up of company each employee is treated equally Decision making process is managed on ment in the country in general. 9 members. Team members represent regardless of gender, marital status, age, dedicated procedure, that lists the decision multiple competencies and create business Any employee who has worked with TBC race, ethnicity, religious and political beliefs making criteria. value, that is related to reaching strategic bank for more than 18 months is eligible to or disability. Total number of employees who received goals of an organization. participate and to submit a business idea. Ensuring equal opportunity in all key areas company financing and co-financing for Twice a year, an independent jury reveals Legion is a group of competency specialof human resources management such as studying abroad made 40 people in 2019. the most innovative business idea auists, made of 5-10 members and responsible selection, promotion, training and develthors and gives them a chance to use fully Trainee Programs to develop and standardize particular comopment are critical to retaining employee remunerated Startup leave up to 6 months, petencies within the organization. Legion engagement and satisfaction across our We also operate trainee program in collabto develop their startup. At the same time, members, at the same time are members of workforce. oration with local universities. In 2019, 20 Startup=leave employees can use “Startu44 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 44 /05 Treating our Customers CONTENTS responsibly Customer Privacy and data protection Personal information protection Identifying and addressing data security risks Identifying and addressing data security risks Protecting customers personal information Business integrity in client relationships Clients’ complaints management Responding to our customers’ needs Digital innovation 44 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 44 /05 Treating our Customers responsibly do analysis base on broader information available. Customer privacy In 2019, Deloitte was invited for the project. and data protection Based on that analysis, main risks are asTREATING OUR sessed and adequate prevention measures planned. Personal information Information security and data protection is protection policies under responsibility of information security CUSTOMERS department, whose main function is the Identifying and detection and prevention of information addressing data risks. The department is reporting to inforsecurity risks mation security management committee, RESPONSIBLY which elaborates policy and approves new Protecting regulations. Committee consists of several customers personal directors (Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Chief Information Officer) information and members of various departments. Business integrity in Information security management system is client relationships based on international standards of information security management ISO27000. Clients’ complaints Certification according to the standard is management Excellent customer service is the corner(MSMEs) in the country. We serve 147,418 PERSONAL INFORMATION PROTECTION one of the future goals of the company. stone of the Bank’s brand. We treat our cusMSME customers. In 2019 62% of newly POLICIES Already now, management system is mostly Responding to our tomers with respect and professionalism. registered legal entities chose TBC Bank. based on the standard and consists of five TBC has elaborated information security components: customers’ needs We put our customers’ best interests at the policy document, which encompasses forefront of everything we do. CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA PROData Security Following information general principles approved by board of Digital innovation We understand diverse client needs, add TECTION security controls implemented: Control directors underlining their support for invalue, and build trust and relationships to access, cyphering, reserve copies and In digital epoch, dependence on informaformation security program. This is the main that endure. We are committed to offerother. Everything is implemented on the tion systems is growing rapidly, creating document defining company’s approach in ing solutions of the highest quality to our level of concrete data points, to ensure its a need for technology improvement and the information security field. clients. We constantly strive to anticipate protection from unauthorized access and proliferation in everyday life. With increase the rapidly changing needs of our clients In addition, there are thematic documents, modification. use technology and data, cyber security isand to develop new services to meet those which regulate certain topics and define sues also rise. Intelligently defending cyber Cyber security – IT systems security. Critineeds. In providing our services, we keep concrete procedures (for example IT opersystems together with providing superb cal information systems, which are used to our commitments, deliver what we promise, ations management security policy, syscustomer service, while using it, is one of access information, manage various proand act with honesty and integrity, whilst tems development and acquisition security the most important tasks in 21st century. cesses, are protected from compromising pursuing our values. policy, cyber-security incident management The Bank’s activities constantly require data and unauthorized use. We place clients at the center of our activpolicy, business continuity policy, informaobtaining, processing and keeping data, ities. We treat our customers fairly and in a tion security and risk management policy) Business continuity – comprises from documents and information pertaining manner which is compliant with all regulawhich cover whole TBC Group. banks readiness to restore processes fast in customers, employees, business partners, tory requirements. case of major halt and ensure business profinancial transactions and contracts. We TBC activities are also regulated by cyber have legal and ethical responsibilities to security frame document, elaborated by cess continuity in force-majeure situations. TBC Bank is a leader in the retail banking safeguard the confidentiality of information National Bank of Georgia, mandatory for all Physical security – In data centers and ofsegment in Georgia, serving 2.5 million regarding customers, employees, business commercial banks since 2019. fices, physical security controls are used to clients, which is 90% of adult population of partners or other third parties. protect hardware from physical hazards. the country. Among them, 82,540 are affluIDENTIFYING AND ADDRESSING DATA ent customers. Informing and training employees in Personal data protection is very important SECURITY RISKS We have a well-diversified loan portfolio, security issues and related risks. topic for our customers and is connected serving 3,232 corporate clients across all Company policies and initiatives in inforwith banks reputational, operational and Information security management system major sectors of the economy. 2019 was a mation security, is based on risk analysis financial risks. TBC works constantly on is based on continuous improvement cycle. strong year in terms of client acquisition held on regular basis. Once a year, informitigation of cyber risks and treats informaInformation security program’s effectiveand portfolio growth, especially in the mation security and cyber security risks tion security as one of its key tasks. ness is assessed regularly. Based on assessmid-corporate sub-segment. analysis is done, reviewing situation in Information security management is based ments, amendments in existing program are TBC Bank is the number one partner bank eastern European financial sector. Once in on formal rules and procedures, which done at the end of each quarter and next for micro, small and medium enterprises two years, external consultant is invited to comply with international requirements. 55 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 55 /05 Treating our Customers responsibly year program is prepared before the current Each employee is obliged to enroll in disyear end. While preparing for next year, tance learning course and receive attestaCustomer privacy current shortcomings are taken into considtion on information security issues. In 2019, and data protection eration and improvements planned. 98% of TBC Bank employees were enlisted in the course. Bank policies and management systems Personal cover majority of group companies, where Simulation is another approach used by information local teams manage these issues. Bank’s inbank to educate its employees. Fraud protection policies formation security department does group letters also known as “phishing” are send level coordination. to employees simulating real ones to teach Identifying and employees how to react on them. Bank has elaborated information security addressing data incidents management policy, procedures, Once in a quarter, employees receive inforsecurity risks and hotline for reporting fraud, for clients. mation email on important topics. If TBC client is a victim of fraud, or has a Protecting suspicion of unauthorized activity related customers personal PROTECTING CUSTOMERS PERSONAL to personal data or accounts, he or she can INFORMATION information address the hotline 24/7 and receive recommendations, while TBC team starts to react Providing constantly improving and diverBusiness integrity in immediately on the reported incident. sifying digital services enables TBC to be client relationships leading bank in innovation and increases Bank proactively monitors incidents and our capacity to deliver financial services to BUSINESS INTEGRITY IN CLIENT RELA>> Customers do not face unreasonable Clients’ complaints in case of fraudulent activity, blocks transthe whole population. At the same time, we TIONSHIPS post-sale barriers imposed by firms to management actions and informs clients immediately, pay utmost attention to protecting personal change product, submit a claim or make giving information about any suspicious Responsible and fair marketing and sales information and customer’s privacy. Treata complaint. Responding to our transaction attempted through clients card, activities ment of client data ethically, is a cornercustomers’ needs account, internet or mobile bank applicaThere is a regulators demand to provide stone for TBC’s high trust among customBy treating customers fairly we mean that: tion. client with full information, before decision ers. As a financial institution, we ensure that Digital innovation During 2019, “phishing” activities against client data is used only for proper purposes, >> Products and services promoted and of financial product purchase is made. bank clients were increased. Bank estabnecessary for serving their needs and sold are designed to meet the needs of Bank practices fully comply with regulators lished 24/7 monitoring on such activities respecting the clauses defined in contracts identified customer groups and are demands. There was only one case, when and has elaborated reaction mechanisms. In with them. targeted accordingly. bank was fined for not providing client with cooperation with National Bank of Georgia sufficient information. Marketing communiTBC Bank has implemented data leak >> Costumers are provided with clear and and Banking Association. cations fully comply with regulators deprevention system, enabling automatic accurate information in a timely manner mands and there were no incidents in this During 2019, In TBC Bank, there was not monitoring and in case of leak identifica>> Where customers receive advice, the regard during 2019. detected any single information security tion, blocks the process informing staff in advice is suitable and takes account of incident. charge, about the incident. Bank has internal instruction, regulating their needs and financial circumstances customer’s rights protection, which underBank also has access control policy, which >> Customers are informed about signifilines the necessity to provide information Informing and educating employees regulates so called Need to know and Least cant risks, restrictions and limits related about bank products, using clear language, Staff plays crucial role in information secuPrivilege principles. Within aforementioned, to specific financial products understandable for any customer. Bank also rity. Employees make first line in multilayer employees have access to maximum implemented standards enabling it to serve information security system. In order to amount of information needed for their >> Customers are provided with contracts visually impaired customers. inform them thoroughly, knowledge imwork, with access and data usage limited to drafted according to the Consumer provement program is implemented in the the actions necessary for their responsibiliProtection Law requirements Another document regulating transparent bank. It consists of the following: ties fulfillment. and fair relationship practices with custom>> The provided information is not in ers is Code of ethics, which covers financial >> Training new employees Policy and procedures are defined, for tended to influence client to make products transparency, is based on best ensuring proper involvement of third parties wrong decision >> Distant learning practices defined by law and covers whole with bank data. It considers legal and op>> All the promotion materials are drawn TBC Group. The document is available >> Learning simulations erational risks and limitations and ensures up based on Consumer Protection Law publicly. that only risk free information transfer can requirements >> Quarterly information letters be done to any third party. Training is held for each new employee, >> We do not encourage customers for CLIENTS’ COMPLAINTS MANAGEMENT During 2019, in TBC Bank, no personal data purchasing an unnecessary financial informing them about rules and procedures TBC has elaborated client complaints manleak or a report from customer about such product for the purpose of fulfilling our in the bank. agement system, which is described in a case has been detected. sales plan complain management process document. 55 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 55 /05 Treating our Customers responsibly and fine-tune our value proposition acQuality map is drawn every month. It concordingly. We regularly measure customer tains statistical data from all departments Customer privacy satisfaction levels based on various surveys which have direct or indirect connection and data protection conducted by independent third party with clients: SLA’s, Satisfaction Survey recompanies and maintain the highest scores sults, various parameter targets with results in the Georgian banking sector. We also falling into “fail”, “bellow target”, “on target” Personal hold the leading position among the whole zones. Subsequently, parameters that have information retail industry in the country. In order to unsatisfactory results are discussed with reprotection policies reinforce our customer-centric culture, this lated departments, and actions for improveyear we conducted a bank-wide survey and ment are planned. Identifying and identified employees who demonstrated addressing data Business transformation and customer exceptional customer care. These employsecurity risks satisfaction management department, ees were recognized as service leaders and implements service culture improvement were awarded with special gifts. Protecting initiatives annually. The initiatives include: customers personal Service quality assurance approach is >> Advance Service Skills Training – for described in following documents: “Service information front and back office department Standards” and “Code of Ethics”, which employees. Business integrity in cover fairness and transparency issues. On client relationships the level of head office, service quality is >> Service leader – for discovering special controlled based on service quality paramcustomer experience cases and ensures Clients’ complaints eters defined for head office departments recognition. management and monitored monthly. These parameters >> Voice of internal customer – for head are given on “Quality Map” and covers SLAs office departments, evaluating each Responding to our and customer satisfaction research results. others service and support for customers’ needs Service quality evaluation is based on colleagues. Clients are informed about the ways of fillplaints. The breakdown according to coninternational level service level agreements ing a complaint and its processing timeline, tent is as follows: We dedicate significant time and effort Digital innovation ( SLA) and metrics, client satisfaction survey through TBC webpage and all legal conto explore our clients’ banking needs and >> Quality of Service 33% results where internationally recognized tracts that clients sign. preferences and to constantly transform our customer experience parameters like NPS, >> Negotiation related to credit product products and services in order to deliver Client have a possibility to address bank CSAT, CES are calculated. Base line quality terms 19% outstanding experience in all our channels. with complaint in written form or verbally. standards are elaborated based on client Our customers’ interest are our top priority Following channels can be used. Phone >> Product terms and contract details 16% needs. Concrete quantifiable KPIs apply on and we are committed to making their lives center: +99532 2272727. Written complaint concrete processes. For example, process>> Correction of commissions, penalties, easier by acting as their trusted partner, can be delivered in branches, through ines like waiting time. interest rates 8% who is always ready to help. ternet bank and official webpage: tbcbank. com.ge. >> Transaction related 4% Complaints are discussed and directed for >> Demand for additional information or solution by customer support and comdocument 7% WE HAVE FOLLOWING RESEARCH SYSTEM, TO MONITOR CUSTOMER SENTIMENT plaint management group, which reports AND WORK ON CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT: >> Other 13% to National Bank of Georgia. Received complaints are uploaded in CRM module. All 100% of complaints were analyzed and Name of Who conducts Frequency Target segment and number of Complaint management specialist assess addressed. Client claims have been satisResearch the field in 2019 respondents the complaint in the timeframe defined by fied in 35% cases. CSAT Dual Independent ReTwice TBC and Bank of Georgia Dual law. If the complaint is filed in written form, Customers search Agencies. users. 1,000 respondents client gets following SMS: “Your complaint RESPONDING TO OUR CUSTOMERS’ CSI Operational TBC Call Center Monthly TBC Clients. 1,500 Respondents is registered. You will receive feedback NEEDS within one month “. CSI Credit TBC Call Center Monthly TBC Clients. 1,500 Respondents Reasons for complaint is analyzed, recEnsuring client satisfaction CSI channels TBC Call Center Monthly 400-400 TBC clients per product/ ommendations prepared and subsequent and products channel One of the most important values for TBC responsible persons addressed. Decision NPS status TBC Call Center Monthly TBC affluent clients 2200 Bank, as a service company, is customer made after analysis, is communicated to the respondents care, well-being and satisfaction. We reguclient though phone or in written form. Mistery Independent Monthly 400 observations larly request feedback from our clients and In 2019, TBC Bank received 3,355 comuse this information to analyze their needs Shopper Research Agency 55 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 55 /05 Treating our Customers responsibly DIGITAL INNOVATION their financial requirements or obligations has become especially important in this easily, without having to visit a bank. new reality. One such tool is Pay Sticker, Customer privacy Today, TBC is not only a financial institution, allowing you to make payments with POS and data protection but also a digital service company, setting An international financial publication terminals with a sticker attached to your general digitalization as its strategy. This Global Finance named TBC Mobile Bank as mobile phone. Personal is the brand’s long-term strategic move in the best in the world. TBC Mobile Bank is information order to simplify people’s lives with online the most modern, comfortable and conAnother way to make contactless payments protection policies services. venient app that allows more than half a is with a TBC wallet an app designed for million customers to use banking services Android phones that allows customers to Identifying and Currently, the main recommendation to quickly and without leaving home. The app add any TBC Bank card and make a transaddressing data stop the spread of Covid19 is to reduce is maximally tailored to the customer, be action on their mobile phone without using security risks physical contact, thus there is an increased it voice commands, design or supporting a card. Half a year ago, Apple Pay became demand for remote services and digital different operating systems. available for iPhone, Apple Watch, iPad and Protecting products. Mac users. customers personal With the help of TBC Internet and Mobile information TBC has successfully adapted to a new Bank, users are able to view their balance For those who do not want to pay with reality, which turned out to be both a chalsheets; create the bank statement; transfer either an e-wallet or a card, TBC created a Business integrity in lenge and an opportunity. TBC has boldly money to their own, someone else’s or a bracelet. The bracelet is an environmentally client relationships urged people to stay home, as the compacompany’s account; top up mobile balance; friendly, waterproof, heat and frost durable ny has enabled customers to receive any pay fines and utility bills; manage deposits product and the customer no longer needs Clients’ complaints banking service from a distance, in a safe and loans; view exchange rates and convert to carry extra items while using it. Payment management environment for the past few years. currencies; purchase banking products is especially comfortable when traveling, online; open a deposit. skiing, swimming or exercising at the gym. Responding to our In order to reduce the risks for consumer customers’ needs safety and increase the consumption of With the help of TBC Business Internet Another way of contactless payment is the digital products in the community, TBC Banking, business people can control their QR payment. In any facility where the QR Digital innovation cancelled the fee for digital products for 3 company’s revenue, expenditure and anacode is located, it is possible to scan the months. lyze their own activities. QR code from Mobile Bank and pay without get a loan remotely and easily. It takes only cash. Listed below are all TBC’s digital channels On an emergency online loan platform a few minutes to complete the application. that allow customers to receive and fulfill www.tbccredit.ge customers are able to The user receives an answer immediately. Through the online app, income confirmation is simplified and available online. TBC customers can pay all taxes in Georgia, be it utilities or various loans, in one space tbcpay.ge and it takes only a few minutes. Another innovation in TBC technology services is the integration of artificial intelligence. With the help of the first Georgian chat bot Ti Bot users can perform financial transactions without leaving Facebook Messenger. Ti Bot, which speaks Georgian, can transfer money from a bank account, check the balance, top up the mobile balance, and more. The first insurance chat bot in Georgia B Bot along with the online purchase of insurance, offers customers medical services abroad directly from the messenger without making an additional call. Banknotes were named as one of the ways Coronavirus is spread, which is why the possibility of making contactless payments 55 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 55 /05 Treating our Customers responsibly As part of the development of contactless TBC is the first company in the region to payments, TBC created the first digital card, offer customers a fully digital banking serCustomer privacy which is a digital analogue of a physical vice Space. and data protection plastic card and has all the debit card features. Space is a digital bank with the ambition of transforming the traditional daily banking Personal TBC offers a digital kit from Status to relaapproach. Space changes the way people information tively young customers. The kit is designed handle their daily banking needs with a protection policies for those who use banking products on a fusion of technology and design. In short, daily basis, those who actively consume Space is for saving people’s time by simple, Identifying and non-bank products and offers, and those mobile-only banking. We do not see digital addressing data who prefer to manage their finances and as an adjunct or addition, but as a core or security risks banking operations independently, withfundamental value. Space is a kind of re-enout a personal banker. Customers can take gineered bank, 100% customer-aligned and Protecting advantage of its lifestyle-friendly offerings, all the processes are digital. Zero time spent customers discounts at shopping facilities, and special on branch visits or interactions with the personal conditions at various events. The Status banking clerk – financial services delivered information Concierge helps them to fulfill various through a mobile app, with a pleasant derequirements. sign and dramatically better functional UX. Clients’ complaints management Similar to the bank, all companies belongSpace offers: Full digital onboarding, 24/7 ing to the TBC Group ecosystem serve to fast loans, online installments, instant monResponding to our save customers time and to make their life ey transfers, debit cards with unique loyalty customers’ needs easier. programs and free delivery, flexible savings pots, bills and other service payments. TBC is the owner of the control package of Digital innovation the online platform for purchasing tickets The aim of Space bank is to deliver a full TKT.ge TBC also launched this platform in daily banking mobile service with superior Uzbekistan. The number of loyal users of customer experience by putting a special the platform is 400,000. Since its inception, focus on differentiating by design, cusit has sold tickets to over 3,000 events. tomer care, price transparency and instant service delivery. TBC Group has created a digital real estate ecosystem in Georgia Livo.ge, where anyTBC has grasped digital possibilities in all one interested in purchasing real estate can areas and has been able to adapt to the search, evaluate, receive funding, re-regisnew reality in a short time so that neither ter, plan repair and cleaning works without consumers nor business processes are leaving home. harmed, which is essentially important today as for the team and the customers as TBC Group also promotes the developwell as the economy in general, which has ment of e-commerce. On the digital shopfaced greatest challenges caused by the ping platform Vendoo.ge, customers have pandemic. the opportunity to easily purchase and receive the desired products within 24 hours without leaving home. TBC Group includes Georgian e-commerce platform My.ge, which in turn combines the following platforms myauto.ge, myhome.ge, mymarket. ge and myjobs.ge. The group’s websites have 1.7 million unique users each month. 55 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 55 /06 Supporting Communities CONTENTS Financial inclusion and access Supporting youth to services Supporting stem education Mortgage loans with delayed payments Statusdonate.ge Financial literacy 94 Supporting art Supporting small business and Winter is over entrepreneurship Art galleries Tbc “Startuperi” Georgian literature and writing Business award E-books house saba Special online platforms for small Write in georgian and medium enterprises Business education 66 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 66 /06 Supporting Communities ulation of Georgia, TBC’s main strategic direction is constant development of digital Inclusion and financial services. TBC Mobile Banking is accessibility of named as best mobile bank application in financial products the world by Global finance in 2019. Bank offers contactless payment services, serves and services clients through call-center and chat-bots. Social impact of our Up to 95% of operations were done reoperations motely during 2019, by TBC Bank clients. Enhancing financial literacy SUPPORTING TBC is developing its digital footprint on group level as well: TBC Insurance provides clients with online insurance products; Promoting entreVendoo offers online shopping experience, preneurship and supporting SMEs COMMUNITIES customized for local needs. Citizens can also read or listen to literature, buy real estate, order goods delivery – all by using TBC group companies. Supporting culture and education TBC supports the development and wellto assess citizen’s sentiment and underwithout proper research and preparedbeing of society in two ways: By making stand what the main areas of concern for ness, just based on hype or popularity of peoples, life’s easier through providing Georgian people are and where they deem the issue, modern, digitalized financial services and support most important. Apart from public, • Co-participation not just funding. TBC comfortable products on one side, and by TBC consults with its corporate partners, to works with partners, whom it funds, involvement into social projects, sponsordefine key areas for business and economic contributing to growth of partner’s ships and community support on the other. development. projects not only through financial Main areas of action for community supsupport but also by sharing expertise in port: TBC, as an institution with major social and communication, project management >> Promoting Entrepreneurship and MSME economic impact, contributes to developand other. support ment of areas defined as crucial by coun>> Financial education and financial tries public sector and cooperates with inclusion National Bank of Georgia and other branchFINANCIAL INCLUSION AND ACCESS TO >> Youth support and education es of government in key areas like financial SERVICES >> Maintenance of cultural heritage by education, job creation, investment attracmaking it relevant in modern times, for tion etc. Access to financial services is important for new generation, through digitalization financial stability of the country and society and new forms of communication Apart from information gathered from exand give opportunity to people to better ternal sources, TBC access its own strength manage their income and expenses and Within aforementioned areas, TBC has and competencies and chooses areas of plan financial future. implemented initiatives that run stably involvement accordingly. We have several through years and aim at sustainably emprinciples, based on which initiatives to be To have modern and transparent economy, powering different groups of society. implemented are chosen. Each project has country needs well established, assessable TBC always works on increasing its busito be: financial services, with strong digital as well ness’s positive impact on Society. We try to • Long term. Having potential of growth, as physical infrastructure, that TBC prodefine possible areas of impact improveincreasing its positive impact on society vides. ment through dialogue with various stakeand country. Being a leader in financial sector, TBC enholders, research and analysis. TBC is part • TBC knowledge and expertise. Before sures that its branch, ATM and payment box of CSR club, which is local initiative uniting involving into certain area, TBC builds network covers whole country, economicompanies and organizations to enhance an expertise in it, by increasing knowl cally important centers, as well as remote dialogue around social responsibility and edge internally and collaborating with areas with less commercial activity. TBC Bank balances economic rational and define important areas where commercial external stakeholders that can contribresponsibility of giving access to financial sector has to contribute. TBC also does ute to the process with their experience. However, having well-established physiservices to the whole country, creating countrywide research once in two years, TBC does not engage in new fields cal network, which gives access to whole good coverage of economically advanced spectrum of financial services to the popas well as less prominent regions. 66 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 66 /06 Supporting Communities Network of Branches, ATMs and Payment boxes of TBC in Georgia Inclusion and Branches Tbilisi Other Big cities: Rest of the country: Total GeorKutaisi, Batumi, Economically less degia accessibility of Rustavi, Gori, Poti, veloped, rural areas and financial products Zugdidi small towns) and services Total at the 67 22 47 136 Social impact of our beginning of operations 2019 Enhancing financial Change in 0 +2 -2 0 2019 literacy Total for the 67 24 45 136 Promoting entrebeginning of (49%) (18%) (33%) preneurship and 2020 supporting SMEs Population 1,108,717 558,183 2,046,905 3,713,804 of Georgia (30%) (15%) (55%) Supporting culture (According to 2014 census of and education National Statistics Agency) ATMs Tbilisi Other Big cities: Rest of the country: Total Kutaisi, Batumi, Economically less deGeorgia Rustavi, Gori, Poti, veloped, rural areas and Zugdidi small towns) Total at the 302 84 92 478 beginning of 2019 Change in +16 +25 +69 +110 2019 Total for the 318 109 161 588 beginning of (54%) (19%) (27%) 2020 Population 1,108,717 558,183 2,046,905 3,713,804 of Georgia (30%) (15%) (55%) (According to 2014 census of National Statistics Agency) Payment Tbilisi Other Big cities: Rest of the country: Total Boxes Kutaisi, Batumi, Economically less deGeorgia Rustavi, Gori, Poti, veloped, rural areas and Zugdidi small towns) Total for the 1,391 828 884 3,103 beginning of (45%) (27%) (28%) 2020 Population 1,108,717 558,183 2,046,905 3,713,804 of Georgia (30%) (15%) (55%) (According to 2014 census of National Statistics Agency) 66 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 66 /06 Supporting Communities from over 20 collaborating companies can also be found on the platform. Inclusion and accessibility of “Startuperi” was launched in 2017 and over financial products 34,800 startups have been registered in the and services program’s various activities since. Favorable startup loans, in the total amount of 247 Social impact of our million GEL, have been issued to over 691 operations startups. Enhancing financial literacy Apart from trainings, products and promotional support, TBC supports startups Promoting through its procurement policies, which permit to assign contracts to startup comentrepreneurship panies, without usual tender procedures, in and supporting exceptional cases. SMEs Supporting culture In 2019, as part of Startup environment supand education port, an innovative project called Startup Decree was launched for the TBC team. TBC’s strategy is to establish its role as a FINANCIAL LITERACY Launching a Facebook webpage Edufin, TBC “STARTUPERI” key player in the development of Georgia’s which is designed to promote financial startup ecosystem. This year, TBC decided “Startuperi” is TBC’s program aimed at to encourage entrepreneurship within the TBC being biggest financial institution in literacy though interactive posts, videos facilitating the development of startups and company as well and provided the opporthe country contributes to the improvement and blogs, attracting respectable authors, stimulating the creation of new businesses. tunity for employees with ideas to try their of financial literacy among Georgia’s popknown in Georgian society, to contribute to The program includes financial and non-fihand at a startup. ulation using its customer service frontline the page and thus make financial literacy an nancial support for startups: startup loans, employees as well as mass communication. attractive topic. operation products, events and trainings, The project offers TBC employees a TBC cooperates with National Bank of individual consultations, and support. 6-month paid leave in order to implement Georgia and Junior Achievement Georgia SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESS AND In 2019, over 700 startups were trained their business ideas. jointly offering financial education projects ENTREPRENEURSHIP under the auspices of the program. Three for youth. Small and Medium business represents the startup discussions were organized with Out of 24 applications submitted as part of backbone of global economy. In order to more than 200 participants, and various the “Startup Decree,” three startup ideas of TBC recognizes financial literacy as one address social and economic challenges blogs and articles were prepared for as three persons from Tbilisi were selected: of the key factors for country’s economic that Georgia faces, development of small many as 150 startups. Ge Parts, Inventor, and Mushroom. The development and stability. Responsible and medium business is especially importThe startuperi.ge platform currently inauthors of the aforementioned ideas will lending, customer education for promotion ant. It contributes to reduction of unemcludes information about 456 startups. use their 6-month paid leaves of absence to of savings, digitalization of banking services ployment, poverty and boosts economic Information about special offers for startups implement their startups in 2020. for more transparency and comfort for cusgrowth. tomer, are among top priorities for TBC. SME sector, especially newly established TBC has been active in direction of financompanies have to overcome various cial literacy already for 5 years. During 2019, obstacles, among them shortage of necesmain activities were: sary capital, knowledge and skilled labor for expansion and other. Cooperation with Junior Achievement To assist SME sector, in overcoming this Georgia and National Bank of Georgia – impediments, TBC rolled out several organizing financial literacy contest for programs already for several years. The schoolchildren. Promoting financial literacy programs cover various issues like easing as a must have skill for future generations. access to capital, sharing knowledge and Over 50 school participating throughout expertise, developing products and serGeorgia, with over 100 children participatvices specially adapted for small business ing in final contest. needs, inclusion of small enterprises in TBC Cooperation with National Bank of Georgia, supply chain and helping them to promote organizing contest for over 500 children on their products. financial literacy. 66 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 66 /06 Supporting Communities SPECIAL ONLINE PLATFORMS FOR rate social responsibility and reflect on its SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES image and customer loyalty. As many as Inclusion and 4,000 people attended trainings organized accessibility of TBC Bank has united its non-banking serby TBC in 15 different fields in 2019. The financial products vices in a single platform, www.tbcbusiness. program was carried out with the support of ge the Asian Development Bank. and services Social impact of our Here, entrepreneurs can find information A new standard for the accounting and operations in the form of blogs about the activities of management of leases was introduced in various companies, as well as interesting 2019. Within its business education proEnhancing financial business news and trends. They can select gram, TBC Bank provided comprehensive literacy an area of interest and attend trainings, information to its business clients on the Promoting master classes, and forums organized by newest standards for lease accounting. entrepreneurship TBC and gain information on their topics of Representatives of 156 companies attended and interest from experts in the field. the full IFRS for SMS 6-week course, orgasupporting SMEs nized by TBC Bank, and learned about the The platform provides information about new standards. various business software to its users. It Supporting culture connects technological product suppliers A series of large-scale business forums in and education and potential users by means of an unprecthe regions of Georgia organized by TBC edented ecosystem – www.businesstool.ge is ongoing with 4 regional business forums Philanthropy Businesses operating in different areas can held in 2019. As many as 300 business find and evaluate different software, applirepresentatives attended the Tskaltubo cations, or tools made in Georgia all within business forum while over 400 business a single platform. The website offers up to representatives attended the Telavi, Zugdidi 70 software products to its users. and Borjomi forums. Over 10 field experts met local businesses in each forum. After BUSINESS EDUCATION the main lectures, the audience was invited to attend various workshops. A partner of TBC’s business education-supporting TBC’s regional business is the European projects are part of the company’s corpoFund for Southeast Europe (EFSE). BUSINESS AWARD tinguished for social responsibility, special care for employees, and best startups. For the fourth year TBC has organized the Over 350 businesses of various fields took largest-scale business award in Georgia part in Business Awards 2019. The public aimed at supporting small and mediwas informed of their activities on both um-sized enterprises and development of TBC’s communication channels and tradibusiness society, as well as the popularizational media. tion of doing business. The Business Awards platform brought together as many as 2,000 members during This year, during the final Business Awards its first 4 years, all of whom have shared the ceremony winners were announced in the stories of their successes with all of Georfollowing categories: development of the gia. best product/service, best innovations, dis66 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 66 /06 Supporting Communities Saba Natroshvili is a rugby player. He’s Inclusion and been playing rugby for 3 years now. He went accessibility of to the stadium along with his friend for his financial products very first match and rugby has been his and services hobby ever since. Saba plays #10 position Social impact of our for rugby club “Lelo”. For Saba the most imoperations portant thing in rugby is team playing and working together to achieve the same goal. Enhancing financial TBC supported Saba to make his longliteracy time dream come true and he attended the match between Georgia and Germany in Promoting Kutaisi, 2019. It was a very exciting experientrepreneurship ence for him to get to know the members and supporting of Georgian rugby team. His biggest will is SMEs to become a successful rugby player and to Supporting culture become a member of Georgian rugby team. and education We’re helping him to reach this goal. Mariam Muchiashvili, 17, is an all-around talented pianist. The most important thing in her profession is hard work and being SUPPORTING YOUTH as from towns nearby the occupation line, loyal to what you do. Mariam first started NGO’s organizing children contests, chess playing the piano when she was 8 and the Supporting new generation is extremely and other sport federations and with their hardest part of her career path was that one important for TBC. We must contribute to support, gathered 200 beneficiaries for year time, when she didn’t have a piano at home development and education of youngsters, 2019. to practice on for months, thus, she spent in order to prepare skilled and educated almost entire days in the music school. TBC professionals for Georgian Economy and This children received 100 GEL per month, took a video about Mariam, where she plays good citizens for society. from March 2019 to March 2020. Apart from a fragment from Verdi/Listz’s Rigoletto and financial support, children were involved in that’s how the entire country got to know TBC scholarship for school children various educational lectures organized for her name. them during the year: Lecture in Georgian Georgia is full of talent, which needs National Museum, Special lecture about support to overcome economic hardships, famous Georgian Artist, David Kakabadze, get access to knowledge and possibility exhibited in TBC gallery, Civic education to develop. Many of them could also be an class from famous Georgian teacher Lado Rezi Burduli is a freestyle ski racer from example and motivation for others, in case Apkhazava, who in 2019 was among ten village Arakhveti, where he lives and pracsociety knows about their endeavors. best teachers in the world, according to tices. Rezi’s been skiing since the age of 8. Global Teachers Prize, Lecture and excurThere is no local winter sports school and Each year, TBC sends out hundreds of sion in Georgian Ethnographic museum Rezi is visiting Tbilisi every now and then to precious gifts to its important customers. and other minor activities. practice, yet he learns new tricks from local In 2018, we decided that instead of going the usual way, we could use the budget for colleagues and Youtube videos. TBC made Program will continue in 2020 with 68 new a film about Rezi in 2019, while Rezi beestablishing new scholarship program for participants, that substituted those who are came the winner of local championship, it’s schoolchildren. We informed our clients or become 18 in 2020. important to note that he was the youngest and they eagerly supported us in this idea. We contacted schools with children in of the participants. Video went viral in social Meet some of our celebrity scholarship media and it was viewed for over 1,5 million STEM and art disciplines, schools from beneficiaries: times. most remote regions of Georgia as well 77 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 77 /06 Supporting Communities SUPPORTING STEM EDUCATION Inclusion and Sparking interest in scientific and technoaccessibility of logical fields among youth is one of the top financial products priorities in the world. TBC supports initiaand services tives that promote the education of future generations in this area. Social impact of our operations TBC supports young inventor’s competition “Leonardo Da Vinci” organized by Ministry Enhancing financial of Education, Science, Culture and Sport of literacy Georgia. We offer facility for final competition, prizes for winners and promotion of Promoting the project itself. The competition is very entrepreneurship popular and attracts teams from up to 100 and supporting schools around Georgia. TBC partners with SMEs the contest from 2016 and partnership will Supporting culture continue in 2020 as well. and education In 2019, we collaborated with another STEM field contest: Millennium Innovation Award, organized by Millennium Challenge Georgia, USAID, Embassy of the United States and Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport of Georgia. In May 2019, TBC SUPPORTING ART The anniversary edition of the David Kasupported the visit of five winners of Millenkabadze catalogue was published. It fully nium Innovation Award to the US, at NASA Exhibition and research of famous Georreflects the range and scale of the artist’s Space Institute, where they spent a week gian artist and scholar, David Kakabadze’s research and methods as well as the need getting to know about modern technology artwork. for them in the modern world. achievements. Children from best teams from both conTBC is one of the major supporters of Within the scope of the project, with the test also became TBC scholarship beneficulture in Georgia. In so doing, TBC aims support of TBC, the David Kakabadze Founciaries for year 2019. towards long-term and consistent promodation created an archive which includes tion of both cultural institutions and individdocumentation from the artist’s family as ual creative and cultural projects. well as materials reflecting various creative In cooperation with the David Kakabadze processes. STATUSDONATE.GE Foundation, the 130th anniversary since the birth of Georgian artist, scientist, inventor To facilitate open and modern access by a TBC Status special project – Status Doand pioneer of Georgian modernism, Davit wide audience to the Georgian heritage, the nates is created on behalf of TBC Status Kakabadze, was celebrated with a multicollections of David Kakabadze at various clients to help young people with outstandstage project. museums and theaters across Georgia ing talent and opportunities. The platform were converted in their entirety into digital – www.statusdonates.ge – helps them to A retrospective exhibition, which united format. reach out and also shows the stories of paintings, notes and sketches from state those who have participated in the project arts institutions as well as from the family of Within the scope of the project, one of moved forward, started interesting project the artist and private collections was orgaTBC’s main aims was the comprehensive or won international competitions in differnized at TBC Gallery. research of David Kakabadze’s work. This ent fields of the study. The platform is also was the approach underlying the creation open to help the initiatives that are dedicatThe TBC Art Gallery hosted a multimedia of the interdisciplinary educational platform ed to create additional value for the society, project entitled GAMMA. As part of the – BAZA, which will continue its developscience or art. project, three young artists, Nikoloz Kapment in 2020 as well. In the future, BAZA will anadze, Mariam Akulashvili and Dimitri Shucreate an area open to anyone: professional The project took off almost three years ago bitidze, created audiovisual spatial installaartists, researchers, students or simply interand since then has changed lives of more tions in digital media based on inspirations ested people. This will be a space in which than 100 people. from David Kakabadze’s concepts and for modern visual art is connected to cultural studying the interaction between humans and scientific processes. and light. 77 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 77 /06 Supporting Communities tionship between Magnum Photos photogwere also able to view a video depicting the raphers and Georgia in general, particularly process of preparing the book in the “MagTbilisi. Exhibition was covering a period of num” office in Paris along with an interview more than 70 years (1947-2018) and comwith Martin Parr during his visit to Tbilisi. Inclusion and acbined 35 photos of Tbilisi taken for 71 years A presentation of a book titled “Martin Parr cessibility of by “Magnum” member photographers, Tbilisi” authored by a famous British phofinancial products including: Mr. Robert Capa, Mr. Henri Carttographer, Mr. Martin Parr was also held at and services ier-Bresson, Mr. Carl De Keyzer, Mr. Guethe gallery. The book was created accordorgui Pinkhassov, Mr. Jonas Bendiksen, Mr. ing to photographs taken in Tbilisi and was Social impact of our Paolo Pellegrin, Mr. Thomas Dworzak, and published in Munich thanks to the coopoperations Mr. Martin Parr. eration with one of the famous German Enhancing financial publishers – “Prestel Publishing.” The book The exhibition started with photos that literacy also includes several photos of Tbilisi taken were taken by Robert Capa and John Steinin 2009 by Martin Parr. beck in 1947 during their trip to Tbilisi. This Promoting was the year the agency, Magnum Photos Exhibitions of famous Georgian artist and entrepreneurship was founded. The exhibition ended with scholar, David Kakabadze was also orgaand supporting photos taken by Martin Parr in 2018. Visitors nized using TBC Gallery premises. SMEs Supporting culture and education Philanthropy WINTER IS OVER In 2019, TBC became a chronicler of the modern history of Georgia; reviving 90s’ Georgia in Guram Tsibakhashvili’s largescale photo exhibition, book and a film winter is over. The book itself is composed of up to 250 photos taken by Guram Tsibakhashvili and essays by Ana Kordzaia Samadashvili; it depicts one of the most crucial episodes of Georgia’s recent past from 1987 to 1995. Up to 80 photos were exhibited in Tbilisi and Batumi. ART GALLERIES GEORGIAN LITERATURE AND cultural life and exciting modern writers. TBC has galleries available for artists in WRITING Saba motivates writers with prestigious Tbilisi, Kutaisi and Batumi. TBC galleries award, as well as monetary prizes: 6,000 offer a wide-ranging program that brings Saba literary award GEL for each nomination’s winner and together myriad aspects of contemporary 10,000 GEL for the nominee on special conculture, including exhibitions, as well as The annual SABA literary award was estabtribution to Georgian Literature. literature, music and performance. Other lished in 2003. The award is given to 9 categories: formats and events include: exhibitions, The aim of the award is to support Georconferences, panel discussions, lectures, gian writers and promote reading culture • Best Novel workshops, live performances and events in the country. Many currently well-known • Best Poetry for employees. Defined as a place of dismodern Georgian writers had their first • Best Prose covery the aim is to stimulate the debate public recognition within Saba Award. • Best Essay on contemporary culture and creativity as Having 17 years History, Saba is the most • Best professional debut well as to promote and expand interdisciprestigious literary prize in Georgia. In 2018, • Best literature critics plinary exchange and networking. TBC held Saba’s award ceremony in Frank• Best non-fiction literature furt, as part of Georgia’s participation in • Best translation from foreign language In 2019 TBC Gallery hosted an exhibition Frankfurt Book festival, as a guest country. into Georgian ‘TBILISI IN MAGNUM PHOTOS’ BOOKS’. This was done to enhance Georgia’s image • Special contribution to Georgian The show featured a long-standing relainternationally, as a country of developed Literature. 77 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 77 /06 Supporting Communities more precise), the hashtag #writeingeorwere so enthusiastic about the “Kartulad” gian (#წერექართულად) was used over project. Ivane Javakhishvili Tbilisi State UniInclusion and 300,000 times, and that’s not all. versity, the leading and the oldest university accessibility of in Georgia, has donated 50K already-transContributors of the campaign digitalized up financial products lated sentences. Microsoft’s office in to 30 fonts and Georgian-English dictionarGeorgia, innovative technology laboratory and services ies. For the record, as of 2019, if you use the “GEOLAB”, and the electronic book house Latin alphabet for the Georgian text, odds Social impact of our “SABA” have actively participated in the are that people will Latin-alphabet-shame operations project, as well. you, and yes, TBC is the one to “blame”. Enhancing financial Sentences translated to English will be Following the #writeinGeorgian campaign, literacy loaded into the learning systems developed TBC has taken up a new challenge: to inteby Microsoft as the translation system is Promoting entregrate the Georgian language into Windows mostly data based. After the system anapreneurship and OS. lyzes the information, we get a program, supporting SMEs While the process of integration seemed that is almost fully aware of the Georgian The award committee consists of 5 memcame clear that online book house in native quite intimidating at the beginning, with language, and its explicit linguistic systems. Supporting culture bers that changes every year. Members of language would give people in Georgia the help of the Georgian population, as the The translation machine will be capable of and education the committee are writers and people from as well as emigrants abroad, perfect way completion of the first stage, 100K Geortranslating from English to Georgian and literary fields, whose works are not eligible of enjoying literature, having books at one gian sentences translated to English have vice versa. for entry that year. The final decision is left click distance. For this purpose, a webpage already been submitted to Microsoft. The Successful implementation of the project up to the award committee, the winner of www.saba.com.ge has been established. It process of translation itself was based on enables numerous Microsoft programs to the closed primary selection should reencompasses various Georgian and foreign the project “Kartulad” (“In Georgian”). The use Georgian-English translation programs. ceive at least 3 votes from the committee literary works, modern best-sellers and the project aims to integrate the Georgian Also, web developers and programmers members. Before the award ceremony day, works of SABA award nominees and winlanguage across Microsoft’s various softwho create programs for Windows system committee member list is confidential, disners. This platform gives the opportunity to ware. To be able to do so, Microsoft’s AI will be able to use an automated translation closed only during the ceremony. be up-to-date with literary processes and system has to learn the language first using program, which is somewhat an output of The 2019 SABA awards was presented to have your favorite books on hand. the above-mentioned 100K sentences that the project “Kartulad”. for the 17th time and has been the most have already been provided to Microsoft. prestigious award given for the GeorTogether with webpage, users can downThe first stage of the project is already TBC has created a dedicated platform gian-language literature. For these 17 years, load SABA Reader app with more than completed, and now we’re looking forward to facilitate and speed up the translation up to 3,700 books have been evaluated, 129 6,000 built-in books, audio books, podto commencing the next steps, aka inteprocess, www.kartulad.ge, and any citizen authors received an award and 160 awards casts, lectures etc. The users of the app grating the Georgian language into Wincould participate voluntarily in the translawere given, 75 different members were in have an unlimited access to literature and dows OS. tion process. We are glad that citizens of the committee and 825,000 GEL in total receive and outstanding and modern expeGeorgia, especially students and teachers, was awarded to the winners. rience. 104,993 persons have read book by Saba “This format of the award ceremony, this reader through 2019. festive mood is very important, puts spotlight on the literature, which is very rare and WRITE IN GEORGIAN is not visible for the masses in most cases.” Through our digital channels we underNino Kharatishvili. Germany-based Georstood that the majority of the Georgian gian writer. She’s an author of global population used the Latin alphabet while best-seller books. Her books have been texting. Considering the fact that probably published in Germany, UK, Bulgaria, the half of the world population uses the Latin Netherlands, Turkey etc. Nino was awardalphabet when writing, this may not seem ed SABA award in Frankfurt, 2018 for her strange. But it really is, as Georgia has its contribution in Georgian-German literary own alphabet (Mkhedruli Script), somepartnerships. thing the Georgian nation is proud of. E-BOOKS HOUSE SABA TBC, one of the leading banks in Georgia, wanted to challenge Georgians to use In 2013, TBC decided to give readers posGeorgian alphabet while texting and startsibility of access to Georgian and foreign ed a campaign named #writeingeorgian, literature in Georgian language, online. With which resulted in increased use of Georgrowing importance of digitalization, it begian Unicode in digital world (by 68%, to be 77 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 77 /07 Treating our Suppliers CONTENTS Responsibly Our suppliers in 2019 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Procurement by Type Supplier selection and payment policies Dialogue with Suppliers Managing Environmental and Social Risks of our purchases 77 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 77 /07 Treating our Suppliers Challenge Responsibly to implement group Our suppliers in wide supplier 2019 relationship and Dialogue with Suppliers Managing TREATING OUR procurement policy, SUPPLIERS to harmonize and Environmental and Social Risks of our purchases standardize existing RESPONSIBLY policies. Data presented in this chapter involving these companies in our purchasProcurement by Type ing activities. We understand, that bank applies to TBC bank only being a very large buyer can significantly In 2019, the main procurement categories were the following: contribute to start-up company developSupply chain expenditures Bank 2019 Value, % ment through procurement deals. In certain OUR SUPPLIERS IN 2019 cases, our procedure allows to give startIT, Computer techniques 5,6% TBC is one of the largest purchasers in the ups special conditions in procurement country. Therefore, our responsible purprocess – buying without tender or price Rent 5,2% chasing practices and relationships with quotation announcement from them. suppliers can have a significant impact on Marketing 11,8% We are always ready to involve supply chain well-being, financial stability and developcompanies with rather little experience, that Software 5,5% ment of suppliers, as well as economy in have potential for development. whole. Communication cost 1,9% In 2019 we cooperated with 4928 supliers, We understand the scale of our impact, 148 suppliers were new. Furniture and devices 2,1% treat our suppliers responsibly, strive to have permanent dialogue, understand and respond to their needs. We also stimulate Proportion of spending on local Supplier selection and payment policies communication channel for receiving and implementation of environmental protecsuppliers responding to questions of potential suption and social risk management standards TBC bank supplier selection and payment pliers. They also have opportunity to send in our purchasing activities. In 2019, 90% the total number of suppliers processes are regulated based on Supplier inquiries directly to company representacontracted by the bank were local, the value Relationships and Procurement Policy and TBC bank cooperates with a wide range of tives via e-mail. If based on inquiries tender of purchasing made with equaled 78% of Procedures. While selecting new supplisuppliers, from small startup to large comrequirements are corrected, all participants total. Under local suppliers we understand ers, we operate based on the principles panies, as well as individual providers of equally receive information. Average tender Georgia resident companies, that sell localof equality, equal opportunities and fair services,. We pay special attention to small duration is three days and may also include ly produced, as well as imported goods or competition. local suppliers and promote their inclusion meeting with pre-selected suppliers. services. in our supply chain. Selection is made in most cases through We are cautious while preparing tender This is a clear indicator of our input in the electronic tenders, for which bank uses Bank operates a project called “Startuperi” specifications in order to avoid setting local economy development. At the same third party online platforms (www.etenders. through which we supports local start-up tender requirements that are not validated, time, we understand that operations with ge , www.jobs.ge). Bids are received and companies producers of products and proved and may serve artificial limitation of local suppliers helps decrease CO2 emistrade is performed online, companies have services, as well as importers. We strive to competition. sions related to the transportation of goods. opportunity to track tender requirements, support startups through offering them specifications, number of participants and We have elaborated transparent and obvarious tailor-made banking products; Also prices. The same online platform serves as jective selection criteria and procedures, 88 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 88 /07 Treating our Suppliers Responsibly that ensure fair competition and equality procurement processes, supplier potenBank is in the process of optimizing prowhile choosing suppliers. Decision is made tials and possibilities. Procurement team curement processes through implementing Our suppliers in through consensus. also practices face to face meetings with Enterprise Resource Planning System, we 2019 suppliers. expect, that it will enable better processSupplier Relationship process optimizaing and control, as well as reporting and Dialogue with tion is done in three different directions: Bank also plans in 2020 to actively work for analysis. decreasing bureaucracy, decision timing, supplier awareness rising in the EnvironSuppliers update of contracts. mental Protection and Social risk manageMANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL AND Managing ment directions. Recurring training sessions SOCIAL RISKS OF OUR PURCHASES We clearly understand that one of the most Environmental for suppliers are envisaged. important aspects of cooperation with supBeing one of the largest purchasers in the and Social Risks pliers is company payment policy. We strive country, we achnowledge and understand of our purchases Complaint and Grievance Management, to adapt our payment policy to supplier social, economic and environmental impact Supplier Remedy needs and at the same time consider comof our procurement decisions and operpany financial stability. TBC bank applies ations, as well as requirements towards TBC bank operates supplier complaint various approaches, including flexible polsuppliers. Hence we strive to manage envimanagement procedure and supplier remicy of advance payments (e.g. full advance ronmental and social risks as well as opporedy system. We regularly conduct market with guarantee and partial advance without tunities in our supply chain with high sense research to understand their satisfaction guarantee, based on relationship quality of responsibility. level and needs. and duration with suppliers). Supplier Complaint Management system DIALOGUE WITH SUPPLIERS and process is described in bank procureTo us, efficient dialogue with suppliers ment procedure. Complaint opportunity is communicated in tender documentation, Challenge means assessing their needs and satisfacto implement the rule considers presentation of comtion level, creating complaint and grievance plaints to Procurement Division Curator mechanisms and responding to them Director within 3 days, after tender outcome accordingly. To us it is very important how suppliers evaluate our procurement policy. is communicated to suppliers. As soon as supplier complaint complaint is received, the potential supplier We use various communication channels to understand their needs, ideas and initiatives is invited for a face to face meeting and the reporting and complaint is discussed. Online communicaand ensure their satisfaction in line with staying competitive. tion channels can also be used. analysis system in In most of the cases complaint response Procurement team periodically organizes supplier meetings and open days where on is sent to potential supplier in written, via e-mail or official correspondence. Currently the bank and also one hand company needs, tender practices are communicated, while on the other bank does not have supplier complaints reporting system. group wide. hand company strives to better understand We prioritize the use of green and energy-efficient products in our everyday activities by incorporating environmental assessment into procurement process. We strive to promote sustainability, encourage suppliers for responsible activities and environmental standard and hence decrease our indirect negative impacts. In order to decrease environmental and social risks in supply chain, we require all suppliers to sign TBC personal data protection, anti-corruption and tax avoidance clauses, that represent indispensable part of the contract and are mandatory for implementation. 88 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 88 /07 Treating our Suppliers Responsibly ers. We started the process of filling out the questionnaire late 2019. Filling out of Our suppliers in the questionnaire will be mandatory for all 2019 long-term suppliers of the bank in 2020. The topics included in the questionnaire Dialogue with are based on international, IFC&EBRD PS/ Suppliers PR standards and are the following: Managing 1. Company environmental protection Environmental management system and Social Risks of our purchases 2. Pollution prevention and waste man agement systems 3. Working conditions 4. Working rights 5. Works safety 6. HR management The evaluation of suppliers is done by Environmental Protection and Social Risk Management team, Logistics and Procurement Departments. Green Purchase Recommendations ment departments. Green Purchase RecChallenge: ommendations document is available to all The Environmental Protection and Social Risk Management Policy of the group, inemployees for the upcoming cludes Green Purchases Recommendations Responsible Procurement Training that are enhanced to be taken into account To enhance our Environmental Protection years one of our goals during purchases. These recommendations point at procurement of more environment and Social Risk management across the Bank, we developed Responsible Procureand challenge in friendly products and services, products ment Training module for procurement that have better environmental protection criteria, are certified according to environstaff and buyers. This training emphasizrelation to suppliers es Environmental protection and social mental protection standards, etc. management risks that may exist in supply will be improving The recommendations also apply to conchains and elaborates on the processes of struction/renovation works, heating-cooling and ventilation systems, office and other mitigating and managing these risks. management of In order to help suppliers comply with the technique purchases, that gradually help in implementing energy efficiency standards. Environmental and Social Risk Manageof socio-economic ment requirements and in general to raise TBC Bank also has developed Green Construction Standard, as a part of Green Purenvironmental and social awareness among suppliers, we plan to hold free of charge risks in the supply chases Recommendation, that represents quarterly trainings for suppliers in 2020. green recommendations for building and chain and enhancing renovating TBC offices. Supplier Screening Environmental As Green Purchase Recommendations Protection and Social Risk Management Questionnaire implementation of are not mandatory for implementation, standards and criteria presented in this In 2019 we developed Environmental sustainable, socially & document are applied when possible, with Protection and Social Risk Management the active involvement of Environmental Protection and Social Risk Management Questionnaire in order to screen suppliers. The screening process should help bank economically inclusive team, along with Logistics and Procuredeciding about cooperation with suppliprocurement policy. 88 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 88 /08 TBC’s response to Covid 19 >> 0% commission for all transactions, TBC For You including: transfers to others through account or mobile numbers in any currency, paying the utility bills, refilling the mobile phone balance; >> 1% more annual returns when opening a deposit in the national currency; >> First-year service without commission TBC’S RESPONSE when ordering a new debit card; >> Better exchange rate and an increased daily conversion limit. TO COVID-19 Along with the steps taken in the banking and financial sector, TBC considers it significant to move forward with its corporate social responsibility, supporting and authoring many interesting and necessary ideas. TBC has created a program to support the population of Georgia #TBCforyou, Like the rest of the world, the spread of which operate in tourism, food and indusand remote channels helped the company which combines all the projects initiated Covid 19 has had a negative impact on the tries that require social gatherings. The to support clients without impediments. by TBC to reduce the damage caused by economy of Georgia as well. The necessary grace period applied to both the down COVID-19. measures to prevent the spread of the virus payment and the interest rate. The clients Number of online chats during the day have led to economic losses; they have received detailed information individually 5 million GEL was allocated to overcome 1800 radically changed the lifestyle, priorities and via the remote channels, without having to the challenges. The support program needs of both the country as a whole and of visit the branches. consists of 2 components: 2 million GEL each citizen. for social assistance initiatives, focusing on TBC, as one of the largest companies in the Until March 10th promoting distance education, helping the Hundreds of large and small companies region, has taken into account the recomelderly and spreading digital technologies; have stopped operating. The companies were forced to permanently discharge their mendations of the World Health Organization regarding the current situation and 4500 over 3 million GEL will be spent to alleviate the commission costs for both individuals workers. In parallel with the spread of the maximally shifted to remote working. TBC After March 10th and businesses during two months. virus area, the restriction of demand and cares for its employees and customers and supply has become a significant problem at the same time takes full responsibility for During the day At the same time, the online platform for the economic growth of the country. the smooth running of the company. “TBC for You” https://www.tbcforyou.ge/ Total number of incoming calls has been launched, gathering all digital In the given situation, it was vital to involve The company is constantly calling for and 0000 services of TBC and its partners, which the private sector in the processes that preencouraging customers to make the most 00000 helps users in digitalization. The focus is on vent the crisis, to cooperate with the Georof the remote channels through which Status clients calls supporting the population and businesses, gian government and the public sector and almost all banking services are available. 0000 distance education, online commerce and to take effective steps as much as possible. Since March 20, TBC has temporarily 0000 many other services that make life easier for suspended the operation of several service Corporate customers calls TBC was one of the first companies to customers in this new reality. centers located in crowded areas. 000 respond promptly to the spread of the virus 000 Cooperation between the state and the in its early stages, developing the anti-crisis In recent years, the company’s strategy has Number of calls taken by each staff member private sector has a crucial role to play plan for both employees and clients and been to develop and digitize remote chan00 in overcoming the challenges facing the despite the unprecedented nature of the nels. 93% of transactions are made online. 000 country. TBC shares this responsibility and crisis, instantly mobilizing financial, human That is why TBC has been fully prepared for Until March 10th After March 10th is therefore working in concert with the and intellectual resources to overcome the new challenges; the changes implemented government to address the needs of the challenges existing in the country. for the safety of its employees and over 2 In addition, in order to further simplify the country. Healthcare is the primary sector in million clients have not caused any delays lives of consumers during the current 2 need of support and proper functioning in TBC’s initial step was to offer a three-month in terms of services and operations. Despite months, individuals enjoy the following this situation. That is why, based on congrace period on loan payments to individudrastic increase in the flow of customers conditions when conducting banking opsultations with the government, TBC has als, owners of micro, small and medium-size in remote channels ( Please see graphical erations and transactions through the TBC purchased 10,000 COVID-19 rapid tests businesses and to all major businesses, information provided) developed digital remote channels: worth GEL 352,000 and handed them over 88 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 88 /08 TBC’s response to Covid 19 whom all safety measures were provided by TBC. TBC allocated a total of GEL 7,140 TBC For You for equipment and products. The social platform “Unity” (www.1anoba.ge) unites volunteers and companies who have the means and desire to coordinate and mobilize common resources to help those who need it most. #TBCforyou program offers local micro, small and medium-sized businesses a variety of initiatives to simplify their activities. Within the framework of the program, anyone can take part in the donation and support their favorite Georgian company. To do this, the platform tbc4u.vendoo.ge FORBUSINESS was launched. In return for the money transferred, customers will receive a voucher from their favorite company, which they will be able to redeem as soon as the businesses continue to operate normally. to the Ministry of Health. people study through the university fundFORBUSINESS ing or grant programs and are successful The #TBCforyou program combines sevToday, the highest risk group for infection students. eral other initiatives to support Georgian with the virus is the elderly. It is crucially micro, small and medium-sized businesses: important to take care of the people for Also, with the involvement of TBC staff, Vendoo.ge also started collaboration to whom it is the most difficult to adapt to laptops were distributed to 100 socially >> Supporting the digitalization of support the local entrepreneurs and businew reality. It is important to provide them vulnerable senior-grade students residing businesses; nesses as follows: the entrepreneurs who with the necessary products for the subsisin different regions of Georgia. TBC dou>> Online business education; sell Georgian products on the Vendoo tence minimum and to support them in the bled the amount voluntarily collected by >> Benefits for banking products and platform will have their commission fee way that they do not have to go out. the TBC workers and gathered a total of services; reduced to a minimum for a month. 95,614 GEL. In order for students to be able >> Benefits for digital products. As part of one of the initiatives for the #TBAs part of the initiative, fees will be autoto study remotely, their monthly internet Cforyou program, more than 1,000 elderly TBC and the online commerce platform matically reduced for entrepreneurs coopfee will also be covered till the end of the people living in the capital and regions erating with Vendoo.ge. Those who plan to school year. received food, medicine and personal place Georgia-produced products on the hygiene items worth GEL 100,000. TBC The collaboration and joint initiatives of online platform in the near future, in addihelped the beneficiaries while cooperating TBC and its corporate partners play an imtion to enjoying a preferential tariff, will also with 14 large and small charity funds. portant role in overcoming the challenges receive the photo-shooting service and vifacing the country. In addition to the public sual materials needed for the placement of In order to prevent the spread of coronavisector, TBC is actively cooperating with the the products on Vendoo.ge free of charge. rus, all educational institutions in Georgia business sector, implementing a number of have switched to online learning mode. In Digital services are very important for projects in collaboration with various comthe current reality, digital education is simuladapting to the current conditions and for panies. For example, “Georgian Beer Comtaneously a challenge and a new opportufurther business development. TBC and pany”, with the support of TBC, supplies nity for the next generation. It is important VISA have launched a new initiative for the staff of all the checkpoints operating in that all students are given the opportunity companies “Create your own online store”. Georgia today with the products of “Zedato continue remote studies and to receive zeni”. TBC’s contribution to the project is Businesses can create their own online an education without any hindrances. That 25,000 GEL. stores in the shortest time, through which is why TBC has purchased laptops for 161 socially vulnerable students at six universiAlso, for one of the initiatives of the “Unithey will be able to sell and deliver products ties. The total cost of the project is 140,714 ty” platform, the supermarket chain and throughout Georgia. The project aims to GEL. the meat production company “Nikora” help businesses transform digitally and deal and TBC started collaboration, as a result with the challenges they face. By setting up For this initiative, students, whose families, online stores, they will be able to exploit a of which 300 socially vulnerable families did not own a personal computer, causing new sales channel that will connect them were provided with food product baskets. their learning processes to be delayed, remotely to their customers. For families with special needs, the basFORBUSINESS were selected. Most of the selected young kets were distributed by volunteers for 88 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 88 /08 TBC’s response to Covid 19 At this stage, the websites of about 150 All the thematic videos tailored to audiGeorgian companies are already under ence interests and needs are available on TBC For You construction. The businesses will be free the Status Meeting website https://www. from the monthly service fee for the webstatusevents.ge/ and social media platforms site until the end of the year. (Facebook and Instagram). The development of innovative products People can choose the topic of their interand services is a priority for TBC, especially est, be it various fields of art, psychology, in the current reality. Within the framework business, kids etc. of another joint cooperation between TBC In parallel with online meetings with various and VISA, customers are offered the first speakers, TBC Status also shares blogs on a digital card in Georgia. A digital card is a variety of topics. digital analogue of a physical plastic card and has the same features as a debit card. Since TBC Group is an ecosystem that unites several companies along with TBC TBC also took care of the distribution Bank, it was important for all of them to companies and offered them an innovatake their share of responsibility and to take FORTEAM tive product a distribution card. If before, effective steps to support the country and distributors and retailers had to conduct the population in accordance with their payment in cash when receiving products, own profile. now they can replace the payment with a safe alternative the card payment. In the current situation, the medical staff As part of the #TBCforyou, the “Startuperi” branches on a daily basis. The necessary working in the high risk zone needs speprogram and the new courier company staff works on a 1-week schedule at the In the current reality, it is of no less imporcial support their role and involvement is “Mimo”, part of the TBC ecosystem, are branch. Branch employees who could be tance for TBC to ensure that the consumers invaluable. All doctors and nurses who fight launching a joint initiative with start-up transferred to the remote working regime can spend the lockdown period in an interfor the health of Georgian citizens while businesses. As part of the offer, the first are working from a distance: Status bankers, esting and productive way. TBC Status has risking the health of family members and 100 startups that will become customers MSME direction. The thermo-screening of provided the means to diversify their knowltheir own, will receive up to GEL 10,000 of “Mimo” will receive courier services for 1 both employees and customers is planned edge. In early 2019, an educational platfrom TBC Insurance if they become infectmonth completely free of charge. in the near future. form TBC Status Meetings was created, ed with COVID-19. where successful people from various fields The digital courier company “Mimo”, which To create a safe work environment, an meet with the TBC status clients, share their The TBC Insurance Special Fund has been appeared on the market recently, offers anti-virus strategy has been devised with an knowledge, experience and ideas on topics set up as part of the #TBCforyou program; it customers high quality services, controlling epidemiologist who will intensively provide that are equally important as in the work is designed for physicians and nurses who orders online and fast delivery services TBC’s relevant team with information on the environment as well as in everyday life. are directly treating patients infected with throughout Georgia. dynamics of the virus in Georgia and the COVID-19 at the medical facilities and who best practices in combating it. 141 TBC faIn the current situation, the meetings have It is also important for TBC to allow citizens themselves are at high risk due to close cilities are disinfected daily. In total, 64,000 now moved to the online space of Zoom. to self-development during the period of contact with patients. square meters of TBC network are disinself-isolation. That is why e-book house fected every week; protective glass partiSaba offers users one month of free access tions were installed an 115 branches, in the to more than 6,000 e-books. Along with the channel of 832 employees; 850 disinfectant Literary Award Saba, the House of Electronsolution dispensers and containers were ic Books was founded in 2012 by TBC and installed in all branches and the head office poet Rati Amaghlobeli. The Saba Electronic a total of 158 locations; the front workers of Library combines more than 6,000 books the branches were given 1,100 disinfectant (including audio), podcasts, and lectures. solutions for individual consumption, the In parallel with a number of initiatives for supplies of which are periodically updatcustomers and the country as a whole, TBC ed; 3,900 employees received protective is constantly caring for its 7,000 employees masks at the branches and the cash regiswho work remotely or in branches. ters; employees are provided with gloves and facemasks; daily, 126 cash registers are The company shifted pregnant and equipped with the necessary equipment; risk-category employees to a remote workall employees are transported by the bank; ing regime in the very first days. Currently, meetings of the staff of the cash registers about 2,400 TBC employees are working and branches with the epidemiologist were remotely. The branches have moved to an held; the information stickers are placed in FORYOUTH updated work schedule, and 900 workers front of the facilities, urging users to keep out of 3,548 continue to work at the TBC 99 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 99 /08 TBC’s response to Covid 19 their distance and at the same time determine the parking locations; the cashiers, bethe current reality has TBC For You cause they have contact with money, were accelerated this equipped with protective suits and hats; TBC has introduced an appropriate cleanprocess. I am sure that ing standard adapted to the challenges of the virus period. we will come out of this TBC takes care that all employees have a sense of stability, so management periodicrisis together more flexically arranges remote meetings with them ble and strong. ” to discuss the company’s plans and strategy. At these meetings, employees receive answers to interesting and topical quesVakhtang Butskhrikidze, tions from the directors. General Director of TBC. During this period, the one-time bonus was transferred to 3,754 employees. These employees are: employees of the branches, who, despite the situation in the country, continue to work as usual and have to communicate directly with clients; employees of the Distribution Services Division; employees of the cash register and collection department; IT staff; employees of the Logistics Department. TBC’s top management team realizes the difficult times it has to make its decisions, as well as how important it is to keep the job for each team member and their families. The most important asset for TBC is those very team members, so according to the management’s decision, none of the employees will be fired due to the causes of the global pandemic during 2020 all members of the TBC team will retain their jobs. TBC’s management also refuses to receive bonuses this year, which is usually 70% of the salary. The priority for TBC is to protect and maintain the health and safety of its team members, as well as its customers. “Now, we are carrying out annprecedented digital transformation, which is our strategy but 99 TBC Group Sustainability Report TBC Group Sustainability Report 99 99 TBC Group Sustainability Report
