Communication on Progress 2019 01 Our managing director’s statement of continued support Now, more than While we reflect on the progress that we have made and are Matrix and the SDG Compass as a source of inspiration and benchmark ever, it is clear that proud to share it in this report, in our continuous effort to improve our the world is suffering as a sustainable business model. In this report, Imres has a vital result of an unprecedented we have linked each of the principles health crisis. As we navigate with the sustainable development goals role to play in the the uncharted territory of that align with the measurements we are the Covid-19 pandemic, it is using to manage our journey towards increasingly apparent that our sustainability. global healthcare mission and our adherence to the Global Compact This is our communication on progress systems of our guidelines and the Sustainable Development Goals are more over the year 2019. It highlights the advances we have made and the tangible, customers and critical than ever before. measurable outcomes we have achieved. It also outlines our plans going forward their beneficiaries It is in these unusual times in our ambition to become a sustainable that Imres celebrates our 40th business partner for all our stakeholders. anniversary. While the world living in low We hereby reaffirm our commitment to the that we find ourselves in today UN Global Compact and the 10 principles. is strange and uncertain, there is resource settings. one thing that has not changed at Imres in the past 40 years. It Leontien Ruttenberg is our unwavering commitment Managing Director to providing global access to quality Lelystad, the Netherlands, medical care. This is the reason we get up 6 June 2020 every morning; because we know that the best medicine is useless if it cannot get to where it is needed, when it is needed. Having worked in low resource settings including refugee camps such as Kakuma, Kenya, I know how important is to get the right medicines at the right time in the right place. We have incorporated sustainability in our strategy and use the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Industry 02 CONTENTS 01 02 03 04 Statement Contents Our Works Human of continued Rights support 05 06 07 Labour Environment Anti-Corruption OUR WORKS 03 We are a global leader in Imres has more than 40 years of experience. We provide humanitarian aid providing quality assured In 2014, we partnered with Imperial Logistics, supplies to regular health pharmaceuticals and medical a leading global logistics provider with a focus programs. We also actively supplies at affordable prices. on Africa and Europe. respond to disaster situations. Imres B.V. is a leading supplier of Mission quality assured and affordably priced It is our mission to provide global access to quality pharmaceuticals, medical consumables, medical care by providing quality assured and cost-effective medical products and solutions for hospital equipment and medical kits. our customers and their beneficiaries living in lowWe strive to make an impact on the resource settings. lives of people in low-resource settings by providing excellent, cost-effective Imres supports the International Agency for the medical products and solutions to our Prevention of Blindness (IAPB), customers and their beneficiaries. Our which leads global efforts to prevent blindness and ensure headquarters are in the Netherlands, worldwide access eye care. and we have offices in China, India and Dubai. In addition, through our parent organisation Imperial, we Our sustainable vision Imres is committed to creating a more sustainable currently operate in the healthcare society. To this end, we have aligned our operations markets of South Africa, Kenya, Ghana, with the United Nations’ (UN’s) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2 and 3, which are Nigeria and Malawi, with downstream “zero hunger” and “good health and well-being”. In distribution partners providing reach addition to striving to achieve these specific goals, into 26 countries. The scale of our we make a continuous effort to contribute to the achievement of the other UN SDGs. combined operations in healthcare Our ambition is to make a measurable, sustainable, sees us delivering more than 30 million global contribution to the availability of safe, patient packs of medicine across Africa effective, affordable, quality medical products and food supplements. By leveraging our knowledge, every month. In 2019, Imres delivered skills and innovation in the humanitarian supply affordable medicines to 131 countries. chain, we aim to create a more sustainable future for people living in low-resource settings. Through the Imres employs over 120 people measurable outcomes that we have achieved, we worldwide. encourage our stakeholders to support the SDGs. 03 OUR WORKS experts because we understand that our work and Value For Money our responsibility does not end with the supply of At Imres, our starting point has always been our customer. pharmaceuticals and medical consumables. It only ends We have built up our expansive product portfolio based when our quality assured products reach the patient, on on their unmet needs. Today, we have a wide range time and uncompromised. We know that delays can cost of pharmaceuticals and medical products, from basic lives, so our logistics solutions are designed for speed and essential medicines and consumables to a full line efficiency. of medical instruments and hospital equipment that We always keep in mind, however, that many of the aid encompasses everything from small thermometers to agencies and NGOs that we serve face cost constraints, large CT machines. Our products include our own range so we continuously keep a keen eye on affordability. of pharmaceuticals and food supplements. At Imres, we Imres strives to consistently provide fast, environmentally strive to continuously improve, expand and innovate. friendly, effective and cost-efficient logistics services that We constantly source new products, manufacturers and include numerous delivery and transport options for our suppliers. This ensures that we keep our range up to date, customers. We work with carefully selected and preand that we consistently provide our customers with the qualified freight forwarders and other logistics service best prices, products and quality. providers that share our commitment to sustainable Optimal Supply Chain logistics excellence and seamless service. We have an established network of partners whose specific in-country Imres has made logistics an integral part of the services experience and expertise we can rely on. we offer. Over the years, we have become logistics One-Stop-Shop Solution Imres’s facilities include almost Our production areas include a GMP room for We are committed to 13 000 m2 of climate controlled secondary packing and a Class D clean room creating value to our Good Distribution Practices for primary packing, as well as a 650 m2 kit customers by maintaining (GDP) and Good Manufacturing production area. a healthy stock position for Practices (GMP) certified essential medicines, medical warehouses located in the consumables and hospital Netherlands. These offer a total equipment. of 15 000 pallet locations. OUR WORKS 03 Our Quality Standards Our quality management system is at the core of our Worldwide, counterfeit medicines and medical operations. This allows us to continuously maintain, products are a growing concern. Imres’s customers evaluate and improve the quality of our processes. and their patients benefit from our outstanding and We communicate our quality goals to all stakeholders well-tested capability to identify and rate vendors and including customers and employees. We have manufacturing facilities, and to guarantee the quality of implemented an uncompromising set of quality controls, our pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Since early including a dedicated quality control department and 2019, we have also complied with the European Falsified independent testing in World Health Organization (WHO) Medicines Directive supporting the further eradication of pre-qualified and ISO/IEC 17025:2005 certified laboratories. counterfeit medicines. Imres works with pre-qualified manufacturers. These manufacturers are continuously monitored, evaluated and Imres is a fully licenced, GMP, GDP and ISO 9001:2015 controlled through Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) certified wholesaler and is audited by the Netherlands audits. We employ experienced pharmacists who regularly Ministry of Health (IGJ). conduct GMP inspections. FACTS & FIGURES 100+ Employees Projects Europe (bonded) Asia 4% 6% MiddleEast 18% Africa Latin 57% America Oceania 12% 3% 14 Nationalities Freight 6% 25% 69% 04 HUMAN RIGHTS P R INCIPLE We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 1 P R INCIPLE We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2 Having access to quality medical care is a fundamental We have put a comprehensive set of measurements and human right. Our biggest contribution to safeguarding guidelines in place, both for our internal organisation as human rights is our daily effort to provide access to quality well as for our suppliers and other partners in the supply medical care by supplying quality assured and affordable chain, to minimise the risk of human rights violations. medicines and medical products to people in low resource Our stringent Code of Conduct provides guidelines for settings. By supplying essential medicines in bulk or in kits, our employees as well as anyone that wants to conduct Imres actively contribute to Sustainable Development Goal business with Imres. It must be read and signed before 3, good health and well-being. Imres engages in any business relationship. Imres is a major Human Rights In Our Company supplier of Our strong sense of integrity and respect is an integral medical kits, part of Imres’s company culture. It pervades every aspect which contribute of our business, starting with our on-boarding process in to improving which every new employee must submit a declaration of healthcare in low good behaviour issued by their local government. This is to resource settings. ensure that the behaviour of everyone who starts working We produce approximately one million medical kits for Imres is beyond reproach. We actively safeguard the per year. An example of these medical kits is the human rights of all employees by deploying clear policies Inter-Agency Reproductive Health kit. Imres has on discrimination, privacy, confidentiality and harassment. supplied more than 50 000 Reproductive Health These policies have been set out in our Code of Conduct kits to Africa over the past years. The Reproductive and a specific set of values which are communicated Health Kits have been primarily designed to facilitate to every employee and are upheld by both our Privacy the provision of priority reproductive health services Protection Officer and our Confidential Counsellor. We have to displaced populations without medical facilities, or no tolerance for any violation of human rights within Imres. where medical facilities are disrupted during a crisis. 04 in the supply chain, we have a rigorous set of precautions Human Rights in the Supply Chain to minimise the risk of conducting business with parties Imres is positioned in the middle of the supply chain; that violate human rights. Every supplier, sub-contractor upstream are the manufacturers and suppliers, while our and agent must sign our Code of Conduct before we will customers are downstream. They include global NGOs, work with them. During our annual audits with suppliers local and central medical stores, and ministries of health. and local partners, Imres reviews their adherence to our Although we do not have direct control over human rights Code of Conduct. I M R E S F U L LY S U P P O R T S T H E U N I T E D N AT I O N S UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS Measurements of Outcome We have All employees We have conducted Not a Each year, we conduct We have developed have read and an Employee single audits with our suppliers formally a SMART signed our code Satisfaction Survey human and manufacturers to reviewed our set of values of conduct, which in which each rights ensure that they meet local partners, to which all has clear policies participant could incident Imres’s quality standards including their employees designed to anonymously was and follow our Code of adherence to adhere. safeguard human submit their opinion reported Conduct. No human rights our Code of rights. on human rights in Imres in related infringements Conduct. within Imres. 2019. have been found. 2020 Targets To further reinforce our Code of Business Conduct, We will intensify our adherence to we will create a mandatory online learning module the SDGs by incorporating them in our that must be completed by employees every year. annual internal audit. 05 LABOUR P R INCIPLE We uphold the freedom of PR I NC I PLE The effective abolition of child association and the effective labour. 3 5 recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. PR I NC I PLE The elimination of P R INCIPLE The elimination of all forms of discrimination in respect of forced and compulsory labour. 6 4 employment and occupation. Our employees are our greatest asset. Their primary focus, We organise these activities every month and they are every day, is on fulfilling Imres’s promise to our customers. well appreciated. It is fitting, therefore, that we constantly strive to be a The Netherlands, where Imres’s headquarters are great company to work for. One of our priorities is to located, has robust labour legislation to ensure the create a culture of commitment, inclusivity, responsibility rights of all employees. It permits freedom of association and equality in which every employee can develop and and criminalises child labour or forced and compulsory actively contribute to the continuity of Imres and our labour. At Imres, we have comprehensive processes in mission. place to manage safety, health at work, and employee development. In 2019, we conducted our bi-annual Employee Satisfaction Survey in which we measure employee satisfaction and give our staff the opportunity to Works Council anonymously comment on the Imres policy and All Imres employees are represented in the Works management. Council, which consists of seven elected members of mixed gender, from diverse backgrounds and different We keenly encourage open communication and departments. They meet with the Imres management collaboration so colleagues can learn from one another regularly, and their main role is to advise management on and broaden their view on a wide variety of matters. In current and future policies. Their mandate is anchored in 2019, we established a social activity programme that the Dutch law. The Works Council has its own newsletter enables colleagues to engage with each other outside of through which it keeps all employees informed of its work, with the aim of fostering team spirit. activities. Imres employee demographics and breakdown 50% Management 50% 42 years 7,4 years Average Age Length of Employment 60% Imres total 40% Gender Structure 05 OUR PEOPLE eight members of this team are based equally divided Inclusivity and Equality across our locations. At Imres, our employees benefit from our culture of At Imres, we recognise the importance of maintaining inclusivity and equality, which we passionately believe a good work-life balance, to stay healthy, happy and enhances their wellbeing and productivity. We believe motivated. To ensure that our employees achieve this that a successful, sustainable business is one in which balance Imres offers lifestyle training to our employees. everyone can thrive and advance. Our workforce This initiative will be expanded during the course of 2020 encompasses 14 different nationalities and people from with online modules. Every five years, Imres offers all varied backgrounds. Our commitment to gender diversity employees a voluntary Preventive Medical Examination. is reflected in the well-balanced mix of men and women in This encompasses an extended questionnaire and a both our management and staff. one-hour consultation with a physician, during which Imres has established a special programme for new personalised recommendations are made to improve and employees. Each quarter, all new employees that were maintain a healthy lifestyle. hired participate in an induction programme in which they Education and Development learn about Imres’s history, culture and operations. We have developed a clear and concise value chart designed Imres is committed to investing in our people, and to further strengthen inclusivity and shared values within helping employees to advance their careers, and Imres. develop themselves and their skills. In annual personal development consultations, our team leaders have candid All internal staff communication at Imres is bilingual in discussions on the development of their team members. both Dutch and English. Since Imres is based in the Opportunities for skills development and further education Netherlands, we offer non-native Dutch speakers a Dutch are explored, to ensure that Imres employees are always language course to improve their Dutch language skills motivated and suitably qualified for their jobs. Imperial, and promote inclusivity. our parent company, has an online academy with a wide variety of e-learning modules that Imres employees can Safety and Health at Work access. Imres is uncompromising when it comes to the health and safety of our employees. In addition to our Health and Safety Officer in the Human Resources department, Imres has a dedicated in-house emergency response team trained to deliver a swift response to any emergency. The 05 LABOUR Code of Conduct Imres’s control of labour rights in the supply chain is Every supplier that wants to work with Imres is obliged limited. Our steadfast commitment to sustainable business to sign our Code of Conduct. In this comprehensive practices, is, however, underscored by our zero tolerance document, we have stipulated labour standards according policy to child labour, discrimination, forced labour or any to principles three to six that our suppliers must comply other violations of labour rights. We have taken effective with. precautions to minimise the risk of Imres doing business with a partner that violates labour rights. Measurements of Outcome On the question “Do you perform We successfully established Imres’s new employees No safety your Job with Pleasure?”, 82% of our Works Council to represent programme has been incidents have the respondents in our Employee the employees. Quarterly established, with an onbeen reported Satisfaction Survey answered, meetings are being held with boarding procedure further within Imres. “Strongly Agree” or “Agree”. Imres management. enhancing this initiative. 2020 Targets Imres will use the outcome of the Employee We will expand The Preventive Medical Examination Satisfaction Survey to further improve access to online will be leveraged to protect and processes, with the emphasis on internal training modules. promote the working capacity and communication. health of all Imres employees. 06 ENVIRONMENT P R INCIPLE Support a precautionary approach to environmental 7 challenges. PR I NC I PLE Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally P R INCIPLE Undertake initiatives to promote 9 greater environmental responsibility. friendly technologies. 8 In line with Imres’s sustainability vision, and our sustainable We only use glasses and porcelain cups in our approach to our business operations and supply chains, canteen for tea, coffee and cold drinks. There are no we constantly strive to minimise our environmental plastic or paper cups as we strive to reduce waste. impact. We have embarked on numerous initiatives We encourage our employees to go paperless. We to reduce our environmental footprint and promote provide all Imres office staff with laptop computers, so environmental awareness in our own operation and that they can read documents anywhere without the among our stakeholders. We also have a number of new need for printing. projects in the pipeline, including a carbon offsetting plan We leverage platforms like Skype and Microsoft to compensate for CO2 emissions generated by business Teams to communicate with our customers and our travel and new, energy efficient IT equipment. own operations abroad. This significantly reduces the need for travel and thus decreases our carbon Green Office Initiatives footprint. We have identified several focus areas to further reduce We are in the process of converting one of our our environmental footprint going forward. These are warehouses to energy efficient LED lighting. directly linked to our internal organisation, because at Every Imres office and warehouse has its own Imres we understand that a better environment starts with recycling station, separating paper, plastic and us, and we can reduce our footprint by taking small steps organic waste. at a time. Our achievements to date: On site electric car charging stations are available. To reduce plastic pollution, we only use tap water at Imres; not bottled water. 06 ENVIRONMENT With the high volumes of medical products that Imres is Suppliers processing, we consume considerable amounts of packing We know that the manufacturers that supply Imres and materials. We separate all different forms of packing the freight companies that we work with have a big impact materials and offer them to a certified recycling company. on the environment. In our drive for greener supply chains, The shipping cartons we use are of a very high quality and we require all our manufacturers to sign our Environmental are re-used by the end-users for various purposes. Our Code of Conduct and adhere to the standards and medical kits and assembled bulk orders are packed in guidelines are set out therein. The freight companies that the most efficient manner, to reduce waste. Our shipping we work with all have their own sustainability programmes. cartons are always put on re-usable pallets. When arranging transport for our customers, Imres always considers CO2 emissions in developing the optimal A vast part of our product range consists of medicines and solution. food supplements with an expiration date. If the expiration date is about to pass, they will be destroyed. By having 2019 Transportation Volumes a stringent quality assurance and quality control system, as well as a strict inventory management system, our By using our Dubai facility we were able to further reduce destruction levels are very low. Unfortunately, we cannot our environmental footprint in terms of transportation and avoid it completely. As antibiotic resistance is a growing CO2 emissions. problem, we use a certified company that is authorised Energy, Recycling and Incineration to destroy medicines and medical products in a safe and sustainable manner. As a result of our continued growth, Imres has expanded with a third warehouse in the Netherlands. This facility will be equipped with LED lighting for energy reduction. Our climate control installations are also designed for low energy consumption. ENVIRONMENT 06 Energy consumption 61 320 kg recycled in 2019 in 2019 Electricity in KWh Gas in KWh Wood Carton Plastics Organic and Other Travel As an international medical wholesaler with a subsidiary and a parent company on different continents, Imres cannot always avoid travel. We are, however, very mindful of the CO2 impact of long-distance flights. Over recent years, we have invested in state-of-theart videoconferencing tools which have reduced the necessity for travels by almost 40%. In 2020, we will offset our air travel related CO2 emissions by supporting an international programme that invests in local green energy projects in Africa. Measurements of Outcome 2020 Targets On-site 61 320 kg Reduced We will replace all LED lights We will offset We will charging of materials transportation personal computers will be CO2 emissions comply stations have been volumes (PCs) with new, installed from long with the are recycled. due to Dubai mini PCs. The old in our third distance flights ISO 26000 available. facility machines will be warehouse. through an guidelines. refurbished and international donated to schools. programme. 07 ANTI-CORRUPTION P R INCIPLE We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10 Integrity and transparency are important core values of policy in our on-boarding programme for new employees. Imres and are deeply ingrained in our culture. We believe All exposed employees will also be required to complete that the only way to achieve sustainable success is through an annual, mandatory online refresher course on our antiopen, ethical business practices in our own company and corruption and anti-bribery policy. in the supply chain. We focus on consistent quality for the best price, on innovative solutions, and adding value for In the Supply Chain our customers. We are aware that anti-corruption and anti-bribery We have an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy in measures in the supply chain are more difficult to control our quality system that all Imres employees must read than in our own operation. We require all our local partners and agree to abide by. We have a zero-tolerance policy to sign our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy, and on corruption and have yearly audits conducted by our we do not tolerate any form of price fixing. In 2018, we accountants and key NGO customers. All employees that implemented rigorous annual reviews to ensure that our have regular contact with our customers or suppliers must agents comply with our policy. Imres enforces a zerocomplete an online anti-bribery course. tolerance approach to corruption, bribery and any other form of unethical behaviour from our local partners. Any If Imres staff are aware of any form of corruption or other breaches will result in the immediate termination of our unethical behaviour, they can report it anonymously to business arrangement. our confidential counsellor. To add impetus to our work against corruption, we will reinforce our anti-corruption Measurements of Outcome 2020 Targets Our online antiOur local partners No All employees We will increase A mandatory bribery course are constantly corruption must complete awareness of our online is mandatory for reviewed to ensure or bribery an annual, anti-bribery and refresher employees who their compliance with incidents mandatory corruption policy course deal with customers our anti-bribery and have been airfreight safety through our onwill be and suppliers. corruption policy. reported. course. boarding programme. implemented. www.imres.nl Covid-19 kits, ready for shipment This report is available on the UN Global Compact website, on the Imres website and in our internal Quality Management Information System. REPORT PROFILE Reporting period: 2019 | Reporting cycle: Annual | Publishing date: June 2020 Publisher and design: Imres B.V. Contact for socially responsible business operations: Dian van Uythoven, vanuythoven@imres.nl IMRES | Larserpoortweg 26, 8218 NK Lelystad, Netherlands Phone +31 (0) 320 296969 | www.imres.nl | Email info@imres.nl an Imperial™ company
