COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2019 The United Nations Global Compact Contents 3 Message from the CEO 4 Who we are AV-HUSET A/S 5 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles 7 Labour UN Global Compact Principles 9 Environment UN Global Compact Principles 12 Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact Principles 13 Our actions and results 14 Commitment for the next COP 15 We support SOUND SYSTEM FOR ROAD SAFETY EDUCATION FOR SCHOOL STUDENTS Naestved, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 2 Message from the CEO In 2020 AV-HUSET A/S can celebrate its 30th anniversary as a Danish audiovisual company. We are thus one of the oldest audiovisual companies in Denmark and we are proud of that. Small and medium-sized companies make up 99% of the total number of businesses in Denmark and are therefore the backbone of Danish business. While our company’s environmental and social footprints appear very small in the broad context, the overall footprint for all of us small and medium-sized companies is considerable. That is why our work on corporate social responsibility is crucial for Denmark to achieve the 17 UN global goals. Therefore, I am pleased to confirm that AVHUSET A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. The preparation of our sustainability report has created a unique involvement of our employees. The feel of ownership is increasing and the employees are now aware of the fact that their daily work is part of something bigger and that our commitment to the UN Global Compact can give our company a competitive advantage and attract new customers. Jens Ole Ravn CEO AV-HUSET A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 3 Who we are AV-HUSET A/S We live in a world defined by constant change. In this Creating the perfect AV system fast-changing audiovisual landscape, we can provide To create the perfect AV system for you we start our customers with expert advice on making the right by actively listening to you so that we can fully choices. understand your requirements. We then examine your physical environment so that we understand Audiovisual specialists how it will impact upon your requirements. Once we As audiovisual specialists we provide consulting, have achieved a thorough understanding of your system design, integration, programming and AV requirements and the physical characteristics of project management services. We are 23 permanent the building we can specify the correct combination employees and 10 freelance technicians based in of hardware from some of the world’s leading Naestved, Denmark. manufacturers that we represent and put forward a complete AV solution for you. 30 years of experience Our services go further than just focusing on Think outside the box products alone. Knowledge and advice are key. AV-Huset stands for high quality. We often think We have close to 30 years of experience in the AV outside the box and are ready to go that extra mile to industry and have over the years, accumulated a long make the perfect solution for our customers. reference list of exciting solutions for among others, hotels, educational institutions, town halls, churches, A healthy balance museums and private companies in Denmark and While achieving our objectives is critical, how we do abroad. so is just as important. AV-Huset therefore strives towards a healthy balance between people, planet and profit. ALSIK HOTEL Sønderborg, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 4 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. AV-HUSET – A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY AV-HUSET A/S will pay due attention to the rights and interests of employees, customers, local communities and other stakeholders affected by our business. We see respect for the rights and interests of others as necessary to be a trusted company. We strive to respect and support the internationally proclaimed human rights, as put forward by the United Nations, and we expect our partners to do the same. We will carry out our business with due diligence to avoid becoming involved in violations of human rights. WAKEUP COPENHAGEN Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 5 Human Rights – UN Global Compact Principles 3 billion people live in poverty. Kibera Is the largest slum area in Africa. Here the Human Needs Project (HNP) opened its first Town Centre in 2014 – a place that empowers against poverty by bringing essential services to slum residents. In 2015, AV-Huset visited the Human Needs Project premises in Kibera for the first time and we decided to become a HNP Collaborator and help raising the standard of living for the people in the Town Centre in Kibera by supplying used AV equipment. Access to information and communication is without doubt elements that can make a difference in the lives of people living in poor circumstances. Before sending the equipment to Kibera, our technicians make sure everything is working perfectly. So far we have donated the following AV equipment and we will continue working with HNP to support their empowerment agenda.: 2015: High quality Public Address System which included a mixer, loudspeaker and microphones for addressing large crowds and ensuring that important messages are heard 2017: Projector for improving the training and learning environment for the people in the Town Centre 2019: New microphones so they can conduct talent shows for the local young talents in Kibera Human Needs Project Human Needs Project is a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing basic services (clean water, sanitation and energy) and empowerment services (business skills training, a green marketplace etc.) to slums around the world through the creation of self-sustaining Town Centers. Human Needs Project was founded by the Danish actress Connie Nielsen (probably best known for her role in Gladiator) in 2010. DONATION OF MICROPHONES The Human Needs Project, Kenya December 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 6 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. AV–Huset recognizes and respects the fundamental right of all employees to freely associate, organize and bargain collectively in accordance to all applicable laws. Employees of their membership in trade unions. AV-Huset encourages its partners to support open communication and foster direct engagement between employees and management in order to have positive mutual relationships. Within the framework of respective legal regulations, in so far as these are in harmony with the ILO Convention no. 98, we respect the right to collective bargaining for the settlement of disputes pertaining to working conditions, and endeavor together with our partners to work together in collective negotiations and in a constructive manner marked by mutual confidence and respect. AV-Huset is committed to promoting the employees’ well-being and have implemented different measures. All office staff have been provided with height adjustable tables to ensure a right ergonomic position when working and fresh fruit and vegetables are served every day to help boost the health of the employees. And every Friday breakfast is served in the canteen for all employees which also has a positive influence on the social interaction in the company. AV-HUSET A/S Staff meeting and dinner September 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 7 Labour – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national and/or local statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s management if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labour. AV-HUSET A/S respects the rights of children and strongly condemns child labour in all its forms. We adhere to the stipulations of ILO Conventions no. 138 and no. 182. AV-Huset supports the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, but only if they comply with all applicable laws and regulations. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. AV-HUSET A/S aims to create equal opportunities for all employees regardless of personal background, race, gender, national or social background, age, physical or health condition, sexual orientation, membership of unions, political opinion, religion or any other personal characteristic or status. AV-Huset will treat all individuals equal considering the responsibilities of their position during recruitment and selection, compensation and benefits and training, promotion, transfer or termination. EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR 2019 Søren Andreasen COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 8 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ENERGY SAVING AT THE HEAD OFFICE At AV-Huset headquarters, we continually work on different ways to save energy. We have now finished changing the lighting system to more efficient LED technology in the whole building and this summer all windows were replaced with new energy efficient windows. Our total power consumption has been reduced by 12% in 2019. We are pleased with the results and will continue such measures that have a positive effect on the environment and save energy costs. PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Power Consumption achieved (KWH) * HOTEL COPENHAGEN ISLAND Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 9 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The company’s environmental work is an ongoing process. We aim to minimize our environmental impact by working actively with different environmental initiatives throughout the company. ZERO WASTE PACKAGING POLICY AV-Huset has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging sent from our warehouse is done by recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. Forests are the most cost-effective way to fight climate change. Trees absorb tonnes of carbon dioxide every year and act like the lungs of the earth. More trees are, therefore, an important contribution to reducing our carbon footprint. And in the long term, the new forests can also become valuable habitats for animals and plants.. Therefore, AV-HUSET A/S decided to make a donation to the televised fundraising event Denmark Plants Trees in September 2019 in order to set focus on climate change and the role of forests and trees in the climate solution. A collaboration between the Danish Society for Nature Conservation and the television station TV2. The goal was to raise funds for planting 1 million new trees in Denmark. The goal was reached. Our 250 trees (that is approx. 10 trees per employee) were planted in October 2019 in a new local forest (Folkeskoven in Tappernøje). The event is widely regarded as the world’s first benefit to fight the climate crisis. 250 TREES DONATED TO TELEVISED FUNDRAISING EVENT September 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 10 Environment – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As far as possible, AV-Huset only uses products manufactured by environmentally approved suppliers when we offer the combination of hardware to our customers. Further, we comply with the requirements of current legislation regarding disposal of electronic waste and we observe the environmental contribution as stipulated under the European Community Directive 2012/19/EU on waste electrical and electronic equipment. AV-HUSET A/S WASTE MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Organic waste Collected and treated by the municipality’s waste treatment. Cardboards and cartons All are reused by the company’s warehouse to send goods to customers. The warehouse does not buy any packaging material. Paper Used paper is collected and waste is separated for recycling. Pallets All pallets in good condition are recycled for packaging and safe transportation of goods to our customers. The warehouse does not purchase pallets as they reuse all the pallets the company receives with its products. Electrical waste Recycled in the local recycling centre. IT equipment Recycled in the local recycling centre. Batteries Recycled in the local recycling centre. TOPDANMARK A/S Ballerup, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 11 Anti-Corruption – UN Global Compact Principles PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AV-HUSET A/S understands the importance of anti-bribery laws and there is a zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. All customer-facing staff have taken an anti-corruption course and we can proudly report that since AV-Huset’s inception in 1990, there has never been any reported incidents. Performance indicators Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in Achieved in 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees who 0 9* 9* 7* 7* have taken the Anti-Corruption course Number of corruption related 0 0 0 0 0 cases *This number indicates the total sales staff of the company WHISTLEBLOWER ARRANGEMENT A whistleblower arrangement has been established in 2019 (due to the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679) and employees now have the opportunity to anonymously report personal data security breaches via the company’s intranet. ECCO K9 Copenhagen, Denmark COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 12 Our actions and results In 2019 we have primarily been focusing our efforts on the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) no. 13 – Climate Action. Everyone can see the drastic consequences of climate change. Irreversible consequences threaten if we do not act now. Therefore, we have been taking the following practical actions: • Replaced further company cars to more environmentally friendly cars • Donated 250 trees that were planted in a new local forest to reduce our carbon footprint A mature tree will remove 7 tons of CO2 per year an amount approximately equal to the amount produced by driving a mid-sized car. When our trees are mature they will be able to remove 1,750 tons of CO2 per year. • Finished changing the lighting system in the whole building to more energy efficient LED lights • Replaced all windows in the building with new energy efficient windows We are pleased to find that we have succeded in reducing our total power consumption from 33,853 kWh in 2018 to 29,914 kWh in 2019 which corresponds to a reduction of 12%. Also see page 9. We have also taken the below action in 2019 to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact: and the Sustainable Development Goals. • SDG no. 1 No Poverty: As a HNP Collaborator we help give the people in the largest slum area in Africa access to information and communication tools by donating AV equipment. In 2019 we supplied the Human Needs Project with new microphones. That way they are able to conduct talent shows for the local young talents. It is great to see that we are making a difference and giving them access to opportunity. Also see page 6. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 13 Commitment for the next COP In 2015 the 17 Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by all 193 UN Member States as a universal call to action to try to end poverty, fight inequality and protect the planet. The goals are intended to be achieved by the year 2030. Our commitments for the next COP: • SDG no. 13 Climate Action: We will continue to find ways of saving energy at AV-Huset headquarters as it has a positive effect on the environment and saves costs. • SDG no. 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions: We will implement an anti corruption policy so that all staff will feel well equipped and know what to do if they experience any corruption, extortion or bribery incidents. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 14 We Support We are aware of the social responsibility that we bear and are pleased to be able to support several humanitarian and environmental organizations each year. And we have done that for many years now. We see our CSR activities not only as a foundation for sustainable development, but also as a foundation for our long-term business success. Danish Red Cross since 2003 PROJECTS WE HAVE SUPPORTED FOR MANY YEARS SOS Children’s Villages since 2002 Human Needs Project in Kenya since 2016 The Cancer Society of Denmark since 2003 WWF since 2010 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 15 AV-HUSET A/S Jernbuen 1 4700 Naestved Denmark Phone: +45 5577 4030 E-mail: info@av-huset.dk Website: www.av-huset.com Editor: Tina Skov Hansen Layout: Tina Skov Hansen UN GLOBAL COMPACT Membership date: 26 March 2015 Number of employees: 23 permanent employees + 10 freelance technicians Sector: Audio Visual Integrator Distribution: UN Global Compact AV-Huset website: www.av-huset.com AV-Huset Board of Directors AV-Huset Office AV-Huset Social Media
