Communication on Progress (CoP) Pt. Datascrip 2019 1 2 HISTORY Datascrip – One-Stop Business Solutions A company that markets and sells machinery, digital devices, office furniture, survey and engineering tools, stationery, and systems needed in business and offices. Datascrip continues to add its portfolio of world brands such as Canon, ASUS, Paper One, Huawei, Optoma, Sedus, Ideal and many others. 1969 : Datascrip started out as a humble stationery and office equipment store. 1979 : The company’s core business was office system. 1985 : The company’s core business developing into system for business 1997 : Became known as Office Solution Company 2000 : Repositioned as Business Solution Provider 3 STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Catur Sila. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip 4 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continues to instill its corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: • Succeed above Success • CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Enthusiasm) • SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) • CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation,Coordination, Commitment) • Datascrip fulfills the rights of employees to develop themselves by creating an HRO E-Learning Application. 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip organized “Datascrip Mengajar program, which aims to provide students with some basic competency knowledge in work to prepare them for entering the workforce. • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid al-Adha. • Datascrip continued to hold its regular blood donation program, which were held in February, May, August, October and December, all with full attendance. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip gave public lectures on the topic of future construction technology development to academics and practitioners. Through regular lecture programs, Datascrip is expected to be able to contribute knowledge to the Indonesian academic world in general. • Datascrip helps provide school facilities and infrastructure in North Sumatra consisting of land measuring devices (Nikon Automatic Level AE7C) to support the learning process of Geometry and Construction subjects. • Datascrip through Datascrip Peduli program sends donations in the form of cash, clothing, groceries and learning equipments to 17 Social Foundations and Orphanages throughout 2019. 7 LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees healthcare, social security (BPJS Kesehatan) and pension benefits (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). • Achievements made by Datascrip employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. 8 LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip is OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, to ensure safe and healthy working environment. • SIMPONI is an employee evaluation software, to measure the performance of all employees against objective standards from multiple standpoints. 9 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system are incorporated into Datascrip’s main warehouses in Pulogadung and Cikarang. • Glass walls are used in Datascrip’s head office, thus eliminating the need to turn on the lights during daytime. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated on Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. 10 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting from mid of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. • As part of our concerns for the environment, Datascrip is ISO 14001 certified. • Datascrip is also a member of Green Building Council Indonesia, an independent body which is fully committed to educate the public of environmental best practices and sustainable building industry. 11 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually develops new IT solutions to streamline its business process and moving closer toward a paperless office. • SIMPEL is an internal application that is used to carry out sales documentation process. This web-based application replaces all processes that used paper materials. • Journey is an internal application that is used by the SPO team to input sales order. Previously, sales at outlets were recorded on paper. 12 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continues its commitment to add more environmentallyfriendly products to its assortments: • Essentials Green Scissors 17 cm Blister is made from 60% of its raw materials using plastic recycling products. • Pen Ball Cap Green Ice is made from 80% of its raw materials using plastic recycling products 13 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, digital cameras, printers, scanners and other electronic equipments are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. • Matahari Alka, a part of Datascrip’s group of companies, is one of the Circle Founder of Green Product Council Indonesia (GPCI) which is an independent, non-profit-organization and voluntary scheme for the certification of environmentally preferable products. 14 ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • We have created an online system to facilitate tender support letter request. With this system, we check the legality of our business partners prior to giving them letters to participate in government tender. The process is impartial and transparent. • The price list of Datascrip products is available for all to access through its online store, located in http://store.datascrip.com. This further reduces the potential for corruption through price transparency. • Datascrip Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. • Datascrip has issued “Business Engagement Guidelines” which governs employees conduct in government tender, anti-trust issues, promotion of fair business competition and anti-corruption. 15 MEASUREMENT The followings are the measurements of the outcomes of the four principles of Global Compact in 2019. Human Rights: Environment: • Number of quarterly blood donation: 5 times • Environmentally conscious products: 3 product • Social Charity: 3 times groups • Education-related charity : 2 times • New initiatives to reduce paper usage: 4 systems • Employee rights program: 2 time • Recycling initiative & Save Water Campaign are maintained. Labor: • Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and government • Employee composition (by religion) which regulations are maintained. represents a more balanced mix of Indonesian population: Islam (1107), Christian (203), Catholic (109) ,Buddha (35) and Hindu (11). Anti-Corruption: • Compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 and • Price list availability at website is maintained. government regulations are maintained. 16 Thank You! 17
