1 2 Table of contents Chapter Introduction Chapter Financial Performance Chapter Positive Impact 01 Message from the Management......... 4 About the Report............................... 6 04 Scenario.......................................... 38 Results............................................ 38 06 Sustainability Strategy.................... 59 Social Relevance............................. 63 Environmental Management............ 74 Chapter B2W Digital Chapter Talents B2W 02 About Us........................................... 9 Strategic Differentials..................... 22 05 Our Team......................................... 42 Attraction........................................47 Chapter 07 Attachments GRI Content Table............................. 81 Customer Focus.............................. 23 Development................................... 52 Capitals Map.....................................87 Fighting Covid-19............................. 25 Health and Safety............................ 56 Assurance Letter............................. 88 Awards and Recognition.................. 28 Credits............................................. 91 Chapter 03 Corporate Governance Overview......................................... 30 Leadership...................................... 34 3 01 Introduction 4 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT GRI 102-4 | 102-7 | 102-10 | 102-14 | 102-15 Since its creation (2006), B2W Digital has continued to The strategic plan (2017-2019) aimed at accelerating With the rapid growth of the number of sellers and of invest in the fundamental pillars of its business. From the growth of the marketplace (3P) and generating the assortment, our platform has been transformed 2007 to 2019, we have had three important cycles, cash. The marketplace went from a GMV of to offer increasingly complete and scalable solutions, which totaled R$ 5.4 billion in investments (CAPEX) R$ 2 billion in 2016 (18% of Total GMV) to R$ 12 billion aiming to support the sellers according to their in the Digital Platform and in the development of in 2019 (62% of Total GMV). With the transformation different needs. Currently, these solutions entail over e-commerce in Brazil, which still has low penetration of our business model, the Company also achieved 230 million requests per day in our APIs, simplifying in total retail, something we consider to be an a significant evolution in cash flow, going from an the sellers' operation in the main business variables extraordinary opportunity. expenditure of R$ 1.6 billion in 2016 to a positive cash (product, pricing, customer service, stock, exchange, generation of R$ 190 million in 2019. refund, freight, among others). Investments were concentrated on three main pillars: Introduction technology, logistics and people. Over the years, we In the last three years, we have connected 42.1 We understand that our hybrid model of Digital have built unique assets to operate in e-commerce/ thousand sellers (going from 4.7 thousand in Dec/16 Platform (1P, 3P and Digital Solutions) has a superior marketplace in Brazil, and also a first-rate digital to 46.8 thousand in Dec/19), which allowed for an value proposition for everyone. We wish to continue to team, that has technology in its DNA and breathes exponential growth in the assortment offered to the be the best option for Suppliers and sellers, delivering 01 innovation. Our team has the best combination of customer; which totaled 29.5 million items at the end robust and qualified traffic and the best solutions, for Chapter youth and experience. The thirteen acquisitions of 2019 (+26.8 MM vs the 2.7 MM of Dec/16). them to continue growing their business with us. For of companies, technology and logistics, which we the Customer, we wish to deliver the best experience have carried out between 2013 and 2015, were also During this period, we have also launched B2W through the vast assortment and the best level of responsible for the arrival of many talents. We are Entrega, a platform that operates and controls the service, with maximum convenience. proud of the successful integration and the high deliveries of the marketplace, reducing delivery times retention rate of these brilliant people. We currently and freight costs by 50% (on average), with a total Ensuring the best level of online service in Brazil have over 1,500 developers building B2W’s future. adhesion of 95% of sellers at the end of 2019. is the priority, and we will continue to offer complete solutions for the sellers, encouraging the Our technology DNA allowed the Digital Platform to Likewise, we have developed several financial entrepreneurship and enabling, as well, the emergence be developed based on cloud and micro services, products and services so that sellers can continue of new companies and formal businesses in Brazil. enabling the team to be organized in over 90 Squads, investing in their operations, such as the receivables and accelerating the Total GMV and the launch of new discount (native solution of B2W marketplace); and The year of 2019 meant the end of a very important growth fronts, with the marketplace as an excellent Seller Credit, where we offer loans quickly, securely, cycle, and in 2020, we see the start a new cycle. In example of a business created rapidly from this simply and 100% online. the new 3-year strategic plan (2020-2022), we aim technological architecture. to continue accelerating growth (Total GMV) and to 5 continue to generate cash. We are even more prepared people and companies easier, will continue to build Principles (WEP’s), the Coalition for Racial and Gender and motivated to transform the Customer experience, customer loyalty and engagement, expanding its Equity and the Business Charter for Human Rights offering “Everything. Anytime. Anywhere”, which will acceptance network organically, and through strategic and Decent Work. guide our decisions to keep current Customers and partnerships (as we did with Linx, Vtex, Cielo, Stone, attract new Customers. MasterCard, Banco do Brasil, among others). Ame has We know that there are still many opportunities to be a roadmap of new features to radically increase the developed and we are committed to doing more and The convenience for the Customers, addressing the frequency of use, becoming a one-stop-app, essential better, every day. various consumption occasions, will determine our in the daily lives of Customers. growth rate and will be a result of the intensive use of We take the opportunity to thank our team for their data, algorithms and analytics to drastically improve Ame Flash, which connects independent couriers, enthusiasm and dedication. We have been certified Introduction the experience within the Digital Platform. Our focus is will also accelerate O2O initiatives, mainly through by Great Place to Work (GPTW), an important to become even more relevant to the Customers' daythe “ship from store” delivery method. The acquisition acknowledgement of the effort to keep evolving and to-day lives Everything. Anytime. Anywhere” translates of startups Pedala and Courri, specialized in fast engaging the team to attain increasingly challenging into continuously increasing the offer of products and and sustainable deliveries (in urban centers), with goals, always focusing on the customer. 01 services, improving and expanding our availability bicycles, was a strategic move for us to move forward Chapter and delivering wherever the customer desires. In this in this market. We also thank our suppliers for the partnership, the sense, we aim to reach the mark of more than 100 MM sellers of the marketplace for choosing our platform, items, with more than 150 thousand sellers connected, We have also identified great growth opportunities the shareholders for their trust and, above all, the by the end of 2022. in categories that still have low penetration in the customers for their preference. online world. The acquisition of Supermercado Now LET'S, a shared management platform for Americanas’ allows us to enter this type of category with speed, and B2W's logistics and distribution assets, will scale and expertise. The Supermarket category, with be responsible for shortening the distance to the a high frequency of purchases, will further expand our Marcio Cruz Customer, reducing the delivery time to minutes, by assortment and the convenience for the Customer. CEO, B2W Digital expanding the logistics network to a total of 22 DCs by the end of 2022 (vs 15 DCs in Dec-19) and accelerating We will continue advancing in our sustainability O2O (Online to Offline) initiatives. strategy, strengthening our commitment to the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals Ame, Fintech and the Mobile Business Platform (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN). We are signatories of Americanas and B2W, which make the lives of to the voluntary UN Women's Empowerment 6 ABOUT THE REPORT GRI 102-50 | 102-52 | 102-54 HOW TO READ THIS REPORT? The establishment of this publication is guided by the best international practices of Welcome to B2W Digital's corporate sustainability monitoring and reporting: Sustainability Report. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS We refer to the GRI indicators reported throughout the content with the symbol GRI XXX-X. In order to facilitate the location of this data, there is a table of GRI contents on page 81, which explains each indicator and shows its location in the document. Introduction In line with our commitment to sustainable development, we publicize the main highlights of our operations between January 1st and December 31st, INTEGRATED REPORT 2019, our values and culture and the best management practices to keep Throughout the content, we approach the different capitals which make up and generating value for all of our publics and building the future of the Company. support the businesses of the Company in an integrated manner, and we use icons to 01 show you which capital is addressed in that chapter. Still, in the improvement line to communicate its performance to stakeholders, Chapter the Company has adopted, for the sixth consecutive year, the guidelines outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in the global disclosures model for preparing sustainability reports. The GRI Standards, Core option, was the set of Natural Financial Manufactured standards chosen. The Report also shows actions aligned with the Global Compact universal Principles and with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), an initiative of the Global Agenda, of the United Nations (UN) in Brazil and in the world. Human Social and Intellectual Relationship On page 87, the capitals map shows the place where you will find Learn more at: information about each capital. Learn more at: www.globalreporting.org https://relatointegradobrasil.com.br 7 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) INSTITUTIONAL CONTENT We reaffirm our commitment to the principles of the Global Pact and the support to the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations and insert, throughout the chapters, icons which show what Throughout the report, we will use this symbol to show that are the main SDGs supported by the practices addressed in that content. the content of this page is the same as that presented in Universo Americana’s Annual Report. B2W 01 B2W Americanas Introduction 01 01 01 01 Chapter 01 01 Enjoy your 01 reading! 01 Know more about the relevant topics (materials) for the Company's Learn more at: sustainability in the Sustainability https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ Strategy, on page 60. 8 02 B2W Digital 9 ABOUT US GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-6 | 102-7 | 102-10 | 102-16 ME RS Founded in 2006 and active in the private sector, B2W S TO is a Digital Company, leader in Latin America and is CU Universo Americanas' digital platform. PLATAFORMA Our history is B2W E-COMMERCE (1P) intertwined with the TR A B2W Digital history of e-commerce MARKETPLACE (3P) in Brazil itself. FFI C 02 PAYMENTS NT Chapter RTME BIT SERVICE (TI) Our goal is to connect people, businesses, products O SS and services through a single complete digital B2W FULLFILLMENT platform, which allows us to offer the B2W excellence A throughout the digital retail customer experience PLATAFORMA B2W cycle by means of technology, logistics, distribution, customer service and consumer finance services. S ER SELL 10 Mission GRI 102-16 Values GRI 102-16 To fulfill dreams and satisfy people’s • To employ the best people; consumption needs, saving them time and B2W Digital • To be a good business owner; money, and exceeding their expectations. • To strive for operational excellence; 02 • To be customer-focused; Chapter Vision GRI 102-16 • To do more and better every day; To build closer bonds with our customers, • To be results-driven; and making us the largest and most esteemed digital company in Latin America. • To breathe innovation all the time. 11 E-COMMERCE In the e-commerce, we work with the largest and most beloved brands on the internet: Differentials Positioning B2W Digital We are the largest and most beloved online store in the country with 100% digital brand (pure player), over 29.5 million products in more than 40 different categories. We brings innovation to customers Products insist on being increasingly present in the routine of all Brazilians, curated by digital influencers 02 always offering fair and affordable prices. and offers fast and customized Chapter browsing, enhancing the We provide the best delivery experience for the customer, with customer experience. extensive O2O integration (online to offline), offering products from more than 1,700 Americanas stores and marketplace partners, Diversity is the main cause, delivering on the same day of purchase. We also offer millions of which is clear throughout the products from around the world with free shipping all over Brazil, with site. Reference in books, games, Americanas Mundo. In addition, we also serve companies in the country technology and entertainment. with exclusive conditions on our B2B platform, Americanas Empresas. We are always close by, in the physical store, on the website or in our app. We have everything, for everyone. Everything, anytime, anywhere! 12 E-COMMERCE In the e-commerce, we work with the largest and most beloved brands on the internet: Differentials Positioning Shoptime, a reference in products for Americanas.com outlet offers new B2W Digital you and your home, has the largest home products and supports the sustainability shopping channel in Latin America. by finding a new destination to repackaged and used products. Products With live demonstration of products, 02 24 hours a day, it brings content and + than 22 thousand items entertainment to customers, expanding Chapter the female universe to empower women of 20 departments all ages, in addition to making the kitchen Repackaged products (returned by accessible to everyone. another customer and/or with the The brand also creates practical solutions original packaging damaged during the to make everyday life extraordinary distribution) through its own exclusive brands: Used products (tested, redesigned and sanitized in perfect working conditions. • Casa & Conforto (household linen) Up to 60% in discounts. • Fun Kitchen (small appliances) • La Cuisine (home appliances) 13 MARKETPLACE GRI 102-10 HYBRID MODEL In 2019, we concluded our Strategic Plan, initiated in 2017, aimed at migrating from the direct sales (1P) business model to the hybrid digital platform model (1P + 3P + Services). In this trajectory, in just five years the marketplace (3P) already represents 64.2% of the total GMV. Our base of sellers* has more than doubled, connecting 24.9 thousand new partners and reaching 46.8 thousand sellers. B2W Digital In March of 2019, we initiated the Americanas Mundo Cross Border operation (import), which enables customers to buy products from all locations. The new growth front of the B2W Marketplace is in rapid 02 expansion, with more than 13.4 million items available to customers at the end of the year, in addition to being responsible for the best-selling Chapter item on Black Friday. In addition to the benefit of a diversified assortment for our customers 46.8thousand with the B2W purchase experience, the marketplace also generates value for the sellers, who start counting on our brands' reputation, a highly qualified customer traffic to boost their sales, an experienced sales team, the convenience of B2W Entrega, which controls and operates the deliveries and all the remaining B2W platform services presented below. sellers 24.9thousand * Other companies that sell on our Americanas.com, Submarino and Shoptime e-commerces. new ones in 2019 14 Ame Digital, a fintech and mobile business platform, is part of the Ame family and is In 2019, there were several advances to accelerate its presence in the physical and the first IF initiative, Universo Americanas innovation engine. online worlds: Ame, fintech and mobile business platform, can be used in any sales channel in the • Important partnerships with acquirers, credit card brands and retail technology Universo Americanas and is already present in more than 1.7 million establishments, platforms, such as: Cielo, Stone, Mastercard, Linx, Vtex and partnership with generating cashback, which win over the customer and generates greater retention. Banco do Brasil to offer co-branded credit cards through the app. B2W Digital • Continuous feature development: exclusive items for the physical and the digital world, becoming, more and more, a powerful one-stop-app with over 35 With little over 18 months, Ame features, with the goal of simplifying the lives of the customers. 02 proceeds in accelerated development. • Launch of Ame Pro, in December, a complete solution for managing Chapter storekeepers in the physical world (payments, inventory and treasury management for selling points) and native integration with Ame and B2W + 15 MM + 6.5 MM Marketplace. transctions downloads • Ame was the official payment method of “Carnaval de Rua 2020 do Rio de Janeiro”, an event during which more than ten thousand street vendors were + 35 1.7 MM accredited to sell with Ame, impacting millions of people. features merchants (Ame PLUS) Fintech and Mobile Business Platform 15 Logístics In addition to promoting the continuous logistical efficiency, we are seeking new, increasingly sustainable delivery models. In 2018, we started the delivery model by bicycles, which, in addition to providing more agility and minimizing costs, mitigates greenhouse gas emissions and contributes to the Created in 2019, AME Flash accelerates the O2O Drone Delivery urban mobility by decreasing the amount of vehicles initiatives (connection between online and offline) We are the first Brazilian retail company to circulating in large urban centers. and expands our delivery possibilities in large urban perform experimental flights for drone deliveries. centers with different modes. Our goal is to perform deliveries in the future with this innovative modality, executing the Ame Flash connects independent couriers transportation between the Distribution Centers B2W Digital (motorbikes, bicycles and other modes) on the logistic and the physical stores of Americanas. Bike Delivery platform of B2W Digital, enabling the delivery of 370 47 products to customers from the physical stores of Americanas Lockers 02 Lojas Americanas and the physical stores of the B2W We provide the customers with this 100% Marketplace sellers within two hours. autonomous option, that does not depend Chapter on personal interaction for the collection of thousand orders delivered in São tons of CO2 are no Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasília. longer emitted. The app already has 800 registered deliverers and products. When purchasing at Americanas.com, serves around 300 physical stores of Americanas in the consumer chooses in which locker he wishes Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. to receive his product and has access to a QR In the end of 2019, LET’S, a shared management Code for the automatic opening of the locker. platform of Americanas and B2W logistical assets, intensified the investment in this delivery modality Americanas Lockers will be located in stores with after the acquisition of the startups Pedala and Courri. In order to push Ame Flash a large flow of people, subway/bus stations and There were over 370 thousand orders delivered by forward, in December 2019, residential condominiums. In 2019, there were bicycle in the cities of São Paulo, Brasília and Rio de Ame acquired the startups five pilot lockers operating in Rio de Janeiro and Janeiro, avoiding the emission of over 47 tons of CO2. in São Paulo, one of which was the first with the Pedala and Courri, specialized capacity to operate 36 drawers simultaneously. The intention to 2020 is multiplying this sort of in fast and sustainable sustainable delivery with the expansion oaf the deliveries by bicycles. operation in other capitals of Brazil. 16 ROBUST OPERATION +41 MM +200 MM +5 MM 200 hubs of deliveries store supplies delivery to assist LET’S is a shared management platform for the Universo Americanas per year per year vehicles/day distribution logistical and distribution assets, optimizing the integration of our operations in the physical and digital platform, by means of a flexible B2W Digital model from the receipt of the customer’s order until the final delivery, EXPANDING NETWORK + Closer to the customer: from 343 to 928 cities within 150 km from the DCs. which brings us important captures of synergy and the excellence in the + Faster: from 38% to 63% of the GDP covered by deliveries within 24 hours. customer’s experience. + Customization of the assortment in each region. 02 With innovative and complete solutions, LET'S seeks to be the best and Chapter most complete logistics and distribution platform for the physical and digital retail. Our O2O (online to offline) initiatives, in which the customer can purchase at any platform and receive the product as it is most convenient, also proceed in continuous development and innovation for an increasingly differentiated purchase experience. 2019 2022 18 Distribution 22 Distribution Centers Centers 17 LASA Seller Pegue na Loja The physical stores of Lojas Americanas are (Click and Collect) sellers in our Marketplace, adding new items Option in which the customer purchases online and to the assortment, focusing on recurring collects at one of the eight thousand pick-up points EVERYTHING. categories. In the year, the assortment grew (Universo Americanas, sellers stores and partner ANYTIME. three times and the sales, 2.5 times. points) in over five thousand municipalities in Brazil, serving 99% of the Brazilian population. ANYWHERE. Pegue na Loja Hoje B2W Digital This is the concept that guides our O2O (Click and Collect Now) Prateleira Infinita initiatives (online to offline), in which the Available at all the 1,700 Americanas physical Full omnichannel experience in which the Americanas customer can buy on any platform and units, it enables customers to collect physical store customer is assisted in purchasing receive the product the most convenient way, 02 elevating their purchase experience. products in stock at the store within one products offered in e-commerce, combining the hour after the online purchase, with free convenience and assortment of the digital world with Chapter In 2019, the use of O2O solutions grew 153%, shipping. With rapid growth, in December it the services and experience of the physical world. In exceeding the R$ 2 billion mark in GMV. Learn reached the mark of 100 thousand orders. the last quarter of 2019, sales showed 57% growth at more about the main O2O possibilities below. the end of 2018, with an average ticket 15 times higher than that of physical stores. LASA Entrega (Ship from Store) Online purchase option of products from the O2O for B2W Marketplace sellers nearest Americanas unit, with delivery within With this option, the sellers' physical stores can two hours to the desired address, available in be collection spots of products, which allows the 300 stores in 110 cities in 13 states. expansion of Click and Collect, Click and Collect Now (one hour) and Ship From Store (two hours) initiatives for over 15,000 physical stores in B2W Marketplace sellers. 18 B2W Entrega It is a platform that operates and controls the deliveries of the marketplace, offering the B2W Digital sellers five types of services: B2W Fulfillment storage and delivery to the customer, it has 511 sellers connected 02 to stocks operated by the platform, which ensures the shortest delivery time, more competitive freight rates and, consequently, the best purchase experience for the Chapter customer, with the entire logistics process operated with B2W excellence. Pick Up Grandes Operações product collection at the seller's Distribution Center (DC) + delivery to the customer. Direct Collect product collection at the seller's Distribution Center (DC) – medium and Direct distribution operation. small + delivery to the customer. Drop Off Hub the seller delivers to one of our hubs and we deliver to the customer. Drop Off Loja – the seller delivers to one of Americanas stores and we deliver to the customer. B2W Entrega reached more than 44.6 thousand sellers at the end of the year, representing 95.3% of the total base and participating in more than 75% of orders placed on the marketplace. 19 CREDIT PROMOTER SELLER CREDIT We offer our customers payment solutions through the B2W and Cetelem credit The sellers of our marketplace have access to loans in a quick, safe and card joint-venture. In 2019, 3.3 million cards were issued, considering the four simple way and 100% online, with the option to pay in up to 24 installments e-commerce brands (Americanas.com, Submarino, Shoptime and Sou Barato), or full payment in up to 60 days. In addition to that, they also have extended with R$ 4.5 billion in approved transactions, a 17.0% growth compared to 2018. payment of the first installment in 30 or 45 days beyond the due date. Seller Credit can also be used as a means of payment when hiring our advertising services on the B2WADS platform. This solution brings important advantages for the business and its partners: B2W Digital Because we know the sales history of our sellers in our marketplace, we manage to provide greater precision to our credit risk analysis and offer a new source of financing, 02 more profitable than the traditional options in the market. Chapter By having access to resources, the sellers can invest more in stock, competitiveness and advertising, extending their sales in our marketplace. 20 BIT SERVICES The result of the acquisition of ten technology companies, the BIT Services offers complete solutions in different technological segments to support the operations of our e-commerce and those of the marketplace's sellers. DIGITAL LABS We have four BIT offices (B2W Inovação e Tecnologia), inspired by the largest and best innovation and entrepreneurship centers in the world, which have over 1,500 engineers and place us as a pioneer in the use of many digital solutions and reference in disruptive initiatives, B2W Digital developing innovative projects with Harvard University and MIT, that resulted in articles published with the scientific community. The BITs have an open space concept and spaces for informal meetings 02 and for events and knowledge exchange, aiming to create an inspiring Chapter and cooperative environment focused on the development of new technologies and innovative solutions. The first unit was inaugurated in 2013 in Rio de Janeiro, gathering The BITs have an open space concept the ones responsible for the development of our websites, the Mobile and spaces for informal meetings and platform and Data Analytics. In 2014, we inaugurated a new unit in São Paulo to accommodate the teams responsible for the platforms for events and knowledge exchange, of the marketplace and of a portfolio, which comprehends solutions aiming to create an inspiring and such as BSeller, SkyHub, among others. In 2015, we inaugurated the cooperative environment focused on BIT Recife, in Porto Digital, one of the references in technology and innovation in Brazil, and we opened the BIT Boston (US), strategically the development of new technologies placed between MIT and Harvard, universities known worldwide for and innovative solutions. their excellence in research, innovation, technology and business. 21 DIGITAL SERVICES B2WADS Advertising solutions for sellers, suppliers, industries and agencies to highlight products and brands in the entire purchase journey of the B2W websites. The service relies on a portfolio of various formats, which enables the adaptation of the media plan according to the customer's needs, whether to strengthen the brand, boost sales or the integration of branding and B2W Digital performance. In addition to ideal formats to promote the business visibility, B2WADS uses data intelligence to create assertive segmentations, These factors resulted in a impacting the right customer, on the right time. 116% annual revenue growth in 02 In 2019, following the initiatives of Universo Americanas of creating an relation to the previous year. Chapter increasingly integrated purchase experience for the customer such as Pegue na Loja (click and collect), Pegue na Loja Hoje (click and collect now) and Ame Flash the B2WADS created new media solutions that integrate the on and off environments. The actions consist of media activations on the website and in Americanas physical stores and are conceived according to the advertiser's strategy. On top of the innovations to meet the market demands, in 2019 the B2WADS strengthened its relationship with major brands such as Nestlé, Samsung, Dell, Colgate-Palmolive and Reckitt Benckiser, ending the year with a 161% increase in the advertisers' active base. 22 STRATEGIC DIFFERENTIALS WE OPERATE ON A COMPLETE PLATFORM WITH A GREAT RANGE OF PRODUCTS In the last years, we have invested heavily in Technology and Logistics, Our Americanas e-commerce platforms, Americanas.com, Submarino and Shoptime integrating our business platforms and creating a solid infrastructure, a are the largest and most beloved brands on the internet. By combining the direct competitive advantage that provides us with a multichannel, multibusiness sales and the sellers' products in our marketplace, we offer a vast assortment of and multi-brand structure to serve the customer in a simple, fast and products, with 29.5 million items in over 40 categories. effective way. B2W Digital We also support our customers with credit card services and complete technology Learn more about our platform on page 9. and logistics solutions for the sellers. 02 Learn more about our complete offer on page 11. Chapter COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE We rely on Brazil's most successful digital team and strong recruitment, ENSURING THE BEST PURCHASE EXPERIENCE selection and training programs, that ensure the continuity of our We focus on the customer and on being increasingly relevant in their day-to-day lives. high excellence standard to support the growth challenges and reach increasingly challenging goals. EVERYTHING. ANYTIME. Find out what makes us a certified company with ANYWHERE. the Great Place to Work 2020 seal on page 42. This is the value proposition that we tirelessly work on to deliver to our customers, by means of a simple purchase process, a fast and efficient delivery and a better customer service. Learn about our actions for customer satisfaction on page 17. 23 CUSTOMER FOCUS GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 We wish to be increasingly relevant in our customers' lives, integrating innovation DIALOGUE AND CLOSENESS to serve people with a single goal: to improve the experience of over 16 million We launched over four million satisfaction surveys and intensified the presence active customers in their entire journey with us, ensuring an excellent online of our brands on social media, closing the year with over 27 million likes on purchase experience. Facebook and over 11 million followers on Instagram, generating an impact superior to ten billion views. In the previous chapters, you got to know the initiatives to expand our product offering and work with greater efficiency and excellence. Next, we present the main advancements in the customer relation and service, so that this offer has the 8.2 B2W excellence. Our brands were, once again, a reference in customer B2W Digital service and reached the highest levels of evaluation of KNOWING THE CUSTOMER Reclame Aqui, with an average score of 8.2, above the average of 7.2 of the competing companies. DATA INTELLIGENCE 02 74.9% We have advanced in our ability to analyze data in order to understand the customer, In addition, 74.9% of the customers who filed mainly when it comes to different behavior segmentations. With this more Chapter complaints indicated that they would buy from the B2W individualized view, we can target further customized marketing actions for each brands again, while only 56.1% of the customers would type of customer, at each moment of their relationship. buy again from the competing companies' websites. In this respect, in 2019, we created a discount area in the Americanas app, the Aqui 88.5% Regarding the average index of brands solution, tem Desconto , where the customer can activate exclusive offers at the stores. Over B2W presents a 88.5% index on the Reclame Aqui 1.4 million customers activated the offers in the app, reaching approximately 17 website, while the competing companies register million activations of products with discounts. an index of 79.9%. 7th Reflecting the quality of service on the channel, for the 7th consecutive year, Americanas.com won the Época Reclame Aqui award, reflecting the service quality on the channel. 24 NEW POSSIBILITIES We launched the new relationship channel via WhatsApp, promoting innovative and friendly communication in the main purchase stages. 27% 15% 31% Currently, ten million customers have chosen to receive communication through the app, 60% of the orders already count on tracking via WhatsApp and seven million messages are sent monthly with the order follow-up. 27% more service with 15% improvement in the 31% reduction in the the same number of customer satisfaction protocol resolution time. associates*; after the contact; We have also started offering offline chat, so that the sellers can communicate with the customers. As a result, we have reduced the mediation rate in more than 90% in B2W Digital the customer and sellers service from the marketplace. ADVANCEMENTS IN THE SERVICE Therefore, we have reduced the volume of cases in which B2W needs to mediate the Throughout the year, we have also worked on improving our customer service more 02 service, solving the customer's contacts directly by the sellers with more agility and and more. We have created a new operational model, whose premise is the humanized convenience, improving the customer's experience. reception of the customer's problem and the maximum resolution in the contacts. Chapter We have also created the UniverSAC (Service University) to train our service team in B2W FOR ALL behavioral skills required for this new model. In November, the B2W Digital websites Americanas.com, Submarino, Shoptime e Sou Barato became accessible to people with hearing, visual and motor disabilities, With that, we have already achieved important results. We started assisting 27% more by using the Hand Talk and Essential Accessibility tools. In practice, the websites can contacts with the same personnel, we registered a 15% improvement in customer be read in sign language, with Hugo, out loud (for the visually impaired), and only by eye satisfaction after the contact and reduced in 31% the protocol resolution time. movement (for the disabled). INFORMATION SECURITY We have the irrevocable commitment to the information security, the privacy * Throughout the text, whenever mentioning associates , we are referring to protection of our customers' data and the transparency regarding the good practices B2W Digital employees. of storage and use of this information. In 2019, there was a change in this scenario and we are prepared for complete compliance to the General Law of Data Protection which is to come into force in Brazil in 2020. 25 FIGHTING COVID-19 • HELPING PEOPLE increasing the visibility of essential items We are going through a challenging moment in history, We take measures to prioritize the while structuring the websites and apps’ which will demand from all of us a great capacity to reinvent protection of our associates and browsing to improve the customer’s ourselves. The moment is one of union and solidarity. And customers, such as adopting home shopping experience. that is why we are together, working on new ways to be even office, making flu vaccine (Tetravalent more relevant to society. Influenza) available to all associates, • SOLID CASH MANAGEMENT B2W Desempenho Digital as well as intensifying the hygiene in We have implemented a plan to ensure With the onset of the pandemic, in March 2020, Universo environments, creating communication that the Company maintains a strong Americanas created the Crisis Committee to promote quick channels, measuring body temperature cash position to continue helping our actions and prioritize the necessary measures to preserve in areas with greater concentration and customers and small partners. the health of associates, customers and society. 04 02 corporate travel freeze. • COMMUNICATION AND COLLABORATION Capítulo Chapter The Committee also monitors all decisions made by the In addition, we distribute masks and gel We entered into partnerships with Federal Government, State and Municipal Authorities, the alcohol to all associates in all our work governments and other institutions World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health units and adopt new social distance and created the voluntary participation and structures the actions in four main pillars: protocols. network “Juntos somos mais solidários” to meet the specific needs of each region. • OPERATIONS OPTIMIZATION We kept our platforms (physical and digital) up and running, to help distribute essential products and services to the population, always in compliance with the legislation established in each region. On the digital platform, we launched the #OQueVocePrecisaAgora (#WhatYouNeedNow) campaign, 26 To date, Americanas has already donated more than R$ 45 million to assist in the health and logistics of several states in the country. Some social impact partnerships with public and private entities that are being carried out are listed below: R$ 20 million in delivery and logistics R$ 195 thousand in 300 high 1 million water bottles for NGOs Ação da services to the State of São Paulo; performance thermometers for the Cidadania (Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo) B2W Desempenho Digital Government of the State of Espírito Santo and Visão Mundical (Recife and Manaus); and to the City Hall of Salvador; 04 02 Capítulo Chapter R$ 5.7 million etransporting personal protective equipment (facemasks, gloves, 50 thousand basic-needs grocery etc.) to the Federal Government on two 10 million facemasks to protect packages for the NGO Ação da Cidadania flights from China; associates and customers; (Rio de Janeiro); and R$ 5 million for the construction of the 3 million chocolate Easter eggs for 1,800 diaper packs for UNICEF (United field hospital in Rio de Janeiro; children in orphanages, communities and Nations Children’s Fund) and Artists’ hospitals in all states of the country; Retreat. 27 B2W Digital We have also created the voluntary participation network that gave rise to Juntos 02 Somos Mais Solidários Institute, a nonSUPPORT FOR SMALL BUSINESSES Chapter profit association, through which associates, suppliers, and partners in Universo Americanas We have also created the #Apoieocomerciolocal campaign, suggesting may contribute to generate a positive impact on that people buy from small entrepreneurs, bringing the opportunity society. for these new storeowners to sell in one of the largest e-commerces in Brazil. On the website, the most sought after and sold products are In this large solidarity network, through the Care separated by category to facilitate consumer search. with the Elderly program, 1,100 homes were mapped across the country, serving more than We remain firm in the belief that together we will overcome this 640 cities and 90,000 elderly people, who are moment and increasingly intensify our way of contributing to millions receiving the donation of hygiene and personal of people, whether through donations, services, or the supply of care kits, in the amount of R$ 75.00 per person, essential products. per month, during three months. 28 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION B2W DIGITAL AMERICANAS.COM Green Seal, won in the Chico Mendes Socio-Environmental Award, for the Most Beloved Diamond Store by the E-Bit. sixth consecutive year, with the Grafitarte case (learn more on page 71). 1st place in the “Shopping Websites” category of the Marcas dos Cariocas One of the most sustainable companies in the country according to Guia ranking of the O Globo newspaper. Exame de Sustentabilidade. 1st place in the “Online Purchases” category in the Marcas Mais do Estadão 1st place in the “Biggest E-commerce” category in the ranking of the 300 ranking. Biggest Companies in the Brazilian Retail of the Sociedade Brasileira de Varejo e Consumo (SBVC). 1st place in the “Online Traditional Retail” category in the Melhores Serviços B2W Digital do Estadão ranking. 1st place in the “Omnichannel” category of the LIDE Retail, Consumer and Shopping Center Award. 1st place in the “Telephony”, “Electronics and Computing”, “Appliances and UD” categories, and the store that organizes the best Black Friday in Brazil in the 02 Quality Seal of the PROCON-RJ Award. Black Friday de Verdade award from Proxy Media and E-commerce Brasil. Chapter 1st place in the “Internet Retailer's TOP 500 E-Retailers in LATAM” ranking. 1st place in the “E-commerce” category in the Marcas Mais Amadas do Grupo Padrão ranking. Featured in the Época Reclame Aqui 2019 Award, for the 7th consecutive year: • 1st place in the E-Commerce Major Operations category: Americanas.com; and SHOPTIME • 1 place in the Credit Cards Co-branded category: Cartão Americanas. st 1st place in the E-Commerce Medium Operations category. DIRECT 1st place in the Logistics and Transportation category. 03 29 Corporate Governance 30 OVERVIEW GRI 102-5 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 We are a publicly traded company and we trade our shares in the B3's New Market Brazil, Stock Exchange, Counter. Our share consists of 523,229,262 BTOW3 shares, exclusively common, 61.42% of which are held by our parent company Lojas Americanas S.A. The BTOW3 shares closed 2019 being worth R$ 62.86 each, which brought our Corporate Governance company's value to 32,890,191,409. BTOW3 shares closed 2019 In 2019, we increased our Capital in R$ 2.5 billion with the private issue of 64,102,565 new common shares, which had the adhesion of 100% of the Company's quoted at R$ 62.86, up 51.34% shareholders. Lojas Americanas S.A. took part with R$ 1.6 billion and the minority shareholders joined with R$ 935.5 million. in the period. The market value 03 reached R$ 32.9 billion, an The Capital Increase improves our capital structure by keeping our commitment increase of R$ 13.7 billion in Chapter to the cash generation, and allows the Company to continue investing in the digital platform and accelerating its growth by means of a complete ecosystem of solutions (learn more on page 9). relation to the previous year. See also the governance of our parent company, Lojas Americanas S.A., in the sustainability report of Universo Americanas: https://ri.lasa.com.br/informacoesfinanceiras/relatorios-anuais-trimestrais/4t19divulgacao-de-resultados 31 BEST PRACTICES Our presence in the New Market means that we have adopted the best corporate What guides us governance practices established by the stock market. The new Market is a special Ethics, transparency, responsibility and good governance, transversal pillars to our listing segment, which demands practices that go beyond the law, such as: entire business model, are fundamental to our sustained development. • Only having common shares, all with voting right at general Meetings; Due to that, we rely on solid principles and commitments, publicly disclosed to the whole society and we continuously work to keep our culture aligned with these Corporate Governance • Distributing to shareholders a minimum dividend of 25% of the adjusted net income guidelines. for the year; Next, we present our main policies, which guide not only B2W Digital, but the whole • Unified mandate of members to the Council for a maximum of two years; Universo Americanas, thus ensuring the standardization and strategical alignment of the entire group. • Ensuring that the B2W shares, representative of, at least, 25% of the total capital, 03 are in circulation; Chapter • Granting 100% tag along to all the shareholders in case of sale of the Company's share control, which ensures to the minority shareholders the same sale conditions (share price) as to the majority shareholders; and • Holding, at least once a year, a public meeting with analysts and other stakeholders to present their performance, projects and perspectives. Our shares are listed on ITAG Shares Index with Differentiated Tag Along, made by shares of companies that offer the same conditions to the minority shareholders, in case of a change of control. We also take part in other important indexes that attest the solidity of our management and results, such as Ibovespa, IBrX 50, ISE, Icon, IGC, IVBX-2, MSCI and FTSE Russell. 32 CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT GRI 102-16 | 205-1 | 205-2 | 205-3 | 206-1 OTHER POLICIES AND GUIDELINES GRI 102-11 | 102-15 | 102-25 | 205-1 | 205-3 It defines the responsibilities of the associates as representatives of the Company Risk Management Policy and presents to all the fundamental rules for acting in accordance with our principles In order to establish principles, guidelines and responsibilities to be and values, preserving the credibility, image and reputation of the Company. observed internally, we have a robust risk management policy, covering issues such as: corruption, environment and social. This policy applies to the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as to all associates, Corporate Governance managers, statutory and non-statutory directors, members of the Many topics are addressed, presented below, Board of Directors, members of committees, members of the Fiscal seeking to exhaust examples in which the employee Cases of conflict of Board, when installed, representatives and third parties, directly or may be confronted with ethical dilemmas and interest between indirectly related to the Company and its subsidiaries. guiding the conduct to be adopted: partners and administrators, and As a result of the good internal structure, no cases of corruption • Safety and health; 03 • Appreciating diversity; between these and were identified in 2019. the Company that Chapter • Fighting harassment; have not reached an In order to keep itself increasingly aligned with the best Corporate agreement must be Governance practices, the Company also has several policies and • Fulfillment of financial commitments; resolved through the regulations that promote the fight against corruption, transparency • Fighting corruption; Market Arbitration and equity in access to information, ethics in donations and • Conflict of interests; Chamber (CAM), sponsorships, conflicts of interest mitigation, the independence of established by B3, to auditors, among other topics. • Use of the Company's resources; which we are bound. • Information Security and data manipulation; and • Relationship with customers, suppliers and service providers, shareholders, government and society. To access our Risk Management policy, access: https://static.b2wdigital.com/upload/politicas/00003091.pdf The Code is publicly available at our website: https://ri.b2w.digital/governanca-corporativa/codigo-de-etica-e-conduta 33 ENGAGEMENT GRI 205-2 | 205-3 | 206-1 All of the associates, when entering our team, receive training on the Code of Ethics and Conduct. In addition to that, throughout the year, communications are made to all of the associates via the communication platform, emphasizing topics related to ethics. Corporate Governance In 2019, all associates have been communicated regarding the topic in various campaigns. We also rely on a Corporate Risks area, within the structure of Audit and Risks, which establishes the rules for the mitigation of corruption risks and 03 promotes the continuous monitoring. Chapter As a reflection of the commitment of all to the ethics in COMPLAINTS GRI 102-17 the operations, in 2019 there were no lawsuits for unfair In 2019, we outsourced the complaints channel, which is now managed by a specialized and competition and no registered corruption cases. independent company, operating 24 hours a day and seven days a week. Any person in or out of the company can file complaints about cases involving the Company's representatives who go against the law or our code of conduct, with guaranteed confidentiality and the possibility to follow up the evaluation and dealings of their report. The cases are investigated and have their dealings defined by an impartial and independent area. Know the channel on: www.canaldedenuncias.com.br/lasaeb2w 34 LEADERSHIP GRI 102-18 COUNCIL AND EXECUTIVE BOARD Board of Executive Board Directors Elected by the Board of Directors, with It will consist of two to 12 Directors a term of office of three years and (ten in 2019). Elected by the General Shareholder's Corporate Governance Anna Christina Ramos Saicali reelection allowed. Meeting, with a term of office of two President years, reelection is allowed, and in the maximum four representatives of the controlling shareholder. Celso Alves Ferreira Louro Jean Pierre Lessa e Santos Marcio Cruz Meirelles Ferreira Director (Effective) Chairman Operational Director Seven members, of which 42.9% 03 are independent and 57.1% are Lojas Americanas S.A. representatives. Jorge Felipe Lemann Director (Effective) Chapter Anna Christina da Silva Sotero José Mauro Rocha de Barros Commercial Director Operational Director Luiz Carlos Di Sessa Filippetti Independent Director (Effective) Carlos Eduardo Rosalba Padilha José Timotheo Barros Operational Director Operational Director Mauro Muratorio Not Independent Director (Effective) Carlos Henrique de Lucca Fortes Marcelo da Silva Nunes Gatto Miguel Gomes Pereira Sarmiento Operational Director Financial Director Gutierrez Director (Effective) Fábio da Silva Abrate Paulo Antunes Veras Financial and Investor Relations Thiago Mendes Barreira Independent Director (Effective) Commercial Director Director 35 COMMITTEES GRI 102-19 | 102-29 |102-30 APPOINTMENT COMMITTEE The Board of Directors has three committees, that operate as work groups It is responsible for nominating candidates for the Board of Directors, whose dedicated to strategy, monitoring and recommendation to the Board on strategic names will be submitted to the Company's General Meeting to elect Board of topics for the business. Directors members. The Committees are composed by directors and meet every quarterly closing, Comprised of four members of the Board of Directors, of which at least two must or whenever there is a call by its chairman in an extraordinary need, with the Corporate Governance always be Independent Directors, the Appointment Committee fulfills a mandate exception of the Sustainability Committee, which meets weekly. that coincides with the term of office of the members of the Board of Directors, reelection permitted. AUDIT COMMITTEE It is incumbent upon the Committee, among other duties, to review the SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE 03 Management Report and the Company's annual and quarterly financial The Sustainability Committee, also known as Companhia Verde, is committed to statements, reporting its conclusions, each quarter, to the Board of Directors. Chapter defining the strategy and the guidelines for the corporate sustainability, aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda proposed by It consists of three members, for a term that will coincide with the term of office the United Nations. of the Board of Directors members, reelection permitted. The members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board of Directors, exclusively from the In addition to promoting associates' engagement, the Committee also encourages Independent Directors. the participation of different areas through a delegation of authority process in which the Sustainability Board participates and takes the initiatives to the Board of Directors. According to the projects of interest, associates and areas are involved so that, in an integrated manner, we can develop increasingly sustainable solutions and practices. 36 FISCAL BOARD The Fiscal Board shall act in order to protect the Company's assets and interests, inspecting and requesting the management bodies information and clarifications related to its supervisory function. The Board shall consist of three to five effective members and an equal number of alternates. Currently, it is composed of three members and an equal number of Corporate Governance alternates, two elected by the parent company and one by common shareholders, elected at the General Meeting, with a one-year term, reelection permitted. Composition of the Fiscal Board in 2020*: Peter Edward Cortes Marsden Wilson 03 Effective Director (Appointed by Common Ricardo Scalzo Deputy Director Shareholders) Chapter Marcio Villas Boas Passos Pedro Carvalho de Melo Deputy Director Effective Director Carlos Alberto de Souza Márcio Luciano Mancini Effective Director Deputy Director *Updated April 30, 2020. 37 04Financial Performance 38 SCENARIO RESULTS GRI 102-7 | 201-1 2019 was marked by a gradual improvement in the economic environment, MAIN INDICATORS 2019 2018 DELTA with the recovery of the GDP; control of inflation and reduction of the basic interest rate (Selic), which reached the historical low of 4.5% yr. in Total GMV (R$ MM) 18,778 15,005 +25.1% December. In addition, inflation measured by the IPCA ended the year at Marketplace (R$ MM) 11,589 7,740 +49.7% 4.31%, 0.56 p.p. above that recorded in 2018, but remaining within the target. Marketplace (% of the Total GMV) 61.7% 51.6% +10.1 p.p. Electronic commerce, according to data from e-Bit/Nielsen, showed a Assortment (Items/MM) 29.5 8.1 +21.4 growth of 16.3% in relation to 2018. The market growth is driven by the # sellers (New/Thousand) 24.9 12.2 +12.7 constant expansion of the internet user base and the growth in the number # sellers (Base/Thousand) 46.8 21.9 +24.9 of e-consumers. Performance B2W Entrega (# sellers/Thousand) 44.6 18.5 +26.1 B2W Digital reiterates its confidence and its positive prospects for the B2W Entrega (% of the sellers base) 95.3% 84.5% +10.8 p.p. future, both in relation to the country's development and in the opportunities Mobile (% of traffic) 76.7% 67.8% +8.9 p.p. for internet growth, increasing the penetration of e-commerce into total 04 retail and other business opportunities. Chapter GROSS MERCHANDISE VOLUME (GMV) In 2019, the total GMV reached R$18.8 billion, a 25.1% growth in relation to the R$ 15.0 billion in 2018. The B2W Marketplace continues to develop rapidly and it reached R$ 11.6 billion GMV in 2019, a 49.7% growth in relation to the previous year, representing 62% of the Total GMV. 39 REVENUE SALES, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES NET FINANCIAL RESULT In 2019, the accumulated gross revenue was In 2019, the expenses totaled R$ -1,542.9 million vs. In 2019, the financial result went from R$ -587.5 million R$ 8,357.4 million, 3.9% above the R$ 8,044.3 R$ -1,411.9 million recorded in 2018. The percentage in 2018 to R$ -603.9 million in 2019. obtained in 2018. of expenses in relation do the GMV decreased 1.2 NET RESULT percentage point, going from 9.4% in 2018 to 8.2% in In 2019, the net result went from R$ -391.6 million, The Net Revenue, on the other hand, added up to 2019, showing progress in the operation efficiency. an improvement if compared to the R$ -405.1 million R$ 6,661.7 million, 2.7% above the R$ 6,488.5 million ADJUSTED EBITDA AND EBITDA MARGIN in 2018. from the previous year. In 2019, the Adjusted EBITDA was R$ 600.1 million, 16.1% growth compared to the R$ 517.1 million recorded Gross Revenue (R$ million) Performance in 2018. R$ 8,357.4 The Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 1.0 p.p., from R$ 8,044.3 8.0% in 2018 to 9.0% in 2019. 04 Chapter Adjusted Ebitda and Ebitda Margin (R$ million and %) 9.0% 8.0% R$ 600.1 2018 2019 R$ 517.1 ADJUSTED GROSS PROFIT AND GROSS MARGIN In 2019, gross profit was R$ 2,142.9 million, a 11.1% growth when compared to the R$ 1,928.9 million in 2018, with a margin expansion of 2.5 p.p. (32.2% vs. 29.7%). 2018 2019 EBITDA Margin 40 CASH MANAGEMENT Cash Generation: in 2019, cash generation was positive and totaled R$ 189.9 million, Accounts receivable: our accounts receivable are mainly made by credit card an increase of R$ 428.9 million in relation to the cash consumption of R$ 239.0 million receivables, net of the discounted amount, which have immediate liquidity and can recorded in 2018. be considered as cash. In 2019, accounts receivable added up to R$ 762.1 million, including effects of the FIDC Credit Card Receivables Anticipation Fund, a unique As a way of capturing all of the effects, the generation or consumption of cash is tool in the market, representing an important source of fundraising. measured by the variation in the net debt, always disregarding eventual resources from capital increase operations. Debt: at the end of the year, B2W's cash (including the FIDC effects) totaled R$ 7,418.1 million, covering 5.6 times the Company's short-term debt, which totaled Working Capital: our working capital is calculated from the sum of days of accounts R$ 1,321.0 million. Performance receivable from customers (using GMV as a base) and days of inventory, minus the days of suppliers, considering GMV and CMV in the last 12 months. CAPEX: we used our cash generation prioritizing investments that present the best return for the shareholders. In this sense, in 2019, CAPEX totaled R$ 510.1 million, At the end of 2019, the working capital was of -41 days, an improvement of 61 days in representing 2.7% of the Total GMV, acceleration in relation to the previous year, 04 relation to December 2018), which reflects the curatorial process and the review of when it added up to R$ 380.0 million and represented 2.5% of the Total GMV. Chapter 1P assortment, the optimization in the planning of merchandise purchase, as well as the increase in the 3P participation (marketplace) in the total sales, since the marketplace (whose credit card transactions are approved on the B2W platform and make the gross balance of the receivables) does not demand working capital (B2W is only intermediary and receives a commission on sales made). 05 41 Talents 42 OUR TEAM GRI 102-7 | 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-1 | 401-2 | 405-1 9,176 associates Top management We have Brazil's 61% 57% Technology Up to 30 53% 51% Up to 35 More than eight years old years old years in the Co. most successful digital team. Diversity by gender Diversidade B2W LEVEL Talents In line with the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations (UN) to achieve the Board of Directors 8 1 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we invest in socio-environmental 05 practices and maintain the commitment to generate jobs and promote the 4,469 48.7% 4,707 51.3% Management 195 111 development of the places where we operate. To meet these premises, we have Chapter Head / Coord 244 188 a strategy to prioritize the hiring of local labor. Technical / Supervision 1,271 1,033 The strong recruitment and selection programs added 124 associates Women Men Administrative 275 439 compared to 2018. Our human training and development, along with continuous advancement in the associate's experience also guarantee the continuity of Operational 2,626 2,511 Associates by gender and the high standard of excellence to support the growth challenges and achieve employment contract Apprentice 44 148 increasingly challenging goals. 1,453 Intern 44 38 In January 2020, we received the Great Place to Work (GPTW) certification for 15.8% the first time, considering the associate's experience until the end of 2019. It is Total by gender 4,707 4,469 an important recognition of the effort to keep evolving and engaging the team to reach increasingly challenging goals, always focusing on the customer. Get to know the profile of our team and the differentials of our talent 7,723 84.2% management below. Permanent Temporary 43 Associates 23 North by region Talents 05 310 Northeast Chapter 19 MidWest 8,654 Southeast South Southeast Northeast Mid-west North 54 4,320 85 5 5 170 1.85% 94.31% 3.38% 0.21% 0.25% South 116 4,334 225 14 18 Women Men 44 DIVERSITY We believe that a diverse space, that welcomes and values diverse publics is Due to that, in 2019, we carried out various initiatives motivated by the commitment crucial for an innovative business, connected to the future and made for millions to promote diversity and equity. In June, together with our parent company of customers. Every experience, every concern of our associate is representative Americanas, we signed three important voluntary pacts, aimed at expanding the and rich for us to understand the diversity of the world, the expectations of our inclusion within the Companies and their value chains: customers and of the society. • Coalition for Racial and Gender Equity: promoted by According to our latest engagement survey (applied in January 2020, in relation to Instituto Ethos, the pact has as its premise the reduction the year of 2019), “more than 85%”or “the vast majority” of our associates believe of the social inequalities in Brazil, focused on racial and that we are in an environment, where everybody is treated well, regardless of race, gender issues in the corporate world. gender or age. In fact, these questions are among the most well ranked in the survey. Talents • Business Charter for Human Rights and for the Furthermore, most of our associates perceive our environment without favoritism Promotion of Decent Work: this charter by Instituto on the part of the managers. 05 Ethos has as its premise the promotion of decent work, reinforcing the equity and the inclusion of disabled Chapter Another relevant point is that, when we observe from the perspective of our people (PWD). As signatories, we are committed to publics (sexual orientation, age, gender, race, among others) we have very similar fighting prejudices and myths related to this public. evaluations, without major discrepancies between the evaluations, which indicates, in practice, that we take equality very seriously in our Co. • Women's Empowerment Principles, by UN Women: these principles are a set of considerations that aid In addition to that, we are committed to opening doors to the diversity of the business community at incorporating values and professionals in the market, not only to come and work with us, but also, and practices in their businesses aimed at gender equity mainly, their inclusion in our environment, ensuring equal opportunities to and women's empowerment. achieve success. 45 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN We hold various events on gender equity with the objective of supporting more and more the equal distribution of opportunities. Nowadays, we are proud to say that this has already come true in our personnel and we continually strive to ensure the Annually, we organize commemorative campaigns for maintenance of this balance by seeking an equal 50/50 gender participation in our International Women's Day. In March 2019, women's month, selection processes. we launched a commemorative campaign in recognition of the ones responsible for making our daily lives happen. We are also committed to the perpetuation of gender balance in the career development We encouraged all the associates of the administrative and in the access to leadership positions. headquarters and the Distribution Centers to partake in an engagement campaign at the Workplace*, on International Women's Day, whose theme was Remarkable women who Talents contribute to making history , and post photos with the women in their teams. In the DCs, we showed on TVs and 05 In 2019, 1,405 associates murals the testimony from the associates about what it means to be a woman . were promoted and took new Chapter In addition, we disclosed internally the total amount of men positions. From these, 52.60% and women associates, raising everyone's awareness on are women. Gender Equality. During the month, we have also promoted a talk on Career path and gender challenges , with the participation of female leaders. *Workplace is a Facebook social network focused on the internal communication of companies. 46 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR DISABLED PEOPLE In 2019, other than continually seeking to include the PWD in the selection processes and into our personnel, we are also attentive to promoting an actually inclusive Somar is a social inclusion Program launched on B2W Digital on environment, which allows their full development and wellbeing. July 2014, which offers work and career opportunities for people with physical, hearing, visual or intellectual disabilities (PWD). The For this reason, we carry out the Somar Program, which provides for several Program's goal is to promote the inclusion of these professionals, actions with this objective, such as, for example: offering opportunities, qualification and development in their areas of expertise. • We provide training in Sign Language for the associates; • In the scope of talent search, we have been present at many job fairs dedicated to the public and we invited more than 1,800 professionals to our selection processes; Talents Accomplishments • We have carried out internal awareness campaigns for the employees and lectures with specialized consultants; 05 • We promoted the Somar September, an event held in the month that celebrates the Chapter 181 1,800 232 PWD fight, which featured discussion panels, workshops and the screening of short films on each disability; and • We encourage the implementation of sign language interpreters to promote Hires Candidates invited to Training in our selection process Sign language accessibility in corporate meetings, promoting internal trainings and hiring interpreters for meetings with large audiences, an action that generated great recognition on the Company's part after the associates' feedback. Currently, the initiative is disseminated to the other units by online transmission, but the goal for 2020 is to expand the project throughout Brazil, extending its presence to the various B2W units. With it, we intend to increase our acting capacity with the PWD public and develop the project's actions locally. 47 ATTRACTION We have a full and dedicated attention to keep attracting the best talents, maintaining our recognition and training the digital team in the face of to the Company's growth challenges. To that end, we are attuned to the market innovation and, in 2019, we strengthened our relationship to universities by means of career start programs, business and technology internships. Talents In addition to that, B2W also promoted workshops, partook in recruitment fairs and acted as a sponsor of events in the areas of computer science and 05 mathematics, among others. Thus, we continue Chapter encouraging new projects and favoring the experience exchange between the actors of the area. » The Dev’s Hunt: aiming to provide the candidate with a differentiated experience through a dynamic selection process, B2W Digital launched the program Reception for the new group of B2W interns at the Shoptime Studio. The Dev’s Hunt. The program's goals are to present the company's main vacancies and select the best talents, completing all the steps of the selection process on a single day. During the year, two editions of the program were held in São Paulo, resulting in the hiring of eight associates. 48 » Summer Job: the program, which lasts from six to nine weeks, selects » Master's Internship: launched in 2019, the project is a partnership with the students from the best national and international universities to work on projects Computer Science Department at UFSCar and aims to promote the incentive to together with the Company's associates. At the January edition, we received 12 research and the exchange of knowledge between the academic and corporate students from different areas: commercial, financial, logistics and technology. In environments. It is the first research project focused on the evolution of the Apache addition to developing projects, the interns partook in meetings with the board Marvin platform and it relies on the participation of professors and master students and technical and behavioral trainings with the People & Management team. from the education institution. » B2W Internship: in 2019, we resumed the program hiring 70 interns, who » Trainee Program: in 2019, 14 trainees went through various areas, in job rotation, partake in technical, behavioral and immersion trainings, in addition to learning in and were later allocated to their areas, where they developed specific projects. practice by experiencing the dynamism of a digital company. » New Talent Program: it trains recently graduated professionals to be future » B2W Tech Internship: launched in 2018, the former Bit Internship program Talents leaders, in an accelerated manner. Upon joining B2W Digital, the New Talent members focuses on the selection of interns interest in becoming front-end and back-end are allocated directly into their activity areas to start their development and take part in developers. For six months, the interns take part in classes taught by the B2W lectures on the Corporate Overview , exchanging experiences with managers of various 05 Digital associates and go through a job rotation scale, during which they develop areas, in addition to carrying out technical visits to some units. In 2019, 153 new talents Chapter activities in various areas and create a project with the aid of an associate who were hired by the program. acts as a tutor. In 2019, ten associates were hired to Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo through the program. » New Talent Master Program: program focused on the recruitment of highpotential young people with master's or doctorate's degree from the best Universities in the country, who join the company as coordinators. In 2019, 34 new master's talents were hired. 49 OPPORTUNITIES TO START A CAREER Começando Juntos is a B2W Digital apprenticeship program. In line with the Company's mission, vision and values, it was elaborated internally to attract and develop Young Apprentices. The program is a social responsibility action that promotes the sense of civility and provides opportunities for the young people to develop their potential. The approved youngsters are directed to areas where they will develop practical activities of a content aligned with the activity area. In 2019, in addition to hiring and admitting youngsters in the Company's staff, the program was present at the Casa Aberta event, promoted by Senac, aimed at attracting new talents. Começamos juntos also took part in development projects for Talents young professionals, with e-learning trainings on the Code of Ethics and Conduct, time management and 5S, in addition to face-to-face trainings to contribute to the professional development, enabling greater visibility to the program. 05 Chapter Accomplishments 131Hires 35 Admitted 50 Trained Youngsters Tutors 50 APPROXIMATION TO UNIVERSITIES In the last years, we have strengthened our talent attraction team and designed a » Brazil Conference Harvard and MIT: we supported and partook in the 5 th edition project to define our EVP (Employee Value Proposition), reinforcing the employer of Brazil Conference at Harvard and MIT, which promotes the meeting of leaders brand of B2W Digital at universities and in the market, displaying all the knowledge, from various sectors, seeking innovative solutions for the future of our country. We development and career opportunities that the Company can offer. also support HackBrazil, an innovation and technology competition, that nominated five finalists to compete in the final, at the beginning of April 2019, in Boston. As a result, we repositioned our Company as a brand for the public and increased in over 200% the amount of events in which we take part in universities. Learn more » Working Day: the program's goal is to present the Company's day-to-day life and about the main initiatives below. the career opportunities. During the meeting, the guests participate in lectures, tours around the office and chats about career with B2W executives. In 2019, we » Programming Marathons: in 2019, we sponsored the XXIV SBC Programming organized over 15 editions, which relied on the partnership with some national and Talents Marathon (Brazilian Computer Science Society), which is aimed at undergraduate international universities such as IFSP, USP, Unicamp, Mackenzie, UFRJ, UFF, Cefet, and graduate freshman students in the Computer Science area and the like. FGV, Illinois, among others. 05 The competition requires various skills from the students, such as creativity, » International Mathematics Olympiad: the ITA (Technological Institute of Chapter teamwork, problem solving under pressure and the search for new software Aeronautics) team had B2W's sponsorship at the International Mathematics solutions. In addition to supporting the event, the company also sponsored four Olympiad, an event that promotes problem solving in the areas of algebra and teams at the national stage: USP (1st place), Unicamp (2nd place), UFABC and UFSCar. combinatorial analysis. The sponsored team had five students awarded, who won three silver and two bronze medals. We also sponsored Unicamp's Programming Marathon, in the format of competition, which selected the students who will represent the University at » Recruitments Fairs: honoring the mission of recruiting the best talents in the official competitions throughout the year. In addition to awarding the winning market, B2W Digital took part in the main recruitment fairs held at Universities teams, we held an opening lecture at the event sharing with the students the dayacross the country. In addition to the space to meet candidates, the Company also to-day life of a B2W developer. promoted various activities such as lectures and workshops in the country's main education institutions. 51 » Academic weeks: in order to promote the exchange of knowledge and bring professionals and students closer, B2W took part in several academic weeks throughout 2019. Among them, we highlight PUC's Administration and Engineering Week, UFRJ's and UFFRJ's Computer Science Week, UFF's Engineering Week, UFSCar's Computer Science Week, USP's Production Engineering Week. » Hackathon USP: in partnership with USP, during the year of 2019, B2W sponsored the realization of Talents two hackathons. The event gathers programmers, designers and other professionals linked to software development in work marathons aiming 05 to create specific solutions to various challenges. Chapter Inter Hack takes place simultaneously in different campi of the education institutions, while She Hacks is fully dedicated to the female public and promotes the participation of women in the technology environment. » REP Insper: B2W participated in the REP Program (Effective Problem Solving), organized Participation of the People&Management team at the Fundação Estudar's Conference In by Insper. The academic project developed by Practice fair. undergraduate students focuses on developing strategic solutions for the Company. 52 DEVELOPMENT GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 | 404-2 | 404-3 The career development of B2W associates is a major issue to our Company, considering our intense growth rate and the need for trained professionals and multipliers of our culture and excellence. Due to that, we rely on several training and career development initiatives to enhance their evolution. With the accelerated growth in Talents the year, we had more than 1,405 05 promotions in the associates' Chapter careers on every level. B2W Digital associates in a meeting. 53 APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAININGS In 2019, we offered our associates over 70 different training themes focused on technical, behavioral and leadership development. We also support their academic qualification by means of the B2W Fellows Program, through which we bear 80% of the tuition fees in graduation, MBA and master courses, and through partnerships with education institutions that offer discounts 60 to all the associates. Adding up to this initiative, we offer in company courses with leading institutions in over the market, in addition to paying for courses, events, congresses and conferences thousand Talents for associates who stand out at B2W. Training hours DIALOGUE AND EXCHANGE 05 B-Talks is an innovative event, that adopts the format of a talk show and whose goal is to share knowledge and promote debates, also acting as a way to present and Chapter integrate areas and people. This idea emerged in 2019 and its editions have a panel configuration, in which the associates are interviewed and expose projects with a manager's mediation. The event is broadcasted live to all of our units and relies on the interaction of the over 6.7 Training hours associates, who may send questions before and during the meeting. by associate Another well consolidated exchange initiative is 5ª às 5, in which every Thursday at 5 p.m. the associates volunteer to talk about topics they find interesting, sharing knowledge or experience, that is, the agenda is determined by the associates themselves, who organize to talk on a weekly basis. On the agenda of the meetings are issues such as technology, safety, health, diversity (gender issues, abusive relationships, new masculinity), among others. 54 TECHNOLOGY, TECHNOLOGY AND MORE TECHNOLOGY In 2019, we launched the BIT Tech Week, an event whose goal is to promote the exchange of knowledge on technology and innovation among the associates and create a space of technical development. During one week, the participants dedicate themselves to trainings, lectures, workshops, mini courses and a Talents Hackathon, all of them oriented to the Company's technology teams. 05 We also continued the meetup Chapter rounds in 2019, which are destined to the technical communities. The meetings work as informal moments to exchange information and From the external point of view, we supported the In 2019, almost 400 participation of over 100 associates in the International experiences on specific topics. The event involves people from certain Software Development Conference (Qcon) and of over associates were 200 associates from various locations in the TDC (The technology communities, as well Developer’s Conference). We also strived to intensify trained in the Belts as the Company's internal public, allowing for a networking moment the method training and capacitation of our associates, methodologies (Yellow, with Lean Six Sigma and the Agile Methodologies, and between both worlds. This year alone, there have been more than we intend to strengthen more and more the already Green, Black and Master consolidated program in the Company in order to 40 meetups at our offices in Rio de always obtain the best results through the internal Black Belt), totaling Janeiro and São Paulo. qualification and development. 10,516 hours of training. 55 LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT This year, we're still applying the PDG, the Manager Development Program, which had the adherence of over a thousand managers. The initiative capacitates leaders by strengthening their understanding on their role, the impact of their actions over their subordinates and, consequently, over the organization. The training has been applied at all management levels, contributing to the qualification of the Company's entire team. In addition, in 2019 we also continued the LBA Program (Leadership and Business Academy), in partnership with HBS (Harvard Business School) to perfect our leadership. Talents Another program of great relevance for the qualification of our future B2W leaders 05 is Radar de Talentos, which seeks to identify our talents and direct training and development actions according to each associate's profile. Since its beginning, over Chapter 500 managers have already been mapped according to their degree of competence and willingness to take on new challenges. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT We are currently developing the proposition of a new model for our performance evaluations. The initiative encompasses a study of the periodicity of the evaluations, the methodology to be applied and the models of the Individual Development Plan. At the managerial level, we apply an annual performance evaluation, which also has the formal follow up of the HR to support the development of its teams. The managers rely on the support of assessment tools, DISC, among others, which assist them in the mission of estimating the performance of their personnel and planning their development according to the area's goals and competencies. 56 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 ENGAGEMENT Game de Segurança B2W Digital strictly complies with the laws and standards related The program's goal is to evaluate the work environment to Occupational Safety and Medicine and has a Health, Safety and conditions, bearing in mind the risk mitigation of incidents/ Environment policy that ensures that all operations are carried out accidents in our operations. The periodic audits in the units are with the least environmental impact, to prevent accidents and ensure carried out by representatives of CIPA (Internal Commission for the occupational health of associates. Accident Prevention) and brigades. We also developed actions for all areas that aim to provide an increasingly safe and healthy work environment, as we consider the Sempre Alerta Talents theme as a fundamental pillar in the construction of a humanized and The program seeks to evaluate the behavior of our associates people-oriented management. regarding Labor Safety. Another initiative in this respect is 05 the holding of DDSs (Daily Safety Dialogues), which are widely With the safety of associates in mind, we have technicians in all disseminated in our operations through managers. Chapter administrative and operations offices. We also have some programs and campaigns aimed at health and safety at all Distribution Centers, where the possible impacts are greater. Safe Black The campaign was launched during the 2019 Black Friday Get to know some of them and the responsible bodies: and consists in a corporate challenge focused on raising the associates' awareness in relation to the development of safe practices in the work environment. To learn more about the Health, Safety and Environment Policy, visit: http://www.companhiaverde.com.br/b2w/politica-ambiental 57 We also organize several awareness campaigns to encourage the associates in adopting good habits regarding health and well-being: • Green April: aimed at engaging in the adoption of safe behavior; • Yellow May: deals with the awareness concerning the prevention of traffic accidents; • Pink October: seeks to alert women about the importance of prevention and early diagnosis of breast and cervical cancer; Talents • Blue November: intended to raise awareness in relation to male diseases, PREVENTION with an emphasis on the prevention and early diagnosis of prostate cancer; B2W Digital has a CIPA (Internal Accident Prevention Commission) in all of its units, that assists in the matters of health and work safety, and 05 • Labor Gymnastics Program; Fire Brigades. We also provide trainings to our Brigades, in addition to Chapter the qualification and development of associates to act in emergency • Campaign to Prevent and Fight Dengue; situations, such as preventing and fighting fires and first aid. • Women's Health Campaign; • STIs (Sexually Transmitted Infections) Prevention Campaign; • Mental Health Campaign; • Internal Work Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT); and • World Health Day with guided meditation activities, labor gymnastics and communications on subjects such as anxiety, wellbeing at work, oral health, obesity and heart disease. 06 58 Positive Impact 59 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY GRI 103-1 The commitment to sustainability is something that has been accompanying B2W throughout the years. In 2007, we created our Sustainability Committee (Comitê Positive Impact Companhia Verde), seeking to bring an attentive and dedicated look to the theme in all of the diverse aspects of the Company's operation. Thus, we strive for making the business more and more sustainable and generate value for all our stakeholders. 06 We also rely on the Sustainability Board, responsible for the direction of the Companhia Verde Committee and for promoting our sustainability strategy and Chapter governance and for coordinating the environmental management and social responsibility initiatives. We also strengthened our commitment by means of a dialogue and collaboration process with the stakeholders and the associations oriented towards the promotion of the Company's sustainability. 60 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 102-46 | 102-47 5 We rely on a continuous periodically executed process to know the interests of our stakeholders in relation to sustainability and the main aspects of the theme that have EXTERNAL RELEVANCE greater potential of generating risks or opportunities to the realization of the Company's strategy. Thus, we define the material themes that guide our strategy, initiatives and communication in the next years. Positive Impact The process, carried out every two years mainly for the construction of the materiality matrix, was developed in 2019 and involved the Company's executives, associates, 06 customers, investors, suppliers, experts, entities and associations, academics and communities. 4 INTERNAL RELEVANCE 5 Chapter The material themes resulting from this process, presented beside, are addressed throughout this report Privacy of the customers' information Health and safety at work and related to the strategy and to the value generation Relationship and customers' experience Diversity and inclusion in the environment model, considered as the basis for the development of the Company's projects and actions. Associates training and development Presence in the market Associates wages and beneﬁts Corporate Governance Creation of jobs Responsible chain Customer health and safety Accessible prices Innovation and automation Economical-ﬁnancial performance Management transparency and communication 61 Value generation NATURAL INTELLECTUAL Optimization of routes Innovation-oriented in cargo transportation management Launch of innovative 100% greenhouse gas (GHG) products and services Compensation from Scope 1 and 2 Positive Impact Reduction of water and energy FINANCIAL consumption Internal and external MANUFACTURED environmental awareness 18 Distribution Centers Total GMV of R$ 18.8 billion, campaigns growth of 25.1% 4 BIT offices (B2W 06 over the previous year Innovation and R$ 11.6 billion of GMV Technology) Chapter (+49.7%) of the marketplace R$ 510.1 million SOCIAL AND in investments (Capex) RELATIONSHIP 46.8 thousand sellers R$ 189.9 million + than three thousand suppliers HUMAN of cash generation 3.3 million cards issued by means of 9,176 associates in 2019 a joint-venture with R$ 4.5 billion +than 124 new hirings compared to the previous year B2W brands stand out positively on the Reclame Aqui website + than 60 thousand Associates engagement to the hours of training volunteer program 62 PACTS AND COMMITMENTS RECOGNITIONS GRI 102-12 | 102-13 | 103-1 • Since 2013, we have been signatories to the • In 2019, we joined the Business Coalition for Racial CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (ISE) Global Compact of the United Nations (UN), which and Gender Equity promoted by Instituto Ethos to For the 6th consecutive year, we have been selected for proposes that companies align their strategies promote the reduction of the social inequalities in the ISE portfolio, B3's Corporate Sustainability Index, and operations to universal principles in the Brazil, especially in relation to race and gender, in which evaluates the companies' commitments to the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and the corporate world. sustainable development and acknowledges the ones Anticorruption. In 2019, once again, we reaffirmed that promote the best practices. our commitment to the Global Compact and • In the year, we also adhered to the Women's Positive Impact presented, throughout this entire report, the Empowerment Principles, by UN Women, that initiatives to move forward in the face of the support and aid the business community at commitments made. incorporating values and practices in their businesses aimed at gender equity and women's • As signatories of the Global Compact, we support empowerment. 06 UN's 2030 Agenda, which proposes 17 Sustainable Chapter Development Goals (SDGs) to be pursued by • Also in 2019, we signed the Business Charter for countries and organizations to face the main Human Rights and for the Promotion of Decent challenges to sustainability in the next years. Work, by Instituto Ethos, that reinforces the equity and the inclusion of disabled people and the fight • Since 2018, we have been associated with the to prejudices and myths related to this public. Instituto Ethos de Empresas e Responsabilidade Social, OSCIP (Civil Society Organization of Public Interest) which works to mobilize, raise awareness and help companies to manage their businesses in a socially responsible manner. 63 SOCIAL RELEVANCE RESPONSIBLE CHAIN GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 SELLERS Through our marketplace, we generate positive impact by allowing, many times, small entrepreneurs to develop their businesses by relying on the reputation of our brands. Currently, over 40% of our sellers are small or micro entrepreneurs, who benefit from our various solutions available, from advertising to logistics, in addition to the B2W Digital internal support team and the trainings, that make all the difference at the Positive Impact beginning of the business. Conexões Adding up to it, the marketplace offers them a highly qualified customer traffic to Graduated in mechanical engineering, Jhonatas Roque worked in boost their sales, an experienced sales team and the convenience of B2W Entrega, the public service as a traffic agent, until he had a psychological 06 which controls and operates the logistics. breakdown and on medical advice, started doing manual work. Chapter We also offer loans to our 46.8 thousand sellers in a quick, safe, simple way and 100% The year was 2015 and he started making decoration articles for online, through Seller Credit. Learn more on page 19. baby's rooms. As a result, Casa Roque was founded, an online shop of layette products that today represents the happiness and professional fulfillment of its founder. B2W Marketplace has a fundamental role in this life-changing process for Jhonatas, who saw his turnover double after becoming a seller at the platform. The story of Jhonatas and of other sellers who changed their lives with B2W Marketplace are told in the Conexões project. Get to know this project and these stories of transformation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6gEaMHQqV8 64 In 2019, we organized the B2W Marketplace Summit 2019, a two-day event with lectures on innovation, management, e-commerce, retail and marketplace, taking relevant content, learning and networking to sellers to boost their results in their businesses. Positive Impact One of the event's panels Transformative businesses: the Marketplace as a social impact 06 tool had the presence of two sellers who told how their lives Chapter were transformed through the B2W Marketplace. B2W Marketplace Summit 2019. 65 SUPPLIERS GRI 102-9 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 408-1 | 409-1 | 414-1 | 417-1 In order to meet our customers' needs with a diversified assortment, we rely on more then three thousand national and international suppliers. Textile Suppliers Suppliers Of Suppliers of The Company promotes the diffusion of principles of protection and Food Products Non-Food Products appreciation of the Human Rights with its partners, highlighting these terms in commercial contracts with the purpose of collaborating with the eradication of forced and child labor and in combating any practice that does not respect the Principle of Human Dignity in the productive value chain. All of our contracts impose specific punitive clauses, such ABVTEX Certification • Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT) Positive Impact as the provision of fines and immediate loss of accreditation, in case of (Brazilian Textile Retail • International Labor Organization Convention irregularities. Association) • Apprenticeship Law All of our suppliers must adopt strict quality and labeling standards in • National Policy on Solid Waste accordance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct (learn more on page All the suppliers must have • Resolutions National Environment Council 06 32) and on our Supplier Policy. ABVTEX certification that (Conama) 357 and 430 on water and effluents ensures the adhesion to • Regulatory Norm (RNs) 04, 05, 06, 07, 09, 10, 17, 23 and 24 Chapter All must comply with the requirements presented in the document, good ethical and sociosuch as proper certification by the competent bodies, such as environmental responsibility the National Health Surveillance Agency (Anvisa) and the National practices, mainly regarding +ISO 22000 +ISO 9001:2015 Metrology, Quality and Technology Institute (Inmetro), ensuring that good labor practices. (Quality management) they do not offer health or consumer safety risks. +IFS Flobal Markets Food In addition, all of them also go through a document analysis process (food safety) before signing the contract, when issues related to the regularity of the CNPJ, taxation, permits, tax and labor debts, as well as civil and criminal actions of the company and its partners are evaluated at the state and federal levels. For our private label brands, we require the adoption of norms and regulations that are good practices in the To learn more about the Supplier Policy, visit: different segments presented below. http://www.companhiaverde.com.br/b2w/fornecedores 66 Every year, our private label brands and textile suppliers are audited on-site, they are graded in a specific group where they are monitored regarding the risks of possible social, environmental and reputational impacts. The main criteria evaluated at the audits are: compliance with the current legislation, conformity of processes regarding the working conditions and human rights, social responsibility and final product quality. In the textile category, the entire audit process is executed by ABVTEX. For the Positive Impact remaining industries, the audits are carried out by a certifying company, which presents a detailed report on the results of each one. 06 Chapter In 2019, we organized a training on Textile Suppliers Certification with the support of ABVTEX (Brazilian Textile Retail Association), a partner to Universo Americanas. Two editions were held, one in Rio de Janeiro and the other in São Paulo, with the purpose of transmitting the guidelines and good practices to the supply chains, in defense of a more sustainable environment and decent work conditions. 67 ASSOCIATES ENGAGEMENT GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 We believe that engaging our associates in the sustainable development causes is a great way to enhance the positive impact of the business. Positive Impact Consequently, we have a corporate volunteering program covering all Universo Americanas companies, the Vivenciar – Conexões Transformadoras, which contributes to the development of a fairer and more egalitarian society, while raising 06 the associate's awareness through the several social and cultural experiences lived during the program. Chapter In 2019, over 600 hours of volunteer work of more than 200 associates benefited around three thousand people served by seven supported projects. Get to know the main supported projects below: Donations – throughout the year, our associates have joined several initiatives to raise donations, which resulted in the donation of 230 Voluntary associate during a reading circle action for books for the library on wheels of Projeto Livros nas Praças, of over 324 children in the Livro nas Praças project. chocolate boxes during the Easter campaign for partner NGOs, over 600 pieces of winter clothing for Campanha do Agasalho, over 200 Christmas presents for children of the NGO Sonhar Acordado in Rio de Janeiro and in São Paulo and 121 blood bags for Hemorio, where we have been honored, with Universo Americanas and B2W Digital, as two of the companies that contributed most to replenish the supplies. 68 Beach Clean-up Campaign honoring the International Coastal Cleaning Day, in partnership with the Esmeralda NGO, volunteers collected over 15 kg of garbage from Copacabana Beach. Sonhar Acordado – Our associates volunteered at the Dia do Sonho and Christmas Party of Sonhar Acordado, a partner NGO that works with institutions, orphanages, group homes and hospitals and seeks to transform the lives of needy children through a friendly relationship with the young volunteer. The parties took place in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo and accumulated over 200 hours of volunteer work. Grafitarte – Through Grafitarte, a project sponsored by Submarino Positive Impact that provides graffiti workshops for students from public schools in the state of Rio de Janeiro, volunteer associates, together with students, painted the wall of General Euclydes de Figueiredo Municipal School, in Tijuca (RJ). 06 Support to the Natal Sem Fome campaign – Since 2017, B2W has supported the Chapter Natal Sem Fome campaign, by the NGO Ação de Cidadania, by means of a donation of ten tons of food. In 2019, 30 tons of food have also been donated by means of the physical and digital platforms. A part of this amount was the result of donations made by customers, who contributed with a virtual plate of food (equivalent to R$ 2), for the Christmas action “Prato de Comida Virtual”. Further strengthening the partnership with the NGO Ação da Cidadania, Ame Digital made the donation feature available, allowing the customers to donate any value through the app. Last year alone, the tool counted the donation of tens of tons of food. Voluntary associate during an action of the Grafitarte project. 69 SUPPORT TO SOCIAL PROJECTS GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Aligned with the Universal Principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable TODO MUNDO VAI CIRCUIT Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations (UN), in 2019 we For the sixth consecutive year, we sponsored the running and walking supported various social projects and provided donations and sponsorships to favor circuit Todo Mundo Vai , which focuses on promoting quality of life the construction of a sustainable society, balancing the environmental, social and and wellbeing through the practice of physical exercise. The initiative economic pillars. reinforces the Company's commitment to the 2030 Agenda, contemplating SDG 3, Health and Wellbeing. DONATIONS As one of the main retailers in the country, we enhanced our positive Positive Impact As a novelty, in 2019 the project reached five new locations Niterói, Brasília, Petrópolis, impact in the society by means of donations to institutions that support the Porto Alegre and Búzios, in addition to the traditional stage of Rio de Janeiro. The social development. Learn more about the main donations in 2019 below. circuit, that happened in honor to the 90th anniversary of Lojas Americanas and the 20th anniversary of Americanas.com, had approximately 15 thousand participants At Christmas, we donated food for the Natal Sem Fome campaign, by the in all of its stages. 06 NGO Ação Cidadania and at Easter, we contributed by sending easter eggs for the celebration of the holiday at the NGO Riso. For the Winter Chapter Contributing to an even more Campaign, we donated blankets to the Brazilian Red Cross, in addition inclusive race, our private to spreading the word about the collection spots of the initiative on label brand Leven promoted TV Shoptime. The goal was to encourage donations, not only by our a volunteering action through associates, but also by the viewers. Team Leven, in which over 30 volunteering associates took In another initiative, Ame made the feature Donations available at the APP, allowing part in the Rio de Janeiro, customers to make donations straight to the registered NGOs, such as AACD, Ação da Niterói, Porto Alegre and Cidadania, Cão Sem Dono, Fundação Amazonas Sustentável (FAS) and Fundação Laço Brasília stages accompanying Rosa. Throughout the year, the Company has organized several cashback campaigns as disabled people who are part a form to stimulate the initiative. of the projects Correndo por Eles, Empresto Minhas Pernas, AEEP-DF and Rosto ao Vento. Volunteer members of Team Leven and athletes from the Correndo Por Eles project at the opening of the Todo Mundo Vai Circuit. 70 PROJETO GRAEL LIVROS NAS PRAÇAS Working in conjunction with Instituto Rumo Náutico Projeto Grael, For six years, Americanas and Americanas.com has supported the Livros Americanas and Americanas.com has been striving, since 2016, to nas Praças project, which aims to make literature increasingly accessible democratize the access to sports practice, such as sailing, for youngsters to residents of different regions of the cities of Rio de Janeiro and São in socially vulnerable situations. Paulo. The initiative also developed the “Retail Operations” course, with the Contributing to SDG 4, Quality Education, and SDG 10, Reduction of Inequalities, the support of Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Social (BNDES) and library-bus project provides free loans from a collection of around two thousand Senac, to increase the employment rates among youngsters between 17 copies, including children's, youth and adult books. and 29 years old in socially vulnerable situations. Positive Impact To make it an increasingly inclusive project, books in Braille are also available for Over six months, the students are provided with technical qualification in retail children and adults, as well as publications with an expanded font for people with low combined with the sailing practice, valuing socio-environmental aspects inherent vision and audiobooks for the visually impaired. to the sport, such as respect to the environment, leadership, human relations and 06 sense of civility. Also, the bus is equipped with a transfer chair, suitable for wheelchair users and elderly people with mobility difficulties. It also has a bathroom and mineral water Chapter for visitors. This year, the project circulated for 28 weeks and participated in the country's largest literary event, the XIX Book Biennial in Rio de Janeiro. O DIA SEGUINTE EXHIBITION In line with our commitment to SDG 13, we sponsored the O Dia Seguinte exhibition which, in a single month, gathered over 30 thousand visitors in Cidade das Artes, in Rio de Janeiro. Through an immersive experience of In relation to 2018, the the climate impacts on cities and on the day-to-day life, the visitors were encouraged projected presented to reflect on the opportunities of having a fairer and more balanced life, with an increase of almost sustainable and inclusive cities for all of its inhabitants. 65% in visits, totaling Americanas and Americanas.com had an exclusive space with the distribution of 100 thousand visitors seedlings for planting and a panel in which the visitors were able to interact and color, to Livros nas Praças building their ideal city for the future. throughout the years. 71 GRAFITARTE For the fourth consecutive year, Submarino was the exclusive sponsor of the sociocultural project of urban intervention, Grafitarte. The initiative, which has as one of its main goals the promotion of artistic JIRAU DA AMAZÔNIA interaction in city spaces, organizes art We created the “Jirau da Amazônia” and drawing (graffiti) workshops for youngsters of the marketplace in partnership with the public school system in Rio de Janeiro. Amazonas Sustainable Foundation Positive Impact (FAS), on the Americanas.com website, In the 2019 edition, Juliana Ferbo and Priscila Rooxo where artisans and entrepreneurs from were responsible for sharing their knowledge with over traditional and indigenous populations 100 students from two schools in Rio de Janeiro, one in the countryside of Amazon may sell located in Tijuca, the other in Deodoro. 06 their products throughout Brazil having 100% of sales revenue reverted for the Chapter Overall, more than 500 youngsters from ten different development of the project. regions have already been directly impacted by the workshops. In addition to the legacy for the city with the art produced on the walls of schools, the project also enhances the feeling of belonging of students and The artisan of the Tumbira community at Rio residents, since they become active participants in Negro, Neide Garrido, is one of the local producers the revitalization of these spaces. who partakes in the partnership and believes in the socio-cultural impact of the project: We, artisans, seek to use natural elements in the productions as a way to value what the forest offers us. The pieces contribute to generate income and empower the women of the forest, through all the history we built, without having to leave the community . 72 The crafts for sale at Jirau are products that respect the concept of sustainability Visitation to Projeto Jirau through natural materials that value the standing forest, managed in a sustainable A multidisciplinary group from the company went to the Amazon on an expedition manner, from seeds to fibers, stones and vines, to woods from the forest. Since the with the goal of training and helping to boost the sales of entrepreneurial artisans beginning of the project, in June 2019, there has been an exponential growth in sales of the Project (learn more on page 71). The workshops addressed tips on how to and the assortment of Jirau's hotsite has doubled. Currently, there are more than 150 present the products on the website, in order to bring the customer closer to the products from the Amazon available for purchase on Americanas.com website. confection processes of the products and the differential of the raw material used. The entrepreneurs also had photography workshops, which instructed on how to The project contributes to leveraging the community entrepreneurship, generating assemble a photographic studio prototype with simple objects. Overall, 30 local income for populations that live on the craft in communities located in Conservation entrepreneurs partook in the trainings. As a result, there was the development and Positive Impact Units (UC) in Amazonas, as well as expanding the access of people from all over the production of a new visual identity for the Jirau da Amazônia brand. country to handmade products made in the Amazon Forest. This business model practices the fair and solidary trade, which respects the Workshop held by B2W associates with young people from the Reporters of the Forest project production capacity of the communities and the day-to-day life of the region, 06 promoting positive socio-environmental impacts. to share about content production. Chapter During the year, the project had our participation in two events: B2W Marketplace Summit 2019 At the B2W Marketplace Summit 2019 (learn more on page 64), entrepreneurs of the Jirau da Amazônia project, such as the artisan of the indigenous community of Nova Esperança, told their stories during the Transformative businesses: the Marketplace as a social impact tool panel. Brazilian Conference of Climate Change The Jirau da Amazônia project has also been presented at the Brazilian Conference of Climate Change. At the panel, the B2W Digital and the artisan Joarlison talked about how the private initiative can contribute to the conservation of the forest by means of a positive social impact. 73 Jirau da Amazônia exhibition With the end of the project's expedition, very rich materials have been collected, which were made into a photographic exhibition and a documentary, both made available to the Company's associates. The materials show details on the history of the communities, their Positive Impact culture and work with craft that generates income and transmits the values that maintain the legacy. 06 Chapter Exhibition about the Jirau da Amazônia project, so that the Company's associates could get to know the reality of the region more closely and how the project has made a difference for productive groups. 74 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our environmental management seeks to mitigate the impacts of our CLIMATE CHANGE GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 operation to the environment, with a focus on efficiency in the consumption We are committed to improving the efficiency in the consumption of energy and of natural resources, on the waste management and on the reduction, fuels, promoting the use of renewable energy sources in order to minimize the adaptation and mitigation of climate change. intensity of the greenhouse gas emissions in the business. The Sustainability area is responsible for measuring data, reporting indicators For emissions evaluation, we monitor the indicators compiled by the Sustainability and raising awareness among associates, acting in a multidisciplinary manner Management using the Brazilian GHG Protocol tool. We annually compare emissions, to promote the Company's sustainable development. assessing whether the actions implemented over the period were efficient, in addition to the elaboration of an improvement action plan for the following year. Positive Impact Learn more about the main initiatives and performance in the management of environmental aspects of our operation below. In order to reduce emissions, everyone in the Company shares the same commitment through the optimization of logistical processes and energy efficiency. 06 In 2019, we upgraded the lighting in the DCs by installing LED bulbs, motion detectors, individual switches by docks, automation of air conditioning systems and Chapter automation of track compressors. SUSTAINABILITY POLICY In order to formalize our commitment to sustainability, we also have a Policy in which we present the guidelines to be observed within the scope of the Company, as well as in the relationship with other stakeholders, whether customers, shareholders / investors, associates, suppliers and society. To learn more about the policy, visit: http://www.companhiaverde.com.br/b2w/politicasustentabilidade 75 EMISSIONS GRI 305-1 | 305-3 | 305-4 | 305-5 In line with our commitment to fighting climate change, since 2010, we have carried For the fourth consecutive year, our inventory has out an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions, following the guidelines of the undergone external verification, attesting to the veracity Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. and accuracy of the data, in line with our commitment to transparency and quality of information. Annually, after carrying out the inventory, we use the emission calculation tool to assess our performance, analyzing the results, the effectiveness of the mitigation actions implemented, in addition to preparing an improvement action plan for the Positive Impact following year. In our direct emissions (Scope 1), whose main source is the consumption of gasoline and diesel referring to the Fleet Direct, responsible for deliveries, we had an increase Below we present the emission data referring to the 2019 inventory compared to the of 40%, due to the 141% increase in the base of sellers served at B2W Delivery , last year. representing our commitment to the efficiency and logistics processes optimization. 06 In 2019, we opened three new Distribution Centers and increased energy Chapter consumption by only 1%, which demonstrates our progress with energy efficiency TOTAL EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 20,575 projects, keeping our Scope 2 indirect emissions stable. 18,761 Regarding Scope 3, where we calculate the trips made by our associates, we had a 15,179 2% reduction in emissions. 13,363 ENERGY EFFICIENCY In addition to the absolute values for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3, we also monitor the total amount of emission of tCO2e per net revenue, ending the year 1,175 1,186 641 627 with a total of 3.09 tCO2e / million in revenue. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total 2018 2019 76 COMPENSATION GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-5 As a way to contribute with the SDG 13 and fight climate change, we compensate The compensation of greenhouse gas emissions was carried out in partnership the emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG), concerning Scopes 1 and 2 from the year of with Biofílica, a company specialized in the conservation of forests, by means of the 2018, making our operations carbon neutral . acquisition of carbon credits from REDD+ (Reduction of Emissions by Deforestation and Degradation) projects located in the Amazon. In addition to including the conservation of Overall, the compensation of B2W and our parent company Americanas contributed forest carbon stocks, the projects also provide for sustainable forest management. to avoid 1.4 million tCO2eq of emissions per year, in addition to supporting the conservation of 1.1 million hectares of the Amazon Forest. Positive Impact To learn more about the initiative, visit: https://www.biofilica.com.br/creditos-de-carbono/ 06 Chapter Through these actions, the sustainability strategy aligns with the Paris Agreement, whose measures and goals become effective from 2020 on. To learn more about B2W Digital's compensation, visit: https://bit.ly/3gQWBQW 77 Fórum Clima B2W Digital participates in the Fórum Clima, an Instituto Ethos initiative, comprised of companies that believe that the business sector can contribute to helping the world make the necessary transition to a low carbon economy, taking advantage of new business opportunities and significantly reducing the negative impacts of climate change. In this movement, the Company adhered to the 2015 Open Letter to Brazil on Climate Change. Participation in the Brazilian Conference of Climate Change Impacto Positivo In 2019, we participated in the Brazilian Conference of Climate Change, with the participation of our sustainability area at a panel about how the private initiative can contribute to the conservation of the forest by means of a positive social impact. We presented the Jirau da Amazônia project, which provides for the sale of handmade products of the communities in Amazon to Brazil through the Americanas.com 02 website, with 100% of the income going to the projects. Capítulo Logistics With the development of the Ame Flash initiative to deliver by bicycle in the cities of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, we reinforced our commitment to mitigating greenhouse gases and avoided the emission of more than 47 tons of CO2. Learn more about the initiative on page 15. 78 ECO-EFFICIENCY GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Our environmental management follows the commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce impacts on the environment and the balance between social responsibility and economic and financial development. We perform, internally, the control and monitoring of all environmental indicators, seeking to reduce consumption and use resources more and more efficiently, in accordance with our Sustainability Policy. Below are some of the initiatives: ENERGY In 2019, we upgraded the lighting in the CONSTRUÇÕES Distribution Centers (DCs) by installing LED bulbs, 06 B2W Digital was the first Brazilian e-commerce company to receive the LEED motion detectors, individual switches by docks, automation of air conditioning Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design seal granted by the United States systems and automation of track compressors. Consequently, we reduced the Chapter Green Building Council (GBC). energy consumption, making the operation more efficient. Our B2W Innovation and Technology (BIT) building received the seal, which is the main certification for sustainable construction, for having been built under sustainable premises, such as the use of recycled materials, efficient water and electricity systems and a bicycle rack, which encourages the sustainable transportation, mitigating the consumption of fuels and greenhouse gas emissions Environment Week and the practice of physical activity by the associates. In June, we promote the Environment Week Campaign addressing themes such as the conscious use of expendable plastic and the incentive to the After learning about eco-efficiency in constructions, our headquarters in São Paulo use of sustainable alternatives. The physical stores of our parent company, also went through upgrades, such as the installation of CO2 sensors to control the air quality inside the building and the use of economical bulbs, which collaborate with Lojas Americanas S.A., partook by offering a returnable bag to customers as an alternative to the plastic bag. the reduction of environmental impact. 79 WASTE Our DCs and administrative offices promote the environmentally friendly final disposal of waste, with the largest volumes originating from cardboard, plastic, wood, bulbs and oil from machines, according to this size category. Positive Impact We also seek to reduce the generation of waste or promote its reuse in our own operation. In the DCs, part of the cardboard packaging that would go to recycling goes through a shredder machine that generates fragmented cardboard, used to fill small empty spaces in the delivery 06 boxes. This action avoids the use of bubble wrap and Chapter other materials of greater negative environmental impact, because they derive from petroleum, a non-renewable raw material, our cellulose. WATER The nature of our business does not cause great direct impact to this natural resource. In We also have other forms to reuse materials, such as the order to rationalize the consumption, we adopted the use of ecological flush boxes and reuse of pallets and scraps in structural renovations and taps with flow reducers and automatic closing in all of our business units. improvements. We also work with a permanent guidance plan, raising our associates' awareness so they promote In 2019, the Distribution Center of Itapevi/SP also developed a project to harness rainwater, the adequate disposal of garbage, favoring the waste allocating what has been collected for cleaning common areas and gardening. collection and the correct recycling destination. Internally, we work on a permanent orientation and awareness plan for associates, through actions and campaigns to adopt simple waste reduction practices. 07 80 Attachments 81 GRI CONTENT TABLE GRI 102-55 GENERAL CONTENT REFERENCE (PAGE) / DIRECT ANSWER GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Universal Standards GRI Standards 2016: CORPORATE PROFILE 102-1 Organization's name Page 9 102-2 Main activities, brands, products and/or services Page 9 102, Sacadura Cabral street Saúde. Zip code: 102-3 Headquarters location 20081-902. Rio de Janeiro RJ. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates Brazil Attachments 102-5 Type and legal nature of ownership Page 30 102-6 Markets served Page 9 102-7 Organization's port Pages 4, 9, 38 and 42 07 102-8 Profile of employees and other workers Page 42 102-9 Description of the Company's supply chain Page 65 Chapter 102-10 Main changes in the structure of the company and in the supply chain during the period covered Pages 4, 9 and 13 It does not adopt it formally, however it relies on a 102-11 Explication on if and how the organization applies the precautionary principle robust risk management system. Charts, principles or other externally developed initiatives of economic, environmental and social nature, which the 102-12 Page 62 organization subscribes to or endorses 102-13 Main memberships in national/international defense associations and/or organizations Page 62 GRI Standards 2016: STRATEGY 102-14 Statement by the most senior decision maker on the relevance of sustainability to the organization Page 4 102-15 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 4, 32 and 56 GRI Standards 2016: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and behavior norms of the organization, such as codes of conduct and ethics Pages 9, 10 and 32 Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the organization to request orientation on ethical behavior and in accordance 102-17 Page 33 with the law, such as relationship channels (e.g. ombudsman) 82 GRI Standards 2016: GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure, including committees Page 34 Process of authority delegation on economic, environmental and social topics by the highest governance body for 102-19 Page 35 executives and employees 102-25 Processes utilized by the highest governance body in order to prevent and manage conflicts of interest Page 32 Role played by the highest governance body in identifying and managing topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities 102-29 Page 35 derived from economic, environmental and social issues Role played by the highest governance body in analyzing the efficiency of risk management processes in the organization 102-30 Page 35 for economic, environmental and social topics GRI Standards 2016: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholders engaged by the organization Page 60 Attachments 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by the collective bargaining 100% 102-42 Base used for the identification and selection of stakeholders for engagement Page 60 102-43 Approach adopted by the Company to engage stakeholders and the engagement frequency Page 60 07 102-44 Main topics collected during the stakeholders engagement and measures adopted by the Company to address them Page 60 GRI Standards 2016: REPORTING PRACTICES Chapter https://static.b2wdigital.com/upload/ 102-45 List of entities included in the financial statements dfp/00003345.pdf 102-46 Process for defining the content and limit of the report Page 60 102-47 List of material aspects identified in the process of content definition Page 60 102-48 Restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. There were no restatements. Significant changes when compared to the previous years regarding the list of material topics, limitation of topics 102-49 There wasn't. addressed 102-50 Period covered by the report Page 6 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2018 102-52 Cycle of report issue Annual. 102-53 Contact details for questions regarding the report sustentabilidade@b2wdigital.com 83 102-54 Report premises according to the GRI Standards Page 6 102-55 GRI Content Summary Page 81 This reporting cycle, based on the Integrated Report and GRI models, relies on an external audit of SGS ICS Certificadora S.A. The financial 102-56 External verification information is audited by KPMG Auditores Independentes and PricewaterhouseCoopers and the information on Atmospheric Emissions verified by SGS ICS Certificadora S.A. GRI Standards 2016: MANAGEMENT APPROACH Pages 23, 30, 42, 52, 56, 59, 62, 63, 65, 67, 69, 74 103-1 Explanation on the material topics and their limits and 78 103-2 Management over the material topic Attachments Pages 23, 30, 42, 52, 56, 63, 65, 67, 69, 74 and 78 103-3 Management evolution Pages 23, 30, 42, 52, 56, 63, 65, 67, 69, 74 and 78 SPECIFIC CONTENT REFERENCE (PAGE) / DIRECT ANSWER 07 Economic Disclosures Chapter GRI Standards 2016: ECONOMICAL PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 38 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities to the organization's activities due to climate change Page 74 GRI Standards 2016: FIGHTING CORRUPTION Percentage and total amount of operations submitted to risk assessment related to corruption and significant risks 205-1 Page 32 identified 205-2 Communication and training on policies and procedures to fight corruption Pages 32 and 33 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and measures taken Pages 32 and 33 GRI Standards 2016: UNFAIR COMPETITION 206-1 Total number of lawsuits due to unfair competition, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their results Pages 32 and 33 84 Environmental Disclosures GRI Standards 2016: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 1) More information about our emissions can be found in the Public Emissions Registry: 305-2 Indirect Emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 2) https://www.registropublicodeemissoes.com. 305-3 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 3) br/participantes/2023 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 75 More information about our emissions can be found in the Public Emissions Registry: 305-5 Reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) https://www.registropublicodeemissoes.com. br/participantes/2023 GRI Standards 2016: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Attachments Monetary value of significant fines and the total amount of non-monetary sanctions arising from the non-compliance to Punctual cases were recorded and duly corrected 307-1 environmental laws and/or regulations when identified. Social Disclosures GRI Standards 2016: EMPLOYMENT 07 The Company discloses the turnover rate annually in its Reference Form: https://static.b2wdigital.com/ Chapter 401-1 Total and rates of new admissions of employees and turnover by age, gender and region upload/outrosarquivamentoscvm/00003430.pdf The turnover rate segmented by gender and by positin is measured and treated internally. All associates are governed by CLT, are entitled to the practices provided for by law, in addition to a wide package of benefits, whatever the positions they occupy in the Company, with the exception of temporary employees. Among the Benefits offered to full-time employees, that are not offered to temporary or part-time employees, discriminated by main 401-2 benefits are: transportation ticket, life insurance, operations health insurance, dental assistance, meal or food vouchers in cafeterias, discounts on product purchases at Americanas and on Americanas.com, Submarino and Shoptime websites and discounts at gyms, language schools and universities. 85 All associates are governed by the country’s consolidated labor laws (CLT), having the right to 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after maternity/paternity leave, discriminated by gender maternity / paternity leave. Other indicators are treated internally. GRI Standards 2016: LABOR RELATIONS The company is in accordance with CLT and 402-1 Minimum notice period for operational changes and whether they are specified in collective bargaining agreements follows the guidelines of the unions. GRI Standards 2018: HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system implemented Page 56 GRI Standards 2016: TRAINING AND EDUCATION The Companies only disclose the total number of training hours and the average number of training hours carried out by associates. The average Attachments 404-1 Average of training hours by year, by employee, discriminated by gender and functional category number of training hours carried out by associates separated by gender and functional category is treated internally. Competency management and lifelong learning programs that support the continued employability of employees in 07 404-2 preparation for retirement Page 52 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career development reviews, discriminated by gender The percentage was not calculated in 2019, due to Chapter 404-3 and functional category the restructuring of the model. GRI Standards 2016: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES We do not disclose data segmented by age and 405-1 Diversity of employees and governance bodies, with percentages by gender, age, minority groups and other indicators functional category. These data are treated internally. GRI Standards 2016: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant 407-1 There was none. risk and the measures taken to support this right GRI Standards 2016: CHILD LABOR Own and supplier operations where significant risk of child labor was identified and measures taken to contribute to the 408-1 There was none. abolition of child labor GRI Standards 2016: FORCED OR SLAVE-LIKE LABOR Own and supplier operations where significant risk of forced or slave-like labor was identified and measures taken to 409-1 There was none. contribute to the eradication of forced or slave-like labor 86 GRI Standards 2016: SOCIAL EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on human rights criteria Page 65 GRI Standards 2016: PUBLIC POLICIES 415-1 Total value of financial contributions to political parties and politicians discriminated by country and recipient/beneficiary No political donations were made. GRI Standards 2016: MARKETING AND LABELING Type of information about products and services required by labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and 417-1 Page 65 services subject to such requirements Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes related to information and labeling of There were punctual in the marketplace, but with 417-2 products and services, discriminated by type of result no finantial or consumer impacts. Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 417-3 There weren't. Attachments including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, discriminated by type of result GRI Standards 2016: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Total number of attested complaints regarding breaches of privacy and loss of customer data There was no record of complaints. 07 GRI Standards 2016: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Chapter Nothing significant was identified and eventual Significant fines or non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding the social and 419-1 cases were identified and resolved in accordance economic areas with the Company's legal requirements and values. 87 Capitals Map Attachments Natural Financial Manufactured Human Social and Intellectual 07 Relationship Chapter Page 58 Page 29 Page 08 Page 41 Page 08 Page 08 Page 37 Page 29 Page 29 Page 41 Page 41 Page 58 88 ASSURANCE LETTER STATEMENT BY SGS ICS CERTIFICADORA LTDA. (SGS) REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES PROVIDED IN “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” GIVEN TO B2W DIGITAL S.A. NATURE AND SCOPE OF ASSURANCE The SGS was hired by B2W DIGITAL S.A. to carry out the third-party assurance of their The assurance process comprised (i) the disclosure review, information and data provided in Sustainability Report 2019. The assurance scope, based on assurance methodology of sustainability draft; (ii) interviews with strategic employees, both to understand the report sustainability reports of SGS, comprises the disclosure verification under GRI standards in data and to understand the management process connected with the material issues and; 2019. (iii) desktop review of the documents forwarded by B2W DIGITAL S.A. to SGS. The accounting information and Greenhouse gases inventory GHG (audited by SGS in another process) Attachments The information provided in “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” and its presentation is a sole concerning to “The 2019 Sustainability Report” of B2W DIGITAL S.A. was not assessed as responsibility of B2W DIGITAL S.A. management structure. The SGS is not involved in the part of this assurance process. So, both pieces of information were assessed in different preparation of any material, including the in the said report, such as risk analysis, materiality audit process. The “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” index was not assessed as part of this tests and other critical issues that may affect severally the B2W DIGITAL S.A. business. We assurance process. 07 are liable for giving our opinion of the GRI disclosures and their texting, data, charts and Chapter statement within the assurance scope in order to keep the B2W DIGITAL S.A stakeholders The team of SGS and B2W DIGITAL S.A., following the recommendations of the World Health informed. Organization (WHO) and respecting the quarantine period due to the Covid-19 pandemic, conducted the assurance process remotely The SGS Group has developed a set of assurance protocols for Sustainability Communication based on the best practices provided in GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE STATEMENT assurance standard ISAE3000. Such protocols offer different assurance levels depending on context and capacity of organization, in this case B2W DIGITAL S.A. The SGS Group is global lead in inspection, analysis and verifications services, operating in more than 140 countries and rendering services that includes management system This report was assured considering our protocols to assess the content authenticity and certification, audits and trainings on quality, environmental, social and ethic segments, its alignment with the requirements of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal sustainability assurance reports and greenhouse gases verification. The SGS attests your Standards 101, 102 and 103) and the requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI independence against B2W DIGITAL S.A., stating that is exempt from interest conflict with the 300 and GRI 400) according to the material issues identified by B2W DIGITAL S.A. through organization, their subsidiary and stakeholders. our process detailed herein. Based on this context, the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” is considered as “Core option”. The assurance team was composed according to members’ expertise, experience and competence for this activity, the team is composed of: 89 • An Audit Lead on Assurance of Sustainability Report, a Lead auditor on We recognized B2W DIGITAL S.A.’s commitment and efforts in releasing the Sustainability Socioenvironmental programs and Environmental Management, a Lead Assessor of Report in based with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead auditor on RenovaBio Program. 102 and 103) and with the requirements of the Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400), and has the opportunity to improve in more detail the management of each material • An Audit Lead on Assurance of Sustainability Report, a Lead auditor on topic in the next sustainability report (Universal Standards 103). For disclosures 401-1, 401-3, Socioenvironmental programs, a Lead Assessor of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead auditor 404-1, 405-1, 408-1 the organization has also opted for partial reporting, as justified in the on RenovaBio Program. reference list. ASSURANCE OPINION It is important to mention that for the following disclosures 307-1, 417-2, 417-3 and 419-1 it was not possible to verify the evidence of the statements made in the “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A broad assurance was ordered, and the work performed was sufficient and adequate for a 2019” with the heads of the areas in view of the fact that the audit was carried out remotely solid assurance. Regarding the verification performed on methodology, process and data Attachments due to the COVID-19 pandemic, therefore, some areas and processes were not able to meet provided by B2W DIGITAL S.A., we attest the information and data provided on disclosures the assurance process. of “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019” are reliable and a true and accurate representation of the sustainability activities performed by B2W DIGITAL S.A.in reference year 2019. The As for the contribution to the improvement in the preparation of future sustainability report 07 assurance team thinks the report can be used by company’s stakeholders as part of their and greater efficiency in the assurance process, we recommend B2W DIGITAL S.A. to processes of company evaluation. The organization has opted for the assurance level Chapter based on the requirements of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, Essential option, 1. Disclose the objectives and goals of all material topics. The report may become a major according to its needs. source of sustainability information for all stakeholders and support them in making decisions and raising new concerns. In our opinion, based on what was found in company units and on documents provided by B2W DIGITAL S.A., the report content meets the GRI standard requirements. 1. Develop better internal dissemination and use of lessons learned from the new materiality process to mature points of contact with areas responding to the disclosures. RECOMMENDATIONS, FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS OF ASSURANCE This practice will allow an increasingly complete, accurate and transparent reporting. The disclosures of B2W DIGITAL S.A. Report, “SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019”, is aligned with 1. For the reporting context, continue searching for a summarized report, without poor GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (Universal Standards 101, 102 and 103) and with the content. Try to highlight the important gains of the sustainability area that consolidate requirements of Topic-specific Standards (GRI 200, GRI 300 and GRI 400), however, not all itself against the management and strategy every year. mandatory disclosures for the Essential option are fully reported. It is important to highlight the subject matters and its limits were dully set in accordance with the Reporting Principles 1. Consider the disclosure of other disclosures not reported, but which organization has and indicated over the report and/or reference list. management (Health and Safety, Eco-efficiency, among others). 90 Finally, SGS congratulates B2W DIGITAL S.A. for the initiative of carrying out the assurance of their report, for the historical commitment to sustainability and hopes that the significant advances in the issue that the company has been achieving in recent years will continue. May 29th, 2020 Executed by and on behalf of SGS Attachments 07 Chapter Fabian Peres Gonçalves Marina Steck M. Cruz Business Manager Sustainability Lead Auditor for Sustaianbility Report 91 CREDITS Attachments COORDINATION Communication and Sustainability Board Investor Relations Board 07 WRITING, GRI CONSULTING, GRAPHIC DESIGN AND DIAGRAMATION Chapter Ricca Sustentabilidade CONTACT sustentabilidade@b2wdigital.com
