Geneva, December 11, 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to restate our strong commitment to the Global Compact initiative and its Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Our ultimate objective as impact investors is to deliver positive social and financial return. We are committed to investing our client’s assets responsibly, and supporting our investees improve their practices and their impact. Bamboo invests in companies whose products or services address critical needs of underserved populations across emerging and frontier markets. Our investee companies have impacted over 184 million lives, supported 45,000 jobs including 15,900 women jobs, and avoided 9.68 million of metric tons of CO2 emissions. Identifying, safeguarding, measuring and monitoring social and environmental performance is an integral part of our business. The year 2020 has seen many achievements that expand Bamboo’s contribution to advancing respect of the Principles and that will accelerate our contribution towards the Sustainable Development Goals. In spite of the COVID-19 crisis, we continued our operations and supported our portfolio companies through the challenges they faced. One of them, Moviired, was selected by the Colombian government to distribute financial aid to low-income households during the pandemic outbreak. We also continued to make new investments in businesses generating positive impact for lowto middleincome populations in emerging and frontier markets. The Agri-Business Capital (ABC) Fund provided financial support to Dragon Farming, a soya milling and aggregation company in Ghana, Anatrans, a cashew nut processor based in Burkina Faso, Maphlix, a producer and processor of tubers and vegetables in Ghana, Insotec, a finance provider for Ecuador’s agricultural sector and FACTS, a supply chain finance provider offering short-term working capital loans to SMEs, agribusinesses, and emerging entrepreneurs in Kenya and Uganda. Bamboo has been appointed by the Government of Madagascar and the World Bank as the international fund manager for the Off-Grid Market Development Fund (OMDF), a USD$40 million renewable energy access fund for Madagascar. OMDF aims at improving electricity access for households and SMEs in Madagascar through off-grid solar energy solutions. Please see the link to the press release. We are also managing the OGEF Fund, a renewable energy access fund that aims to electrify 200,000 households in Haiti, a mandate of the Haitian Government and the World Bank. During the year 2020, we have also continued to team up with the international NGO CARE USA and the International Trade Center (ITC) on the Care-SheTrades Fund focused on gender equality, and with the United Nations Capital Development Fund on the BUILD Fund focused on SME financing in the Least Developed Countries. Bamboo Capital Partners – 7, rue Robert Stumper, 2557 Luxembourg – Luxembourg Tel: +352 26 09 57 07| Fax: +352 26 09 579 info@bamboocp.com We partner with Smart Africa, an alliance of thirty African states, on the development of BLOC Smart Africa, a “tech for impact” fund to support early-stage companies using advanced technology in the fields of access to energy, finance, healthcare, education and food security. We are also developing a very similar “tech for impact” fund for Latin America, BLOC Latam. Last but not least, we work with Stop TB Partnership on the HEAL Fund, a global impact fund to provide capital to early-stage health-tech companies providing access to healthcare to underserved populations. Such alliances bring major additional footprint and coverage in emerging and frontier markets, using a broad range of investment tools and strategies to deliver impact at scale. Please find the link to our annual Impact Report which details the progress done in achieving impact and promoting better ESG practices at our company and through our investees. Sincerely yours, Jean Philippe de Schrevel Founder and Managing Partner Bamboo Capital Partners – 7, rue Robert Stumper, 2557 Luxembourg – Luxembourg Tel: +352 26 09 57 07| Fax: +352 26 09 579 info@bamboocp.com
