H.E. António Guterres 4 September 2020 Secretary-General United Nations Dear Mr Secretary-General, New York, NY 10017 USA We are proud to reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Our approach to running Mott MacDonald incorporates the 10 UNGC principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, while helping to achieve the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Highlights from the past year include making social outcomes central to our new Group purpose, which is framed by the commitment to improve society by considering social impacts and inclusion in everything we do. We are committed to using our social inclusion expertise to advise, support and enable our clients to achieve better and more inclusive social outcomes for their communities, and to equip our colleagues with the tools and support to ensure the delivery of social outcomes is embedded in every project. This year, we launched our new Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy, which is already shaping initiatives across themes of charitable giving, industry, innovation and infrastructure, reduced inequalities, and quality education. Through our CSR strategy, we are delivering on our social responsibility policy and connecting our efforts on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), sustainability and social inclusion. Our people and EDI teams are helping to ensure the social outcomes we deliver externally are reflected in our own business, and we’re also working to influence our clients and industry colleagues to champion EDI and social outcomes. In 2020, we published our position papers on net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and resilience to the physical impacts of climate change. These include commitments to become carbon neutral by the end of 2020 and a net-zero organisation by the end of 2040. By the end of 2024, every project will be assessed for its climate risks. As our carbon footprint continues to decline, we have set Science Based Targets to limit greenhouse gas emissions to a 1.5°C rise. We are committed to promoting the highest ethical standards and have updated our ethics policy this year. We have a zero-tolerance stance to all forms of abuse, exploitation, bribery and corruption. We continue to improve our training, so every member of staff and every business associate understands our approach and complies with the local laws and regulations, and company procedures that apply to their day-to-day activities. We look forward to achieving more over the next year, and we are proud to submit our second Communication on Progress where we present in more detail our policies, commitments and outcomes to achieve our own corporate sustainability and address the SDGs. Yours respectively Mike Haigh Executive chair
